, maybe. And there's also this sneak couple A and maybe this deep dive. So, I guess I would say now having completed the experiment, I have enjoyed the hell out of this way more than I thought I would. And I know which, you know, you and Nixon over there, you guys are both rolling your eyes at me, because you were saying this forever. And so, was Tim and so, was Kevin and Jaco and Onohod and Patrick. And like everybody had been telling me, you got to do this. You got to do this. And honestly, this was one of those things where all I thought of was I have to. Like, I have to do that. I have to do that. And now I look at it like, I get to do this. Like, I get to go and interview people who know more about a subject than I do and pick their brain. And the only thing I have to do is set up a bunch of goofy recording equipment in front of us. I mean, it's, it's really amazing. And I don't actually have to do any of the heavy lifting after. Like, you guys do it. Travis does it. Right? There's like basically three people, four people who do a whole bunch of work after I do a recording. And I never think about it again. I've never listened to one of the podcasts after the fact. So I'm hoping they're turning out okay. But basically, I just get to walk around having spending, you know, about three hours a week, having a cool discussion. So that said, it still is a highly expensive proposition by my back of the envelope calculation. It costs about $2,500 to make each podcast, not including my time, which wouldn't necessarily want to put a price tag on. Because I don't know how to value it. But if I just include the priceless, my time is priceless. Maybe that takes up to $2,550. So, you know, and it, you know, so whatever. So you're going to spend 10 grand a month making a podcast. That's great. But the reality of it is we do need to, we do need to remunerate this for two reasons. One, it's not cool to flush 120 grand on the toilet every year. And, and two, there are a lot of things that I want to be able to do that upon further inspection, if the podcast can not only pay for itself, but pay for some of the research that we want to do. That would be great. We just hired our sixth analyst this month. So we have a team of analysts that basically I would like to be as large as could be as we could afford to manage, which means you manage. You can tell I don't do a lot around here. I sort of take care of patients and that's, well, but right now our research team is basically subsidized by our clinical practice. So everything is under an umbrella called a T a medical and the patients are basically subsidizing our research. And that's fine because the patient's benefit the most from the research. But I would like to figure out a way for the podcast to cover the cost of our research. And if I'm really going to be wishful, not just cover the cost of our analysts, but generate an additional pool of capital to invest in the types of research we want to do at certain universities. So there are a number of investigators around the country who are doing really interesting work, who I think could be doing way more interesting work if they had unrestricted funding to do certain stuff. For example, people have heard me talk about my obsession with wanting to understand if there are biomarkers or things that could delineate a metabolic signature for a toffee. This is the type of project that by my estimation could be done for a relatively low sum of money. Meaning this is not a billion dollar project. This is a project that a few people could get together and solve. I would like to contribute heavily to that. Have a pretty good sense of who the people are that would need to be involved in that project. If we can get IRB approval to do some of the experiments that I think would need to be done, I think those are elegant. So all of those things are things that I would like to see partially and maybe in a dream state completely funded by the podcast. Here's what I have figured out. I probably don't want to do. I don't think I want to sell ads. A couple months ago, I put out some questions on Twitter about, so we can fully talk about the fact that we're drinking top of Chico because we're just advertising for free. We're not getting paid to do this. That's refreshing. I was actually very touched by the feedback that we got on Twitter when we put that question out about, hey, what do you guys think about me, Chuck and ads? Because I almost don't remember a single person saying no, bad idea. Everyone was like, look, you've got to make money to. You've been putting out free content since 2011. You literally have never charged us for anything. You don't have a single ad on your website, blah, blah, blah, blah, by all means sell ads. And so I think I thought, I thought at the time, okay, well let's do it. And here's the way we'll do it. We're only going to sell ads for things that we love and care about and blah, blah, blah, blah. But to be honest with you, then I don't want to close the door to this, but I'm having a hard time seeing how I could make it work because there just aren't that many things that I love. And frankly, I have no idea if Topo Chico would want to sponsor this podcast. They might not care. So at this point, like, I guess there's another deeper point, which is at some point, you will probably have to take an advertising dollar from someone who is incoming versus outbound. So today, if we were going to start advertising, I would just say Nick, by the way, Nick is behind the camera. So at some point, Nick, you should just walk through. So people can see who Nick is, but I would say Nick, can you please go and reach out to these 12 companies? And we've already made a list of like, these are the companies that I love the most. And I use their products religiously. And I pay to use their products, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, let's go out to them and have them sponsor the podcast. And who knows, maybe like a subset of them would do it. Invariably, you're going to have to, you're going to exhaust those avenues and you're going to need to take inbound. My fear is, even though I do, I think I have, you know, very high integrity, at some point, I'm concerned, like what if I just start deciding subconsciously that a certain product is better than another product because it's going to pay a lot more than another product would? I don't know. I'd like to think that's not the case. I'd like to think that I'm impervious to that kind of influence. But I don't know if I am. And if I could prevent having to go down that path, I would like to do so. So I think I don't want to do ads. So I think that basically leaves two options. The first option is to do what my really good friend Sam Harris does and Sam has been beyond generous in his time that he has spent with me walking me through what is involved in a listener support model, which is what Sam does, an entirely listener support model. Sam, also, if anyone hasn't listened to his podcast, he also does a great job explaining his rationale for it and he does it far more eloquently than I could reproduce it here. So if you're interested in why Sam feels strongly about that, it's worth doing. Ron DePatric is also entirely through a listener support model, though it's a different model than Sam's. So I think that is one really good model. Again, I don't think it's going to be as lucrative as ads. I mean, if we're going to be honest, it's probably not as lucrative as ads. But I think in the long run, it actually could be better. The second model is something that I would only be a participant in and it would be, there are lots of people out there talking about a model like Netflix, where there's a number of people would be part of a podcast network, where you only get to listen to their podcasts if you are a member of the Netflix equivalent. That is something that has only been put on my radar over the last two or three weeks. So it's a little hard for me to sort of quantify and understand the economics of that. I mean, I understand the economics of it, but really press your test them. But that could also be advantageous because again, it has the luxury of being it frees you from the constraints of ads. It has its drawbacks. Frankly, I mean, you're going to lose listeners if you do that. Even if you make more money, you still lose listeners. It will reach fewer people because the probability that everybody who's listening to a podcast for free will go and join a service for that. I think is relatively low. So I know it's not a great answer because I haven't given the answer, but I would like to believe that by 2019, we are absolutely monetizing this podcast and I suspect that it will be one of the latter two approaches and not an advertising approach. I will say this if we do go down that, and if we end up going down those paths, I would still like to talk about products that I like because one of the pieces of feedback we did get from that sort of very informal pull we put out was people want to know what things we like and to be able to actually shock the products we like when we're not getting paid to shock them, tells you we're really just shock them because we like them. So, I like this ring, I like this ambulance siren, I like this bottle of water, whatever it is, we can just talk about it openly and I think that there's benefit to people in that because then they'll know like, okay, wow, that's the way. That's an ideal way to get an ad. Okay. Given anything to say to make what I just said better, like you did with every other question. What is it about Buffett and Munger? They did the annual meetings? Yeah. A lot of times they just I forget like what he said basically. I thought that was well said. What he said. That's like, I'm not going to add. I think that's what it is. We'll say you go to Charlie Munger after Buffett does like a dissertation, you know, an economics. I have nothing to add. That's what I'm going to strive for. Next question, what exactly are you looking to achieve and monitor with your blood glucose monitor? Your CGM, your G6, which you another product, you probably love. I love the G6 and I'll talk about it all day long and without advertising it without receiving advertising dollars to talk about it. You know, it's funny, the G6 along with the or a ring, which I've talked a lot about, are these, and I've worn every wearable that there is. But they're the only two that seems sticky enough that I can't stop wearing them. Like if I like a month ago, I went to charge my or a ring and I forgot to put it back on my finger when I went to bed. So I slept without it and I woke up the next morning and realized I didn't have an idea of the data. Like it made any goddamn difference in my life. I was so pissed. The horror. I was like, God, how could you forget to put your ring on my um there's probably a whole separate issue with that. But um and the same thing with like the continuous glucose monitor, I just it's hard for me to imagine I used to not know my glucose in real time. So there are a couple things from it, right? The first is it's a great way for me to control my behavior. And I know it's tempting to want to believe that I'm somehow impervious to the forces of bad food. But the reality is a reality of it is I am not. There was a day I think when I you know had a remarkable resilience and willpower and I could do anything. You know eat this, don't eat that exercise like this, exercise, yeah. I could I was a robot for so much of my life until three years ago and something just happened in 2015 and I just fell off the rails and I've never got back on. I simply do not possess the intestinal fortitude to be a robot anymore. And I I could speculate on several of the reasons for that, which I don't want to get into. But the long and short of it is here I am. I am in an environment where like you know yesterday I was on a plane and they were handing out shit cookies and bullshit. I really wanted a cookie. I think the only reason I didn't eat that cookie that was bigger than my head is because I knew I'd have to look at my CGM data after. I mean so there is no more powerful behavioral tool for me than my CGM. Because in the end I'm kind of a competitive person internally. Much more competitive internally than externally by the way. And I just can't stand to see spikes of glucose. It just drives me nuts. And so which is not to say I don't go off the rails sometimes. I absolutely do. We were in the Fenway Park through the day and I had fries. Now luckily I had fasted all day and worked out. So I didn't actually experience a spike of glucose from the fries. So I got to have the fries without the badness. But I was sort of ready for it. I was kind of bracing myself like, oh you might get a little testy seeing this thing. But that actually gets to the second point which is it has allowed me to very eloquently calibrate how to tether activity levels, nutrient deprivation, the consumption of treats, and minimize the damage. I don't know that I could drive a race car very well without seeing my RPM tack. Like if you plugged my ears so that I couldn't actually hear the rev of the engine and you took away my RPM tack and said drive. Could I still drive the car? Yes. Could I drive it half as well as I can drive it when I know exactly where I'm shifting at every moment where I need to shift? No. There's simply no way. Like we don't, we're feedback machines. We need feedback. So yeah, I mean I'm a huge CV at CGM advocate and really looking forward to what the next few years will bring when these things can become a lot more affordable and a lot more accessible. And the question is, can that be done without them remaining as medical devices? So the one I wear now is that that's gone G6 is a medical device. It's an FDA approved device and it gives you a number that is in this case incredibly accurate. It's probably plus or minus two or three percent specifically for the purpose of someone with diabetes being able to dose their insulin. The FDA will very likely not allow such a device into a consumer market because the concern would be that such a device could be used outside of a prescriptive relationship with a physician to dose insulin. So they're in lies a whole bunch of issues that would basically the way it would happen today is the FDA would basically have to neuter the device such that the information couldn't be used for treatment purposes, which means they either take away the real time nature of it, which is what makes it so valuable, or give you a bunch of ranges and the loot the accuracy. Those are basically the two levers with which you could neuter one of these devices, deliberately which sounds crazy right like it's like the backwards step. Okay, I know you have a zip-o lighter. We're going to start using sticks instead. We're going to rub them together. So, but all that said, hopefully, in an ideal world, the medical device becomes cheap enough that if you want that level of precision, fidelity, and real-time feedback, you'll just look, doctors write prescriptions for way crazier things than CGMs. You got docs out there writing prescriptions for pain meds all day long, and every hormone under the sun. I don't think it's a big stretch to say doc. I need a CGM. And I think you might have mentioned this too, in terms of what you're looking to achieve in monitor with your blood glucose. You might have said that it's a proxy for your insulin, and maybe you could explain why there isn't a continuous insulin monitor alongside your glucose monitor, because that would be a good tool. Yeah, and I looked into this real lot in 2011 and 2012, I've even met with the engineer. He's actually, I don't know if he's still there, but I don't remember his name now, unfortunately, but he was, he might have been an emeritus professor of engineering at UCSD, but he was actually the first guy to figure out actually how to do these real-time glucose monitors. What are called a point of care device? I actually took him out to lunch one day to pick his brain on, well, why don't we just do this for insulin, and he was like, would that be interesting? And it was just funny to talk to him, because he's an engineer, like, well, why would he know that insulin would be as interesting as glucose or more interesting? And so we actually dug into this a lot, and basically the short of it is, if you can't measure the assay using an antibody or enzymatic reaction that very quickly, without any washing yields and answer, you can't do it at a point of care device, and insulin is pretty hard to measure. So it was initially measured using something called a radioimmune assay. I believe today they're usually done with something called Eliza's, which are these enzyme linked, you know, and I won't rattle off what Eliza stands for, but it's it's a chemical reaction where you have to, you know, put an enzyme on something rinse it off, put another one on rinse it off, etc. So in other words, it can't be done in a moment. So absent that, I don't really see any direct way to measure insulin in real time. Now, I've had discussions with some companies who are interested in using CGM data to impute changes in insulin, and I think that could be done, but I think it's a lot harder than people realize and you would need a lot of data to do it, meaning you wouldn't just be able to do it off the CGM. You'd have to do the CGM coupled with a lot of blood draws where you actually could, you know, basically build a regression curve off insulin and glucose to predict for future insulin. There in May lie and answer down the line. So absent that, a good proxy for having a low level of insulin is going to be a low level of glucose and a low level of glucose variability. And the CGM spits out those reports. So you go into it, I have mine here, I'm making noise with my stupid Mike, but you know, you go into, it low glucose variability, one might, yeah, I don't know if people can see this, but I didn't infer that the A1C might be telling you that. Although the A1C is not telling you anything about the variability, but I don't know, let's talk about A1C in a moment, but you can see that I can spit out at any point in time of 90 day, 30 day, 14 day, or seven day report, and that report gives me average glucose and glucose standard deviation. That's the variability. So why is that relevant? Well, the, you could have an average glucose of 85, 95, whatever, with the standard deviation of 10, which is very low variability, or you could have the same glucose level with the standard deviation of 30, and those are very different insulin profiles. So you want to keep, you want to keep that balance closer. I've largely discounted hemoglobin A1C in an absolute sense as a meaningful number. I think it's, you know, it's directionally tolerable, but mostly shit. And I know that because now I've used CGM in so many patients with calibration and compared it to A1C, and you realize that the A1C is really at the mercy of its most important assumption, which is a red blood cell lives for 90 to 120 days. Anything that takes it outside of that range leads to an over or under estimation of the A1C, and therefore an over or under estimation of the average glucose. And you can, with the A1C theoretically, you can say, I have an A1C of 5.4, and you can compute what your average glucose levels were. Theoretically. Yeah. So the way the A1C works is you measure the A1C and you impute the average glucose. The way the CGM works is you measure the average glucose, which is actually all that matters, but you can impute the A1C. My A1C runs very high because I have this condition called beta thalosemia trait. So I have a bunch of these, I think I talked about this in the podcast. And one of the shit for blood is, yeah, yeah, the fact that I'm trying to make Matt a used to call me shite for blood. Always in a Scottish accent. Yeah, shite for blood. So my little shite blood cells live a long, long, long time. They, I don't have no idea, but it's clearly longer than 120 days. So my A1C is very high. The lowest A1C I've ever seen in myself is 5.6 and the highest is 6.0. I'm basically just on A1C, I'm a pre-diabatic, pretty much all the time. On CGM, when you take a highly calibrated rigorous, you know, look, my average blood glucose imputes that I would have in A1C between 4.5 and 5. That's sort of the range that I would live in. So that's a material difference. And again, I've seen that difference in both directions with patients using CGM. So my hope is that in 10 years, maybe that's ambitious, I would hope that the Hemicloven A1C can't even be ordered on a lab. And everyone just has a CGM, you know, and it's like a trivial little, you know, thing that, you know, even if you're getting a life insurance exam, you just wear the CGM for two months. And the data comes from that as opposed to actually measuring this non-sensical number. Is it just me or other way more like sirens today? Yeah, 9-11 in New York City, I don't know if that's... Yeah, it's interesting. I feel like it's been non-stop sirens today, which is, I'm sorry for the listener, but I think they get the heads up that you're doing a podcast and just want to buzz the tower. So that works. Surprise, I haven't been drag racing anymore. That 14's going by. I didn't get the permission for a fly by there. Negative ghost rider. The pattern is full. Lithium or Lithium supplementation. Can you share your thoughts slash experiences? Yeah, so I think the evidence that groundwater containing higher levels of lithium, rather than lower levels of lithium contributing to better mental health is, you know, as good as any such data can be, which is to say not great. I call it like tier two epidemiology. So the worst epidemiology in the world is people who exercise this way have this much life or people who eat this way have this much, you know, disease or whatever. Like that's the worst epidemiology because you're measuring, you're trying to accurately assess inputs and outputs. So that's like that epidemiology I just think we should stop doing that. For the most part, it's epidemiology. This hypothesis generating and this is an interesting observation more or less. It's an interesting hypothesis. But the reason I'm calling this tier two epidemiology is like one of those variables is fixed. Like the groundwater lithium concentration doesn't require you. Yeah, there's no health that you use or bias in who's doing that. The only thing you're measuring is the mental health on the other side. So in other words, that's a better type of epi. Just like the IGF one I alluded to earlier. But it's actually not subtle, right? So if you look at those data, it's actually not that subtle. When you overlay the US map of groundwater of lithium and mental health, it's a very nice association. Now, there is no doubt in my mind that you could think of other explanations for that. And that's the beauty of trying to be thoughtful about these things as well. Maybe the lithium in the groundwater is a proxy for something else. Maybe it's a proxy for education for socioeconomic status, for weather. Like you could think of 10 other things that could be that. So all of that said, at the first order, it doesn't appear that there's an obvious proxy. But there still may well be. But at the other end of the spectrum, what's the cost of the intervention of trying it out? And so I decided several years ago that I wanted to try taking some lithium to see if it could help stabilize my mood. But that's sort of a crazy thing to do. So I did a ton of homework. And luckily one of my best friends, Paul Conti, who I've interviewed and will hopefully be on the podcast shortly, maybe even by the time this has come out. Well, that's that true. Do you know the order of those, Nick? Oh, sweet. All right. So you'll have already met Paul Conti by the time this comes out. You know, Paul has an unbelievable experience with lithium because he is one of the few psychiatrists out there remaining who is still very comfortable using lithium in monotherapy for high risk by polar patients. So usually a patient with bipolar disorder is treated with several drugs. But in some cases, some of the drugs, either the patients don't respond. They're recalcitrant to the drug or they produce such negative side effects. They can drive up, you know, suicidal ideation, things like that, that you basically have to resort to just lithium. And now that's our really scary. That's about as scary a case as a psychiatrist can be in because you basically have to put enough lithium in that patient to take them almost to a toxic dose without pushing them over. So I wanted to learn everything about lithium toxicity from talking with Paul. And this is going to sound a little crazy. But when I first started taking lithium, I actually took it at a very high dose. Not the dose that someone who was taking monotherapy for bipolar would take, but I was taking about half that amount. So I was taking about 600 milligrams a day. And again, I'm hesitant to talk about this because I know some knucklehead is going to go and take 600 milligrams of lithium a day. Let me be crystal fucking clear. If you were not under the care of a physician who is super dialed in on how to measure lithium levels when to measure lithium levels, which lithium's you take because it comes in a bunch of forms. Doing this is tantamount to, you know, suicide. I mean, it's complete stupidity. So with all of that said, under the most careful, closely monitored conditions that one could have, including getting lithium levels checked constantly, I spent about a year taking 600 milligrams of lithium a day. In two doses, two different types of lithium a slow release a fast release. I did it as an interesting experiment and I didn't tell anyone I was doing it because I wanted to know if anybody else would appreciate because I'm an emotionally volatile crazy guy. So it was like, there should be a noticeable difference. And interestingly, the first person to notice it was my wife, which is about four months in when she was like, something's different in you. What is it? Again, I have no idea because of course, by me knowing I was taking the lithium, maybe that altered my behavior. In the end, I decided I did not want to take mega doses of lithium because I did notice I could actually have side effects. The first side effects of too much lithium or nausea. Now, even when you're nauseous on lithium, you still don't reach the blood level that approaches the toxic levels, which makes me wonder how those poor patients who are constantly taking 900 to 1200 milligrams a day of lithium are tolerating it. But I noticed whenever I traveled through different time zones, if I took the lithium at different times because it was being compressed. If I was stacking time zones, flying east, I would start to get nauseous when I took it. I was like, what the hell is that? From when I realized, oh my God, you probably just effectively took 900 milligrams. So I was like, you know what, this is the way this is, I don't think there's enough upside. I feel a bit better on this, but I don't feel that much better that it's worth this hassle. So I just stopped it for a couple of years. And then recently, like about two years ago, I decided, I went back and looked at the data and I was like, look, if those groundwater data are correct, you don't need to be taking that much lithium to reproduce the levels. It's we're not contended 20 milligrams. And that's actually an over-the-counter dose. So that's why I take it. Again, you could put this in, I have certain things that I take that I put in the category of probably not harmful, not sure how much value I'm getting out of it. This would be one of those things. The penny in front of a bulldozer. Yeah, this is the two by two, right? So the reward is, are you getting a penny or are you getting a Bitcoin? The risk is, are you picking this up in front, is it like picking that thing up in front of a tricycle or a train? This to me is trying to pick up a penny, call it a dollar. Inflation. It's picking up a dollar in front of a tricycle. At the end of the day, hey, it's a dollar. It's a dollar more than I had before. And if I'm wrong, a tricycle hitting me is not a lot of work. What you never really want to do is pick up dollars in front of trains. If you are going to step in front of a train, it better be to get a, you know, basket of things. Yes, exactly. Yeah. Yeah. So I don't know if you said this, but when your wife said, there's something different. She noticed something different. Did she say what it is? Or do you know what was that difference? Yes, she said you're less of an asshole. Interesting. It wasn't subtle. She said, I don't know how to put my finger on it. It's something about your as holadness is gone down. Decreased. Okay. And then when you supplement it on, you said maybe like 10 milligrams versus 600, where you do you think you're achieving the same effect? Now it's impossible to know because the very first time I did all this stuff was before I meditated and apparently before I paid attention to any of this stuff, I think I can be just as much of an asshole today as I used to be. I think the difference is I'm now so much more aware of it that I can correct my assholeness quicker, like I can be an asshole, but then I'll snap out of it in like 20 minutes as opposed to two days. So I think now there are so many confounders that it would be impossible for me to say as lithium made any difference in my mental health. Truthfully. Okay. Insights about burbering. So burbering is a plant derived extract that has two properties. One of which it gets a lot of attention for. One of which it might not be as well known. The first is that it is a week AMP kinase activator. And for those of you that have shown an interest in what metformin does, that's probably the secret sauce of metformin is it's AMPK activation. So burbering when taken at recommended OTC doses, which I remember the dose is any more I think it's like a, it might be actually a comparable dose to metformin. It might be like either 500 twice a day or a thousand twice a day. Does have some of that week AMPK activation. And what that, the net effective that is it decreases hepatic glucose output. So it's a burglating AMPK is telling the liver hey you can make less glucose. So send less glucose out of the body. And so in that sense it's a poor man's version of metformin. I don't find that that interesting. I prefer to just use metformin. If we're going to you know, for going to go down that path, like let's do it pharmacologically with, you know, potent drugs that we understand that are consistent from batch to batch that have a much higher sort of oversight of regulation and that kind of stuff. The other thing about burbering, and this is that this is when I still do use it in clinical practice, is it is also a week inhibitor of the enzyme PCSK9, which any listener this podcast is going to be very well on to speed on what PCSK9 is. The word on the street is it probably only works in a subset of people who over express PCSK9. So PCSK9 is a protein that degrades LDL receptors. So if you over express this enzyme, you're going to really degrade LDL receptors. You're going to have a higher LDL particle number and probably a higher LDL cholesterol. If you take that subset of patients, they seem to respond quite nicely to burbering. Now the question is, how do you know that? I don't think there's a test anymore to measure that. Athera tech, which I think might have got absorbed into vapour, something like that. I think you used to have a test, but in the end I was like, why am I going to do some tests on somebody to see if they over express PCSK9 before I give them burbering? I'll just give them burbering, make no other change, and see if there's not a significant enough difference in their LDL. I don't care. And everyone's in a while, you just look like a rock star. You get this patient whose LDL is really high and you check your boxes, like they don't have their triglycerides, aren't that high, their fight of steriles, aren't that high, their stannels, aren't that high, their dysmosphalis, aren't that high. Hey, they clearly have defective LDL clearance, maybe they over express PCSK9, which would be one of a thousand reasons you could have, like literally there are two thousand genetic mutations that can lead to an inability to clear LDLs that would go to this is like one of them, but this one amounts to about 5% of them. And so in that patient you hit them with burbering and all of a sudden like everything's fixed. Do you see that with an that form in it all? No, no, I don't think that the form in possesses that that piece of what burbering has. Okay, what is your reasoning for taking baby aspirin? And what does the science say? Well, interesting timing. So the science has changed on this as of about a month ago. So my thinking on this has actually changed in the past month. Historically, I took baby aspirin just because I come from a family where heart disease is rampant and that's sort of, you know, if, you know, in the spirit of our good friend Charlie Munger, you brought up a moment ago, you know, show me where I'm going to die and I'll try to not be there. So, you know, the crystal ball says I'm probably going to die of heart disease. So let's do everything in our power to mitigate it. Let's keep the lipids as low as possible. Information as low as possible. Don't do anything that's going to exacerbate endothelial dysfunction. Take the baby aspirin, which probably acts primary, you know, somewhat through it probably has some effect on inflammation, but probably the majority of its effect is obviously on platelets. And therefore reducing thrombotic events, which are the final, you know, like that's what pushes you off the cliff when you have an MI. I would have said that prior to a month ago, my view on baby aspirin was, if your aspirin works test as positive. So the aspirin works test as a test we do in urine that measures metabolites of platelets and basically tries to predict which patients will and won't respond to baby aspirin. If that level is high, my practice used to be to put patients on a baby aspirin. If there was at least one other reason to do so. So, if they had an elevated LPPA-L-A2, if they had an elevated LP-L-A, if they had a significant enough risk of heart disease, that I would feel that that those two things, and I fit in that category, right? So I have a normal LP-L-A normal LP-L-A2, but my family history for heart disease is high and my aspirin works was high. So that's why I take a baby aspirin. And then you have to weigh that against the consequence of a baby aspirin, which is look, you're going to have a little more easy bruising. You have the run a small risk, almost unmeasurable of having an ulcer nowadays, we're using, you know, because using a baby aspirin, it's interrically coded. You know, this is a far lower risk than say taking ibuprofen or something like that. The coding helps it get in, was it in the small intestine rather than the stomach? Yeah, basically prevents it from, you know, sort of destroying the gastric mucosa. Now that said, there was a study that came out, probably about three weeks ago, we could link to it, that looked at healthy. So low risk populations, and it found that the risk of taking a baby aspirin was very small, which we always knew, but the benefit was also very, very small. Such that it was pretty much a wash. And I would say that, you know, that's the nature of clinical medicine. As more and more data become available, you start to revise your criteria. How will this change the way I practice? I will likely be just a little bit less interested in giving baby aspirin to a patient who is otherwise low risk. And then certainly patients that had it didn't have an elevated aspirin work, so I would rarely use it anyway, unless there was some other overwhelming reason. Will I keep taking it? You know, as I look to streamline the list, you know, I'm always kind of tweaking what I'm taking. You know, one thing that's interesting about baby aspirin, it's not a great this is a great example of like what our research team is capable of, right? I used to also think baby aspirin was a reasonable thing to take on a flight. You know, if you're fly, if you're on a long flight, you don't want to minimize your risk of a blood clot, take a baby aspirin, especially if you have another risk factor. So any patient I had that had an elevated LP little A which is increases your risk of blood clotting probably by two X, although that's still debatable. Pay those are great, you know, those are patients that should take two baby aspirin on a flight kind of thing. Then we had the team look into this right? I think Dan looked into all this stuff and wrote it really nice white paper on it and it turned out that the data didn't support it at all, actually. You know, so you were basically in the camp of either taking flight tabs or low molecular weight happen, which I've taken low molecular weight happen, but it's injectable. I've taken it on really long flights and in the end I'm like, it's just not worth the frickin hassle. I'd rather just get up and walk around as much as possible. So, but yeah, and just a great example of how a lot of times things that are intuitive might turn out to be not necessarily standing up to the rigor of a clinical trial. And these are the things that are easy to study in clinical trials. You know, a lot of times clinical trials don't answer questions that we care about, but this is the kind of stuff where they can give you a pretty good answer. Okay. This is switching gears a little bit. How do you use heart rate variability as a metric in your practice and or in your own personal use? Sleep pre post exercise, pre post eating, every morning readiness? Yeah, I mean, so when I started getting into heart rate variability, it was long before there were commercial, you know, like rings and wearables that were making it easy to track. And so, um, got on blanking on the guy's name, got me into it. His name is Will Eden. Works for Peter Teal. And I don't know how I met Will. But, you know, we had a bunch of friends in common and somehow we met and, um, suppose for like six years ago. And I went up and spent the day in Peter's office and, um, he was showing me like the raw data on their heart math. So heart math was a company that was running the algorithm on chest straps. So you have chest strap that was gathering a data and then heart math was the algorithm you're doing it. And I was really impressed by the data. It roughly speaking, what is heart rate variability? I guess it's worth defining this. This would be another great whiteboard discussion. But, um, why don't we get a little, like, we should have had like a little post it, like, a little, white, little flip chart here. Okay. We could just draw on the walls too. Sure kids. Do it sometime. Going to hear a funny story about this. Yeah. So I got in really late last night. And, uh, but it was still early enough that somehow my race was up. But I, like, as I landed, he's just getting ready to go to bed and I'm like, oh, I just, I want to, like, face time. I'm right. So we have this thing where I tell him stories every night. And I don't know where this came from, but like, I just decided the name of the character was regionaled. I just love the name, Reginald, right? So I'm like, Reginald is a four year old boy who has a younger brother and an older sister. And it's like, everything is about re-success. It's not about rease. It's regional. And rease is obsessed with trash cans, but regionals obsessed with helicopters. So we're into a sweet, regional story. And you can see my wife is sitting next to him and she's like, kind of rolling your eyes, like, come and get on with that. I'm like, I got to get this kid to bed. And I'm like, so I was like, I got to make it a quick story. So I'm like, one day, Reginald wanted to draw a picture, but he couldn't find any paper. So he grabbed his markers and he drew a big helicopter on the wall. And rease like sits up and he goes, he did what? And I hear my wife go, good story, Dad. And I'm like, oh, I mean, but after he drew the helicopter on the wall, he was grounded for a month and never allowed to draw again. And he did like, walked myself back. It's a good save. I think Dad's just do that. Like, I think we just give kids bad ideas and we don't realize it because we fling foot in mouth disease. I think it's term. Yeah, I think so. Even like today, I heard I heard about it again. She's like, he's still talking about regional drawing on the wall. Like, just so you know when that happens, you're the one painting it. It's like, fine. Sorry. Just trying to tell a story. What was I talking about? Dr. H RV. Oh, HRV. Right. So when you look at this old, so people listening to this, I'm sorry. This won't make much sense, but if you're watching this hopefully you'll see this. So when you look at an EKG, which you probably appreciate is there's like this little P wave, which is the A-Trial and then there's the little down tick of the Q, the R and the S wave and that's the ventricular contraction and then there's the T wave, which is the repolarization. And so that is like one heartbeat. P, dip Q, spike R, S, T. Can people see that? I think what I'm doing on that part. I bet I can figure out the technology that it like makes when you're doing that, we can make the sign-up wave. That would be very wrong to put it. Ronda would do that. That's that's that's Ronda would take it to that level. We might be too lazy. Okay, so let's say somebody's heart rate is beating 60 times per minute. They're at rest. The length of time between those R waves, because the spike of the R wave is the most obvious place to measure the beat to beat time, would be one second. Right. 60 beats per minute. If you're beating 120 beats per minute, it would be half a second or 500 milliseconds. So what heart rate variability is doing is asking the question, how much variability is there between those beats? And you might think, well, if you're just sitting there at rest, how much variability can there be? And the answer is it depends on what time scale you're using to measure it. If you're just measuring it in seconds, not much at all. But if you're measuring it in 1000s of a second or milliseconds, there could be quite a bit. So somebody who's EKG or heart rate measurement looks like it's chugging along at 60 beats per minute. It might still be, you know, 970 milliseconds, 1,030 milliseconds, 1,000, 5 milliseconds, 970 milliseconds, et cetera. There's a mathematical algorithm that you apply, that you apply to that called the root mean square of the standard deviation that basically RMSSD that basically turns that number. It's a transformation. So it's in mathematics, we call these things transformations. Where you basically compress these numbers and you can then now measure how much variability is going on. Okay. I don't want to get much more into the math on that in large part because actually don't, I'm not, you know, like I'm not an expert on this topic. There's a little bit of this on the the lestic part. That's right. Yeah, I'll talk about the high frequency versus the lest frequency that's right. And we included that in the shown us. So that's what we're looking at the difference between the RR intervals, something like that. Well, the RR interval is the raw data. Like so, so I'll back up for a moment. So when I got really into this, there were basically two companies that were doing the analysis, heart math and first beat. I chose to work with first beat, even though I would say at the time, both of the algorithms were excellent. But the first beat was a, you actually, it came with its own little EKG thing. So it came with a, you would put a sticker here and you'd put a sticker here. And basically you hung this little battery packed wire across your chest. Like a couple of leads, I knew. You had a couple of leads. Yeah. And it was actually funny because the, the, the, the stickiness of their leads was so profound. I have like leather skin, like nothing can hurt me. I was like completely tore my skin off. I was like for a year, two years after, I started using it. I was depigmented where I had those leads. It's like, so we ended up like realizing, well, this is going to be really hard to do with patience. So they came out with like a less sticky lead and we got to wait a bit. But it would capture the data. Then you would actually have to send the device, you know, you have to plug the device in your computer and it would sort of do the analysis. Before I get to what I do today, the more important point is what did that data tell us, what were we looking for. So we were looking for several things. So the device could measure heart rate, heart rate variability and respiratory rate. Obviously, it has the, it's, it has the sensitivity to measure the thoracic movement. It would use an algorithm. First beat had an algorithm and I'm sure heart math has its own algorithm and they're both proprietary to impute from that whether they believed that the user was in a more parasympathetic or sympathetic state or under a period of profound stress like exercise. So if heart rate variability became very low and heart rate and respiratory rate were high, it would basically impute that to be you are exercising and it would graphically represent that one way. If heart rate were low, heart rate variability were high, it would interpret that as low sympathetic tone, low fight or flight tone, high parasympathetic tone, it would represent that a certain way and you can extrapolate from there. So the advantage of this is you could get really cool data and you would typically have the patient wear this for three days, taking it off only to shower. So they would exercise with it, they would sleep with it, they would change the lead once a day. It became a really helpful way for us to try to look at sleep patterns. The problem is the compliance was very low, most patients didn't want to do it and it took so long to get the data. If a patient was in New York doing this, they'd have to mail the thing back to Mary and San Diego and it was just kind of a pain in the ass. So the products like aura ring or there's others like whoop tries to do this motive tries to do this. I can't speak to their technology as well, but nevertheless now we can basically get those data every day when we wake up, just looking at the data from our wearable. So as a general rule, you want to see higher heart rate variability because that's a marker of more parasympathetic flow, provided again, it's being measured correctly. So the things that I've observed, so when you look at the recovery index on the aura ring, which is one of its menus, what it's basically doing is using a lot of data, but one of them is the parasympathetic, the heart rate variability. So as you over train your heart rate variability, we'll go down, your resting heart rate will go up. I think I've talked about this in the past, but I mean, alcohol and shitty food close to bed time will absolutely tank my resting heart rate, meaning it will drive it way up and will drive my heart rate variability down. And it's not subtle. It's not like, well, that's on the edge, no, no, like it's because you see the tracing of the data overnight. It's only reporting the average in the max, but you can just look at the raw data and it's pretty clear that, you know, those things, you know, really diminish those parameters and by extension and your recovery and your sleep quality. So heart rate variability then becomes one of the parameters along with temperature, movement, et cetera, that then feeds into the algorithms that predicts sleep quality and recovery. Again, I've kind of forgot the question, but I know it had to do with heart rate variability. Yeah. How you use it in the practice and personally, you know, wondering, like, do you, is it actionable? I mean, you've talked about doing deadlifts and saying, I forget the number, but it's, it's not small. Where you say you're doing deadlifts, you'll warm up, you're, you're going to be warming up to a heavy. And then you actually you walk away because you're not feeling at that day. Is there anything that you look at it with the HRB, you've already necessarily things like that and say, I'm, I'm feeling great, but this thing is telling me, I absolutely, I, so there's two things that are really valuable. The first is this gets to the point we made with the CGM, which is real time feedback is awesome. Take away real time feedback. It's hard to do anything. I mean, everybody's heard the famous experiments when you put on a headphone that delays your voice, you hearing your voice by a few seconds. You can't carry on for more than a sentence. Oh, yeah, right? I've experienced that. Yeah, so that's actually that's horrible. That's like negative feedback. That's not just taking away the feedback. That's like actually inserting negative feedback, which is incredibly destructive. So the first thing is when I wake up in the morning and I see that my HRV or my heart rate or my temperature or my respiratory rate is off. And again, I have my parameters. I know what I want to be. I immediately can say, what did you do different? I mean, that's how I sort of figured out what my tolerance for alcohol was. You can have one drink, don't have two. And by the way, one's not even good. Like one gives you slight hit to is a brick over the head. And probably what time are you drinking that? Yeah, like when are you drinking that? And then like, that's how I've certainly figured out like meal timing. Like, oh, boy, you're eating a little too close to bed. Like, that's not good. Room temperature. Like all of, you know, all of the crap that I do is largely based on this empirical iterative tinkering approach, which allows me to have data. And then, of course, by giving patients these devices, you can figure out what's true for a patient because it might necessarily be true for me. So in many ways, I'm trying to help a patient understand how they can do the tinkering so that they can figure out their optimal state. I mean, for example, I like a room to be as cold as is humanly possible. I mean, if it's like, if I don't get under the covers and feel incredibly uncomfortable, I'm going to be too hot, by by my standards. But that, you know, that might be not at all your standard, right? So, so that's that. And then to your point, yeah, the readiness score for me, especially when I'm starting to feel a little sick, sometimes that readiness score becomes the hard danger of that. And, you know, I like to see, and also it also gives me some inclination. You'll often see it dip after you've had two consecutive days of really hard workouts. Now, I will say this. I don't think it's as sensitive to lifting workouts. So it doesn't seem to possess the ability to distinguish between like you did deadlifts until you puked versus you, you know, you're at the hotel gym and you did leg press. Like it can't, it but what it sure is how knows is like you went out and, you know, expanded 1500 kilo joules, yesterday on a bike, or, you know, 1000 kilo joules in a run where you ran at, you know, seven minute miles. Like it knows that. And you stack a couple of those days on top of each other and it says, wow, that's that's serious almost. I'd love to see the data on, you know, because I think a couple of teams in the Twitter fronce were the aura ring this year, I'd love to see what those data were like, their recovery score is must have been the lowest numbers imaginable because of the physiologic stress thrown. So, yeah, despite the fact that they're so fit and like, you know, the most remarkable physical specimens, you know, I've been just like at the sort of the trend over the course of the three weeks. Yeah, and see the dip. Yeah, yeah, I'm really interesting. I need to make a note to, because I, I'd like to follow up and see if if anyone's ever been willing to share those data. And you mentioned, you may have mentioned this before, but when you, when you fasted, you did a week long fast. You said your sleep was remarkable. Yes. Did the aura ring, did that, did it corroborate it in any way? When you looked at the, the data from the aura ring that it tells you anything? Really deep sleep. Yeah, the biggest doubt, the deep sleep is what went up the most. So, the deep sleep went up the most, the light sleep went down the least. I went down the most. So, so, so Sage 1 and 2 went down, Sage 3 and 4 went up. Rem was about unchanged. HRV was higher. Um, resting heart rate was, was like, what you would, it was, resting heart rate was on par with what it is if you're not eating and drinking before bed. Um, trying to think what else, I have to go back and look, I think respiratory rate went down. Which I think is a VCO2 thing. I think that the shittier and more carbie, a meal is before bed, the higher your VCO2, you're really trying to blow off more of that CO2. Yeah. We know that your respiratory quotient is higher. So, unless your VCO2 is going up your VCO2 has to be the thing that's going up more, that wouldn't surprise me to see respiratory rate go up a little bit. And anecdotally, that's at least what I think I'm seeing. Interesting. So, do we halfway through this yet? What do we have? We're at an hour 45. We have God damn. I freaking talk too much, man. I have a question. Yeah. Yeah. We could get through more questions if we, if we do a gimmick. I mean, you love gimmicks. You love, you love, you know, I love gimmicks. Bumper sticker. Bumper sticker. Bumper sticker. Woll paper your cars with bumper stickers. I was thinking we could do like a speed round or I used to watch pardon the interruption. Where I was, I think they had different segments, but probably like 90 seconds, Nick doesn't have a bell that he can ring with the 90 seconds, but maybe he can, he's got a timer. It's got a speed master professional as what he's got. I'm not wearing my my cow's, Cassio calculator watch, but I'm pretty sure it's better than the speed master. I could be wrong. I don't know the moon watch, man. It's maybe the single most special watch ever made. So do you want to give this a shot? I basically, well, yeah, one minute to answer a question. Yeah, 60 seconds to 90 seconds. All right. So why don't we just say 90 seconds? Nick will bludgeon you with a club if you don't, if you go over. Yeah, 90 seconds. So here we go. With the emergence of the coconut oil, is it? Does he start timing after you finish this question? I was thinking about that as I was reading. Yeah, after the question. After the question, 90 seconds. I was reading out every five seconds. I'm much time you have left because I know that that would really be. That'll help. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That'll be good. With the emergence of the coconut oil is pure poison article. Can you shed some light on saturated fat in the literature and the types of studies done specifically on coconut oil? It's a great question for 90 seconds. And go. I'm going to time it on your two just so I can keep you honest. 85 seconds. I think that that whole coconut oil literature stuff is sort of ridiculous because I don't even want to get started on nutritional epidemiology. I've already alluded to it a bunch of times. I think it is the lowest form of human inference imaginable, which is not to say it provides zero benefit. But it's at the hazard ratios that these things typically come up coupled with the reliance on food frequency questionnaires, something I've even filled out myself just to prove how ridiculously useless there. Like ask me what I ate two days ago. Not a chance. I'm going to be able to give you anything within an order of magnitude of reality. All that said, I actually think the case for saturated fat may be overstated. Meaning I think that the view that saturated fat is never harmful and we should be able to ingest it at the tune of 90 percent of our calories. I think we have to accept the reality. That can't be healthy for everyone. Certainly clinically I don't see that to be the case. I know I've only got 24 seconds left. What I would say is rather than rely on some knucklehead study, put out by some bottom feeding group of information providers, learn to understand what the biomarkers are that changes a result of it. Both inflammatory, like the protein lipid was, time, go, done. Would you discuss the recent meta studies that claim moderate carbohydrate intake may be best for health? You might be able to cite your previous questionnaires. So citing my previous answer, yeah that study that in particular you're referring to, I'm sure we'll link to it. I don't even remember you must have come out of the Harvard School of Public Health, right? Yes. Okay. Will it were on the same page? So the bottom line is like it suffers from all of the usual problems of epidemiology. And this by the way, Zoe Harcom actually put a great piece on this. She will just point people to that because I think she did a better job explaining this. All the usual epi nonsense, then on top of that layer in the nutritional epi nonsense, which is again nutritional epi is like its own brand of really bad epi, which is in and of itself a horrible brand of science. And then on top of that there were some really systemic issues. She points out that they didn't correct for alcohol consumption. They had some other really odd confounders in there. The hazard ratios were themselves quite low and they again this is more of a reporting issue than it was an issue of the actual survey. But again all of these risks always seem to be discussed in absolute, in relative terms, when in absolute terms they're not. I mean people have heard me rail on the women's health initiative for the same reason. In terms of the hormone replacement therapy component of that, you know, talking about a 24% increase in breast cancer in a relative sense when the absolute increase was 0.1%. These things to me are in a bombination. And I'm going to just time out at a minute 26. Yeah. And I think anytime you look at relative risk, it doesn't really tell you anything unless you also know they tell you what absolute risk is too. You should always look at those two things together. Yes. You have to know, look at notice, I'm using a little bonus time here. We're outside of the time and he's asking me a question. So I'm just going to take it. That's right. You have to know absolute risk. You have to know relative risk and you have to know the period over time under which the condition was studied relative to the natural course of the illness. It's that third-party point that doesn't get enough attention. Anyway, off the soapbox. Yeah. What is the number one recommendation habit you would suggest every person add to their daily regimen besides physical activity and parentheses for wholesome health? Okay. That's exactly the kind of question. Like I never want to talk. Yeah. Um, I don't know. I mean, I think again, you can't answer this question without sounding glib. Like get a lot of sleep. Be through something physical everyday. Don't eat for a long period of time. When you do eat, don't eat crap. Meditate. I'm going to leave it at that number one. Was there number one? The number one? You know, I know, you could probably work it in somehow to say like the number one. The number one habit. No, no, no. So here's the one habit that you could get into is to it's something like finance first principle. You could say that like don't just don't take someone's number one. We'll look the recommendation. Yeah. So that would be the elegant thing to say. The one thing I would say on this that's important to understand is probably sleep is the one we are going to be most sensitive to. In other words, if I said to you, don't eat for this many days or don't eat well for this many days. I mean, you could get away with that for a long time. You could not eat. I think an average person could probably go 30 days without eating. Um, they could go years without eating well and still make a recovery. How long could you go without sleeping before you're completely off the rails? I mean, it's days. So in many ways, you know, we say sleep might be the single most important, but that's probably not accurate information. That's probably not the correct way to say. The right way to say is probably sleep is the one that you will suffer from the quickest. Yeah. I was close. I was like one 29. What does it mean if your body has a harder time getting into ketosis via fasting than it used to? Testing using a precision extra. Ooh, that's an interesting question. So the implication is that at one point this person was fasting getting into nutritional ketosis or getting into starvation ketosis presumably. Is this Philip, Philip ushering right now? Is this the time we're going? Yeah. I think it would be similar to like people talking like I went on an act instead and I, you know, the the weight melted off and then 10 years later I went on an act instead and I was like I could my weight wasn't really talking about. If I infer that from the question, to me they're talking about the new miracle values of the BHB level. Yeah. Well, yes. Yeah. So it's definitely a different interpretation. So so those are two entirely different questions. So we should just pick one and answer it. If we if the question is I don't get to the same levels of BHB using a precision extra because they went out of their way to explain how they were measuring it. I think that's what they're asking. It could be a number of things. It could be that they are more efficiently utilizing their ketones now. So you're accumulating fewer of them because you are drawing them off. You are utilizing them more. They have become a more preferred substrate. It could be that they're actually just producing less of them. In other words, they're doing something different that they didn't realize they were doing in the past. Maybe they've changed their composition of fatty acids. Maybe they're eating more protein. Maybe they have more carbohydrate in their diet. Things like that. Hard to know without knowing a lot more detail. But those would be the directionally the two things I would explore. Yeah. The first one being impossible to really demonstrate outside of a laboratory. Yeah. I think it's a great point. Some of the P strips is another way to look at ketones. Is it a acetoacetate? Is that them? When they're looking at that, you think, well, my ketones are through the roof because I'm peeing out tons of ketones. Is that necessarily optimal to be a diet? Yeah. It might anecdotally it seems to go down over time. The more adapted a person gets because their body realizes, hey, look, I mean, I'm not going to waste this fuel here. I'm going to utilize it. Yeah. Can you give a 90 second reasoning for why you are a why you are taking Zedia and lipitor? Are you mitigating risk based on your APOE4? Or is there something else going on? So actually, I'm not taking them anymore, which speaks to my point of, I'm always changing meds and flux. But why I was taking lipitor and Zedia at the time, and will always continue to vacillate into and out of lipid lowering medications is I'm trying to live as long as I can. And for me, that means delaying the onset of a throeschlorotic disease is greatly as possible. So why you wouldn't want to take and all hands on deck approach to that, which is reducing the burden of light-prepotene maximally inflammation into the health insulin. All these things, we want them to be all as low as possible. As for the choices of those two agents, lipitor, it's all empirically derived. So through trial and error, I have figured out that I synthesized a reasonable amount of cholesterol and taking 10 of lipitor three times a week was actually able to, when coupled with Zedia Mideb, which is a works via different mechanism, but I could measure my fight of cereals. They were quite high. Anyway, it'd be a pretty strong respond or two. So the 10 plus 10 stack of those two was a minimum effective dose that produced very good results in me, meaning it got me to below the 20th percentile, typically to the 10th or 15th percentile. So 30 milligrams of a torvistatin a week is almost a placebo dose when you consider what the drug can be given at 80 milligrams daily. But today I'm doing something different. Time. Okay. You mentioned a few times on your podcast that you are currently working on writing a book, what will the book be about, and what is the expected release date? So the book will be about my experience as a shepherd. What a lot of people don't know about me is prior to the stuff I do now, I was a shepherd. And I think there's not a lot of pop culture references to shepherds. We don't, and there aren't really sitcoms about shepherds. I mean, most people just don't know much about what the day and in day out life of a shepherd is like. And so I thought that would be a good story to tell to just talk about my experiences doing that. And so, you know, it's been a tough book to write because obviously I have to go back through all of my shepherd journals, which are all bound in leather, sheepskin bindings, they're beautiful. And I hope to have the manuscript completed by the end of this year, which would mean probably a release date in early 2020. Now, the drawback of having an early 2020 release is I suspect virtually everyone in this country will be hyper fixated on politics at that time, as we'll be spinning up to an election cycle. And if your choice is trying to understand if someone's going to challenge the incumbent president from his own party and who the opposition will be versus the life and times of a shepherd, I think it's going to be an uphill slog to try to get the attention of the masses. But, you know, I think one of the other drawbacks of the 2020 release date is people are probably dying for that book to be released and they have to wait a couple of years. That's right. Yeah, I think we're talking about something that you can do to expedite this process. We don't be grateful. Believe me, I wish I could. I wish I could. I wish I could get to this quicker. What are your thoughts on Nicotinamide, riboside supplementation for longevity? Oh boy, there's no freaking way I get to do this in 90 seconds. Well, first of all, the good news is I just had an awesome discussion with David Sinclair about this week ago. So in the next two months or whatever that I get. I keep saying that like I know when this is going to come out. Sometimes in October, November, the interview with David will come out. Actually, since that interview, a really interesting paper has come to my attention written by one of my medical school classmates, Josh Rabinoids. So I actually read both of these papers in the plane yesterday. They're freaking phenomenal. And emailed Josh a whole bunch of questions to which he responded. I would say the long and short of it is this and this is not going to make me very popular with anybody. I am completely unconvinced that taking supplemental NR or even NMN by mouth is doing anything other than enriching the companies that make those things. Let me repeat that. NAD, which you need in the cell, you could argue having more NAD in a cell is a better thing. That's a second order question. I'm asking for an exemption to my 90 second rule. This is such an important question. Nick is nodding by the way. Just so you guys know, I'm getting the OK. So you could say like a heavy set, a heavy set, Judge, all out. But then you just find out David Sinclair is going up on November 5th. So you'll we'll go into much more detail around certificates in NAD. But nevertheless, that was comic stands to the bottom. Yeah, what the hell was that shitty ass font? I did. Calibri. Calibri. No, no, we shouldn't. That you shouldn't be allowed to have that on your computer. Avenue times, lots of options, but not Calibri, please. That's not acceptable. I think he did that on purpose. There's no way. Passive aggressive. I'm a glyphics. So cells cannot take up NAD. So cell has to be able to make its own NAD. So the idea of giving precursors has become obviously the most interesting idea. Now what we're bending with is paper showed and we should link to this. So this was in Selma Tabalism. It just came out like if in the last few weeks. It's a 32 page paper. It's it was it took me a while to get through. But basically Josh, who was like I said, it was one of my med school classmates and is still pissed off at me that I didn't invite him to Easter Island two years ago to which I feel horrible. And I it's only and since it's a terrible omission and he has already received an invitation to our next trip to Easter Island next year. He developed his lab developed a tracer to track all of the intermediaries of NAD and all the precursors. So you can give NAR, NMN. And these things can be taken into a cell and then convert it into NAD and the cyiplasm and it appears that according to another paper of Josh is that we could link to it. People are interested. It appears that NAD is formed entirely in the cyiplasm and then imported wholly as NAD into the mitochondria where in theory you would want to have that higher concentration. Here's what the study should. When you gave oral NAR or NMN, the two popular precursors, only the liver could make could take them up and make NAD using cryptophan. No other cell in the body could take it up. So that would suggest to me that if you're taking oral NAD, apart from the oral NAR or NMN, you're pretty much just giving it to your liver, which is not exactly the place you want it to be. This would not be changed by using terrorist still being. I wouldn't impact it at all. Similarly, all those clinics that are out there giving NAD infusions, which is very popular, that's always struck me as cracker. And it just seems even more cracker read today because none of those cells are able to take up NAD. So it would seem to me and I actually emailed Josh about this last night and he emailed me back today and agreed with my assessment. Based on all of these data, it would seem that the only way to increase cellular NAD would be to use intravenous doses of NAR or NMN. Unfortunately, I just hadn't seen that paper because I would have loved to have had that discussion with David because he might have a counterpoint to it. He might be unaware of it. I'm not really sure, but that to me is very important. And I've actually already spoken with a number of our patients who take supplemental NAD and I've, or take supplemental NAR and I've already said to them, you know, look, I think you're sort of flushing money down the toilet. Again, I don't think it's harmful. This isn't like a four-alarm fire, but I think based on these data, I would have a hard time recommending that anybody take those products. I really went over on that one. I've heard four hours and four minutes and forty-eight. I think David Asprey mentioned IVNR. He had Charles Werner on his podcast. Charles Werner, I think is involved with, I think it's Nijin, Chromeodex, that company, and then there's the other company that we'll see in the next phase. It's a very, very few. Yeah, but I think they talked about it, but I think Charles was making the argument that. You got to take NAR or NNAD? Or all, I think it's just NAR for Nijin and then basis is NAR PT, Tertis Albeen, which is like a methylated risk-varrage role, more bio-available supposedly than though as we learned from David, very, very fat soluble. So if you're not taking it with a boatload of bile, probably not doing a hell of a lot. Yeah. Okay. What's the next one? Which brand of supplements have you found effective? Well, I mean, the problem is the whole supplement world's kind of a shit show. So unregulated. So at some point maybe we can talk about brands, chain amino acids, because I know that there, I use them, you know, many of my patients use them, and I've learned that most brands out there are not doing anything. So, but if you talk about kind of the go-to supplement, the companies that I rely on and rely on their products are basically JRO, JAR, RROW, Puring capsulations. I'm not going to spell that because I can't. I'm like dyslexic when it comes to spelling. Like I can't spell the save my life. Oh, we got spell check. Yeah, I know. But like as at the spelling B, I was always the kid that got out first. Okay, spell the TE-H-T. No, so, ATIA. So Puring capsulations, JRO, are probably the two companies that I would be my go-to for virtually anything. I'm sure there are a couple of other companies that we will intermittently use depending on the product. Yeah, but the DHA or EPA, Carlson's are Nordic natural's. Yeah, and Nordic natural's in Carlson's, I like for EPA, DHA, if not going down the pharmaceutical route, those are also available pharmaceuticals. And you alluded to this point with Medformin versus Burberryin that there's different regulation going on for those two products, and that's partly why you would go to Medformin. If Burberryin was a pharmacological agent, I know it's you know, big pharma. Yes. But the scrutiny that they're under is a lot more than I think for Burberryin when we do suggest patients take it. I think we use Thorn as the brand that we recommend. I know we went a little over their neck. I could see you flailing, but I figured I spent, I wasted part of my time explaining how poorly my spelling was. Are you currently accepting new patients? No, not probably not for the remainder of this year. And I don't manage that. So, Marry runs sort of the operations of the practice manages the flow of patients, and she gave me an ear full a couple of days ago that we are not accepting any new patients. Just based on how overworked the team is at the moment. And the follow-up question probably as unsatisfying as the answer may be is, like how do I find a Peter at Tia clone in my area? Other than maybe your brother? Yeah, my brother is probably the best Peter at Tia clone. Although it's funny. I don't really think we look that much alike, but everybody says we look so much alike. I mean, he's so much bigger than me. Like, you know, we just don't know like, did I send you guys the video of him in the grocery store pretending to be borret? Yes, yeah. You said that was me? You're just saying that because of the point I'm making. No, that was Paul. All right, I guess the point is yeah, we look we look a lot alike. So, so you could, so my brother lives in Toronto. I'm a Rello. Got a Tom Rello. Have him give you medical advice. That's right. So, Tom Rello or, and who, I guess I'm guessing he lives in LA. I don't have no idea where Tom would live. Or my brother lives in Toronto. So, that would probably be the best way to get a clone of me. And then otherwise, I think it would be a great thing. If there would be some way that you could endorse other doctors, but it's not something that it is something we talked about actually when we started nerds of Farrey and I don't, I mean, I think it is something that would be an awesome service is to create kind of like a, what's going to say, Tumblr? And then I was going to say grinder to connect doctors and patients, but I'm like, I'm going to make the joke. But like a matchmaking service between doctors and patients where you could sort of say, look, without providing an endorsement, because I don't think I can be in the business of endorsing people. I know there are a ton of docs who think the way I think. And if there are patients out there who want those docs, I don't know why we can't have a forum where they can sort of coexist because, you know, the first hurdle is just the geography of it, right? It's like, if you live in Kansas City, you're not going to want to see some doctor in New York, even if even if I had the room in the practice, it just wouldn't be practical. So we just have too many things on our plate right now. And if you're kind of bad, because we've talked about doing that and we haven't done anything about it yet. But maybe at some point, you know, we can, because this is probably one of the questions we get asked consistently more than anything else. So I just really feel like I get a lot of that over Twitter. And it would be a great thing to do is to be able to say, if you're a doctor who adheres to a certain set of principles, I just don't know how to do it without being kind of hokey and cheesy because like, I don't know what we're advocating. I don't know what, when people say they want a clone of Peter, what do they mean? Like a bald guy? Like I don't know what they actually want of me. I think that my experience from the people that I know and from, you know, the stuff on the interwebs, the Twitter sphere in a racebook. But like the honest response, I think that I that resonates with me the most is that they hear, they'll read what you wrote. They'll hear what you have to say. You'll talk about your strategy with a patient, the objective, the strategy, the tactics, the things that you're doing, the things that you're thinking about. And then they think to themselves, why the fuck is my doctor not doing any of that and I benefit I asked my doctor. They wouldn't know. They would barely even know or they would say either like it's not important or I haven't heard of it or whatever the case is. But I think it's like the level of deliberate care that you put into each patient, at least is my personal experience, like being a part of this. And so I think that it's almost like they're frustrated and they think there's a lot of money. So you can be this comprehensive and deliberate and thoughtful. So what we should do is just have patients come up with a maybe we could figure out a way to have patients generate kind of a questionnaire of things that they want in a doc. And we could we could be like a central clearinghouse of that where you know the patients would input and vote on questions that they want asked. And then doctors basically would post their answers to those questions along with where they are if they're taking patients, do they take insurance if so which ones like are you Medicare? There's like 10 things you'd want to know. And again I don't want to make more work for us because I can see Nick giving me the eyes right now. It's like shut the fuck up. But that sort of puts the onus I think on the patients and the physicians who are willing to do the work. I'm sure because I know there are docs out there who are doing the type of work I'm doing. And this would give them an opportunity to sort of explain what they're doing and say yeah and like you know I'm in San Diego or I'm in Kansas City or I'm wherever so maybe let's put that on the list for our call later today when we talk with Andrew we can figure that out. And my personal experience too if I don't get emotional about it but thank you my dad was in the ICU for like 30 days I think it was like 30 days at MGH Lazarus. Yeah like a phoenix rising from the ashes. He was in rough shape and I would I would report back to Peter and some other people and my family and so I think Peter probably appreciated more than my family that we're getting a bunch of numbers spit back and not you know you know how he was doing otherwise although I was reporting that too but you know I mean I learned a few things learned how much you know about this stuff obviously and that MGH they I think they like validate your parking after 30 days so they booted him into the respiratory unit the thing is so he went down there for a little while but one of the things I learned to as well is that I would I would bring back the stuff and the the vitals and whatever and Peter would say this is you know this is sort of what I'm thinking and then at MGH I would be doing the rounds with the with the team over there and everything and being a flying the wall and adding my two cents and some of the notes that I'd taken and things like that they're like they were they were damn good at there at the MGH and I also thought that that what a learning experience like I didn't go to medical school I know that was that my advice would be like if you want to be immersed in medicine and just the real deal where people are dying and just fast forward your learning holy shit those those people like the the I see the I see the I see the 30 people yeah yeah yeah and and we joked about it at the time um which was you basically did an I see you mini fellowship because by the end of those 30 days we'd have our call every morning and you would you would you know we would review in systems because then I see you review everything by systems you start with the neurosystem you go to the respiratory system cardiovascular system renal system boom boom boom and you know it only took like a week for you to learn how to gather data and then you know how to report it and I'm convinced that if you had one year of sitting in there you would know you know 80% of what a critical care doc knows I mean it's just reps you know it's just that kind of exposure yeah and you're right it is again it speaks to this point of feedback that week this theme keeps coming up today like how it keeps coming up the reason I think critical care is so interesting and at the same time so teachable is the cycle time between intervention and feedback is so short you want to know what happens to the pH on the blood and the vco2 and the bicarb when you change the ventilator rate you're going to find out in about 12 minutes do it yeah right you want to find out what happens when you tweak this amount of nor up an effort and this much of vasopressman is much of this and the ivy fluids and boom boom look at the swan gans catheter like you're going to see it in a minute um and you know the very few things in life offer you the the amount of feedback you get in a critical care unit it's definitely a cool field of medicine and that that would yeah the few patients that you have I would say that what you do in a sense is critical care that the level of care that they're providing at the end of the ICU and then I see what you do in your practices I see similarities that you're the you're involved in it with the patient well I mean I'm I mean I mean I so I might I don't want my head to swell too much I want to be but I want to point something out which is it's really what the patients don't see is what's more impressive the patients generally just interact with me but but they don't see is you know Ralph and Nicole and Mary and Heather like they don't see the whole team I don't see the research team so and I was talking about this with Ralph this morning so so we saw a patient and you know spend 90 minutes with him and it was awesome and he had come in and looked at everything and his labs so we finished reviewing all of his labs and he goes oh by the way I noticed you checked my ESR level and it was really low and I was like that is so funny like yeah I checked his ESR because his CRP was 6.6 last time and I just wanted to make sure he didn't have something stupid going on and his ESR came back low and his CRP was like so after he left I was like Ralph that how awesome was that like that patient had read every single one of the 87 numbers that we checked and was it was asked about the one that I forgot to bring up when we were talking and I was like I love that you know I wish every patient could be that obsessed with their numbers because those are the patients that get the most out of us that extract the most value from us I find the patients who are least probably engaged with us or the ones that are also getting the least out of us and probably frankly don't appreciate the potential I think that we have as a team to kind of to you know move the needle you're asking I think you're asking a lot of your patients like the beer on advocate it's really the it's the patient that has the most control over their destiny in many ways yes you you have to put as much effort and emphasis into this as you would any other thing that you care deeply about so if you want if you want to take your golf seriously like you can't just think about it three you know 30 minutes four times a year if you really really want to be a thoughtful investor like yes you will have professionals help you invest but you still have to interact with those advocates constantly okay that was a little over ninety seconds yeah did that how how much over ninety was that name okay are we done I think we this has been way too long right I think we we we we we've exhausted at a couple more questions or do you tend with the short oh my god I can't do any more do yeah one more question one question okay let's see can make this one short so Bob and Peter you too are awesome and I'm learning so I'm learning a lot from the AMA so thanks tell us more about the latest invest on Abo E4 because you can you can plant this all that's a pure punt baby tomorrow evening same bat time different bat channel because we're not going to record it unfortunately I'm going to sit right at this table and interview my really good friend Richard Isaacson DJ Rush that's right is he going to spend anything is he bringing the techniques twelve hundreds I'm I've met him a few times and every time I met him he was he's been yeah he's been so so Richard Isaacson is a neurologist at Cornell just a few feet from here and he runs the largest preventative clinic for Alzheimer's disease or also prevention clinic in the country we have collaborated for several years now and we are going to have a deep dive nerd on about all things pertaining to Alzheimer's inclusive of Abo E so I suspect this podcast will be released before that podcast but please do look for it Richard Isaacson cool so on that note is there anything else you'd like to say Bob before we disband I have nothing to add Nick do you have anything to add behind the camera laughing at us very well thanks everyone I hope people think this was fun and worthwhile and we'll continue our upvote downvote to take a question in AMA style bye bye

How far into this relationship or you broaching medical decision-making power of attorney, things like that? I mean, these are, and are those difficult discussions in that they require sort of a cognitive acceptance like I'm actually now putting medical decision-making into someone in his hands who are not my own because in the future, I'm going to lose the capacity to make those decisions. I mean, how difficult the discussion is that? I think it really depends on the person, right? And how, you know, have they really truly managed all of those decisions by themselves or they're used to some back and forth or they have a different model that's quite intertwined. So for some people, that's really hard to imagine. I think in my experience, like in the neurologic illness space so often, if a patient has someone which not all do, that person's coming to visits, right? Because they've been showing signs where they're not remembering or, you know, they couldn't get to the doctor's office on their own or get the Zoom up by themselves, et cetera. So they're often presenting with somebody else and there's immediately another person to engage with their experience. What are some questions you're going to ask that patient as their cognition is declining? And things that you need clarity on from them, their wishes. What do you want to understand? Well, you brought up advanced directives and advanced care planning. And so let's just spend a moment on that. That's, we should all, if you're 18 in this country, you should have an advanced directive. And my guess is, virtually nobody who's young and healthy has one. That's true. Hey, virtually anyone who's older and isn't healthy has one. Exactly. You know, we ask these questions in studies and also just casually, if you give a talk. Yeah, how many people have an advanced directive? Maybe 20% of people raise their hand. How many people think advanced directive is really important? Like most people raise their hand. So there's none of us, many of us are not doing the thing we know we're supposed to do. We just, it's just deferrable thing like life insurance. Uh, you know, anyway. So one sort of public service announcement here is advanced directive is very important. You can download a form online. Yes. Like this is a freak that you don't need a lawyer to do. You do not need a lawyer to do this. So, um, and the most important thing to come out of an advanced directive, if you have to pick some of the questions that gets asked, it's probably the proxy. If God forbid you all the sudden, you know, an accident or something happens and we can't ask you Peter, what kind of care is important to you? Who do you want speaking on your behalf in such a moment as that? And that's probably the most important question to get clear on. And you know, why would a young, a young, healthy person think about that? So my first advanced directive, I was in my late 20s when I actually finally did it, even though I have been in these conversations for a long time. And I, I one day was imagining, you know, something unexpected happening, not being able to participate in a conversation lying in a hustle of it. I was imagining my parents who do not speak to each other, trying to make decisions over their child. And my, you know, casual partner at the time, you know, mostly casual partner at the time, kind of sitting there trying to figure out how they belonged in the scene. And I was like, I don't want that for them. Regardless of what happens to me and my body, or you know, what they actually choose, like to actually put myself in the position of the people that those choices would default to. Yeah. I didn't want that for them. I didn't, you know, if I was at all sentient, I definitely didn't want to hear it. But I didn't want them in throes of totally unexpected grief to be trying to negotiate that, really, surely. It's an awesome responsibility. I, I'm very honored to say the number of people that have asked me to be the decision maker for them. I can't imagine how many have asked you this BJ, but I mean, there are more than a dozen friends who have asked me this. And I say the same thing to all of them, which is it's an honor to do it, but we have to sit and talk. Yes. Like, it's not, you can't hand me that stick and just sign my name on there, because I, like, we're going to have dinner. We're going to have a bottle of wine. Yeah. We are going to talk in this through. I need to know how to do this job. You need to know how to do this job. You need to understand what you want and don't want. Yeah. Good on you. Because a lot of people don't do that. And again, the job is not for you to emphasize. It's not my will. Yeah, exactly. The job is for you to honor the other persons, which is speak on their behalf. So to do that well, you have to know the person's wishes. And that's not a couple of questions. That's a big old conversation. And just as you do with the bottle of wine and dinner, like that's what we're doing with patients. You're setting a table that's comfortable, often you're sitting, you're asking intimate questions. As providers, you may be sharing intimate details, too, as part of a relational set a table for intimate things to happen. So I just want to borrow your table setting there. That's what we do, too. It's a important piece of getting to this level of detail. So and it's also true, like you don't have those conversations once. Then when a bridge is saying a lot of really important things, I want to double click on another thing. Like that the advanced rective, the conceit is problematic right out of the shoots. You're asking someone to put themselves in this future-oriented position where they're in a situation that they can't imagine, where they can't speak, and so what will they want then? It's a problem that's as best as we have, but it's a problematic tool. And as people move through life with illness or disability, their realization of what they can or might like to live with shifts. We have data around this. You ask a bunch of healthcare providers. If you were to broaden your own emerging department, quadruplegic from an accident, would you want your colleagues to save your life? Most providers say, hell no, I could never live like that. No, go ask most people who live with quadruplegia. If they're happy to be alive and say, yeah, I couldn't have imagined. But you know, same with me, I, okay, you're going to lock three limbs off. You could cool that? Like no, no. But then you know, as it goes in this life, we are adaptive. We have capacities that we don't know until something comes long to pull them out of us. So part of this mind-bendervative-estructive is to allow room for that for a person's sense of themselves and their capacity to change in any direction. So with all of that, as a preamble to say, you have these conversations over time, multiple times, and let the person change over time. I think it's also like this is one of those places where you want to focus on the things that are important to you, the experiences that are central to good days, to meaningful time because, you know, having counseled a lot of people actually in the acute moments of having to make these decisions, being able to reorient them towards like, you know what I've heard you say is that your dad was always in his garden. He wanted to be at home. Like if he could hear your voice, that's what was important to you, blah, blah, blah. Like the ventilator doesn't get us there. Right. That, the, what are we moving towards is, uh, is much more motivating than not doing X, Y, and Z, not into bathing, not resuscitating, because those things for most people, like exist from scenes from TV shows, and are still pretty far away. But we can really, but it is easier for people to choose, like the scene that we're going towards, that they can square against how they knew their person. Um, so I, I sort of, I mean, there's, there are people who are very clear about A, B, and C interventions being something that they would never want. And, and I certainly honor that maybe I hold it with a little bit of grain of salt, but I honor it, but I'm more interested in what I have been asked to be in that role to understand, you know, what, what makes this person's life, not because it's going to perfectly translate like, if I can't dance under the full moon in Bali, like my life is not enough, and you're like, okay, but what if you get like to see the full moon from your bed, like, is that, you know, like, we, we, I don't know. That's, that's a really important point where did I never thought of it that way? I, I probably have just always had a bias towards, okay, what are the things we don't want to do? What are the things we don't want to do, right? We talk, like, think about medical link, oh, DNR, DNR, no chess pounding, no intubation, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, but I like this framing better of, okay, like, what are the minimum set of requirements you need to have to be really to distill hold some delight in life, and, you know, what do we need to get you there? That, those are the, those are the steps we'll take. There's some language around that Peter, by the way, there's a movement to change DNR to A&D, allow natural debt, to get away from the things we're not doing, and the things that we're are doing, just to make that point in it. Interesting, because that, because that, has that taken hold yet? I don't know that it's taken hold, but there's an effort to, dry. I like that. Yeah. I think you're going to, your point is in really, if we have a single rolling, even if we have to be very flexible and allow our mind to change on route, that's just a much more viable, it's much more, it's a much more deliberate path, and it's also very helpful for those around us to know what to do versus just not to do. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes, and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

So what do you say to parents who's listening to us, who's kind of trying to navigate this for their child and they don't live in the Bay Area so they don't get to come and see you? What questions are they asking? What are they trying to do to find the best care for their kids regardless of where they lie on these spectrums of anxiety, ADHD, or the various levels of ASD? Yeah. So what my advice would be for them would be, so start with your pediatrician. Your hope is with the pediatrician that they are able to connect you to resources and the network because you really need to find a team. How likely is that? I mean, it's hard. Yeah, if you don't. I don't know how hard live in Boston or San Francisco or major cities. I'm guessing that this multidisciplinary approach does not exist. No, it's not easy to find. So what are the options then? What's the next best thing? Yeah, you try to create your team. But the thing is, I talk to families all the time. This is so stressful for a parent who is in a situation like this because they don't know anything about this. They would educate. They could be highly educated. And then we're type of families who actually, if you speak a different language and don't have higher education, this is a disaster. But even for families who are well educated, trying to understand and quarterback this, basically you need a quarterback to help you decide, like, is this ABA helpful or not? Should I be focused on speech a language therapy or ABA therapy right now? What should I be advocating for at my IEP meetings? You really need someone to help you with that roadmap. So we need to help families more with that. I think of myself as a sure person sometimes. Guiding people along this journey. And it's the roadmap of like, you know, every every year we pivot and turn, like, okay, where should we spend more time? Is it in social skill groups? Is it speech therapy? What should we be asking for? And so your question is like, yeah, this is it's hard to find. And so if you can't find it, you're looking for somebody, whether it's a therapy, it may not be a doctor. It might end up being a really good, you know, ABA therapist or a psychologist in your community who can help connect you. There are state programs. What is a parent asking when they meet a provider to figure out is this going to be a good fit? I mean, obviously one option is just ask nothing and wait and see how it pans out and in six months, ask yourself the question, hey, is my, is my kid doing better today than they were six months ago. But if you, if you, as a parent had the chance to meet several providers. So the, hey, look, I happen to be like the 11th of city. There's three ABA providers here. I'm going to go and interact with each of them. What could I as a parent do to understand where should I go first? Which is, which of these three should I pick? Yeah. What are the clues that tell me this person is going to have a higher probability of success? Yeah. The one thing is that you make sure that they have the philosophy that one size does not fit all. So that is key is that this person needs to understand personalized care and that they don't just give the same treatment recommendation, same thing to every single child. It's not black and white. You need to make sure that that provider is flexible in their thinking and their treatment approach so that they can provide individualized care as one. Two would be that they would be proactive in helping you create some sort of team. So it may not be a team like I have under one roof, but they're open to the idea of collaboration meetings with the child, speech therapist or teacher. So someone who is open to it, but will also be proactive in arranging collaboration meetings, maybe once a season. Three, I think someone who has skills in parent, I mentioned the parent training piece. I think that's a really important piece. It's not just parent education. It actually is parent training because I've seen that really make a difference. I think that's a great list. I think, you know, again, I'm thinking about this through the lens of how do you scale kind of what you're doing. There's two ways to do it. One is you just keep replicating a model that looks just like yours. So really big multidisciplinary model, but that can only be supported in a certain geography. Right? To have a team at the size of yours, you're not going to be able to put that in every town. And yet, I think it seems unlikely that this is a condition that discriminates by geography and therefore there's gotta be half the kids in this country that have any of these conditions are going to be in areas where they're never going to have large turn key multidisciplinary offerings at their disposal. So their parents are going to have to do sort of the heavy lifting. Yeah. And unlike cancer, right? So if a child gets cancer, a parent and family can go to another city for treatment. So if you happen to live in Austin, Texas, when your kid gets a certain type of cancer, but Boston Children's Hospital or, you know, pick your favorite city that has the greatest center for that, you know, it's not an unreasonable thing to potentially go there for treatment. But this is not something you're going to go and do in another city, right? This is, this has to be an integration into your life where you are. For sure. Yeah, because this is long. This is the journey. It's not, there isn't. This isn't a quick thing. This is, this is years. This is a journey. And the whole point is to have it integrated and generalized in the child's life. We were just talking how, you know, ABA at some like structured clinic is that's not, that's, you know, that's not our goal. For it's, the goal is to have a child being showing us these skills in real life, in their real life, in their classroom.

Maybe we can start the discussion through the lens of preventive care. The only thing I know is wearing sunscreen is a net positive. I understand enough to say that UV damage is skin. Is it damaging a last-in? Is it damaging collagen? Or is it purely just these sun spots that it creates? What is it that sun is doing that is damaging? Quite a bit. So I'm glad you mentioned sunscreen because the FN1 is going to come in and say, What's the absolute minimum thing I should use on my skin every day? It would be sunscreen. In fact, there was a four-year study out of Australia that followed people for four years. Either they wore sunscreen or they didn't. And the ones that did aged better. Was it randomized? It was randomized. So aged better. They aged better. Fewer lines, fewer wrinkles. And that's in a country that has a lot of sun. So that shows you the power of using sunscreen. Now I'll take it a step further. I tell my patients they have to use mineral sunsreens as opposed to chemical sunsreens. Because I'm not convinced of the safety of able-bens on oxy-bens on as hormone disruptors. I do think there are some scientific studies that suggest maybe they play a role in fertility. You can measure them in the bloodstream. Especially if you're putting them over the entire body. The skin is a great portal for chemicals and the bloodstream if it's the right size chemical. So there have been already studies and I show a huge spike in the amount of these in your bloodstream after application. After saying this for 15 years, I think the FDA just a couple weeks ago finally told the companies they must do animal safety studies. It's about time. It's very late. Yeah, it's very late. And also the I'm starting to rub. I'm so on board with you about the problems with chemical sunscreens because the other problem it creates is that patients think they're covered. And then the chemicals that are actually protecting against the UV damage become inactivated over time. And you don't know because you still have the film on you. You just film on you. And you don't know at what time of day you no longer have any solar protection. What's within an hour? It's within an hour. You put a sunscreen SPF 70 on, go outside. And it's going to be if it's strong sun. Yep. It's going to be deactivated within an hour. People will burn on SPF 70, SPF 100. There should be nothing above the SPF 50 mineral because you can't get it into a moment. What is the use case for the chemical sunscreen? Are they less expensive? Like what are they watered? Like what was the rationale for it? They blend in very easily. So the people love it because there's no white film when they put it on. A mineral sunscreen takes a little bit more work to blend it in. Or it's going to cost more because you're going to have to get a micronized or Micronized formula of zinc oxide or titanium dioxide. So my LTMD 30 to 50, I think I have one of each. I'm pretty sure that's a mineral sunscreen. It's you have to work to put it in, right? Yes. And some of them, LTMD makes some mineral and some chemical wine. So just double check. Got it. And they make a confusing on purpose, by the way. So you have to go out of your way to actually find formulas that are primarily mineral because the companies want to sell you both products. And they know that customer satisfaction is higher with chemical. And you know, this doesn't have to do this conversation specifically. But Susan has created skincare and so if I created skincare. So we've really dived into this world of skincare. And the marketing of skincare can really mislead consumers. And companies that are creating skincare are motivated by sales. They want people to be happy with their SPF. When it's a chemical sunscreen, they're going to be happier with it because it doesn't have that white paste the effect. But it's just not as effective. Got it. And the other thing that happens, if you look at the amount of skincare in the US, it's increasing, including melanoma. So why do we have generations now of people from the late 90s on up who say they use sunscreen all of them and our skincare cancer rates are going up? I think it's too fold. I think it's because A, like you said to know the sunscreen is degraded very quickly when they put on a chemical sunscreen. And I'm going to take a one step further. When those chemical sunscreen absorb those harmful rays, whether it's UVB or UVA, the cells, the chemicals absorb them and they neutralize those rays, but they cause reactive oxygen species. And those reactive oxygen species damage the DNA of the cells, which then accentuates the damage that you're getting from whatever other UVA gets through the sunscreen. So you're really causing more damage and probably causing these cells to become more atypical over time. By the way, you know that there's a group of people who argue that, and I don't agree with this at all, that argue that sun and UV rays have no causal role in melanoma. And the argument they put forth is sunscreen use has been increasing, and yet we see a significant increase in the incidence of melanoma. So they're pointing at the same observation. They're offering a different argument. I find you're argument far more compelling. Yeah, I think everyone should be using a mineral sunscreen. So that's number one. Okay. To your point, we could spend the rest of the podcast on it. We won't. We've established the fact that step one, the no regret move protect your skin in the sun. What's the next level thing that one can do for prevention? So we may be on the same line. It might be a little bit different. I would say step two would be a retinoid of some sort. And it could be in your brain. I was worried you were going to say that. I know. I've wanted to say that. But I have to apply. Well, here's what they tell patients. Because you said you don't wash your face tonight, right? Do you guys see a pressure teeth at night? I do. I'm going to be a little bit... Okay. Glosser and teeth. Right next to your toothbrush, put your little tube of red. That's why I tell my patients. The few times I'd tried to use this. Like, I couldn't do it every day. It just got me too red. Did that mean I was on too high, I should have gone back to the aldehyde. I was too young. I probably tried this ten years ago and never did it again. So I have, I take a different approach and even also my colleagues. I tell people if they're trying to achieve a goal whether streaming the last month, sun damage, or they're getting ready for a child's wedding or we have to do a procedure. I would tell them to tough it out because if you use that red note, gas it every single day, your body acclimates to it very quickly. It may take six weeks, seven weeks. Eight weeks, but you get your skin used to it and then you reap all the benefits. But some patients are always going to quit. So from that standpoint, then... Yeah. So we would give you five days a week, right now the high, two days a week, right now I get acid. And tell you to start that way and then maybe as your skin acclimates to it, you can change that proportion. Okay. And by the way, do you become more light sensitive when you take this to you? Does it make you, does it make it even more important that you're wearing sunscreen in the sun? So those studies came out very early on, which is why people start to say, oh, I stopped my red noise in the summer and that's the last thing you should do. Because initially when you start a red noise, you will get exfoliation at the level of the dead layer of the skin, the student cornea. But after you've been on the red noise for a long time, that builds back up. So you become less light sensitive. You might always still be a little bit, but you're a lot less light sensitive than when you first start a red noise. But you should always have a sunscreen on and a hat. And red noise have been shown that even if you get sun exposure, they have the ability to repair some of that DNA damage early on. So you really want to be on a red noise all the time. That was going to also add, you know, when people are thinking about the core aspects of what should to be using on their skin, now that they're starting to notice some changes in their 20s or 30s, in addition to sunscreen and red noise, I think that vitamin C is a really important molecule to get onto the skin also. Try that too. Let me tell you why I stopped. It was mixed with like ferric acid. For like acid. Yes, yes. And it's stuck. I just hated the smell of it. And the reason for that is because vitamin C is a notoriously complicated, easily reduced molecule. And when manufacturers are formulating their vitamin C serums, it might be a year from when it leaves the factory and gets onto your skin. If for lucky. And in that year, all of the relatively inexpensive vitamin C serums are going to degrade and not actually have any bioavailability when that vitamin C is applied to the skin. And so the relatively more expensive formulations are being produced by manufacturers that are doing all sorts of manufacturing flips and tricks to try and stabilize that vitamin C. The product you're talking about, which I think I can try guess, is that they use the feroic acid to stabilize the vitamin C so that it maintains its bioavailability. Other formulations of vitamin C will use an oil-based formula. It's not achvious because then the vitamin C is much less likely to be reduced in that kind of formulation. But those products tend to be petroleum, oil-based and also have all sorts of negatives associated with it. And then there are some products that will micro encapsulate or find other creative ways of making sure that the vitamin C is actually bioavailable when it hits your skin. So that product may have not worked for you, but there are other options to find a stable vitamin C. And this is one of those products where again, we have our own custom formulas. But I'll tell people who are price sensitive, go to Walgreens, buy a retinoid, buy a sunscreen, you don't need to spend more than $10 or $15 on effective products. But vitamin C is something where you have to spend the money on it. But actually, what retinoid can you buy at WalMart? Retinole? And some retinole. I see. You can't get retinoic acid on that prescription. Right. Got it. And is there any downside of using retinolid? You just need a lot more of it to make sure you get. The problem is if you try to push that enzymatic chain reaction, you'll get dermatitis. Are you putting this on like all over your face like this even over my beard and stuff? So I always saw them hold up your finger and it should be from the tip of your index finger to your DIP joint. Oh my god. And that's a finger tip unit. And if you can do a finger tip unit of retinoid every night, that's a great way to measure the beginning and not find. And how you can see your face. You can see I'm getting a triponin league right now. Just thinking about applying that much stuff. Yeah. And I have them put it on their face, including the under eye area. Because that's a thinned skin. Yep. And that's the skin that's going to wrinkle in aged first. So most people are afraid to go around their eyes. And I tell them just don't get it in your eyes. Go around, but make sure you're getting that under eye area. Once a week maybe on the upper eyelid. And then once or twice a week on the neck. Because again, this is a thinned skin. We've got to keep the skin building collagen and elastin. Okay. The vitamin C and for like acid, would you put that on after? First. So you always put the liquid before the thickest stuff. So you're going to finish the thickest. Okay. And you may be it's worth also mentioned because we haven't done this yet. You know, why is vitamin C so important? I assume it has to be pro-line and collagen. That's one aspect. So vitamin C is sort of like a wonder molecule when it comes to facial aesthetics. Because yes, it is a precursor for the collagen synthesis pathway in the Prolene synthesis pathway. But it also is a powerful antioxidant. And so antioxidant application to the skin not only has the power to Remove injury, oxidative injury that has happened during the day. But it also has the ability to reverse some existing damage that's in place. Vitamin C also regulates the tyrosine kinase pathway, which is sort of a scientific way of saying, that complexion, which people talk about wanting to have good complexion. What does that mean? Complexion is something that across societies, no matter what your physpatriarch scale is, people like to have a good complexion. And that means having an even skin tone, which is even distribution of melanin. It doesn't matter if you're black or white or brown. You want to have people desire to have their skin look even without Splatchy areas of pigmentation or nearby areas of relative depigmentation. And so regulating the tyrosine kind of pathway so that there's an even production of melanin throughout the skin. It's something that is valuable, very valuable and an aesthetic sense. And that's something that vitamin C does as well. And then it sounds like the last thing you said we want to do is as a moisturizer. Yes, that's fair. Yeah, I would say the cheapest trick in skin care, which actually is is really true, is that deep moisturization locks down the skin barrier function and allows the skin trigger of the skin, dermis, epithelium to thicken just by having that a close of barrier. So you can go to Walgreens and spend six dollars on aquifer, which is basically petroleum jelly and put it on your face nightly. And your skin will look better in 30 days guaranteed because your skin will thicken and a lot of the fine lines and crinkles will actually start to disappear because your skin is being more hydrated. That's hydration. That's hydration. That's hydration. Yeah, what if I don't want to grease up my pale. Yeah, I'm not saying that as sort of like tongue and cheek. I've got it. I'm not telling people to do that. But if you actually did a double line of study, you would see that there are things real. Real results in 30 days. But the reason I mentioned that is that good deep hydration can be performed with an inexpensive product that you're using regularly and it'll make a real difference because the moisturization, especially overnight while you're sleeping, is a powerful tool for aesthetics. And you know, I don't, I like I wouldn't give you though, I'm moisturizer. So you can just tell I'm a grease ball to begin with. And how would you have young thicker skin? So again, just like women aged 20 years faster than guys in terms of the bone, we modeling and fat, atrophy the skin as well. So you say my routine would be done after the retinoic acid from my standpoint. At this point. And then we might revisit that in a few years. Okay. So just to go through this, because I'm, you can tell not the sharpest tool in the shed. My AM routine is going to be wash. Okay. Let's assume I just came out of the shower. Okay. So you're serious. And then by the way, the shower don't use your body soap on your face because he's going to strip the oils out of your face. So again, you need a separate facial cleanser. Oh, God. What do I need? The same glycerol based thing. Well, it depends on your skin type too. Like, I tend to be maybe a little bit more picky about the skin. I mean, you can also saw the crap that I, like, I'm, I've got like a 299 bottle body wash from Target that I scrub head to toe. Like, I am the lowest com, like, put it this way. When my wife met me in the hospital, the first thing she noticed was how disgusting I was in that I used to take alcohol pads and clean my face. Like, just like, that was my shower in the hospital. That part doesn't bad. It was a little harsh. But I don't even know if I'm going to do it like this. So we're going to do, we're going to do so. Yeah. And then we're going to do sunscreen. Yes. That's the morning routine. And some people might in there need, depending on if they have clogged pores or your skin, they might need it. I'll, I'll find drugs. Yeah, so they're probably hydroxy as they before their sunscreen. But you've nailed it right there. That's a very simple regimen you can follow. Okay. And then the PM is soap serum. We prefer if you call it a cleanser, right? Yes. I've kind of did some other things. Yeah. Yeah. Of course wrong. And now the difference is, you know, I do have lots of patients like you Peter who are minimalist. So again, it's trying to get them to use whatever they can to protect their skin. And hopefully start to improve the aging process. All right. I might, I might just to do the experiment for 90 days. Try to commit to cleanser serum sunscreen in the morning. Cleanser serum retinoc acid in the evening. Okay. We agree that would be. Yes. Okay. By the way, in the show notes, we'll get from you products that you guys like including your own. I just want to let people kind of look through this and decide. And, you know, obviously you guys disclose your own products. Great. But let people see the full breadth of things. Yeah. You know, I'm, I'm, I'm sorry. And then one of the things to ask about those, especially when they're very into their nutrition and eating healthy. They say, well, why do I need to apply an anti-oxidant if I'm eating a lot of anti-oxidant? And the skin being the largest organ in your body is very unique. It's very good at keeping things out or from the inside coming out as well. So outside things like water pollution, it tries to protect that from getting in. And does a good job at keeping kind of homeyostasis. So they have shown that the level of vitamin C that you can achieve in the skin by topical application. Far exceeds what you can do by ingesting it. The amount you would have to ingest to get the right amount in the skin. You'd have GI issues. That would definitely make you quit. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny for advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com. Forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future. Thank you.

We've now twice sort of broached the topic of anabolic as another tool, because a couple of times you've made the point, which is look, this is going to be about the limit. Your genes are going to start to become your limit. So I guess my question is, well, let's let you know, you you've spoken very openly about anabolic steroids. I've had several podcasts where I covered this in detail, but again, let's let's kind of tell people what we're talking about. For reasons that are maybe a little bit elusive. There's some confusion about his testosterone and anabolic steroid. And of course, the answer is absolutely yes it is. And so let's talk about anabolic steroid use in the context of non-medical use. So let's take testosterone replacement therapy where testosterone in a hypogonatal man is restored to typically the upper limit of a normal physiologic range. Nice that they do the upper limit, right? Yes, everyone good genetics. And then we'll just sort of take the off the table for a moment, park it in the context of what is what is anabolic anogenic steroid use look like in the physique bodybuilding community. Let's talk about the different drugs. Let's talk about your experience with it. Let's talk about how much it can unleash. And let's frankly talk about what the pros and cons are because, you know, I personally have no experience with this. You know, we just that's not our patient population, right? We don't have patients that are coming in saying, my goal is to be jacked, right? And I want some debaul. And you know, so there's this not something we just have any understanding of. Yeah. So anabolic anogenic steroids are all derivatives of the testosterone molecule, manipulated and various ways to accentuate some characteristics and deemphasize other characteristics. They're typically taken by athletes, the competitive sphere, bodybuilders physique athletes and gym people who want a superficial logical level of muscle mass. And sometimes a superficial logically low levels of body fat can comment with them. And so they'll take anywhere between high-end testosterone replacement therapy dose to 10 or 20 times that amount per week. And they will do let me just pause there for a moment and just give some people some doses because we've talked about TRT before in the podcast. So we typically dose patients twice a week to try to get a smoother level as opposed to once a week. So if the ideal dose for a given individual to get them in the right spot is 100 milligrams of testosterone sapinate weekly, we would always prefer the patient take 50 milligrams in termuscularly twice a week or sub-game. I will tell you, Mike, I don't think we have ever given a patient more than 70 milligrams twice a week or 140 milligrams a week, probably median dose for physiologic replacement is 40 milligrams twice a week or 80 milligrams a week. So are you saying that there are people out there that would routinely take 800 to 1600 milligrams of testosterone in a week? Oh yeah. And sometimes that's not all testosterone, it's other steroids and combination. Usually people take at least that replacement level of testosterone often more. Because testosterone doesn't really good things for health and general function. It tends to romanticize into estrogen quite readily which is good because estrogen's cardiovascular protective, neuroprotective increases your strength. It's actually... It tons, sex drive, it actually increases your anaballism in the presence of antigenic steroids and testosterone. So estrogen by itself, not very in a ball like estrogen in the presence of testosterone, more in a ballic than if you had all the testosterone in the world but we're unable to romanticize to estrogen. And so baseline molotostastroin is often taken at somewhere between 250 milligrams a week and all the way up to a thousand milligrams a week depending on how you're handling the side effects of that excess estrogen production at the higher levels. And that's usually taken as a sippianate. Anantate sippianate, some people prefer appropriate. If they inject every day, anantate and sippianate are by far the most commonly used seemingly. Oftentimes people inject differently but once daily injections seem to provide this smoothest curve. If you put in half a week's worth of superficial logical testosterone at one time, you're moved for the next several hours as curious. It's not fun. I mean, yeah, help me understand what that even feels like. So let's just say you're taking 700 milligrams a week, 100 milligrams a day. So 7x physiologic. Do you feel something different? Most people feel something but it's probably a normally distributed population of experiences where some people just can't tell. Some people feel something for sure that they can describe and some people have panic attacks and will never use again or they are driven to extreme violent thoughts and extreme sexual thoughts and actions. And those folks are quite rare but they do happen. So there's a large distribution about which people can have experiences but I'd say the median experience is you take everything that easiest way to understand the average effect of a high degree of metabolic steroids and for simplicity testosterone. The psychology is to imagine that what is the average psychological preclivity of a female? What is the average psychological preclivity of a male different in many regards? And then you move the needle over one notch into a magical encounter called enhanced male. And you just typically exhibit more male like patterns of thought and behavior than even males do. But males compare to females as the best way to figure that one out because you're like just know what a male pattern of behavior is like because you're a male. You're like what the hell is it like to be more like me? So everything about me or it's not everything. We actually just had a recent video on the RP Strength channel. I think it's called Royad Rage's Real. We talk about like that steroids don't accentuate every quality you have just the more masculine qualities. So what are the most masculine qualities? Again, this hits everyone a little bit differently but on average, you become quieter, men typically are not as expressive as women. You become to show you come to show fewer facial expressions of emotion. You don't process other people's emotions as well. You can't fine tune what they feel as much and you don't care as much. So less empathy. Way less empathy, all the way to similar levels of empathy but an average definitely less. And you become more likely to be irritable. You become more likely to have anger and aggressive sorts of thoughts. You become more attuned to the dominance hierarchy in general and you become more you become someone who thinks more about where you stack up with a dominance hierarchy in a way that you take a front since slights more poorly than otherwise. So if someone on social media says you're a bad person, if you're not of a lot of testosterone, you're like, just having a bad day. It's okay. We all have that day. We need to rage on someone. There are a lot of testosterone. You're more likely to be like, I wonder if he'd say that to my face. I wonder if he would be real quiet around me because he would know that I'm not someone to be messed with. Weird. Weird thoughts like that. Women almost never have thoughts like that. Men have regular thoughts like that in the right context. People on steroids have more thoughts like that in almost every context than off on average they would like to have. Another one is you become linguistically less expressive and your fluidity of communication falls. So a lot of times when someone is using high levels of antibiotics there is in a relationship and that person happens to be male, the degree of communicative throughput falls substantially. That's just generally not good for most relationships. Another one is sex drive. Was difficult for women to appreciate what the male sex drive is like on a quantitative and qualitative level. Both of those tend to magnify especially if you're not bringing your estrogen down. You bring estrogen low enough. You don't even remember what the hell sex is for. Why people are even in that sort of thing. But if you have a lot of antigens, a lot of estrogen, the hunger, the thirst becomes very annoying. Now at that level of testosterone are you taking on a romanticin inhibitor or you literally letting the estridile get, I mean I can't imagine how high the estridile level becomes at that size you want. So so you're not so so typically, you know, estridile would be over a hundred at that point. That's left alone. It depends. So it depends on a few things. One is different people respond differently both physique and psychology to high levels of estrogen. High levels of estrogen for some people are like swimming in an pool of magical clouds and they love it and their physique looks great. They get nice and watery. They're too much feel amazing. Their recovery is awesome. Their sleep is awesome. Sex drives awesome. They make a great for some other people. They get a lot of estrogen and actually prevents them from getting good sleep at higher levels. Their water buffalo bloated. They can't even see their abs anymore. Even though they're eight percent body fat and they get mood swings, all crazy stuff. And so it really is very individually dependent. It's actually quite amazing and this is not entirely unlike women, right? Women will, if they're undergoing hormone replacement therapy in Perry menopause, it's not a one size fits all. They can have tremendous variability in their response to estrogen and of course progesterone. Yes, huge, huge, huge. The other thing is what we're learning in evidence-based approach to antibiotics derogatolization and performance and anti-drugatolization. It's called the Safe Reuse model. Probably the biggest promulgator of it is a gentleman named Joe Jeffree in the United Kingdom, super, super expert, exceptional bodybuilding coach, great bodybuilders on right? And just read literature all day long. And folks like him tend to espouse that probably the best way to manage estrogen is to use some combination of exogenous drugs that are handling themselves to get the estrogen level you have the best notable metrics at how you feel how you look how your blood work is health, et cetera. So here's an example. You take a thousand milligrams of testosterone. I'm still wrapping my head around this mic, but it actually goes into your thigh and needle. You don't have to wrap your head around. So it's intense. It's a lot. And you take a thousand milligrams of testosterone and that comes with a concomitant aromatization. So you have a lot estrogen. Some people they feel totally great. For some people it's too much. For those who it's too much estrogen, they might be able to take 500 milligrams of testosterone and then 500 milligrams of premobone. Primovalin is a synthetic antigenic steroid developed in, I think, the 60s and 70s. And it's designed not really to convert into estrogen hardly at all. Other steroids like it are master on. They not only don't convert an estrogen, but they actually antagonize estrogen conversion for the testosterone you're shooting into some extent. And so if someone is like way too much estrogen for them, they can do a 50, 50 split of testosterone in premobone. So that now they get all the good estrogen from testosterone, but not too much of it. But they get most of that antabolic drive from the rest of the premobone, but without any more estrogen in addition. It could be 250 testosterone and 750 milligrams of premobone. It can be 750 test. It can be 250 premobone. Anything between. And you kind of experiment that and a lot of bodybuilding coaches. What they're really good at is starting you on a certain cycle that they have the wisdom to know works for most people. And then leveling up one drug leveling down another to get among other things kind of that testosterone that antigen to estrogen ratio to be something that you have your best performance at best health so on and so forth. But for the the sex drive component, especially if you have a lot of estrogen going on, qualitatively it can change, quantitatively it can change. Now huge variation. Me personally, I never got like enormous sex drive. A regulation from I did get some, but nothing crazy. I've been up to as much as just north of 2,000 milligrams per week. And I'm currently on only 250 milligrams per week. But my sex drive is more or less the same. Which to me makes me wonder, is there any difference in an origin receptor expression that you're able to appreciate between 250 and 2000? Are you so saturated in your androgen receptors already that like do we actually know if there's a benefit to all the additional testosterone that you could have been on at almost 10x your current dose 8x? You won't know until you try. Did you appreciate a difference in positive effects? I don't doubt that there could be a difference in negative effects. But if the positive effects are accrued through testosterone binding to the androgen receptor that complex leading to more nuclear transcription, wouldn't wouldn't what you said suggest that you may have already hit maximum benefit of 250? There are some reasons to believe that your androgen receptor density escalates up when exposed to more androgens and not down in some cases. And so that means the more gear you take the more benefit you have rather linearly. My experience next to the most people you talk to it's again, slow news reel, same asymptotic curvilinear relationship. For me personally and this is something I didn't discover until quite recently I would say, unfortunately so, I get probably almost the same gains at 1000 milligrams that I do at 2000. Anything north for me a 50 hundred just drives me insane, like mentally insane and seems to not really affect my physique hardly at all. How much water retention do you get at these doses? Considerable, although if you manage your estrogen well, it's not as much as you would think. And you manage estrogen with aromatase inhibitors? Oh yes, that's right. I sorry. I had a point there. The back then. Aromatase inhibitors in many cases are incredibly toxic drugs and you generally want to avoid taking them if you can. Sometimes you have to get really dry for a contest, but that's only a few weeks out from the show. And so the modern wisdom, so to speak with the evidence-based crowd, the safer-used crowd, is to manage your estrogen with differential amounts of testosterone and non-estrogetically converting compounds like pre-mobile and mastron versus taking just as much as testosterone as you ever would, but taking an aromatase inhibitor on top of that, because aromatase inhibitors in unbelievable range of circumstances. Fuck you up. They're neurotoxic. They're cardiovascular toxic. It's bad bad news. These are compounds you use. We have breast cancer and they're like, you're going to die if you don't take these. They are gigantic hammers for a very small nail. If you want to see who's done the worst to their health across the body of your industry, it's whoever runs the most AIs as we call them aromatase inhibitors. And they're very, very pharmaceutical ways to control estrogen, probably the best way for health and effect is only used as much estrogenically converting drugs, nanderlone derivatives, and testosterone. As you need to get whatever estrogen you feel best at, and the rest of the anabolic load should come from things like pre-mobile and a mastron that don't really do much stress during at all, but increase your adrogen and anabolism so on and so forth. How do you differentiate between when you're using testosterone versus nanderlone? Mostly by experience. Nanderlone has some really cool positive effects. Kind of exaggerated versions of testosterone. Some people are naturally very dry. And so if they don't take an antroloin for their very hard training cycles, they will have insufficient body and joint water hydration. And they're like joints will creak and they'll get herd a lot and this just really bad recovery. But you put them on nanderlone for variant. And all of a sudden they have enough intramuscular and intra joint water to where they feel great everything's working. Other people will get on nanderlones and have so many of the side effects that they're like, this is way too much estrogen conversion from me. I'm a giant water buffalo. I just take testosterone and plant dehydrates on any of that. And nanderlones also have the curious side effect. It's colloquially turned to deca dick because nanderlone to canoate does the substance called deca. It is erectile dysfunction, approximately caused by the presence of nanderlones. And it's curious because nanderlones typically with her estrogenic effects elevate sex drive. Kind of the more estrogen you have to appoint the more sex drive you have. If you have a few of that. And so you're horny but then like little little Billy down there doesn't work as well as he used to or at all. And so if you're in that boat you're like, well, look like it's just trade off. How much of a benefit do I get in training versus how much is my wife or girlfriend going to hate me or hook up culture doesn't work for me anymore. So on and so forth. So lots of considerations there. Nothing generally better than to start out with a solid plan that makes sense with a coach that knows what they're doing and very low doses of everything. And slowly play with compounds and scale up the very notable highly note your beneficial effects and highly note your deleterious effects or downsides and see where you can strike a balance that's acceptable to you and considers long-term consequences, et cetera et cetera et cetera.

Let's shift gears a little bit and talk about antibiotic use. So this is something that probably doesn't get that much attention. I know Marty, when I was in the hospital, we did talk a lot about this. In particular, we talked a lot about it in the ICU, which was the idea of antibiotic resistance being a real problem. But as a person who lives outside of hospital now, I don't hear much about it. So that makes me think one of a couple scenarios. Scenario one is it was greatly exaggerated in the early 2000s when I was a resident because it hasn't materialized resistance. Resistance, yeah. It was real and it's still real, but more and more drugs are being developed to keep the bacteria a bay. So you know, you could walk through several other machinations. But give us a sense of what this means, what the implications are and what can be done about it. So about a hundred thousand people in the US die a year roughly from resistant bacteria that are resistant to the antibiotics we've had. The time period it took for bacteria to develop resistance through their natural evolution was about 23 years when antibiotics were first mass produced in the 1950s and 60s. Then it shrunk down to 14 years and now it's about one year within a year and bacteria will mutate around an antibiotic and it'll be a blank, say, methasellin resistant staff lacoccus. We're now seeing C-Diff, one of those common bacteria, take the life of somebody, you know, every other month or so in the hospital and most hospitals. It's you tend to pick it up in the hospital. Sadly, you look back and you say, oh, yeah, they took an anceph for this tiny little thing. They didn't need to take the anceph antibiotic for. The about 60% of our patient antibiotics are unnecessary according to several studies. And in patient antibiotics, I'm not sure it's much better. I personally have given thousands of unnecessary antibiotics because I've been forced to, well, I say, I give them. It's the operations that I do. There's this protocol that you give every single operative patient antibiotic before the incision. Yeah, Marty, I don't think I ever cut a person's skin in my life without an antibiotic being unbored except for a certain trauma case where you're literally putting a knife on them the second they walk in the door because they're going to die. But, yes, we would, I don't know, we used to give anceph. I don't know if that's the case, right? That's the one I'm on here. So, and then, again, the reason was, um, there are bacteria on the skin. And even though we scrub the skin, you can't get every bacteria out. So, we're going to give you an antibiotic that has to be in your system. It's going to be given to you intravenously and usually the anesthesiologist will does it in pre-oper before you cut skin so that by the time that incision goes through, whatever bacteria are on the edge of that skin aren't going to potentially get in. And so, again, makes a lot of sense. I never questioned it. Where there, and there must have been studies that demonstrated lower incidence of wound infections, right? I can't imagine something that prevalent was implemented without an RCT. Was it? There were studies and there were RCTs in major abdominal operations that were done open. There were most surgeries done minimally invasive now. And people have inappropriately extrapolated those findings to minimally invasive surgery. I mean, have you ever heard of an infection after a laparoscopic in Gurohernia? Maybe like a case report. I've never seen it. But isn't that because we're giving them antibiotics potentially? I don't think so, but if because you would see at least some, I don't think it would be 100% effective. You don't see that with abdominal surgery. I mean, it reduces the incidence of infections a little bit. I just don't think there's any mechanism in some of these procedures. I don't think it works, and only it gets this. Well, for whatever reason, with no data, the research from open abdominal GIC has got extrapolated broadly. And I remember asking, I was actually in practice a little bit before the broad recommendation. I remember asking, uh, this guy patched DeLinger who was involved in these recommendations, it's called like the antibiotic society of America. You don't want to these, there's no niche meetings. We have the pancreas club, you know, it's like all these meetings. It's more fun than the spleen society, by the way, they're they're boring. And so I remember asking them, why is it that antibiotic recommendation at the time of incision for every operation? I've never seen or heard of an infection for these minor procedures. And he said, well, you know, we thought a lot about that on our committee, and we decided making it easy to remember to do it for every operation would ensure that the big operations get it. And I thought, well, we may have a blind spot in American medicine. Now it's very obvious to me, based on some research I've been seeing out there that not only could we be breeding resistance, but what is, what are these antibiotics doing to the gut microbiome? And it turns out that a new theory, which has emerged out of the University of Chicago, is suggesting that surgical infections don't come from the skin bacteria crawling in. It comes from the gut. Some sort of weakness in the gut, and there may be a transposition of some bacteria. And they've actually done studies now in mice where they, they alter their gut microbiome prior to surgery, and they have found that there's some reduction in infection. So there may be sort of probiotics preoperatively that may reduce the risk. This is a big area of ongoing research. There's nothing definitive. We've learned the people should chug a gatorade three to four hours before surgery is mostly for the glucose, but what's it doing to the gut? Are the patient coming in into starvation state and is that doing something to the microbiome? We've had all this dog in the operating room. You've got to wear your hats, like you, you have a cover your shoes, some places, don't cover your shoes. And then you go overseas as you may have as well. You go to Africa and you realize they're not wearing anything, not even wearing masks when they're doing surgery. And their infection rate is no different. Really? Yeah. Yeah. And this is, it's, that's surprising to me. Yeah. And you think, well, what is the mask doing? Is it preventing sweat from dripping in? Is it preventing the airborne particles? Because the airborne particles just come out of the side of your mask, right? So they're still, so there's this University of Chicago research is challenging a lot of deeply held assumptions in operating room protocol. But one of the things I feel bad about and I don't do it anymore now is going in for a minor laparoscopic procedure anesthesiologist says you want me to give antsaf and I say, no, you can hold off. The average 10-year-old in America has taken 11 courses of antibiotics. And the average three-year-old has taken two and a half courses of antibiotics. We think that zero to three age group is the most, the microbiome is the most sensitive to antibiotics. But antibiotics are like carpet bombing your microbiome, you know, these millions of bacteria that live in harmony. And this study, I don't know if it's I can mention this, but this Mayo Clinic study, this is how I've told you before. I was dying to tell you about this study. Incredible study out of the Mayo Clinic that came out. I think maybe the most significant study of the modern era in that it's shattering our deeply held assumptions about chronic diseases. In the Mayo Clinic researchers took the 14,000 children that live in Ongstead County the area of Rochester, Minnesota. And they looked at kids who took an antibiotic course in the first two years of life and tracked whether or not they developed asthma, learning disabilities, overweight, obesity, later in childhood. And what they found were these incredible correlations are about 10,000 kids who had taken an antibiotic course and 4,000 who had not and they matched them to the best of their ability statistically. A 20% increase no beastly among kids who had taken an antibiotic in the first two years of life. 21% increase in learning disabilities. These were all the statistically significant findings. 32% increase in attention deficit disorder. A 90% increase in asthma and a 280, 9% increase in celiac. Other studies have shown a correlation between antibiotics early in childhood and ulcerative cladis and Crohn's disease. Makes sense for changing the microbiome. We may be carpet bombing the microbiome with the dogma that there are no downsides to antibiotic. She got some sniffles. Probably won't help you, but it won't hurt you. Not true. How do we know in this study, Marty, that the 4,000 kids who were in the control arm that didn't get antibiotics weren't healthier kids, which is why they never needed the antibiotic. And that it wasn't some other factor about the 10,000 who did get the antibiotics. Either they were just naturally less healthy kids. There was something about them that was less robust. There were other factors that couldn't be corrected for that actually explains those differences. I love it. That's how a scientific mind should think because there could be confounding variables. For example, maybe it's the infection that they were treating that is that glad to the you. Right. So those are all good questions. Now, my first while we cannot make conclusions from this study, but this study is an incredible signal that I think we should pay attention to for two reasons. Number one, it's been repeated in a Danish study of about a million children. Number two, there was a dose-dependent relationship. The more courses of antibiotics the child took, the more significant the more significant the higher the so again, worth maybe pausing and explaining to folks how you can increase the probability of a finding being real in an epidemiologic study. So again, it always comes back to this what's the probability what you just said is causal. Cusality is the single most important force in science. Yes. I'm convinced of that. If you don't have causality, you have nothing. It's what makes the universe what it is in my view. So you stayed in a correlation. It's only interesting to us if there's causality. And now the question is how probable is the causality. And various factors defined by a statistician named Austin Bradford Hill speak to the strength of the association and the probability or likelihood that that association is causal. And you've outlined a couple, right? So one of them is what's the strength of the association period. So if I knew nothing else, the was the asthma, the 289 percent celiac celiac. So the fact that that had such a strong hazard ratio, that's a hazard ratio of 2.9 versus the others that are like 1.2, you would say, well, just on the basis of strength of association, that one's more likely to be causal. You then stated another factor, which was reproducibility. There's another study that's done the same analysis and it's coming up with the same answers. So that makes it a little more likely to be causal. And then you talked about the dose effect. Even within the association, like for example, all of this was sort of figured out during the kind of smoking, cholera epidemics when people were trying to understand causality. And then you'd say, well, if smoking is causally related to lung cancer, then theoretically, my correlations should get stronger and stronger. The more cigarettes you smoked. If that's not the case, it becomes very hard to make the case that smoking is causing lung cancer. So you're saying that there was a dose effect. The more antibiotics you took, the more strongly you were having these associations. Yeah, and this is the first formal study I've seen like this on an epidemiologic basis that fits a hypothesis that to me makes sense. The cephalosporins had a higher correlation. They're generally considered to be a little more damaging to the microbiome than the ant sefs and petticellins. Is that because they target gram negatives more or anerobic more or what's the, I'm so far out of my life on anybody. I don't even remember why that would be the case. I don't know, but this is these are, there are other observational data. For example, farmers have used antibiotics to fatten animals for food production for decades. And the world expert on the microbiome, Marty Blazer, who is the chief of medicine at NYU, his daughter developed chronic abdominal diseases. And obesity, they feel terrible because they gave her a bunch of antibiotics in childhood. And they thought there was an association. He started, he's a laboratory scientist. He started doing all these mice experiments. If antibiotics are making animals, more obese, what are they doing to humans? By the way, is another one of the Bradford Hill criteria? Do you have experimental evidence that also supports this, which of course, in the case of human epidemiology, you would look at animals? So of course, someone listening to this might say, well, okay, Marty, but there's got to be some bad luck involved here. I mean, you had, let's go back to the Rochester Minnesota study. You got 4,000 kids who never took an antibiotic. 10,000 kids who did at least a quarter or two. Well, I mean, those 10,000 kids weren't just given antibiotics for no reason. They must have had ear infections. They must have had tonsillitis. They must have had appendicitis. They must have had something. What were we supposed to do? How do we make that? How do we draw the line between what was medically necessary? Because as unfortunate as those consequences are, they pale and comparison to a life-threatening infection that could have killed a kid. So how do we decide what the minimum effective dose is? What's absolutely medically necessary versus what is superfluous and potentially just exposing a kid to this complications later in life? Antibiotics save lives. You've seen it and I've seen it right in front of our eyes. They're amazing medications. They ushered in the white coat era of modern medicine. And as I wrote in my book, Marty, it's what took us from medicine. One point out of medicine. Two point out. Yes. We died like dogs. Yes. But 250,000 years of human existence. We died like dogs. Yes. And you got an infection. What life expectancy was 38. Mother's in shock. Again, it's not the only thing that made the difference. But it was arguably the single most important difference with sanitation and antimicrobial therapy in the transition from medicine. One point at two point. That's right. So we don't want to throw the baby out with the bath water. This is the nuance which if people want just sort of a simple dumb message and all or nothing, which is where are echo chambers of media and politics take us in life? And social media, right? You want this all or nothing absolute toism. Antibiotics save lives. But they are also massively abused and overdosed at least 60% in all the studies. And we've seen it. We see it. Meaning 40% of antibiotic uses justified. Yeah. And I even question that number because they would say that I should be giving antibiotics before my minor procedures. And you know, but there's also epidemiologic data over time that look at all these chronic diseases. I know their multifactorial, especially obesity. But look at all the increases we've seen in these exact diseases that they've seen increase in the antibiotic group after the broad administration of antibiotics in the 1940s and 50s. The 60s, you know, it just went up even further. The discoverer of antibiotics. Alexander Fleming in 1922, he had warned after he got the Nobel Prize about the massive overuse of antibiotics. He had written in his diary that I found in my research that these mass factories producing penicillin at bloom away. This was a mold that blew into his lab when he left the window open. We don't know if his hammer is lab tech. He says it's unknown. But somebody left the window open into his lab where he was growing staff in an auger gel. And some of that mold landed and formed a circle around the mold where all the bacteria were killed. And he had discovered what's considered to be the greatest discovery of modern medicine. And so you're right. It took us from being surgeon barbers where we had a lance it and an axe to do amputations and maybe dejoxin, which didn't help many people. And that was it. And doctors weren't disrespected, but they were respected like a priest or a barber or and then went the mass administration, the mass production of antibiotics. Now we had the power and controlled a substance where only we could give you a magic pill. Doctors began to wear white coats. They had an unquestioned authority. We kept people in the hospital to a little disappointed. You're not wearing a white coat today, Marty. I'm not a white coat kind of guy.

Let's give folks a couple of examples of processed versus ultra-process. So like dried fruit is processed, virtually everything we use processed. Yeah, almost everything you use processed. But then how do you draw the, how do you then cross the chasm to ultra-processed? Yeah, again, I don't know that there, even if you say there's a single definition like Nova, I can't recite for you the exact criteria. But it's the number of steps, it's the degrees of steps, it's the types of steps. But most things that come in a package are now viewed as ultra-processed. That's right. It's there more than 10 ingredients. And number of greens, number of steps. But you're right, dried fruit, even fruit that's cut up is processed. Why is processed? Jesus processed, milk is homogenized, sometimes it's pasteurized, hopefully, you know, almost everything we just processed. Now let's talk about the state of the evidence. Because again, a good story goes a long way. Right? I mean, our ancestors, and to be clear, I, my view on this is that this story is much more nuanced than the one I'm about to lay out. But the one I'm about to lay out makes sense and I get it. We didn't evolve eating ultra-processed foods, let alone processed foods. And ultra-processed foods are engineered to be highly palatable. And part of that engineering process also makes them calorie debts, because part of making things hyper palatable is putting in a lot of sugar and a lot of fat. So it's not that the food companies who make these things are trying to make us fat. They're not trying to hurt us. I mean, Mar-Bros not trying to hurt you with cigarettes. They just want you to smoke them forever. So, so, it's an unfortunate consequence of the product, right? So, they really want to create something that tastes remarkable that you just want to keep buying over and over again. And the problem is you're going to end up eating more of it in terms of calories because of the very nature of the product they're trying to sell you. So, clearly, this is a problem, right? It's, we can't have these foods around because we can't eat them in moderation. We're going to overeat them. And I don't think any, but this is one thing we can agree on, right, is over consumption of calories always leads to bad things relative to what your needs are, right? So, again, that number is variable by individual, but for any given individual, eating more than they require leads to physiologic harm. So, by that logic, why are we having this discussion? Why don't we just get rid of ultra-processed foods? There's not a right, there's not a correct definition of ultra-processed. You can define it anywhere you want. The words mean what they say, we say they mean. Once you've defined it clearly, then we can say, what's its value? What is it? How can we use it? What's its utility? Second thing I would say is, as with any category, if it permits a lot of variability in that category, which ultra-process certainly does, it starts to get a little silly to talk about the overall category because you say, so wait a minute, you want me to consider a meal replacement shake and the same category as I consider a big goal in a 7-eleven. In the same category, consider a chocolate bar. In the same category, I consider a TPN nutrition. These are all arguably ultra-processed in very different things. And I think we want to talk about the things. The next thing I want to bring up is what are we trying to do with it? And this is probably intellectually most important. If you say to me, David, what I am looking for is a heuristic. And this looks back to something I said we did rest later, or earlier I mentioned I said we'd come back to it. The distinction between how much protein do I think somebody ought to eat for a certain goal versus how would I tell them to eat it or what would I tell them about it? Those are two different things. If you said, David, I just want something I can tell people. So that when I tell them this, it has a beneficial effect. Does telling them not to eat ultra-processed foods or to eat as few of them as possible defining ultra-processing this way? Help. The answer is might help a lot. Pans on how you might have very little bit depending on how you said it. We need more studies. We need to figure out my guesses as with everything else that won't last long, right? So you could tell them not to drink sugar sweetened beverages. You could tell them not to eat, fed a chini Alfredo because it's a heart attack on a plate. All these things have a small effect for a while and usually not so much for a long term. But might help. We need to study that. Okay? That says nothing. However, about the effects of a food per se. If you said no David, my goal is to tell people about the foods they should eat. If they actually ate them, what the effects would be or my goal is to determine the effects of foods, then I would go back to a statement from a wonderful book called A Fly in the Oaman by someone named Joe Schwartz. And Dr Schwartz, who's a food scientist, says something like, there is a model, repeat after me, the effect of substances in the body depends on their molecular structure, not their ancestry. So if you give me this molecule or a concoction of them, do eat and you extracted that molecule from some berry and it's natural, or you synthesize that molecule in a laboratory. But in the end, it's the same molecule. We agree, I mean, you could try to synthesize them out of some slight difference. But let's assume it's literally the same molecule. And it's the same structure. You give it to me, and liquid form, and liquid form, or gas is form, or it is. If you say these are going to have different effects because of where they came from, seems to me we're in homeyopathy now. This makes no sense. Yeah, and my favorite example of this is natural sugar versus processed sugar, which is I don't know if the people who say this are ignorant of what fructose and glucose are, or if it's deliberate sort of marketing shenanigans. I think it's a mixture of deliberate marketing shenanigans, but it's also the marketing of ideas, not just food products, by people with particular philosophical and other bends who are anywhere from, you know, it just makes themselves famous to push a philosophical thing to push an anti-industry thing, whatever it is. But yes, I agree with that. Or, you know, there's so many others. Natural vanilla versus synthetic vanilla. If it's still vanilla and it's vanilla, and there's a wonderful book by Alan Levinev, that's called natural, in which you will blow away every common conception of what natural is, and what its value is. And he talks about the idea of, you know, lots of people want the natural vanilla and natural vanilla. Most of the vanilla flavoring we get in this country is not so called natural from the vanilla plant, but if it was, it would probably have a much worse environmental impact than the other sources. So it's not always so simple. In any case, I think Schwartz is right. It's not the ancestry. So whether you give me the molecule and it was locally grown or not locally grown, organic or not organic, ultra-processed or not ultra-processed, it's the molecules and their structure, that matter. Conditional upon the molecules and the structure doesn't matter where it came from. But in defense of the argument that ultra-processed foods must be worse, if you look at the ingredient list, David, the sheer number of molecules there would suggest were playing Russian roulette here. I don't recognize half the names of the things on the bag of Doritos. Like I don't know what they are making that up. I haven't looked at a bag of Doritos in a while, but you could certainly find an ultra-processed food of the grocery store in which you cannot comprehend 50% of what's in it. That's right. And you don't really know the dose either, because the only thing that the FDA requires is that you list them in order of abundance. But it could be that the first one represents 99% of it and the other 12 represent 1% of it. And even amongst that, there's an uneven distribution, et cetera, et cetera. And it could be that these are just preservatives and color additives and they have no physical bear. But you just don't know. But the point is, when I eat an apple, or even if I eat a processed apple, in the sense that it's been pre-cut up, or it's just a dried apple that's dried apple chips, where I can look at the ingredient list and it says apples, I gotta be safer than if I'm eating. Come on, 20 things of which I can't pronounce 13 of them. If that's the logic of your thinking, you have a great product I'd like to sell you. It's gluten-free, it's seed oil-free, it's not ultra-processed, it's free of any harmful thing. It's chemical-free, it has no chemicals in it. I call it vacuum. And I would like to sell you this vacuum and basically I mean nothing because we are chemicals. As my friend for a Clydesdale who is the former head of the nutrition food science department that UMass Amherst used to say, a whole purpose of eating is to get chemicals in the body to replace the chemicals the body loses through the process of living. All food is chemicals, we are chemicals. When you eat that apple and you say, I understand it, that's apple. Unless you have a lot of chemical mileage, I don't have, and most people don't have, you don't understand that any better than you understand something else that says Benzoate, phosphate, or what have you. And you just think you do because you think you understand what an apple is at a chemical level. You understand what is a fruit level, maybe. But not at a chemical level. There are many chemicals, I should say, there are many chemicals in an apple and an orange that you or I couldn't pronounce and that if someone wrote out what the chemicals are, we would say, what is that scary sounding thing? And we also know that things that we think of as natural can be just as harmful, right? Foxclove, hemlock, right? And so that's what the secretes kill by being forced to drink all natural hemlock. It was all natural, very harmful. So poisons, drugs often come from natural things. There's also a misperception that what we think of as natural as somehow has been around for thousands of years. And in some cases, it's true. In many cases, it's not. So the oranges and the apples and the grains that you're eating today were largely not around years ago. They've been bred, even if it's not transgenic, they've been bred by ordinary breeding things. The cows, the chickens, the pigs, have been bred to be different. They are not indigenous species. All the chicken, all the cow, all the pig, that we eat in this country, the soybeans, none of that's indigenous. They're all invasive species, right? Turkey. That's indigenous to North America. Peacons and black walnuts, but not the other walnuts that they love so much in the Mediterranean diet or the other. They're not American. So I think this is all silliness. The only thing that's artificial here is our creation of these categories. And we should just recognize that. We create the categories. Let's make the meaningful and useful.

I have to believe there are a lot of people listening to us, maybe not so much because I don't think my audience is quite where I'm going, but they're going to be people who understandably come at this and are really judgmental. And their narrative is going to be the following. These goddamn preschools trying to tell me a kid has, you know, ADHD, maybe it's because the preschools just overcrowded and the people who work at the preschool are too lazy to actually let these kids play. Let kids be kids, you know, there's nothing wrong with a kid that's hyperactive. You just got to give him more to do. This is sacrilege that we would ever give a child medication just because they're hyperactive. So that's a narrative. Yeah, for sure. Now, again, I don't think a lot of people if they're sophisticated, subscribe to that because I think a person who's sophisticated would hopefully not make a judgment like that without understanding the fact base a little bit more. Would you agree that the best argument against that logic, which is not an argument that says every kid should be on medication. It's an argument that says you have to weigh the pros and the cons of being unmedicated and what the impact on your education is going to be. And the long term success you're going to have is an adult as a well-adjusted adult versus the the acceptive risks of any medication and the potential upside it has towards allowing that child to learn because again, I always like this framework you have, which is you bring it back to what is the adaptation of the condition? What is the adaptation of the phenotype? Yeah. If it is disruptive, if this is a difference in a child's education, if this is the difference between a kid going to college and not, if we believe that matters anymore, or being successful in their career or not, or having, you know, pros social relationships versus not, then maybe we accept the risks of medication. So maybe you can articulate that more eloquently if you have a different view, but that's kind of how I like to think about things that seem at the surface absurd. Yeah, no, I love all the points you brought out because it is a risk benefit, you know, ratio that you have to consider. You have to consider there's risks and everything we do. There's risks in all medications, there's risks in everything. So you have to consider both risks and benefits. When I'm working with a family, I talk to them about the research, and we actually have a lot of research around safety and long-term outcome, and the outcome of individuals with ADHD who are left untreated. But actually more importantly, I get to know their child though. So this thing, I share, like, as I get to know them, I share with them the research, the safety research, all sorts of information about the medication, but what's really important. This is the idea about me going and watching the child in class, me talking to the teachers. Getting to know that family more really understanding, like, they come to see me for a reason. If things were great, they wouldn't come to see me. They've come to see me for a reason. And even though, the school, you know, maybe initially it was the school who said, like, your little guy is way too busy, and you need to see a doctor about this. But when I get to know the family, I find out, well, actually dinner is really stressful, and bedtime routines really stressful, and like, there's often, everyone's in tears in the morning. And so I get to know them, and it's actually that personal part that helps them understand their child in a combat to self-esteem. And it's a person that is not a statistic to you. Yes, that's exactly it. And that's how, and sometimes we don't use medication. I am the first to say, if your child doesn't need it, we're not going to use it. Although we know that medication can make a really big difference. It's what the, so I've discussed this on some previous podcast. So, is violence still used? Is riddle in still used? Is focal in used? I mean, what are, what's in your tool kit? Yeah, yeah. In that world. Yeah. So ADHD medicines were talking stimulants and non-stimulants. First line treatment considered is stimulants. Within stimulants, we have two different medications. We have one called methyl pheninate and one called methamphetamine. Methyl pheninate. We have many brands. That's the riddlein, which is, you know, been around. So, I believe, like the 1950s. We've got ridlin. We've got focalin. We've got concerta. We have lots of different methyl phenedates. They all have different ways of, what was the other one after focalin? Concerta. Yeah, I've been. Concerta. And there's many more brands. They're all different brands. They all have different ways. How do they differ? They differing in pharmacokinetics and half-life, like what separates those three drugs for example? How the medications released? Okay. So it's just a timing of release and how we're gonna release and the literally the same molecule. Yeah, it's the same active ingredient, methyl phenedate. But it's interesting. Kids respond differently to the different medications, the brands, because the release mechanism are different. So some kids are sensitive. Some kids are sensitive. So in other words, if a kid comes in and you try one of these and you don't get the response you want, you don't necessarily abort the entire molecule. You might switch to a different formulation. And I only say this because I can't tell you the number of parents I have spoken with who have said, my kid was on Riddlein. It was a disaster. When I switched to focalin, it got so much better. Yeah. Is that that's exactly right. And so and there's no science, unfortunately, to tell us which one is going to work for your child. Yeah. So you have to basically try a few. Okay. And then the other one you said was just straight in fedamine. In fedamine. So that's Adderall. It's been around since the 1930s. And then there's you mentioned vans, five ants, doxidrin. So there's medications in that group. Again, same deal. It's literally the difference between vans and Adderall is release and kinetics. Yeah. Yeah. Vans is actually called a pro drug. It's actually just got a little molecule attached to it that needs to be cleaved in order for it to work. But they're all. Yeah. The same. Again, it's very counterintuitive to people. Why you take a hyperactive kid and give them a stimulant. Do you want to just give the brief overview of why that works? Yeah. So the way these medications work is they increase dopamine and no repeneffering in the synapses between the brain cells in the parts of our brain that are important for executive functioning, attention, inhibiting impulses. So the part of the brain, the prefrontal labs where that all the executive function attention happens. We have our brain cells have to communicate in order to see that behavior attention. These medications, although they're called stimulants, what they do is they they increase the levels of dopamine and no repeneffering in these synapses, the gap between the neurons. And they improve the electrical activity and communication between brain cells. What are the most common side effects you caught in parents about with these drugs? Yeah. So the side effects can be annoying, but they're not life threatening. The most common one is decrease appetite at lunchtime. If you're taking a medication that lasts the whole day. So there's medications that lasts three or four hours, which we used to use a lot a couple of decades ago when I first started doing this. But about 20 years ago we started using extended release a lot more. And so extended release is that it lasts like, you know, eight hours or 10 hours for the day or 12 hours a day. And so those medications impact your appetite at lunch, breakfast and dinner usually fine. There's this chance that it impacts sleep onset, which is really important because sleep is super important kids. But it can impact sleep onset. And if that's a problem, we, you know, we adjust the timing of the of the medication in the morning. But these are generally single administration first thing in the morning drug exercise. Yeah. So it's really, they're really easy to use because you you take it in the morning. They start to work. The like they extended release will start to work within an hour. And then they're working for the majority of the day. Then they come out of your system at the end of the day. And so tomorrow, unless you give the medication to your child again, it's like they've never been on it. It's like they've never been on it. What are the differences then between the riddle and class and the atterall class? Do you have any suspicion one way or the other as to which is going to be more effective if you were to prescribe local versus violence? Yeah. So when I first meet a young child, I generally start with methyl phenodate. And that's what most clinicians do with little kids. And the reason for that is that the meta-analysi show that kids tolerate methyl phenodate at tiny bit better than in fedamine. Although in fedamine is a little bit more bang for your buck when you're treating the symptoms. That being said, no kid is a statistic. Like every kid's different. So I have just as many kids on that aroulas I have on riddle and so. Interesting. Yeah. So I use every single brand out there. And but I start with methyl phenodate because it's shown to be tolerated better. You mentioned a second ago that if your kid's been on this drug every day for a year and experienced all these benefits and then they come off the drug. It's like they were never on the drug. Does that suggest that in the in the I hate to use the description this way, but I think you want to explain me in the drug state. Yeah. You don't get to do behavioral therapies that also have a positive impact independent of the drug such that if the drug comes off, the phenotype is changing. Is that not to be expected? So I want kids to be actually practicing skills when they're on the medication. Yeah. In theory they should be able to do a better job. It should be easier for them to practice the skills on the medication. Yes. So let me say a couple of things. So in theory when they're on the medication, they should be it's easier for them to practice pain attention. Control in your impulses, control in your hyperactivity. In addition to that, this is where the behavioral parent training part comes in which is actually now a recommendation that every family should have. Should be doing training specifically for family, not just child. Yes. Amazing how powerful parents can be in modifying the behavior of their child. So parents undergo the training and the child might undergo some sort of therapy regulation group when they're older, they undergo executive functioning coaching to learn organization of planning. So what it is is you are trying to develop these skills. So when we practice something over and over and over again, not only be developed new like behavioral strategies, behavioral patterns, new habits, we actually positively impact the developing brain. That's the neuroplasticity, which is one of my also, my passions is neuroplasticity. But we impact the brain through experience and our behaviors. So when a child has ADHD, it is a wonderful time to practice new skills and you actually impact neural networks. So does that mean that you're telling parents or at least holding out a hope that hey, you know, your kid is seven or eight years old, we're going to put them on Riddlein. This might not be a lifetime thing. Is it, do you have, do you give them that hope or do you not commit to anything one way or the other? I don't commit. I get asked that question all a time for the types of medications I put patients on. Right? If I put patients on a lipid lowering medication, generally their first question, once you get through the why should I be on this and one of the side effects, et cetera, is am I going to be on this for life? Yeah. So what I tell families, so I have no crystal ball. I can't commit. But I do have many, many patients who do eventually come off medication. Some of them maybe they shouldn't have come off medication. They actually should stay on their medication, but I have many patients who come off and do really well. Is it naive to think that because ADHD primarily impacts the prefrontal cortex that you would see at least a subset of people when they reach their late teens as girls and mid-20s as boys when they reach maturation of that part of the brain, at least a subset of them, should be able to develop potentially the skills to overcome the genetic component of this or is that not necessarily correlated? No, I see a lot of kids who do find ways strategies to compensate and who do no longer need their medication as teenagers or young adults. I have a lot of kids who are like that. But I think it's really important that they start early developing strategies and new behaviors. I think that is really important strengthening those neural networks. So what about the non-stimulant class of drugs here? Yeah. There are non-stimulants that we use. There are one is called Stratera, which also acts on neuropinephrine and increasing the neuropinephrine levels in the synapses. Then there is a couple of old blood pressure medications we use. One's called Guafasine, the other one's clonidine. Those are alpha 2 agonists. So they act in a different way with closing channels in the post-symnaptic neuron. So it's a different mechanism. But all of those medications also help with the communication between neurons in the attention center and the brain. The difference is the non-stimulants have to be taken every day unlike the stimulants in order to for them to work. So meaning they're taken every day and you need a steady state in your body. Do you ever mix these two or is it one or the other? Oh, you mix them often. You do. And so often they do not have the side effects with the poor appetite. And sometimes they can be really good with kids who have some emotional dysregulation and pulse of emotions. So we'll often use them with a child who has a little bit of that irritability, emotional dysregulation. And sometimes we're using both the stimulant and the non-stimulant of the same time.

Let's talk about the cases where you think surgery is really the best course of action. And again, I think it should always be stated that surgery without understanding how you got there and then making sure you correct it post surgically is not what we're talking about. So it should always be assumed that you want to understand what got you there. But what are the indications in your mind for where a patient is better off getting a surgical procedure and we could talk about the different, you know, whether you, you know, what do you think are the best indications for a disconnect to me, fusion, et cetera versus when you think where would you take a contrarian approach where many people would say yes surgery and you would say let's push a little bit harder before. Wow, a lot of elements there. So I'll just start at the beginning and hope I can create a logic story. I did mention the follow-up that we did where 95% of people who were told they needed surgery in fact avoided it. And what we did there was I am knowing to them and said there is your virtual surgery. This worked really well on people who I'll paint to picture of let's take a stay at home long with two young kids. Every day has to go to the gym and ride the ellipticals for 20 minutes do something else. As a stress reliever, otherwise you're going to murder us. But you've heard that story before. And I'll say good, go get your surgery. Are you going to do that tomorrow? No, you are going to lay in bed. You're going to behave like a post-surgical person. You're going to get out of bed and go for a P3 times. That is your total workload tomorrow. And slowly you're going to build yourself back in other words, surgery may work for you because it's forced rest. Now I'm going to give you a tool that will mimic the forced rest. It's called virtual surgery. Tomorrow here's the plan. Here's how you're going to behave. We are going to decensatize strategically. The pain mechanism as we've measured it and we're going to retune your body with strategic mobility and stability plus movement skill. So we don't replicate the stress concentrations that caused your problem in the first place. Let's see how you are. Now if they can do that, 95% poll avoid surgery. So there's my first little story for people in that category. Just to be clear, what are the patients who you would not offer that virtual surgery to? Give me an indication where you would say, you know what, we this is too pressing. Obviously red flags, which before we see a patient, we don't take patients off the street. Never, they always come through position referral. So I'm hoping they've been checked for red flags. Do you know how many have not even though we state in the referral directions to the referring medic? We've had cases of aortic aneurysm, lung embolism, cancerous tumors, metastasized, all sorts of things that somehow these poor people got through the system. We were the ones that found it and saved their lives. So I wish that wasn't the case, but all of those, obviously, are surgery cases and they should never, I'm doing some of the first place. So obvious red flags is number one. Number two is when the pattern doesn't fit. So I was smiling when you were telling your original story only because it was such a familiar spot on pattern consistency. You fit the pattern. I knew exactly what it was. When the pattern doesn't fit, I'll say no, something's not right. I need you to go back to your dog and here's the reason why there is, you know, a turgiveness under your liver, we're not able to move that pain by moving stress concentrations around your spine. So it's not a nerve. It's nothing for a tea broil or a fissette. The pattern doesn't fit. It's something else. So there is a person where we refer back and say something needs further investigation. But now the last part of your question was about the need or when we would say for a person, you're not our person, you need to see a surgeon. Surgeons and by the way, we see far too many post-surgical patients who they went through maybe the surgery was botched. When I see a horrible scar on the outside of the skin, I think, man, if that's the pride that the surgeon took on the outside, what carnage has gone on the inside. Or sometimes it's a shit happens story. The nerve started in and adhered. Oh, that's that's rough. Or the post rehab was terrible. Here's a person who went to a fabulous surgeon and the surgeon says, oh, go do PT. That's your rehab. And the PT goes and gives them toe touches or something. And they just had a micro-disc surgery and guess what, they're re-earnated again. And now we're seeing them. But when would we say, no, you're not for us here. The surgeons are at their best in cases of a real heavy stenosis. So there's not much room in the in your all canal. The facet joints are thick in behind. So you've got encroachment from behind. You've got a calcified disc bulge coming from the front. So a, you know, a couple level aminectomy to give the nerve some space. That really is when the surgeons are at their best. Some of the spawned along my lapathes that will see in the neck. You know, I think of a lead a lawyer in the courtrooms. And the judges would ask him, sir, are you drunk? And he said to us, well, when I, I, I stand, I start my presentation. I'm fine. He says, but after two or three minutes, I'm losing my balance and falling over in the judges' them. He's, he's drunk. And then we found it. It was the cervical's fondle of my lapathes. That was also a total presenting with back pain. But no one had figured this out. So that was a surgery case, obviously. So it's either post trauma. And then that one's obvious. They've got the need a little bit of hardware to stabilize their spine. But it may also be spawned along with the list of the, or the sheer translation is just choking off the caught a quina or another nerve. It's best to, and now we recommend surgeons who we have really good luck with. What about what about nerves pain? What about patients who are either having weakness, such as a foot drop or significant pain like the pain I had, where we have been in the very first case where it was, yeah, okay. So yeah, take that away. Yeah, we have them all the time Peter. If I can get the nerve pain to move on the assessment, please don't have surgery. Let us have a try at it. Most of it, they will be pleased. Wow. And what you're basically doing is right with certain rules. And give me an example of some of those. So let's say your assessment comes out that this person who's having intermittent sciatic pain. And you do an assessment and you say, look, there is no doubt that you have eruptured anulus here. You've got a protruding segment of disc and it is clearly at times, depending on your activity, getting nearer to the nerve root. It's driving that sciatic pain. But during your assessment, I assume what you're getting at is through some of those positional things such as laying the person on their front manipulating the legs, getting the the herniation to retreat into the anulus. So you're saying, if you can demonstrate resolution under a changing movement pattern, that gives you enough confidence that this is, this doesn't need to be removed surgically. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

Let's go back to the epigenetic clock situation. So do you think that there could be value in this as a tool? Right. And let me hold the bar as high as I think it would need to be to justify their use. So right now we have this thing called chronologic age. Um, I can look at your birth certificate. I can know how old you are. And based on that, I can make an estimate of how much longer you will live. So if I look at a person who's 40 years old and I know nothing else about them. And then I see another person who is 65 years old and I know nothing else about them. I can say with a high degree of confidence that the 65 year old person will live, you know, I'm making this up because I'm not an actuary. But somewhere between 20 and 30 more years and the 40 year old person, I can say with a pretty high degree of confidence will live, you know, whatever somewhere between, call it, you know, 30 to 50 more years or something like that. Now, to me that's a pretty good test. Right. I know, I know, I know a, I know a noable measurable thing about them. It's measurable by knowing their birth date. Right. And it predicts future life. So do you think biological clocks will ever serve a purpose like that where I could take 250 year olds and one of them has a biological gauge of 40 and one of them has a biological gauge of 60 according to the clock and that those numbers will actually be better at predicting future life than their chronological gauge of 50. Or do you put yourself in the camp that says no, Peter, that's a ridiculous standard that no biological clock could ever come to. But it might tell me about their health. It might be yet another biomarker that says, hey, the guy at 40 is just healthier than the guy at 60. And somehow, by the way, it's picking that signal out of a data field that I can't pick out anywhere else. Because they otherwise look identical. We measured this recently because we collaborators of mine at the in US and beyond Gruber and function and I had this small role in this project. They decided the functions of a geriatrician. He sees people all the time frustrated, you know, what can the geriatricians have limited things they can do. They're seeing people that already have multi morbidity and, you know, the clocks are not that useful. And so he's wanted to like, how do we create a reliable clock that a doctor can understand? And so we for what purpose for biological gauge. I'll tell you what I think the purpose is for a minute. And this build this. So their first generation and second generation clocks, the first generation clocks try to predict your chronological gauge and the second one's predict some outcome. So the question is, we want a predict mortality. We know when a predict your chronological gauge. So intrinsically if it works it's going to do better than the chronological gauge for the second generation clocks. So he took in Haynes, you know, dated, collected around 1999, 2000 mortality data for 200 months. And we just, and these parameters are nice because you can actually do a consumer test of HBA one-see, you know, there are many labs that do that. It's reproducible to a large extent, much better than DNA methylation. And doctors use all these parameters. So the things that are in in Haynes like LDL, you know, all the things in your book and I'm a Tory Markers, you know, medical tests, you know, some cognitive self reported stuff. So he's took everything as a feature and used AI, linear model to try to predict mortality. And they're on the second generation of this clock now. And it predicts mortality better than any other parameter in Haynes is way better than ASCVD, the cardiovascular disease measurement. And so recently the methylation data came out on in Haynes. And so we could go back and compare the mortality prediction for methylation clocks. Some of the first generation clocks are worse than chronological gauge. Your passport is better than they are predicting mortality, which to me means that they're not useful. Because, you know, even if they're not designed to predict mortality, if they don't capture some element of that, what are they measuring? You know, the second generation clocks like Grim age and Fino age, they do better jobs than chronological gauge for sure. At predicting mortality. Yeah. And it's just to be clear, we've captured that out of the En Haynes database. That's from In Haynes. That's the only thing we've looked at right now. Okay, let me make sure I understand that. By death, you had 200 months of forward-looking data. So anyway, you've got 18 years of data and you're saying, if we know the methylation of somebody at that time in the cohort, 1999 to 2000, we could predict their date of death better than the actuarial data of the age. Yeah. Okay, I wasn't aware of that. Well, it's just, I don't think it's even, it's been accepted for public education. Okay, I'm not sure it's online yet. Okay. It's not your fault. That's very interesting. Okay, yeah, that's because that, so that basically answers a question that I've never seen answer. Yeah. But our clinical chemistry clock does better than those. Okay. And what is included in that clinical clock? What they're about 50 parameters that we measure now, but complete blood count gives you about 30 of those parameters. So it's not as elaborate as you think it would. Yeah, yeah, I know. And then, you know, it's a lot of standard markers that you are measuring. So you're probably measuring all of that. I guess that was going to be my question. Yeah. It's about $300 in Singapore if you did it all to know of it, but anybody going to a doctor's office has most of those parameters measured anyway. And if they're going to, you know, a wellness-lajewity centered all of them are probably. Of course. Yeah. And so the question I suppose is this, if you're met life, you already, like, you are better at predicting mortality than anybody on the planet. I don't know if it's met life by the way, but pick the best life insurance company. Yeah. Like this is their business. Yeah. They're so good at predicting mortality. It's frightening. Yeah. So yeah, I don't know how they're doing that. So I can't come in. Well, and nobody does, right? Yeah. My point is they're looking at age. Yeah. They're looking at a whole bunch of things in your medical history. Yeah. They're looking at a whole bunch of blood tests, your blood pressure, your weight, your waist, your circumference, all those things. And they're coming up with an exceptional prediction of remaining years on life. The real question is, do you believe that they will incorporate a second generation, uh, a genetic clock or do you believe that they've already got that captured in their data set? They may, I don't know. That's an unsurbful question. I, but again, I were focusing on the clinical chemistry anyway. We're not doing any methylation. Yeah. So, um, and what we're finding is hospitals want to use this now. Big clinical chemistry or methylation? The clinical chemistry. And I think it's because it resonates, you know, when you, when you show them the list of parameters, yeah, a doctor doesn't have to be an expert in epigenetics to figure out what's going on. And the other thing is that all actionable. So we have principal components that we can break it down in and we can see smoking in one component. And we can see metabolic disease in another one in obesity and another one. And we find cases, we find, so if you conclusions from this are really interesting, one is we find cases where nothing's out of the reference range. Okay. So a doctor that's looking at things, especially if they have a few minutes to look at, they're not going to prescribe anything for this person. Yeah. But these four parameters in this principal component are increasing, you know, they're, they're biologic age by four years, which means it's increasing there. It's 50% increase in mortality risk. So, that's, these are actionable things. You know, you can treat LDL. You can treat high blood pressure. You can treat these markers, right? And so clinicians are actually willing to then be a little bit more aggressive and try to prescribe something or lifestyle modification or something to treat these markers. So yeah, as actionable. Yeah, exactly. That makes sense. The reason that you prefer this is it doesn't just give you an answer. It gives you a solution. If we, if we just took a population, a middle aged healthy individuals. Yeah. And we we could design an experiment where you had the placebo arm, the metformin arm, the rapomycin arm, the STL-T2 inhibitor arm, and the GLP1 agonist arm. What is your prediction in length of life? Or additional years of life given in that the six arm study or whatever it is? I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

What do we know about the length of time or the amount of friction it takes to create a habit and the difficulty in breaking it? So maybe that doesn't make sense. I'll try to come up with an example. If it takes a long time to really create a habit around exercise or meditation. Let's pick something new. Okay. So, you know, not a not an easy thing to do, right? But let's say over years and years and years you take a lot of time to build that memory that muscle memory up. I assume that's creating some sort of physiologic headroom that makes it much harder for you to erode that down. Yes, absolutely. So what's happening when you're meditating is that as we mentioned there's these neural neural synapses neural pathways that connect the synapses associated with the cue and the routine in the reward They're becoming thicker and thicker and thicker over time. What's interesting is they almost never become significantly thinner. So if you develop a meditation habit and then you stop meditating your life changes the cues when you come back to meditation you will fall back into it much more quickly than the average person. So we know that creating habits about good and bad creates this neural pathway that we need to be conscious of. But your question of how long does it take? The answer is we actually don't know. There's this myth for this old wives tale that you know takes 21 days to build a habit and it takes 30 days to break a habit. What the research tells us is that there is no number because different people have different thresholds and different kinds of habits have different timelines associated with them. If you want to create a habit of eating chocolate you can probably do it in a couple of days, right? Like it's an immediate it's an immediate positive response. If you like chocolate it's something you enjoy the cues or plenty of old read you just Chocolate bars in your house. But if you want to build an exercise habit it's going to take a little bit longer. Yeah. But here's the important thing. Is that regardless of how long it takes to build that habit or change a habit? Every day you do it it will get a little bit easier. And you might not feel that increase in ease the first couple of days, right? But what's going to happen is I'm going to push myself to exercise day one, day two, day three I'm going to relapse on day four I'm going to not do it. Then set a beating up on myself I'm going to look for the science to what what wouldn't wrong here. What's my plan for next time? And then I get to day 12 where I get to do it day 20 or I get to day 365 and it occurs to me. Actually exercising is really easy for me now. Like I hardly even think about it. It just happens almost all kind of automatically. Now what about the negatives? Right. So if you take two individuals one who has been smoking for a year, a pack a day for a year and one who has been smoking a pack a day for 20 years, is it necessarily the case that the latter is going to have a much more difficult time quitting? Probably because it's a much more ingrained behavior. But this is where individual differences come into play significantly. Because if that first person, if they're an athlete, if they've worked on other habits in their life, if they've, if they've strengthened that muscle around habit change, they might be able to rely on that to give up smoking. Whereas the 20 20 year smoker doesn't. But but yes, in general, the longer and more consistent of behavior becomes, the more reinforced it becomes in our brain. And does that mean that let's just assume both of these individuals are able to quit smoking? Yeah. It's five years later, both of them are at a bar and they both light up a cigarette. Are they both equally susceptible to relapse or is the 20 year person more susceptible because his neural connections are more hardwired? Well, there's a lot of compounding factors there, right? So when the 20 year smoker lights up his cigarette, we're focusing on the habit loop associated with nicotine use. But there's probably other habit loops that he has developed over time, which is he might feel much more intense sense of shame over smoking than the one year smoker. He might have emphysema developing health problems. And those are creating mental habits for him that are countervailing the positive reinforcement of the nicotine. So the answer to your question is, it's really hard to say universally. What we do know is that the more consistent a reward, whether it's a reward that rewards a positive behavior or a negative behavior, the more consistent that reward and the more consistent that cue, the faster the habit will take hold in the stronger the grip it'll have on us. But when we're trying to change it or create a new habit, there's so many other variables that we don't, we can't predict how long it's going to take, but we do know that any habit can be changed. Is there a rule of thumb that says on average it is more or less difficult to break habits than to create habits? Well, so the science doesn't sort of address that question. What we do know is that it takes a different technique to build a new habit than to change an old habit. Right? So if I want to build a new habit, if I want to start running, what I need to do is I need to sit down, just come up with a cue, come up with a reward. Okay, my cue is, and by the way, I'll cue you's falling to one of five categories. It's a time of day, a particular place or environment. It's a certain emotion you feel. It's the presence of certain other people or it's a preceding behavior that's become ritualized. So tomorrow I want to start running. I've never run before. I'm going to take advantage of as many of those as I can, right? So my plan is set my alarm for seven o'clock. I want to be out the door by seven thirty running. And I'm going to put my running shoes, I'm running clothes on my floor next to my bed. So I see them when I wake up. It's super easy to put them on. I know what I'm going to wear. I'm going to ask my friend, Jim, to meet me on the corner. We're going to run together. I'm creating as many cues as I can. If you can tap into all five of your, your, your in the morning, some of them are going to stick. Yep. And then when I get home, I've already decided what reward I'm going to give myself. I'm going to have a nice long shower. I'm going to drink a smoothie. I'm going to take 15 minutes to check social media or whatever else sort of delights me. So that's how we build a new habit. Is we choose a cue and we choose a reward and we link it to a behavior we want to encourage. But for a bad habit, habit that we want to extinguish, our nomenclature is incorrect. We often talk about breaking a bad habit. But because that neural pathway exists in our brain, I've smoked for 20 years. I can't just extinguish that those neural connections. What I need to do is instead of thinking about breaking a bad habit or extinguishing it, I have to think about changing that habit. And in that case, what I do is I identify the cue that prompts this behavior I want to change. I identify the reward that that behavior is giving me. And I'm going to simply insert a new behavior that corresponds to that old cue that delivers something similar to that old reward. And I'm going to let my brain eventually shift. Keep the habit loop inside my head, but change the behavior the routine. Yeah. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity-focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

There tend to be these moments along this journey where I assume I'm not unique in this, where people have really significant breakthroughs in beliefs. And it's mostly that a belief gets shattered. Yeah. I, again, this is, I think one of the real um, joys of having a journal is you can kind of go back and read what that was like and, and, and, and read. You know, on this day like through this exercise, this really profound thing happened. I'm a wrote about two of them in, in, in that last chapter of my book, I wrote about one at the bridge and one about PCS that were undoubtedly the two biggest breakthroughs and beliefs I've ever had in my life. They've had a far greater impact on anything in my world. And they both happened in an instant, right? Like they both, they were huge step function changes in a radical belief system. And what I find interesting about it is how much easier it became to make any change after the fact. I never want to represent that I'm, I'm better. We're all in recovery here, but when I think about the December 2017, April of 2020, or maybe it was by this point May of 2020, those particular days when those things happened. I mean, literally within an instant, some, I don't understand, I don't understand the neurobiology of how it happens, but something really switches. And I never look at the world the same way I did before. There's an immediate acceptance of something typically. That's, that's the shattering of the belief system is the acceptance of something that is more, more honest. And, and more genuine to the, to the more, more close to the, in a child that, that we all were. Is that common? First of all, that people have these major, major sort of life-changing appreciations of something. And then secondly, is that, is that by itself sufficient sometimes to drive change? I'd be careful with the common word, but it happens a lot. And I typically hear about it kind of the way you described it. Months, even sometimes years later, right? Like, it hit me one day, or this thing was happening. And I was incredibly compelled to do it the old way, and I heard something so and so said in my ear, you know, or something against that belief system. And that's what's so tricky about that process at the bridge, or if you want to talk about experiential journey, six years in experiential therapies, I mean, just going to a process, a group therapy process, residential, is an experiential intervention, right? And so to be able to put my finger on, well, what was it, you know, what exactly was it, you know, and cannot prove that that was the thing. It's so hard. It's interesting. For me, in both cases, it came down to a therapist pushing very hard, but very kindly against a set of assumptions. It was me saying something, offering it up the same answer, and the person saying, what about this? What about this? What about the, you know, and and and just maybe describe it as a loving confrontation. That that when fully backed into a corner in an unthreatening way, collapsed the scaffolding of a mental model. Yeah, and thank God, I mean, that's you when you tell that about putting your finger on that, like, I've got so much gratitude sitting here, you know, I mean, obviously, I know the moments, you know, I don't several of the moments, and you know, it is common. I think the spirit of you in this example is putting yourself in a position for it to happen. And there being a process to get this guarded version of self out of the way enough to allow something like that to happen. Right, and there's a lot going on to create that or to cultivate that possibility. Yeah, I think that's absolutely the, maybe the lesson I would want somebody to learn from this is in science. There's an expression that I think it was Louis Pasteur that said that, you know, chance favors the prepared mind. And the idea is that great scientific breakthroughs don't just happen. They happen to people who are toiling in the lab, failing, failing, failing, trying again, trying again, constantly thinking about the problem. And yes, usually something lucky happens that trips them in the direction of a discovery. It's often very, very much an accident. But that accident can't happen if you're not on the field. Yeah, so it doesn't happen if you're in the stands. Absolutely. And maybe that's the take away I would want somebody to have here, which is you're very unlikely to have that your recum moment. If you're not mired in the trenches of going through the painful work of figuring out your story, understanding, trying to create the map of what's happening. It's unlikely to happen when you're continuing the distractions or the numbing behaviors. Right, absolutely. And to speak to just, you know, sometimes I guess the frustration with, even the individual one-on-one therapeutic dynamic would be, you know, I've heard a lot of therapists who, many of the therapists who would ask the question, why would somebody go to a residential program that wasn't an addict or alcoholic. Like, to talk about the frustrations of like the goals not being able to put the knowing and the acting. Like, yes, see this person we have four steps forward. We have this great 55 minute session, right? And then six days later, they come back and I'm like, who the hell is this? What happened to them, right? Well, what happened to them is more than likely they went back and lived underneath the same roof with their biggest trainer. Right? And so, you know, in your experience and many others having the ability to get that, you know, that separation, if you will, you know, it's season of separation to make that possible. Not the only way to make that possible, because again, we paint ourselves in a whole little where, you mean if I can't go to a residential program, I can't heal. Right? We certainly don't want to paint that, because then we've got a lot of folks without hope. Right? But one of the ways, absolutely. And do you do, do you view your work today? The work you do just with individual clients is something that you prefer to only do with people once they're coming out of a residential program.

your child is misbehaving. Bedtime routine is a disaster. They don't want to brush their teeth or whatever it is. There's a punishment that you could allocate for that behavior you could say, look, you know, Johnny, if you, if you don't go to bed now, you do not get to play Xbox tomorrow. Right. That's a punishment. There's a reward which is if you do this thing, I'm going to give you an extra 15 minutes of playing Xbox tomorrow. Yeah. Based on what you just said, is it safe to say that offering 15 minutes of extra Xbox is significantly more likely to produce a desired outcome? Absolutely. And I think as parents, we know this, any parent listening knows this right? Your children, we're talking here about permanent behavior change, right? We don't want them just to brush their teeth tonight. We want them to brush their teeth every night. A positive reward, a positive reinforcement is going to be much more powerful at ingraining that habit in their life. What do those of us with young kids need to do to enable our kids to become the type of adults who can make behavior changes and create better habits? So the single most powerful thing we can do is we can teach them how will power works and to build will power habits, because a will power habit actually doesn't tax the metaphor of the muscle of the will power muscle that exists inside our head. And so Angelad Duckworth, who probably many of you listeners are familiar with because of grit, she's done a lot of research on this. One of the things that's really powerful is to explain and demonstrate to kids how to diagnose the Q routine in reward. So that they can begin editing their own habits. So I have a 14 year old in a 17 year old. And one of the things that I do is I'm very ostentatious in how I reward myself for hard behavior. Right, and this is actually kind of counterintuitive because we're dads, we're supposed to be stoic, right? We go out and we run a half marathon and like it's no big deal. We don't, we don't, so what I do is exactly the opposite. I go out and I run not even half marathon and just go and I run four or five miles. I come home and it's like, oh man, that was a hard run, but I push through it. Now you know what I'm going to do? I'm going to have this really yummy smoothie I've been looking forward to. For the next 15 or 20 minutes, I'm just going to lay on the couch and enjoy myself because I feel so good right now. What I'm trying to do is I'm trying to model for them, giving yourself a reward, focusing on that reward is a powerful way to re-enforce or change your own behavior. And I'll do the same thing with Qs. Often times some of the Qs that I use for exercise or for other things aren't visible to my children because I'm, you know, putting my running shoes next to my bed. So I see them when I wake up in the morning and they don't understand the significance of that. Or I'm doing engaged in a sort of ritual before I start writing that they don't see. So what I'll do is I'll be very explicit with them and say, you know what? I need to start writing a 15 minutes. Here's what I'm going to do for the next 15 minutes to get ready for that. I'm teaching them, think about the Qs in your life, think about the rewards in your life. If you focus on those two things, you can create almost any routine any behavior that you want or change any behavior that you want. So let's go back to childhood. Sure. Because I think this is such an interesting place, right? Where I mean, maybe I'm in correct, but I'm assuming that again a lot of these seeds are sewn in how we're raised. And in the case of your kids, they're getting actually kind of like a masterclass because they've got, you know, a parent who's one of the world's experts in it. But they would also, they would not say it was a masterclass. I think I'm a little heavy handed, but thank you for that. But you're being deliberate in how you're coaching. Yeah. So again, for those of us who who want to kind of take a bit of that, because I, you know, I really think like people always ask me like, what do you want for your kids? And that's an interesting question, right? Like, I certainly don't, I don't have any aspiration for what I want them to be professionally. Like it's not like, oh, I want this kid to be that and this kid to be that. I mean, you want your kids to be well adjusted and happy. Yeah. But it's hard to imagine them doing that if they don't have some command and control over themselves. So that you could argue that this is one of the most important things that we want our kids to have. Yeah. And yet I don't feel like we have any adequacy in the training for it. Well, I think you're right. I think that this is something, if this was more of a curriculum in schools, if it was something we taught parents. And that's one of the reasons I wrote the power of habit is I wanted to, I wanted to empower parents to teach their own kids, the stuff recognized things in their own life. I think that a number of us understand intuitively some aspect of this, right? So a lot has been written about the growth mindset, Carol de Wex work out of Stanford. You know, one of the things that she emphasizes is teaching children a sense of agency. That instead of saying, when you bring home an A and your pork cartons and saying, oh, you're so smart, which is something you don't have control over. To say, oh, you must have worked really, really hard because that's something you do have control over. I'm reinforcing your sense of agency. When we do that intuitively or deliberately, one of the things that we're doing is we're teaching our children that they have control over their habits, right? You went and you worked really hard to get that A. You developed a habit of studying, you used your willpower. I'm going to positively reinforce up by recognizing it. Whereas if I say, you must be really smart, you got that A. I'm not positively reinforcing your belief that you can change your behavior. So in addition to explaining to kids and being ostentatious, showing off the cues and rewards in our own life and how we change our own habits, the way that we give rewards to our children, also reinforces for them, whether they believe that they are in control of their willpower or not. And I suppose the other side of that is, how do we handle our own failures in front of them? Absolutely. Do we even admit our own failures? There's a model of fatherhood from the 1950s that you don't burden your family with your ups and downs. Dad's a steady rock. But all the research tells us one of the best things you can do is if you screwed up and I tried to do this all the time. I come home and I'm like, oh man, I called this guy today and I just completely screwed up this interview. Because I want them to know. And then I say, but the thing I realized from it is that next time I call, I need to have something to eat before I call. That's going to help me. I'm modeling for them. A failure is not a failure. A failure is a data point. And I'm a scientist about my own life. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive. Every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at Peter AtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future. Thank you.

Yeah, what exactly is a bunion? Everybody's heard of them. So, and a lot of people have them. Mm-hmm. Um, it's a transverse instability, not where you see the bunion. Here. At the meditarsal medial Q&A form, when someone can't control motion at the foot. Sort of the junction between the midfoot and the forefoot. Correct. Then they will start to have this instability. This bone, all a bunion, is by the way, is this bone, basically shifting to the outside. Yeah, so anybody who's seen it, will, what you notice is you're looking down at a person's foot, and you'll see this huge outpouching in what's otherwise the widest part of the foot, looks like it just got a whole bunch wider and it's pointing out. But when you see the skeleton, it's much easier to understand why that's happening. Yeah, so it's this guy going that way. A lot of people have these surgically repaired. Yes. What are they doing surgically to repair that? We could talk about this for a long time. Just some facts first with those surgeries. Okay. Um, a lot of them are not successful. And I'm not here to, you know, there is a time in a place. There is a time in a place, but I would be very cautious about getting foot surgeries, right, for symptoms. So what they'll do is they can either shave part of the bone down and then realign the toe. Mm-hmm. And oftentimes they will pin the metatarsal to the Q&A form. So they stabilize where most people have that instability. Once you start pinning things together, you might take care of alignment. Or I could you've done nothing to strengthen the muscle that allowed this to correct. Cut there. And, you know, the conversation of my mom has a bunion. My grandma has a bunion. And my response to that is you don't come out of the womb with a bunion. You might inherit connective tissue laxity for example, or there might be hypermobility issues. But if we know that, just like we talked about with the kids earlier, the earlier interventions, right? You get them in the right foot, footwear. You make sure they're in shoes, right? That have a toe box where the toes can actually display, especially if you know that your mother has a bunion. Mm-hmm. I think what's fascinating about the big toes, if you look at your nail bed. Some people that have bunions, the nail bed will be flat, and it'll just look like it's adducting. All right, so the here's the bunion? Oh, I see what you mean. Yep. Right? But the nail bed is flat. When you see that, it's typically from footwear. When you see the nail bed, and it's actually rotated, because you see some of those people right where the nail bed's kind of turned in, and that's like it's a rotational issue. Yep. You know for certain they can't control rotation. Which is cool, because now you're like, okay, let's, I mean, I have one of the reasons I got into all of this was, I have bilateral bunions on both of my feet due to the fact that I was constantly in point shoes, and then my solution to that was I'm just going to start bracing my feet because they hurt. So they just got weaker and weaker, and then I was like, this is not right. So we started strengthening them, getting us in the right shoes, and it's different, different ballgame. And what's a hammer toe? Well, we're at the topic of common empathy. Yeah, so bunion very common. Hammer toes are basically when the toes start to hammer the ground. All of them are just two through five. Two through five. Okay. The big toe can't hammer, it's just not as common as two through five. And this is why when you look at hammer toes, so this would be the top of my foot. We have extensors, short toe extensors, but we also have long toe extensors. So on the top of the foot, the short toe extensors are doing a lot of work. And the long toe extensors are not. Yeah, this is one of those things where if you're listening to us, this is very difficult to understand. It's it's why watching what you're saying makes a lot of sense. And and again, just so folks understand, the extensors would be pulling back the flexors would curl forward. And so it seems counterintuitive to say, how can a hammer toe be in part driven by this extensor phenomenon? Well, if the short extensors, the ones that attach with a shorter moment arm are fired up. Yes. And the long ones are relaxed. It actually looks like a hyperflection. Yes. And for people who have pain along the bottom of their foot, so along their meditarsals, if you take out your insert of your shoe, and you see a lot of wear underneath, like the second or third meditarsal, you know, you're probably walking around with too much pressure going through there. Hmm. So on the bottom of the foot, it's the exact opposite. I have my short flexors that aren't doing anything. And my long flexors who are. So hammer toe is a, it's a muscle imbalance due to a weakness in the foot. And what do you attribute the root of that to? If the bunion seems predisposed, not putting aside genetics and other things like that, but just environmentally, if the predisposing feature of a bunion is shoes that are pushing the big toe in, what is the environmental trigger that is most commonly driving a hammer toe? I think it's the same thing. I think that we have not been paying attention to our feet for a very long period of time. And if you think about, if you were to walk around with your hands and mittens, yeah. For 20 years, you shouldn't be surprised when your hands don't function. Yeah. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes, and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

and tell me a little bit about the history of CBTI, specifically, when did the idea come to, you know, existence in a way that's been packaged more or less the way it is today? Yeah, so cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia is actually old news. I mean, we can go back to the 1970s. I remember when I was learning cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia, one of the most fun studies to read about was the study of, I believe it was, college-aged men who were not doing well academically. And the intervention that they did with them was one of the two pillars of cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia, which is called stimulus control. And what they did with these young men is they told them, all right, you're going to be assigned a Carol in the library. And in this Carol is the only place you can study. You can't study in your dorm, you can't study outside, you can't study anywhere else, just this Carol, right? And only this amount of time can use study each day. Even if you're on a roll, we don't care, you have to stop. If you're miserable, we don't care, you just have to keep on like doing whatever portion of the studying over and over again that you're stuck on, right? So they trained peep these young men to just study in that one place. And it succeeded in helping these men. And these men were struggling with anxiety or actual uncertainty. They were, they were, they were just, this is just, this is just stimulus control. Yeah, where we learn to associate a place with a behavior, right? And fast forward a little bit, one of, it was actually, it was called the Bootsin Method at one point for Dick Bootsin, but one of the hallmarks of cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia is your bed is only for sleep. There are two things you're allowed to do in bed. I always tell my patients, your two things that you can do in bed are sex and sleep. If you're not sure of something counts, message me and I'll clarify it for you real quick, whether it counts in one of those two buckets. But we really want to just associate the bed with sleep. And the states even further back. And to be clear, just going back to this study was, was there a belief or were some of these guys studying in bed? They were studying in their dorms in their beds and everywhere else. And everywhere. So this wasn't specifically a study focused on sleep per se. It was just focused on this associate of pattern that became the bedrock of this treatment. And we can go back even further and we can look at Pavlovian conditioning, right? The dog and the bell and the food. And we don't need to go over that whole thing was again right now. But the point just is that the dog came to associate the bell with getting food, right? And a lot of times when people are struggling with sleep, you know what they're doing in their bed, they're reading, they're scrolling, they're watching TV, they're listening to podcasts. They're doing like everything. A lot of people by the time they get to me, they're camping out in their bed, just in case they're able to sleep. Oh, I'm going to go over snacking bed because if I'm sleepy enough, I'll roll over and take a nap and I'll get some extra z's. Right? So people have moved so much of their lives into their beds that it's completely dissociated from sleep. So that's a major, that's one of the the bedrocks, right? And then another bedrock is what we now call time and bed restriction. This used to be called sleep restriction. But I think, I don't know where along the way in the last number of years it went from being called sleep restriction to time and bed restriction. But whoever made the change, I'm still not sure who made that change. I'm thankful to them for it because the other key component of CBTI is that we restrict the amount of time that a patient is in bed to match how much time their body can actually produce of sleeping. A lot of times people with insomnia will say, okay, I need to be in bed for at least 12 hours. If I want to get seven hours of sleep, right? I know it's hard to believe, but it's true. And we just obliterate that notion. And this is another core and very old part of CBTI that dates back what? 7, 1970s, 80s. But when you take those two parts, then you start to add in some of the cognitive components that have been around also for decades, the cognitive therapies part, the air and back stuff with cognitive restructuring, which is where we take a thought. It's never heard that phrase. Don't believe everything you think. Yeah. So you take a thought. And on the classic thought record tool, you'll have patients write down the thought right down how they feel, write their feelings for say 0 to 90%. And then we have them write down, what's the evidence for this thought? Like if you had to go to court right now, and there was a judge jury and what have you. And you had to present evidence for your thought. What would you be able to present? Evidence for a thought is not another thought. It's not a belief. Evidence. Last time I slept six hours. I got a worse grade on the test or something. Right. That would be evidence. You go worse grade and death. But then we, we look at all the evidence for a thought. We look at all the evidence against a thought. Like, oh, last time you didn't sleep so well, you didn't get fired. You still did find in school, whatever the thing. And then we create a balanced thought, which is okay, even though I'm not going to be as well rested, I'll still get through this day. Right. Then we have people re-rate their emotions, re-rate how much they believe this new thought, this whole song and dance. Right. This is the cognitive component. And that's kind of the bedrock of so much of cognitive therapy. And so of course, people have so many negative thoughts about sleep and dysfunctional thoughts about sleep that aren't true or that are catathyprising and whatnot. That it's also blended into the treatment. And then we have relaxation techniques, which are things like progressive muscle relaxation that came along as well. And those are part of the treatment. And that progressive muscle relaxation will be like, where you squeeze your hands and let go and squeeze your hands and let go and then squeeze your arms and let them go and kind of move through your whole body to get out of your head and into your body. And I don't know what order those actually were packaged into CBTI. But I can tell you the first to the stimulus control and the time and bed restriction. Those were among the earliest earliest parts of CBTI. And what we know from dismantling studies is when you take either of those out of the treatment, paradise.

So make sure I'm putting this in perspective. So my eight year old, who is that kid who loves baseball. And all he does is talk baseball stats. He's a literal, he is a walking baseball statistic. Do you know so and so hit 326, that this many homeruns and you know, he was able to hit 477 feet above a. So he will be able to get to know his AI tutor. They will figure out in short order that the way to his heart is baseball. And anything that you can teach in baseball terms, he's fixated exactly. And AI will be able to give him a lesson to pursue mastery. But under the guhaz of baseball. Under baseball. Right. And it's just and we all know this, which is you're always, that's what teachers are always trying to do is, how do I get with the kids like and associate with it. But at scale, you don't have 30 kids who like all the same thing. Yeah, you know, et cetera. So here's an example of what you can actually do today. There's if you, we have a, so static, you know, you have hallucinations. And so you don't, you don't want to release those yet. But we have a dynamic reading generation. It's called Teach Tales. And the goal of this is to get kids to love to read. So if you take a third grade boy, it's like, I hate books, right? I hate books. I'm not a book guy. And you're like, which are favorite movie? The Avengers? Who are your soccer buddies? Okay. And you create the AI generates a choose your own adventure where you're saving the world with your soccer buddies. And you know, they have to keep the age B and a vendor. And each B1 and literally in the Lexiile level, right, the difficulty goes up it knows, right? So it's keeping you in the zone of proximal development within 10% of, you know, what you know, your Lexiile level, the kids will sit there and click for an hour. Right? Just totally engage. Non-stop reading. Non-stop. And just all of a sudden, you know, because we do have a reading problem in this country, people don't read books and all the things, this is the kind of thing where Gen AI is gonna be able to suck kids in, right? And, you know, our competition is Fortnite and TikTok, right? And we need to use things like Gen AI to create such compelling content for kids. That's related to what they care about. That also teaches, okay? I got to teach you for actions, but we're doing this baseball thing, so you're fine, right? You love that. You know, there's a whole program that a lot of people on finance where, you know, and there's actually a program where they have a mother-daughter thing back to a different way to try to solve it without an AI tutor, where there's all these finance moms who teach their daughters poker in middle school. And they're like, I'm gonna get them into poker to teach all these skills and the math skills and all the things that aren't being taught in my school. But with us, we can get that engagement level where the kids are interested in it. And to give you a couple of examples and I'll use some of our high school kids. So, you know, when you transfer into, you know, alpha high, your knowledge of history is very limited, which is if it's in the musical Hamilton, you know it occurred, and if it didn't occur, you know, it's not in a song in Hamilton, you don't know it. You know, because we don't teach history very much anymore. And but all the kids know Hamilton, they all sing songs. So our US history, AP World history, they literally used AI, they did this on their own, that was on our stuff. They used AI to generate, here's all the facts. You know, there's nine units in US history, for each unit they created a song. And they said, give me all the facts that I need to know for this unit. And they pumped into sumo, which is an available, you know, song generator. And they got, they created just their own album of songs. And they all would just sit around and sing the songs and you know, learn the facts that way. And do it in a way they all were very interested in, right? And they all got five on their AP, because you can do it to mastery. And so Jenny AI is gonna allow us to create this awesome dynamic content that's relatable, you know, and focused on what, or applicable to what kids want. The other part is, you know, there's a learning science concept, also bells of an framework. So, you know, the fastest way to learn is basically analogy. And so do you have a knowledge graph, right? This is the A in the ABC. So Dean Schwartz's book, which I guess, we're gonna link to that in the show notes, goes through A to Z, everything that learning science has come up with. Exactly. So he has, so Dean Schwartz from Stanford, right? He got a school education, one of the leaders in the field, right? His written a book, and he's like, here it is, you know, and every letter has a different one. But this one A is analogous and other ones are a member. And analogies, right? Where that's the fastest way to learn. And so if you know what a kid knows, like part of, we have a content team when I talk about those 100 facts, ideas and concepts for our, what they're using as reference is they're using TikTok memes, as cause kids know TikTok, right? And they know what's on TikTok. You know, like, well, let's take what we're trying to teach them and use something they already know, and that's actually the fastest way to have kids learn concepts. And so those are all coming, then even when you talk even further, the part we don't have in yet, but you know, our team's working on it is, we also take into account, we will be taking into account, the cognitive load, right? Of the brain, which is, we know we're going to be able to create a lesson that where we know how many working memory slots you have. We know what you know to fluency and what you don't. And we're not going to give you a question that's going to overload your working memory. Or we also know how many reps you need, right? And GT kids need fewer reps. And so we're not going to bore you by giving you too many reps to memorize it. Conversely, we're going to make sure you have enough reps if you need them. And so this personalized learning where you're generating the content dynamically, is going to be just this crazy unlock for these kids. And five years from now, I was going to look back and be like, okay, obviously, kids can learn 10 times faster. You know, we wake up every day and they're just like, it's like Neo in the Matrix, right? Where that's a physical upload, ours is, right? Using learning science concepts, kids can learn 10 times faster. And when you think about that, you have 12 years, right? You've 12 years to fill your kids head with cool stuff, knowledge, right? Because they have to hang out in that, right, in their brain for the rest of their life. And we've allocated 12 years to fill it up. We just need two hours a day, a 10 times faster. And all the kids can have more stuff and more cool stuff about stuff they like in their heads, two mastery level. Levels none of us as parents could ever imagine. And still give the kids their time back for the rest of the day to do all other things. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles, packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

Do you think that immortality is impossible? Unless we define it through kind of like AI copying your brain. Let's put the, I mean, physical immortality. Do you believe that that is, that is impossible? Well, I like to tell people that I'm immortal, because I think the mindset that it gives me is a very healthy mindset for me. We can come to, you know, you talk a lot about the emotional aspects of aging in your book. I love that chapter. We can come to that later. But that's, I don't really believe it's true. I think the odds that you could achieve that level of change in aging is non-zero, but close. So I'm skeptical that that can be done. I think it's fair to say, but I wouldn't rule out the possibility. Of course, nobody's ultimately going to be immortal, because you're going to get hit by a boss sooner or later. But what you're really talking about is being immortal in terms of dying from aging. Yeah, what I guess what I'm really saying is, can one ever get to the point where resilience is high enough that you cannot die from disease. I have seen nothing so far that suggests that's possible. Okay, but that doesn't mean it isn't possible. Yeah. And then that gets even to physical frailty and so our opinion and things like that, where even when we see centenarians and super centenarians, their frailty is still pretty remarkable. Meaning. Meaning like they still look pretty feeble in frail. Like, I mean, the age adjusted their grade. Yeah. But at the end of the day, like when they're 110, they still look like someone who's in the final years of their life, just as someone would if they were 84, 85. I mean, I had two grandmothers that lived to almost 100. One died at 99 and the other 101. And the one at 101, I would say that at 90, she was driving at 95. I think she quit driving. She bought a 238 game at 93. She was like a 93. Yeah. But so that's my point. She's like a 70 something girl. Exactly. My point is she just had a phase shift of 20 years. But it didn't undo the inevitability of that. Behind. Yeah. Yeah. I agree with that. I think that. But I'm getting us to 100. So a good goal. I think. I agree completely. Do you think that, again, we're spending too much time. We're worrying about finding immortality, escape velocity, understanding the core of aging. When maybe we should be spending more time on how do we preserve health span in the last decade of life? Why is it that most people in the final decade of their life are physically too frail to enjoy life are cognitively just, you know, even absent Alzheimer's disease. They're just not cognitively sharp enough. They're in pain. They're fracturing their hips. They're not doing what, you know, what gave them joy through most of their life. Yeah. I think that we should fund aging somewhere closer to the level we're funding cancer and answer both of those questions at the same time. I think one of them is a translational question about how do we slow aging as much as we can right now and improve the health of the population as much as possible. And the other one is a basic science question. Can we stop aging? Can we reverse aging? No one can. But anybody has the answer to that. They're lying to you or they're lying to themselves. Okay. We don't know. And I think that, but it's maybe the most important question in biology and we should be throwing money at it. So we've seen all this money going to like the private sector side by tech companies, supplement companies, longevity clinics, and on and on. And I think that's great, by the way. And I've spent a lot of my time working with those groups because I think it's important. But we're not seeing the academic funding that's going into the basic science of aging and longevity. And the big question still, that you just raised, they're still not answered. And so I'm not, I'm changing your question to a plea for more funding. And unfortunately, the kind of funding that supports that is usually government funding, foundation funding, and that's under major threat right now. So I'm really worried that we're not going to answer those questions. Well, it's funny. This was a discussion that came up on a longevity roundtable. I think most people, myself included, were really surprised to hear how disparate the funding differences are and how if you could put, I don't know, if you could reallocate 10% of funding from the disease-specific pools to the age pools, it could have an enormous difference. Based on how it's a little bit of a statement. Yeah. So when you think about the big chronic diseases, cardiovascular disease, cancer, demented diseases and metabolic diseases, right? Those would be the big four. I've often maintained that the least inevitable of them is ironically the one that is the most deadly today, which is cardiovascular disease. Yeah. The atherosclerotic disease is so cerebral and cardiovascular, ironically, the most preventable. I think because we have the best understanding of what causes them and we couple that with the most tools to prevent them, whether it be tools to combat hypertension, disability, me, et cetera. And they're responsible to a responsive to the lifestyle of case. Yeah. Which of those major diseases of the other three, demented, cancer, metabolic? Do you believe is the most inevitable to our species? I wouldn't put metabolic. I agree. Yeah. Sure. Because I see that more like cardiovascular. I agree. So of the other two, cancer and demented or neurodegenerative diseases, which one is just seemingly inevitable. We don't know enough about dementia to answer, but I will say that cancer is a little bit different than these other diseases, I think. It's not a, and it may be less modifiable by longevity interventions. Dimension, we just don't know. My guess is it's highly modifiable too, but there's not enough data to be sure of that. Like there is for metabolic and cardiovascular disease. But cancer is, is, is, is an accumulation of mutation. So it's a more defined event that's happening. It's also a impact on the immune system that's different a little bit than normal aging. So it may be less approachable from a longevity viewpoint point. Yeah. That's exactly my view that cancer is the most inevitable of these diseases. Do you think that the inevitability or the age-related component stems more from the accumulation of mutations or the weakening of the immune system? It's probably both. I mean, you don't get to cancer without the right mutations happening. But I think we're learning more and more that the immune system is playing a major role in it. We can see that very clearly from the interventions that improve immune function and they're having a big role in certain types of tumors. But I think that's going to be true for Alzheimer's and the dementia as well. We've completely underestimated the role of inflammation in the immune system and those diseases as well. And they may be the primary drivers. You know, I kind of, I'm very frustrated by some of these fields. One of them is Alzheimer's. You know, the, I kind of feel like, you know, one of these Alzheimer's researchers are going to die at some point of 90 and on their, on their two stone, it's going to be like, you know, major accomplishment was the completely remove plaques from the brain died of Alzheimer's at 94. You know, it's, it's, it's, it's, there's been so much focus on one or two mechanisms of disease that we spent 30 years not studying the others, which may be more important. Why do you think that? I mean, I write about it in the book, but I'm really curious as to why you think that's happened. And because that's not it. Unfortunately, that's not an isolated incident in science. So why do you think it's happening in a field where the results are otherwise so dismal? What's the, what's the same? That scientific progress happens one field of fear to the time. Yeah. I think that's part of it. You know, you get people that have successful research programs and their postdocs get hired and all the jobs. And so when you take a field and it grows from a small field to a bigger field, you everybody can draw their lineage back to four or five different PI's and so whatever models. And those PI's get really focused on those models and they see that as their ticket to prizes and things like that. And so then you, you focus on a subset of the disease mechanisms that the exclusion of all others. And I, I don't want to single Alzheimer's out. And I think a lot of diseases meet that category. But it's unfortunate because what we're realizing is that, you know, there's a lot of factors that contribute to any disease. And I think longevity may be an interesting way of looking at it. Like I think it's better. Like I'll take it take a mouse. Okay. We've tried to make Alzheimer's models in mice and they, they don't prove that informative. Why, you're creating a disease a mouse doesn't get genetically in a young mouse. And comparing that to a natural disease and an old human. I think you learn more about Alzheimer's. If you look at the brain, neurodegenerative changes that happen in the mouse normally with aging. The, the downstream things are different. But the drivers may be the very similar to the ones that are driving Alzheimer's Alzheimer's. And that may be a better model of Alzheimer's than trying to artificially create something that a mouse doesn't get. So that's what I think aging is helping change that perspective that, you know, the drivers of aging, I think are very similar between a mouse and a human. The downstream events can be different. But the drivers are what we care about, right? So. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days. You'll get a lot of updates of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future. Thank you.

So many people suffer brain injuries and if you could wave a magic wand you would just hope for some regeneration of the injured portion of her brain and my guess is in the case of and the actual total volume of cells that are damaged just quite small it could be this you know half the size of your thumb right I mean it's a relatively small, but it just happened to be in the most precious part of real estate in her entire body so Do we know or do you have any point of view on the potential future of stem cell like interventions for the purpose of Regeneration specifically in the CNS? Yeah, I mean this is an area that I think got a lot of focus and attention maybe about 10 or 15 years ago and I would say it largely the results were pretty modest. Yeah, but yeah, it best It's coming back now because of a lot of cell-based therapies or granowates Building miniature models of brains on cell culture is basically I think the first things that we're gonna see and where I am seeing some promise is Very focal delivery in replacing cells that have been lost in small targets of the brain So back to Parkinson's disease where you've got the generation of dopaminergic neurons and the substantiate nigra the goal is can you replace and basically transplant some stem cells into that part of the brain? And remind me why the cells in the substantiate nigra go is it an auto a meat like what do we know what's killing them? I think there's a lot of a lot of It could be multiple fault it's parliogenic There are certain genes. I produce both situation there. They're certain environmental toxins That can cause the disgeneration and then there's like a huge bucket like we still don't know you know what's causing that But if end of the day, there is a disgeneration of those very specialized cells most of the treatments are around dopamine replacement Yeah, medications and how close do you think we are towards? Transplant Well, it's already been done Actually like 20 30 years ago. Oh really I was using a fetal graphs and they just didn't take some of them took in in fact Patients some patients got benefit from it the side effects were also fairly severe They were a variety of different reasons kind of side effects like if you have too much dopamine You can actually get disconeys shows so hyper movement so Parkinson's one of the card symptoms of Parkinson's hypomovement Yeah, yeah, Brady cannesia Specifically where you have slow movements slow to initiate movements as well But if you have cells that are just pumping out dopamine They can also be putting out too much and you get the opposite effect So it's not as simple as just putting them in there. They actually have to be tuned Yeah, in the right way to put out the right levels and so there's a new generation of new therapies that were really interested in traveling UCSF that are much better cell models much better control of dopamine that's involved. We have much better delivery systems to make sure that the different distribution and and I mean could you imagine that could you imagine engineering your way out of Parkinson's disease? We're working on it What about synthetic cells where you completely get to control it, right? So again, you have the substrate problem, but if it's truly a synthetic cell then presumably it can make dopamine as well I mean, that's supposed to an implantable sort of slow leaked dopamine that you come up with some slick weight or refill but What do you think is more likely kind of the more pure engineering approach or the more biological transplant approach where you just try to tune it The near term of course is taking some cell cultures. They are not like purely synthesized That's still I think it's a huge goal outside of just brain like can you generate a cell to know, though? Without some what without some origin does that require immune Modulation so it's a full transplant yeah, so a lot of these patients initially will be on a You know suppression for that, but that's also improved a lot Yeah, right that's just a immune of suppressive as if they had a kidney transplant or a liver heart transplant Yes, wow, yeah, but I think that's primarily right now the level of precaution You know and there is progress being made and try to make these things As least immunogenic is possible and That's where a lot of the engineering actually is focused on is just making Like the least immunogenic to avoid a rejection scenario So I am excited about that and that's some of the biological engineering that I've talked about like biotechnology or the future of technology We really coming back to the biology moving a little bit away from the Electrical engineering What do you think the world looks like in 2040 Which major problems that stand in front of you today do you expect to fall and what will be the implications? I'm Peter at here this podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support Which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers? I believe this keeps my content honest making it a trusted resource for listeners like you as a premium member You'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes You'll get longevity focused premium articles packed with actionable insights You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive Every topic every study every resource from each episode carefully curated for you You'll get quarterly podcasts summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and Much more this journey doesn't have to be navigated alone We can take these steps towards a better longer life together become a premium member today a Peter at MD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future

There's no objective way to measure pain, correct? Oh, the last 15 years of my career has been spent on doing that very thing. And where do you think we are in that regard? Much further along than I ever would have predicted. So a large chunk of my research early on. My early research was in neuroimaging a pain. It was opening up windows into the brain to see where people were thinking, processing, perceiving, magnifying pain. And I spent much of that publishing work to understand the mechanisms of that. And we haven't yet actually finished our story of pain going up to the brain and what's going on. We'll get there. Yeah. Over the years, I migrated into the space of developing objective biomarkers of pain. And it's one of those things where this is why I love working with young, smart people. I bet against it. I had some young grad students and others who said that they thought they could do this. I told them how you would do it. And I said it won't work. And I'm going to pay you. I'm going to give you money to go scan people and you're going to learn how it doesn't work because failure is a great lesson in life. And they came back and they showed they could do it. And it was all through developing patterns in the brain and using machine learning models to then take that pattern, that signature and be able to predict in other people whether they were experiencing pain. I didn't think we could do that because of the hugely individual nature of pain. It's so different from person to person. And it turns out that there are core patterns in the brain that represent that experience of pain. And so now we've others. And so you're capturing these through what modality, the functional magnetic resonance imaging. It is a standard MRI that people go into. But we do some fancy pulse sequences. We play some physics tricks where we can see where nerves the brain's being activated. And we've taken this. We and others have taken this from being able to determine whether somebody is in a state of pain, to predicting their long-term trajectory. And we're working right now. Big grant that I have is to actually create composite multimodal biomarkers to predict their future state. We're getting there. So let's just start with standard understanding. If you put me into an FMRI machine and I said to you, hey guys, I'm not feeling any pain right now. I feel great. And then you scan me and then someone came out and took a hammer to my thumb. Yeah. And I went through the classic response that you described earlier. What would my FMRI show? Yeah. You would see rather dramatic increases in activity in brain regions such as the thalamus, the posterior and solar cortex, the anterior singular cortex, through the door, salantere, singular cortex. And a number of other distributed, a number of other areas. And to be clear, this is distinct from the part of my cortex that is the humongolous for my thumb. You would also see it in S1. You right. And indeed, what we've learned through this, that there's no one single pain region in the brain. That's another mistake that was made along the way. We all thought we were going to find a brain region. Yeah. Then we can knock it out. Right. Just go cut it out. And it turns out that didn't work. And it's not one brain region that generates the experience of pain. It is a distributed network. It's all of these regions coming together and working in harmony. Doing what? Right in the experience of pain and then generating a typically a response to that. And let me be very clear because there was a lot of controversy when we and others initially published our papers. We are not trying to take away the autonomy of the patient in the self-report. I don't need an FMI to see a patient and know if they are a pain. I can just ask them. And I can use self-report measures to get it. And I do that's another part of the research. Where we're working to build these objective markers, the subjectifying pain is not to see what they're in now. But can it give us useful information to predict treatment to a particular therapy? Can we use it to predict their future state? Can we use it to predict their vulnerability to an injury or surgery? Those are things that just asking a patient right now, probably not going to get there.

Question one, if a guy is taking exogenous testosterone and let's just say he's been on it now for a few months Is he able to create sperm? Not 95% chance he's not. Wow. While he's on it. Yep. Understeady can he create it once he stops and we'll and we'll definitely address that But just to be clear even a couple of months on Exogenous testosterone in any form injection, topical, oral, whatever You basically have shut off the ability to make sperm because your testies themselves have shut down Right no signals. Yep. Okay. No gas to the engine now there are some ex- it's nuanced. Okay So there's there are formulations that are topical that are less potent that way Less inhibitory than injectables So there are variations in the spectrum of exogenous testosterone that will maintain some of your fertility There are formulations at least the I don't want to go so far as to call it the marketing material but for lack of a better term the marketing material is Suggestive that the more frequently delivered variants so for example the intranasal variant which is delivered three times a day the oral variant Delivered twice a day have a less of a negative impact because they're producing far lower Surges than if you did a weekly injection is that what you're referring to? Yeah, so they do more physiologic. Yep. They're in the normal range more what gives you side effects from testosterone Including sterility is the spice too much. Yeah, so in your experience has that born out So men you've seen men taking the testo three times a day doing a nasal keeping their sperm count keeping their sperm counts Okay, that's interesting to note. What about the oral testosterone the twice a day? Love it so and it's testosterone neck and neck and neck and neck and neck and neck and neck and no eight and It was not Available in America for 50 years was available in Europe and a couple of researchers. You say a as been wife team beautiful Decide what happened was we were worried when we took oral to the liver right to the Military system and go to liver cause liver cancer so was always verboten All right, so now let's talk about the guy who comes to see you. He's been on exogenous testosterone for three years So he was given poor advice three years ago. He went to some shady You know back alley website and they just you know He was 27 years old at the time He just wanted to I mean this is tragically a very common story by the right so this guy's been on 200 milligrams A testosterone a week for the past three years. He's now 30 years old. He's met the love of his life and Loan behold they can't seem to get pregnant So he's in your office during the history you find out pretty quickly. He's been on 200 milligrams a testosterone for three years Tell me what his sperm analysis looks like you see there knows there presumably there are no sperm. I would bet 95% Confidence that he would be no have no sperm in a salmon. Okay. I'm 200 milligrams a week So what are you telling him now? How are you gonna solve this problem? So it's funny because a lot of guys come in and They're they look good and And I want to examine. I'll say are you taking anything? Are you taking because they never put it on the medication? Right? You never write it out on the history you always have to get it out of it if they look if they're super jacked But then they have tripled testes. Yeah, and they're zero and they're wondering what you know right? So I will look them in the eye. It's a you taking testosterone And I'll look them in the eye until they answer and if they look down and And they don't say anything. I know they're on it if they look me the eye and say no, then I know they're not but they'll always look away Because it's this verboten thing so This is the same by the way as I'm sure you experienced as a Resident and the ER the people that come in with foreign rectal bodies and a barminal pain That's the one thing they emit from their history, right? It's like they tell you you know this the last time I ate this is this this is this But then you get the x-ray back and there's like a candlestick in their colon and then you say What about this candle? Yeah, what about this candle stick and they're like oh I totally forgot to mention that. Yes. Yes. That was lit. What I went in. Yeah. Yeah So typically I'll say so my there is about this is if he's Why is he taking it so if he's taking a franabolic? You know he probably has a pretty good idea and I want that send you it's give you a little research We're doing on the lifespan of anabolic storage users So remind me at the end of the story it's to give you a little brief on about what what I know about that but So I so when you take so how he takes it matters So if he's been in constant use injectables. Yep. That's the most suppressive of fertility and If you turn a gland like a testicle off long enough, it's off So I gave a lecture to the Antiquity on covering men from hypergonism and young men and I asked them a question at the end Because I this is I my whole Procedure comes from steroid users. I I take notes when the anabolic guys come see me because they're really smart And they know a lot about reactions biology That's incredible everything. Yeah, but there's a science some of them are PhDs I took notes for years and it came up my approach Along with what I know right so it's very much in concern with concert with them So everything I say is sort of built on a large experience And it's called getting off the juice block and I have people read that blog do it and say get about 80% of the way and then call me and say and need help here Now I'm here. Yeah, we'll link to this in the show. No, it's for sure getting off the juice and there's a PowerPoint in it so the Recovery is usually possible in young men, but it depends on how much they took how long they took it and how they took it If they do it like a cycling effort that's the best right? So if you cycle steroids you recover the betueteria you get back to normal and then you hit it again That's actually quite smart. Constant use is not Constant use for longevity or whatever is not a good idea for fertility So that's gonna be much more suppressive injections are worse than orals or any gels Mm-hmm So the next thing is how long so I asked the under-consciety since I answered all their questions I said have a question for you. Can you turn a testicle off like an a thyroid or a adrenal gland if you suppress it enough Can you turn it off for good and they said yeah, that's a bad question of ours We can do that and I said because we believe it's always reversible in the field of infertility and men And so that got me a little worried and so now I kind of worry about five to ten years of use after five or ten years of use You may not get it back either the ability to make sperm or the ability to make testosterone native so we typically tell men in our practice Don't you know two years would be the absolute ceiling maybe are we too conservative? Maybe okay Depends on dose again everything right if they're two and a 50 a week though I mean in our practice it would be 50 twice a week. Yeah, okay. I did a study Published a study on the fellow and Houston of a guy who took it for 25 years and We drove at him with genetic tropans as Hcg and FSH and we didn't get anything but he had testiculate No, we got us a low number of sperm back and I just had a guy from Louisiana and I come in 25 years of chronic use I did a mapping procedure to find sperm and it's testicone and he's gonna be having a kid But he made a couple of sperm after and that was correct But you pump him full of Hcg and synthetic air and get nothing and then you have to look in a Testicle because production can be low enough to be there, but not coming up But this is the rescue protocol. It's LHFSH Basically, there's three ways to do one is never stop the testosterone suddenly Hmm interesting because men all hit the dogms like a poop and they'll flop over like they have the flu They'll feel like shit and they'll get right back on it. They're feel terrible Because they have nothing going on if you take the testosterone away Their persistence turned off. They're not making their own it takes time to get the system to reactivate So that's the hardest. So I always taper testosterone over over what period of time six weeks Typically you have the dose for two have the dose for two and then offer two and then you measure and That's like getting out of the white water into the green the green wall a little bit So that's a little smoother So taper and then I offer them two options one opposite taper alone taper with chroma during chroma theme Which is a little quicker getting the pituitary to turn back on So that will that will soften the blow of the feeling of feeling completely fatigued or more aggressively Hcg and and and chroma Okay That's interesting. I guess there's no at about six weeks or and there's no so it's it's interesting If you give Clome the pituitary will make FSH and LH It doesn't shut off. It takes a lot. Well, that's a way more cost effective approach than giving since synthetic FSH is pricey Yes, couple thousand a month. Yeah, America. Yeah, so is there any reason to do that over the chroma Prochers it just that it's faster. I think you might gain a couple of weeks of time. Okay, so for most people that's not self-priced with that taper over a month or two I usually check their T levels at around two weeks off of the last testosterone and that's the lowest they'll be and if they're in a good range There that didn't you you can use that as a predictor of their response and there would be good If they're in the normal range. Oh really. Okay, so you we we want within a couple months to see them back to 600 300 would be okay. Okay, okay, okay, all right, but then to get them to where they want to be depends on their symptoms and what they're happy with I'm you know, I'm not sure I'm not you you won't know so you wait longer to see how how high you can get them that's the lowest they'll be But you'll be off of testosterone and if they go along that taper and they're not tolering I try to tell them don't go back just stay there because time will help you yeah And you're not gonna feel maybe that great but try to do this because if you don't you if you go back Then we have start over but if you just maintain it for a while you'll feel better and some of them dip a little bit But remarkably most men do really well with that taper I'm Peter at you this podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support Which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers? I believe this keeps my content honest making it a trusted resource for listeners like you as a premium member You'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes You'll get longevity focused premium articles packed with actionable insights You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive every topic every study every Resource from each episode carefully curated for you You'll get quarterly podcasts summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more this journey doesn't have to be navigated alone We can take these steps towards a better longer life together Become a premium member today a Peter at tmd.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future

You're looking for obviously the count and the motility, what else do you look for? So in the steam analysis, there's several features I consider it sort of a poker hand. There's a volume, how much of the steam volume? There's a count concentration of sperm that's numbers per mill. And then there's motility which is percent motion. You do a forward progression. So how good is the quality of motion? And typically, some measure of shape called morphology. There's three liquid issues. Liquid faction, a glute nation, in viscosity. And then you look for other cells that aren't sperm. They're called round cells. And you're going to be pus cells or immature germ cells that are early ejaculated early. And presumably you want to see fewer of those. Right. There's a number like less than a million normal. Okay. So if you ask me, well, how do I look at a steam analysis? That's a little different. I look at it as a poker hand with each card as I'm meaning, but they have a look. So if you said, what do you mean by that? So if the volume is low, that's one of five things. You're always going to find something. It's at the collection error. I call it first samples and drone. Guys not go to that. Right. You know, it's like, okay, I got to put it in the cup. And I got to stop doing what I'm doing. Okay. You know, so you do a second sample. And then there's low testosterone can cause it. There's an apps and vast difference, which means you have an apps in some of us. So go, there's a jack toy, a jack toy. And by the way, do you ever have that on one side and not the other? Or is that always okay? Yeah, that was very, very, but segmental. Yep. And so there's five real issues. So when I see a low volume semen as a surgeon and as a dot, I mean, I'm going to find something. So that's really good. Other than that, the semen analysis, I think I've been published as saying it's a blunt instrument for fertility. Unless it's zero, you can't really say much about their fertility. Because people can see that all levels. And people are there. Are there, you know, obviously you rattled off a whole bunch of parameters that you can access there. But are there certain null states that don't exist where everything is amazing, but this one thing is horrible. Like do you see scenarios where everything is remarkable? Perfect, motility, but bad morphology or specific morphology. I see it isolated things. You do see isolated things. Right. So one of them is called, I call it syndromic sperm shape problem. So you can have a perfectly normal semen analysis, count motility volume progression. And the sperm looked terrible. And so there are rare conditions, one in 5,000, where you might have global, so sperm, or two tailed sperm, or pinheads sperm. So if you look at shape, 4% should look normal, just terrible. You know, all discussion about why 4% of human sperm being normal is normal when 99% of animal species in the wild have normal looking sperm. But it's all a construct. Right. It's all a construct of who someone decided what normal is. But in men who have large abnormal forms, like 4% normal, if they're 1% normal. And you look at the abnormalities. I'm sorry. I'm still confused on that point. Are you saying that in a, you would consider it perfectly normal if only 4% of the sperm are more phologically perfect and 96% or not? And that means the 96% that are not could be pinhead, could be double tail, a more festive tapering end. Going back to the original. That's a, that's a math and petition. That's not a great number. Is it? No. And if you look at marine species, 99, 9, look perfect. If in the wild. Yeah. And presumably that's because they're environment is so much more hostile. Like they're doing this all in the ocean. I don't know, but it's, it's amazing that we're that good with the sperm. But again, it's a construct. It's like putting stars ordering stars in the universe, Cassiopeia. Someone named Kruger said, this is what a normal sperm looks like. And, but we know that two tailed sperm have double tailed. I mean, it might be the two tail might not be the worst thing in the world. It's just extra rockabusters. But what about the pinhead? What is the pinhead? And it means there's no nucleus. It's a tail. So that's a true problem. You a girl. Yeah. It's like a little tiny head and moving along. So if you, if you, if you rule out, if you, if you give somebody credit for their two tails, what's, what is your normal go up to from 4%. Oh, it depends, but maybe 20. Okay. So there's still 80%. But we'll fill our, we're going to be a more fiss, the head's a little rounder, the heads a little narrower. Those are called stress patterns. Some things like hot baths and varicocials and smoking will do that. Which is that bad. All right. So in the case of 1% normal, you've got to look at the 99% because that's not the story. The stories and the other, the other chunk. Yeah. And if they're all looking the same, then it's in drumic. And then you have a problem. I see. So the more homogenous the, have an ameliores are the more likely if you have a queer ideology. And that's hard to fix. I mean, they'll fail with sex. They'll fail with insimination. They'll fail with IVF. They'll fail with IVF and XC. And sometimes with global subspermia where they're called Lali Pop sperm, they just have a big round head with no acrosome. And there's all nucleus and there's some of the components. They'll just bounce off an egg. They'll never work. Right. They'll never do work naturally. And to get them to work with IVF, you have to single sperm inject them into the egg. And then shock the egg with calcium to a calcium or pizioelectrics to get it to sort to, to actually fertilize. Because it also introduces the sperm is important with fertilization. Not only has the bind, but the calcium channels are regulated by sperm. And what shuts to doors the polyspermia in an egg is calcium activation. This is the reason why even if you launch a hundred sperm at an egg, it's only one that can get in because the first guy that breaches sets off the calcium channel that shuts the, I mean, the star wars space and allergies here are just phenomenal. Right. Million years. Yeah. A million years. No more breaches in the hole. So there's so more biology can matter a lot, but it's very rare. So I'd say twice a year in my practice, I'll see this. Because everything's failing and everything looks normal and they ask me what's going on. And I'll look at it really closely and say, you have this issue and there's not much we can do to treat it. Now we're going to try sperm swarming technologies which are out in the market, microfluidics and things like that. And I've been throwing that at them. Sometimes it works, sometimes it doesn't. And is that something that we know the genetic underpinning of? We're getting their PLZZ aid at deficiencies. One of them recently discovered that that runs the calcium channel, which tends to be associated with certain look like locals of sperm. Yeah. So it's coming around. Think about that for a second from an evolutionary perspective. That's positive. That is the single least desirable genetic mutation you could acquire. Yeah, unless you're not making sperm. Yeah, but this is a dead end to the genome. Right. So does that mean it is only an unacquired mutation never inherited? I mean, it can't be inherited presumably unless it's homozygous, but even still. That's one of the 50 we throw off in each generation, 50 mutations. That's just incredible. I think what I would like to emphasize in this podcast is how fluid evolution actually is. And it's sperm driven and it's transgenerational. So if you ask me, what's the theme for today? It's a sperm matter a lot. A lot a lot more than we've given them credit for. All right. So let's talk about, so basically just rounding out the choices, physical, and analysis on the cemen analysis, what if motility is the problem? So I look at in my poker analogy of the hand, if you have everything looks good, but the motility is low, I think of short-term toxins. So not severe severity. So things like exposures, so medications, I think about habits, pot, smoking, hot baths, I think about behaviors, lifestyle, I think about, so I look for an exposure in that individual. Basically picked up on the history. Varicocials and exposure, things like that. And if the count down and the motilities down, it's I think of a longer severe exposure. So there's rural fashes and there's four for kindness, two of a kind. So I would think of more of, so my goal when I see that cemen analysis, see that patient is to figure out if he's not normal, why? And by the way, do you get that analysis the day he's in the clinic with you, or is that something you follow upon an appointment with? Pretty much have it in my hand when I see them. Either they give it to me or I get one, I want that there because that's when I look at them, I'd like to have that in front of me to say, what kind of poker hand are you playing? And this is something that's standardized and automated through my microfluidics. How is the, how is the assay actually done? So the guy ejaculates and it takes it to a lab. Oh, I mean, so it used to be done manually. Okay. And now it's done with the hematotometers and like, it's done with machines. Okay. The cuter assisted cemen analysis does most of them in IVF groups. So it's realized. Standardized. Oh yeah. Okay. I like the, you know, I like the bespoke suit. So I like the hand made seem so when I have mine repeated, I usually have someone do it by hand because there's observations I like, which is, hey, you know what, 1% morphology, but all the others look like this. Mm-hmm. Those comments are incredibly valuable that you don't really get from a computer assisted cemen analysis. Yeah. But it's faster and you don't have a lot of human effort involved with the computer. And are they using AI for this yet? Yeah. I mean, some people are for sperm selection a little bit. But yeah, there's a lot of stuff to help out. And now it will be really helpful for morphology to standardize it because one man named Kruger and South Africa correlated bad sperm shape with IVF outcomes and didn't not find that they were good when the sperm look bad. That's what the 4% came from. But it's really hard to do that every time and do it well because it's so hard to do. Hoping AI, machine learning can help standardize the look. Because sperm, you know, it's just, it's hard. Yeah, given how good AI is at image recognition. This should be, this should be like, this should be, to one foot, put. Yeah. I'm Peter Ratea. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at Peter RateaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

What constitutes cognitive behavioral therapy before we even get into cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia? So we've had a podcast where we talked about dialectical behavioral therapy DBT, but we haven't covered CBT. Okay. Can you give us a little bit of the tapestry of what defines it and why it of course then has this additional subset of treatment for insomnia? Yeah, I should have done that first. That's a great question. So cognitive behavioral therapy, my favorite way to think about this is in a triangle. We have thoughts, we have feelings, and we have behaviors. And you can think about this triangle as having these three pieces that are all connected. And cognitive and behavioral therapies or cognitive behavioral therapies generally will focus on one intervening on this process between thoughts, feelings and behavior. And one of these, the sides of the triangle, right? So let me just spell out a quick example process, right? So let's say we have a patient with type 2 diabetes who has the thought, I'm never going to be able to get my blood sugar under control. I'm never going to be able to manage this and not be able to do this. When a person has those thoughts, how do they feel? Crumming, feel bad about themselves. When people feel bad about themselves, what do they do? Eat some chocolate cake. Eat some chocolate cake. What does that do? That reinforces the thought, I'm never going to be able to do this, right? So we've got this pattern of thoughts, feelings, behavior, right? On repeat, right? And cognitive behavioral therapies will choose where to intervene on a process in that triangle. So we might intervene. Cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia, for example, is really focused on the area between thoughts and feelings in many ways, because people will have a lot of thoughts. I can't sleep. I'm never going to be a good sleeper. If I don't sleep eight hours tonight, I'm going to lose my job, whatever. And then the big emotions that follow from that. We work on questioning a lot of those thoughts to then recalibrate the feelings that follow. Like, oh, if I don't sleep eight hours tonight, I won't feel great tomorrow, but I'll probably be okay at work, right? The feeling is much smaller than if I don't sleep eight hours tonight, I'm going to lose my job tomorrow, right? There's noticeably different. In terms of depression, an example that I like might be someone saying, oh, you know, I'm really depressed now, but when I feel better, I'm going to take my grandkids to the movies. That's what I'm going to do. I'm going to take my grandkids to the movies. I'm going to take them to the zoo. I'm going to do all these things. So as a therapist, what I might do is I have the patient right, all of this huge, long list of stuff they're going to do when they feel better. And then you know what I'm going to do. I'm going to get out there calendar with them. And I'm going to say, all right, I don't care how you feel. We're scheduling all of these things. So we're intervening on that behavior to thoughts line, right? So we're going to make them take the kids to the zoo. We're going to make them take the kids to the movies. And then the kids are going to have a great time. And the patient's going to come back and say, oh, you know, I'm a pretty kick ass growl. Kids at a great time. This was pretty great. So we're intervening on the behavior to change the thoughts about the self, right? Like, oh, I'm going to do these things when I'm better, right? So a major feature of cognitive behavioral therapies is intervening on behavior to change thoughts, but also intervening on thoughts to change feelings. And there's just many, many applications for this. Cognitive behavioral therapies been adapted for a whole host of disorders for eating disorders, for insomnia, specifically for anxiety. That's going to be more in the thoughts and feelings realm too. And it's a lot of fun. So it is that kind of running the triangle in the other direction. So you change behavior to change thought, you change thought to change feeling. Yeah. So you can you can change thought to change feeling. You can change behavior to change thought. You can operate on any any way of those with different techniques that have been just repackaged into different therapies.

I guess I would just encourage people to not be so political, religious, and dogmatic about this. So we got a lot of diet talk today. We'll cover four of the diets, keto, carnivore, vegan, and Mediterranean. We're going to evaluate each diet through a framework which is what are strengths. If you do keto with real-hole food, I think you're going to find the pounds just pour off. I think almost without exception people that go on a carnivore diet experience a dramatic improvement in blood sugar. I think one of the big advantages here is that plant foods are generally less calorie-dense than animal foods. I think it's very difficult not to point to some version of a Mediterranean diet because it's simply the one for which we have the best data. And then we'll look at its weaknesses. One of the ones that most people don't appreciate is protein adequacies. I think you can be deficient in a number of micro nutrients that it requires being very deliberate. And then of course we have that whole other issue with the APOB issue. To do it in a way that doesn't really talk about everyone should follow this diet or this diet or this diet. But instead understand the pros, cons, how to think about diets and put it into their own life. And we'll close with practical takeaways. Hey everyone, welcome to the Drive Podcast. I'm your host Peter Atia. Peter, welcome to another ask me anything. How are you feeling? I'm just honored to be back. Thank you for having me. Do you ever think about just sleeping in the podcast studio so you can just be ready at any given moment if we need you to record something? I think there are times when my wife would like that. We should just on the other side of the table in the studio just put a tent and every now and then you and the boys just camp in the studio. Could work. I could work. Speaking of the boys, quick, quick, chess update. We had a little chest tournament in-house chest tournament this weekend. And I made it to the finals with the youngest, my youngest boy. And I was playing kind of a bananas game like really kind of playing lights out chess. And again, this is the one that loves to trash talk. So it was awesome. And then I made this idiotic blunder and in a second the game changed. And five moves later, it's checkmate against me. And I was like, God, this is why I love and hate this game so much. I do love that you started this by bragging about making it to the finals of an in-house chest tournament, which composed of three people. No, no, no, there were a few others. There were some other people kind of turned out. I thought it was you and the two boys both under 11. And I was like, it's kind of audacious to brag about making it to the finals of three person chest tournament, two of which can't even drive yet. But all of you, okay. That's good to hear. There was more people involved. The bigger question is, when you lost that game, did any pieces go flying through the air? It happened one time, Nick. One time. I'll never live it down. One time in during this chest. No, no, no, it's not only happening that one time. I am not a chest piece through her ordinarily. That's because Mama Tia put her foot down. That's true. I do like have you gotten a gel to start playing chest yet? Zero chance, Jill will ever play chess. I don't know. I mean, never say never. You know, you, you sometimes do things that you said you never were going to do in the past. So you can't have never know. I mean, much like this AMA, which is all on not only your favorite, metatopic, but your favorite micro topic, which is not only is this nutrition focus, but it's diet, specific focused, which anyone who's listened to this for a while knows maybe not your favorite topic cover, but I think it's going to be really good. Here's why. We get a ton of question on diets. And I think it's because there's so much information in the ether on diets. And so what we did is we gathered those questions. We went to the audience, asked for questions, combined them all, organized them. And we're going to structure them in this way, which is, and goal here is to not be a nutrition AMA, which we've done before, which we can link. It's much more to focus on diets. And to do it in a way that doesn't really talk about everyone should follow this diet or this diet or this diet and not to kind of join the tribal battles that people see. But instead, really just take a pragmatic listen and really identify how can anyone listen to this? Understand the pros, cons, how to think about diets and put it into their own life. And so in it, we want to give people a framework to evaluate a dietary approach, whether you follow the same one now that you did years ago or you change in the future. To do that, we'll start by laying out the five non-negotiables that you think any diet must address. So no matter if it's vegan or carnivore, what are the approaches that they all should follow? And then we're going to evaluate each diet through a framework, which is what are the core requirements for that diet to work? What are strengths, including who is the best suited for? Because oftentimes we've talked as sometimes there's going to be different diets that are better for different people. So what is that and why is that? And then we'll look at its weaknesses, which is if someone's going to follow a diet, what are some of the pitfalls and how can they be addressed and how can they avoid those? And then with that framework, we'll cover four of the diets that are asked about us the most seem to be talked about the most and paint the broadest picture, which is keto, carnivore, vegan, and Mediterranean, and we'll close with practical takeaways. So we got a lot of diet talk today anything you want to add before we roll into it. Yeah, now I think that's a good setup. I'll add to unrelated comments. The first is yeah, you pointed out how much I just generally don't enjoy this subject matter. And the reason for it is it tends to very quickly degrade into sort of tribal religious discussions as opposed to sort of scientific discussions. And there tends to be almost a morality that comes out of this, which I just frankly don't think belongs in the space. But at the convincing of many listeners and our team sort of have reluctantly decided that it's worth doing. And I think that sort of feeds into the second point, which is I came into this sort of kicking and screaming, not wanting to do it. But I think Josh Roche on our team did a great job of pointing out Peter, you're not doing this for the extremes, right? You're not doing this for the extremists on each of these camps. Like you're not, you're not doing this for someone who is so hardcore in a dietary camp that they believe that they're diet is the one true diet. And anyone who doesn't eat that way is an awful human being. And like you're not trying to talk that person off that perch. You're doing this for frankly the 87% of people who are confused, who are in the middle, who don't quite know what to do, who have tried this and they're not sure if it makes sense. But they're, you know, so I think that was a very helpful framing for me because it's very easy for me to focus on the fanatics. And the fanatics across all lenses really turn me off. But as long as I just keep in my mind that I'm not talking to those people, I'm here for virtually everybody else, which fortunately is the majority of people who just kind of want some common sense frameworks for how to evaluate these dietary strategies. So with that said, I feel a little bit better about it. That's great. How imagine you'd feel even better if you want that in the house chest tournament. But it's probably all good to have it. I'm not having a rematch and don't think I am not going to put a world of hurt on that little seven year old. In chess. Just a clarify. By the way, he spent the rest of the weekend walking around the house, telling everybody how he smoked my bags. I do this. I mean, you couldn't help it laugh. You have to. Yeah, especially because it sounds like he did. He did like he just put you in his pocket. He's just. Yep, we could talk about that all day. We'll save that for the seven year old round table. We still need to set up. All right. So maybe before we start, we've kind of mentioned quickly. We did a nutrition AMA. Some are recently. We'll link to it. Do you just kind of want to walk through how you think about nutrition and diets a little differently? Yeah. So the nutrition AMA, which was released, God, like I think it was December of last year, it covered the big picture questions. Is there a best diet? How does nutrition compare to exercise for health outcomes? How much protein do you actually need for maintenance versus muscle growth? But it didn't really delve into I think the way most people think about it, which is individual dietary approaches. Now in the past, I've said, look, people should pick a diet that they can stick to and that meets a certain list of non-negotiable physiologic states and needs. But how to exactly go about doing that? We haven't talked about that, frankly. And you know, frankly, what should people watch out for? How do you make a decision to know if it's the right choice for you? Thank you for viewing this sneak peek of an ask me anything episode of the drive. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to the full AMA episode you just watched a sneak peek for. Our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive and much more. Become a premium member today. A Peter at EMD.com forward slash subscribe.

If we just took a population, a middle-aged, healthy individuals, and we could design an experiment where you had the placebo arm, the metformin arm, the rapomycin arm, the SGLT2 inhibitor arm, and the GLP1 agonist arm, what is your prediction in length of life? Or additional years of life given in that six arm study or whatever it is? I think the last three would be comparable metformin arm skeptical of. So, Rappa SGLT2 GLP1? Yeah, I just, I don't, and we don't have data in healthy people that much with SGLT2 and GLP1. I mean, so mechanism of action is what? If the GLP1 group and the SGLT2 group are metabolically healthy, they don't have glucose excursions that are high, they're, you know, they're immune sensitive. What do you believe is the mechanism of action? I guess, you know, I guess I'm going by a different statement, which is most people were calling healthy or not totally metabolically healthy. And so, in those cases, I think there would be a benefit. But then I guess I know, I know, in the perfectly optimized person, whether there'd be a benefit. And I, every time I talk to a doctor, I ask them, are you losing more lean muscle mass with these drugs than you are just by fasting or lifestyle? And if I ask 10 doctors, I get 10 answers. I don't know what the answer to that question is. But I think the reason that at least as a thought experiment, it's an interesting question is, because if the GLP1 Agnes and SGLT2 inhibitors only work, if you have some degree of glucose irregularity, then it begs the question. Well, it says, look, glucose homeostasis is one of the most important features of living. Great. But if you could correct that with diet, sleep, and exercise, which you can, yeah, I agree. You can. It's hard. But it could be done. Yeah. Then those things aren't going after fundamental pillars of aging, because people who eat well, who exercise well and sleep well, still age. Yeah, it's going, it's answering, you know, Matt and I debate this all the time about and we did it, we published the study in mice recently, where we analyzed all the data that's out there in mice. And we tried to determine, you know, where's reality on interventions that extend lifespan in mice? Because if the short live, if the control mice are really short lived, which happens a lot, why is that? It's just really hard to control. I mean, if you look at the ITP data, the control mice are all over the board, and they're very well controlled, best scientists doing the experiment. We see a lot of variation too. I just think there are some cases they're bad by variants, and that make causes of problem. But even in good by variants, I don't know. It's true in every organism in yeast and worms. One cohort of worms will all live a little bit shorter, one cohort of worms will live a little bit longer. It's cohort dependent, but I don't know why. But anyway, if the mice are short lived, if your extension is there, all you can say is it's longevity normalizing. You don't know that it's slowly aging. It's only when the controls are really long lived and you're getting extension that you can really make the argument, it's longevity extending. And so that gets to your question. The real answer, though, is dependent on how many people you believe that are optimized right now, because it's very few of the study. Yeah, no, of course. It is a normalizing work in this population, trust me. At least for helping people healthy. But whether it's really slowing aging, is it open question? I think the best case would be rappa mice in there. Yeah. And then, of course, it begs the question, which could these effects be additive? Right. So would there be a benefit to a person who is on balance quite healthy? But let's say their average glute. Let's say their hemoglobin A1C if it is indeed an accurate representation of their average glucose is 5.4%. So I don't know exactly what that translates to. It probably translates to an average blood glucose of 110 or so milligrams per deciliter. But the data, the data that show based on hemoglobin A1C that lower is always better. So 5.0 is better than 5.4, even though 5.4 is deemed completely healthy. And that's all cause mortality data. So we're saying we take a person who's at 5.4. They're not even prediabetic. They can barely see where prediabetic starts. Let alone diabetic. But we give them an SGLT2 inhibitor. They come from at 5.4. Can I can volunteer for this? There you go. So you go from 5.4 down to 5.1 just on the basis of that drug. Yeah. We throw a GLP1 agonist on top of that value at 4.9. Yep. Then we give you rappa mice and which really doesn't impact your glucose. But we think it's going to do something a little bit different. You would say in that situation, you might believe that there's some actual general protection that's not adding that formula. I don't want to lose muscle mass though. And which of those drugs would you be most afraid of? The GLP1 agonist or Rappa? See, I hope he won't agonist. Okay. I think lean muscle mass is like super important. It's probably better to have high lean muscle mass and be a little bit more fat than it is to be low on both as my best guess. Combining interventions. First of all, I will say two things before I say what I'm going to say. One is that I believe we need to empower people to make decisions on their own health. And so I support hackers. If they want to educate themselves and try different things and they know what the benefits and risk might be and what we know and we don't know more power to them. I feel like part of the reasons we get such low compliance and medications is that we don't empower people. We don't give them choices. They don't know why they're doing things. We just tell them what to do and people don't respond well to that. So, having said that, I can't pick three interventions that work well together. I know in a mouse, and we do these studies all the time. They're more likely to cancel each other out than to have additive effects. And so if you're mixing 20 colors of, are taking 20 pills. It's like mixing 20 colors of paint together. You're going to get some ugly gray outcome. Or at best, you're going to get an unknown outcome that we can't predict. So, I'm really cautious and want to tell people that, there are a lot of people out there promoting doing a million different things at the same time. I try one or two things at the same time. And I try to see how my body responds. I measure things, measure even simple measures are useful. And I think that if you're doing 10 things, you don't have any idea what's working and what's not working and whether things might be impairing each other. I really think that's a scary path to go down. Now, what do you make of the data that I talk about all the time, which look at the hazard ratios for mortality based on high VO2 max and high muscle mass and high strength? And how those three things stand out so far above anything else. Meaning, like when you look at hazard ratios associated with smoking type 2 diabetes, even cancer, they are not as lethal as being incredibly weak, incredibly low in muscle mass and incredibly low in fitness. And how much causality do you think is there versus how much of that is just those are just such good markers of health? I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles, packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

I think the thing that struck me the most, the first time I saw neurosurgery was how the hell do they know what they're doing? Like how many billion cells did we just lock off there? And obviously this speaks to what you're talking about from a functional standpoint. But a lot of times you're not doing that, right? So if a patient has a meningoma or some other tumor, how do you bracket that trade off? So do you just sort of say look, there are places where you never want to have a tumor. For example, right above my left ear, that would be a really difficult place to have to respect because the real estate is so precious and that's where we're going to probably recommend doing an open awake procedure to help guide us. Is that kind of how you're using that? That's exactly right. And so the real estate is critical, that's an understanding. But that being said, there are some really expensive real estate in there and there's also some cheaper real estate. But that's I guess that's my point, Ed. That's sort of like telling me about Manhattan. Yeah. There's no cheap real estate in Manhattan. They're having to be areas that are $10,000 a square foot. But there's probably nothing less than $4,000 a square foot. So there's this popular idea that we only need 10% of our brain. I'm sure you've heard this. I've heard this and I don't know what it means. It sounds like malarkey to me. So that might mean to stay alive. Okay. To respire, you might only need 10% of your brain. So what it really means is that there is maybe about 10 or 15% that is very critical for our basic functions. Our ability to move, to talk, you know, to see, et cetera. It's actually a lot more than that. It's also referring to this point that there are parts of our brain actually that are extremely redundant with other parts of the brain. So the frontal lobes, for example. We do surgeries there routinely and oftentimes people really have no effect. Even in terms of judgment, even in terms of, absolutely. Yeah. Because we always think of the frontal lobe as where we have sort of executive function and where we have the ability. We always joke when my friends in med school, we said, yeah, no frontal lobe. Exactly. He just could stop saying the most inappropriate thing. And don't get me wrong. The frontal lobe actually has a lot of critical function for executive decision-making, you know, impulse control, et cetera. But my point is that it's redundant, meaning that different parts of the frontal lobe actually have similar purposes and similar role. And so for the most part, a lot of our patients can accommodate a fairly large surgery. Sometimes even removing the entire frontal lobe. Both sides? No, not both sides. Really? Use these pathologies or only at one side. And so if you took the entire frontal lobe from the left or right side, would there be a substantial difference? I've done that many times just so you know. And it really depends on the case in scenario. If someone's been having something that's slower growing there and there's been time for the brain to reorganize, what would the call-plasticity? A lot of those functions will essentially no longer be in that right frontal lobe. They've moved to the left side. Wow. And people can tolerate- What is the mechanism for which that happens? Well, time and function, meaning like these things don't happen overnight. They take, you know, sometimes weeks and years. But basically what happens is some neurons get lost over time and then others will compensate in terms of that function. But how does that actually happen? So let's posit that we have a slow growing lesion in the left frontal lobe. What is the left frontal lobe doing to communicate with the right frontal lobe? To say, hey, these neurons are being compromised. Their function is deteriorating. You guys need to pick up the slack. How is that message being transmitted? Well, part of it is that both parts of the frontal lobe for people most people are both doing the function most of the time. It's not like it's just transferring the information. It's the both sides. We're originally involved in those functions. And then once I get weaker and the other one has to pick up that slack. At a cellular level, this is what we call synaptic plasticity. The weight that essentially make up who we are. These are just the weights that neurons use to communicate with one another. All of our learning is towards shaping that weighting of synapses that occur. We're neurons touch each other. And that can happen. That can change throughout our life. Every time we learn a new word, those are new synapses that have formed that were never there, new connections. Precisely from the left to the right side, there is this structure that we call the corpus colosum. It's an information highway that connects the left part of our brain from the right side. There was a Nobel Prize, Roger Sparrow who done a really incredible early experiments, describing patients who had surgeries, where you split that in certain instances. You have this phenomena where people essentially have two functioning brains, but they're not communicating to each other. So it does require that there is this connection between the two areas where they're being reorganized. Outside of epilepsy, why else would the corpus be severed? That's really the main one that we use it for. Can you describe how patients that undergo that procedure behave? It's very fascinating. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

I think one of the advantages of studying the effects of creatine on physical performance is we have really good objective measurements that you can demonstrate in a short period of time. You can do a 12 week study and in just 12 weeks you could objectively unambiguously determine if there was hypertrophy and if there was an increase in performance. Right. How do we do that on the cognitive side? What are the data that you've been looking at that have given you an increasing level of confidence? Okay. Well first let's talk about dose because that's important and I think that that was where initially when researchers were looking into like the effects of creatine on the brain, the five grams a day didn't seem to be doing anything in terms of like getting creatine into the brain instead of the question. So creatine is crossing the blood brain barrier that's established? It is. However, the muscles are greedy as hell. I believe greedy muscles. Yeah, the greedy muscles and so when you're taking in up to about five grams of creatine, they're consuming it. They're taking their share. Especially if you're training. If you're training it's like yeah exactly. But even if you're not training it's still going to muscle but yes especially if you're training. Does that mean that you're going to get mixed results if you look at the cognition literature because you're going to have some studies that were underdosed and if you have a study that was done at five and it shows no effect, you're going to come to the wrong conclusion potentially. Be in go. Just like with any supplement and or drug right dose does matters. So yes that is that is the case but also it's important to point out just like with muscle. You have to be stressing your muscle for creatine to work. You're basically putting in the work and you're able to put in more work. Right and that's why you can increase muscle mass and you can increase strength. With the brain it works in the background of stress and what I mean by stress is sleep deprivation. Psychological stress like you have an exam, marital I mean whatever psychological stress emotional stress, sleep deprivation is a big one, neurodegenerative disease or anything that's compromising brain function right. That's where creatine really shines in terms of cognitive function and we're going to measure. But I think that's important to point out and you might this is my argument. I feel like I'm constantly under stress. I think most people are constantly under stress. First of all anybody listening if you're not under stress I'd like to hear from you. I want to know what you're doing. Same. Same. But yeah so I mean like even just like diving into the scientific literature like what we do every day learning that is the stress right that's very the brain consumes a lot of energy as well right it's 20% of our total power intake goes to an organ that weighs less than 2% of your body weight. It is the most insane statistic of the human body. Totally which is why it makes sense that giving your brain extra creatine which can recycle that energy quicker would help particularly in the background of when you're using more of that energy right like if energy is being triaged to whatever stress in the hormones and whatever whatever is going on fill in the blank. And so the studies that typically are looking at the effects of creatine on cognitive function are looking at like processing speed. They're looking at a battery of tests that are you know typical of any you know fill in the blank supplement or treatment that is either going to improve cognitive function memory being another one right processing speeds a big one too. I would say that that creatine's been shown to improve but again really it's in the background of stress whether that's stress being aging so older adults so aging is kind of a stress right brain aging so older adults seem to benefit from taking exogenous creatine or supplemental creatine. Dom digocene is named written all over right. That's a really good point totally. We got to talk about him and do any of those. I'm so there was like a pilot study that came out and I don't these are researchers that I don't know necessarily and some of them are pretty junior but there there was one that came out with people with Alzheimer's disease and they were given 20 grams of creatine and it improved cognitive functions in these patients with Alzheimer's disease I think there was also a placebo control as well and then they took those same patients and then had them exercise and improved strength and improved you know lean body mass. See I'm just going to be skeptical that that I still think that the name of the game is prevention right like where I'm most interested and of course that's the hardest thing to study but you know when we think about the energy crisis that is happening in a brain with Alzheimer's disease and while there I think you and I would agree there are probably many paths towards AD right there are inflammatory paths there are lipid mediated and vascular paths and then there are there are sort of these more metabolic paths but when you take that individual who is most susceptible to the metabolic path towards dementia and 10 years earlier or 20 years earlier you're giving them a substrate that is augmenting ATP creation. Yeah I get it that's the hardest thing to study that's also the single most important question in my mind. Totally I mean prevention is the name of the game for sure 100% unfortunately there's a lot of people's parents out there that have it right now because they miss the boat on prevention right but and so and those people are you know obviously like their kids are willing to do anything to help them it's terrible right but I mean I think the reality here and the point I want to make is I think that creatine for the brain is the most interesting aspect of this area of research right now that at least for me I certainly think that there's really no downside to doing 10 grams a day now in some cases sleep deprivation like I just got back from China about five days ago I've been like doing 20 grams a day 15 to 20 and are you having any I was I remember as a kid I never had the GI side effects with even 30 a day but is is for some people is is 10 to 20 in one in one dose it would probably affect a lot of people's GI I do five gram doses and you'll just put the five grams into water and just put the five grams into water or like tea and then I just take it like that and you know I do it mostly before noon so I like to take it and then we're because for you know like I said I don't know if this is placebo but I don't get sleepy in the afternoon anymore if I miss if I if I only get five grams I get this like Venus and again it could be complete like bias and who cares if it's not like if the placebo's work or you take it exactly because it's because it's physiologic right I mean it's it's a biological mechanism that's working for me and if you listen to this episode and it works for you that's great because there's really no downside in fact I think we're going to get more and more evidence out there that it's going to be beneficial and 10 grams is going to be the new the new bass line yeah it's going to be the new bass line if we have a little bit more time I want to talk something about a topic that is near and dear to both of our hearts which is temperature

A very subtle point you may that might not be picked up on everybody is you mentioned the glute 1 transporter as opposed to the glute 4 transporter and if my memory serves correctly the brain has glute 1s as opposed to glute 4s and glute 1s are insulin independent is that correct? Yeah, for the most part. I mean, they're they're insulin independent. I mean, that's that's my understanding and why that's interesting is because it seems a bit counterintuitive that a condition that leads to insulin resistance of course type 2 diabetes is the essence of insulin resistance. It seems counterintuitive that that would produce a hypometabolic state in an organ whose gluteose transporters are insulin dependent except when you explain it the way you did which is it's not the insulin resistance of the glute 1 transporter That's the problem the way it is for the glute 4 transporter in the muscle instead It's the actual mechanical disruption if I'm understanding you correctly of that transporter because of the way it's no longer presumably held in place by the barrier itself that allows gluteose to get across is that did I that I understand that correctly? 100% correctly and then this is you know This isn't like dogma like this is like this is definitely known It's definitely where I'm heading it's my opinion, but there is evidence of it and I think I think it's time to explore this evidence a little closer a little deeper because Yeah, type 2 diabetes and it you know you hear that the term type 3 diabetes and I think people think about it in the way of the brain being insulin Resistant and you know maybe there's something to that, but I you know I don't know if that's exactly what's going on. I think the type 2 diabetes is disrupting the blood brain barrier through a variety of mechanisms including you know the advanced location end products and the vascular I mean the vascular church or disruption in type 2 diabetes is well known. I mean they've all sorts of You know problems right Retinopathy that you know the neuropathy like all this. I mean they are they They are disrupting their vascular church Including these tiny tiny little blood vessels that are like smaller in size than are like the diameter of a hair Those things are like Disrupted at the blood brain barrier and when you disrupt them you're their blood flows decrease and the transporters are going down You I mean there's ulcerate to problems and so I think You know fixing the diabetes obviously would be like You know downstream thing to do but like it's kind of a new mechanism right it's kind of a new wave understanding it and You know so It explains the observation so there's an observation that is unmistakable which is type 2 diabetes I don't know the number but I think it approximately doubles your risk of Alzheimer's disease So in other words even if you're sitting there walking around with two copies of the apoe 3 allele Having type 2 diabetes means you might as well have a copy of an e4 allele from a risk perspective and what this is saying is Well It's not entirely clear at the surface why Type 2 diabetes would impact the brain through the lens of Traditional thinking of glute for transporters which are insulin dependent in other words It isn't just an insulin resistance problem but I think these two other things matter right this What you said about the micro vascular Again, what what I think a lot of people don't realize is how destructive type 2 diabetes is to the kidneys Right because those tiny tiny blood vessels right people are familiar with amputations and things that occur in digits Because of that impotence right all of these things where blood vessel is essential in small blood vessels and so there's that Which feeds into the vascular path that you've discussed? But it's this also this disruption of glute core glucose transport directly across that transporter So I think it's actually a very compelling thesis for how type 2 diabetes could be acting via those two prongs To to ultimately result in hypomotabolism I do too yeah and and then of course the cascade of inflammation that happens after that so You know The other thing that's also very interesting is and again this so we're talking about type 2 diabetes and very big Implications there for the prevention of Alzheimer's disease right? I mean There's a lot you can do as you've talked about you know to prevent and even you know treat in it with diet at my stuff right type 2 diabetes

My brother, it's his superpower, is making stillness time. Interesting. He's very disciplined about this. He is very disciplined about time to think. Tell me how he does that. Like tell me a little bit more. Like, what if I was watching him, what would it look like? Well, you would actually think at the surface, it's quite selfish. Right? He'll say, for the next two hours, I don't, you know, he'll tell his wife and his kids like I need to be left completely alone. Yeah. And I need to go for a walk with no phone, with no anything. And I'm going to, I'm going to, I'm going to walk in the fields, you know, he lives on a farm. And he's like, and I'm going to just be with my thoughts and with nothing else. And then I can come back and do my best work. Yeah. But he forces that in. And I think I, I am convinced that all of us could do better work if we did that. And yet I struggle to do it. There's a bit of a trap that I fall into, which is, yeah, but think about how much more I can get done in those two hours. Yeah. I don't have the two hours to be still. Right. So, um, Cal Newport has done a lot of work on this. Yep. And one of the things, one of the things that we make and this is just a cognitive heuristically we fall into is that we look at some types of activities as being unproductive, because they don't have yield immediate dividends. Right. This actually is part of the whole habit system. Absolutely. Yeah. It absolutely is. It's about building those habits to recognize deep productivity, deep work, right? Yep. And so one of the things that I'm sure it happens to me, I'm sure it happens to you is that I say, if I could take a walk in the woods for two hours, like, what do I have to show for it? Right. There's like, where as if I sit down and I pound through these emails for two hours, suddenly I like my inbox is half the size it used to be. That's right. It feels like a accomplishment. Now, of course, all that does is create more emails for me. And it turns out half of those I could have ignored. But so what I need to do is I need to train my brain. And my brain oftentimes doesn't believe me. Right. I know intellectually taking that walk in the woods, look is going to yield dividends that I'm going to be able to do better work. But my brain, there's a part of my brain that looks at my stated preferences, what I believe and want to be true, and another part of my brain that looks at revealed preferences. How do I actually behave? And that revealed part of my brain is saying, you never take walks. Like you always sit down and do your email. You must think that doing email is more valuable than taking a walk. So I have to convince myself, convince that revealed preferences part of my brain. Now the walk is really good. Like if I take this walk, I'm going to get more work done. I'm going to be able to get through those emails faster, because I'm going to hit delete on more of them. This actually is a productivity enhancer. We don't, we have to hack our own brains sometimes. We have to remind ourselves of a reward. Oftentimes, the salience of a reward increases simply because we tell ourselves it is a reward. And we have to take advantage of that to try and sometimes play with our own brain, because we'll act in our, sometimes in, in not our best interests. And so what do you think is the relationship then between productivity and habit, how implicit and how explicit is it? So I think it's huge. I think it's huge, but let me be very clear how I mean that, because oftentimes the things that we do out of habit are not the productive things, but our habits can set us up to be productive. As I mentioned before, the, the most important element of productivity is deep thought. Right? Because making the right choice, making the right decision, spending my time on the right task right now, yields many more dividends than simply getting something done. It's a difference between productivity and business. So the question is, how do I set myself up to make better choices? Well, the way that I do that is I build habits that give me not only the time and space to make a choice, but the prompt to make a choice. Because there's a lot of times that I'm going to avoid making a choice if I can. My brain doesn't like making choices. It's energy, it costs energy, it feels like it's depleting me. So my brain is going to say, oh, you walked in the cafeteria, like, don't get the salad, just get the sandwich you get every single time. You know it's going to, you're going to like it. Right? So how do I build a habit that allows me the space to make that choice? And the prompt to make that choice. That's why habits are so important is not because they make us productive. It's because they allow us to be productive. Same more about the decision fatigue. Because I think that's something that many people listening to us right now can relate to. I have become much more aware of it in myself recently. And I don't think it's age-related. I think it's just complexity-related. So the more things you're juggling, the more I find myself unable to make simple decisions. And it's like, I can't tell you how internally frustrated I get sometimes when I'm asked to make decisions. So there's two things happening there and you're exactly right that decision fatigue is real. Right? We've seen it in done actually at this point hundreds of studies that the more decisions you have to make in a day, the more fatigue you get, but there's some elements of play into this. The first is structuring decision design. So President Obama, in one interview he said the most important habit that he developed when he was president, is he bought 12 of the same suits and shirts. So every morning when he woke up, he knew exactly what's going to put on. It's the same, there's no other options in his closet. He just has to grab one of them. Yeah. And he said the reason why is because the day was so exhausting with decisions and each of the decisions he made was so important that he had to preserve his ability to make decisions. So in a void that fatigue, so the first thing is how do we design our decisions so that we're only having to make the important ones and we're making the less important ones automatic. Things that we don't have to make a choice. Right? The second thing that happens there is that decisions are harder to make in a hot state than they are in a cold state. So if you're hungry and you go into the cafeteria, it's going to be a lot harder for you to choose that really healthy salad over that really tasty sandwich. Because you're in a hot state. Now in a cold state, that morning when you just had breakfast, if you say my implementation intention is I'm going to eat a salad today, when I walk in, that's I'm in a no-one salad, I'm going to get it's a lot easier to make that decision. So here's what I think is happening when your wife says that to you. Two things. Number one, you don't have a mental heuristic in place to say, I'm going to I'm going to curate the decisions I have to make. Because if you had that and you probably do now, but like the first time it comes up, you don't have the heuristic. And the heuristic is when my wife asked me where to go to dinner, I'm just going to choose one of them. I'm not even going to like think about which one is the best one. I'm just going to choose one. Right? So I'm going to create a design structure for myself that allows me to focus on the most important decisions and ignore the smaller ones. Secondly, I'm going to ask her not to ask me to make that decision at the end of the day when I'm exhausted and I've been making choices all day long. I'm going to say look, I'm going to hot state right now. I can't think about where to go to dinner. I'm thinking about other stuff. But if you ask me two hours from now, after I've had a beer and I've started watching TV, I think I'll be ready to answer that question. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity-focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today. A Peter Atia MD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

What's on the horizon medically for extending fertility? Yeah, so there's a lot of interest in extending fertility, right? Like up until 100 years ago, women were basically dying at 50s. Yeah, average age of menopause. So it's a kind of a recent phenomenon that we're actually living a third of our lives, you know, postmenopause. But infertility starts to decline way before you go through menopause. So there's a lot of interest in trying to extend fertility. Now, of course, egg freezing, which we haven't talked about yet, is one of the ways you can extend fertility. And it works pretty well as long as you're young when you freeze your eggs. But again, it's a relatively recent phenomenon, not usually covered by insurance. And it's expensive, et cetera. So it's not the answer. Because you're paying basically half the IVF cycle to harvest, and then you're paying to freeze. Yeah, exactly. What's the cost of freezing? About a thousand dollars is equal. Well, $10,000 for the cycle. And then about a thousand dollars a year for storage. And you're recommending that women, if a woman came to you at 20, and said, you know, I'm going to, I just want to double down on my career right now. I want to do x, y, and z. I think I want to have kids, at least want the optionality. When should I freeze by? Are you going to just say, do it now? Because no. Yeah. Yeah. I wouldn't recommend all women in their 20s freeze their eggs, because most of those eggs will never be used. So you'd be doing it for nothing, because most of those women probably not need IVF and get pregnant spontaneously, right? Got it. This weak spot we think is like early to mid 30s. That's where it makes the most sense. Because you're about to kind of get to the problem that you've been clueless, where it starts to really decline. Okay. And if it doesn't, if you think you might want to have kids, but you're not in a place in your life where you think that's going to happen in the next few years, then doing it early to mid 30s. It's probably the time where it's most cost effective. Very high likelihood that you will use them if you have for the first kid, maybe for the second kid. And you know, it might be worth spending $10,000 and $1,000. $1,000 for you. Right. And do you freeze them? You freeze every egg you retrieve? Only then I'm a short one. Okay. Yeah. And what's the for a typical 30 year old? Um, you're going to get what we talked about earlier. Probably 10 to 15 per second. Sometimes more, but that's not how many do you recommend a 30 year old do? Yeah. So there's some calculators online. So the younger you are, the fewer as you need, because more of them are going to be normal. So someone 30, you know, I think 10 to 20 would give you decent chances success, no guarantees or it's never any guarantees. But even, you know, studies show that even if people use those eggs and they're not successful, the fact that they did something proactively, there's some psychological benefit in doing that. So even if, you know, ultimately doesn't work out or you don't end up using them. But at that age, maybe 10 to 20, obviously if you're, you know, as you get closer to 40, you might need 20 to 40 or 50, which is not practical for most people, right? Because you can't do that many cycles and it's expensive and there's risks and bulbs. So I think egg freezing is a great option for women. I also think as a society, which should try to make it easier, obviously, for women to have kids during their peak reproductive years or 20s and 30s. So the whole different question, but I think having options is a good thing. Coming with the freezing process is like. So the freezing process, these days is one called vitrification is called in, and it's like this special kind of freezing that doesn't result in ice crystals. So how do you do that? There's a process that happens in the lab, there's a machine that lowers the temperature and so the rate at which they lower the temperature. Right, it's rapid. Okay, so it's like a nitrogen-dryte-basic. Right, right, as opposed to all days when we did slow freezing. So it becomes like a glass-like state with the crystals, but it works really well and the survival is really high. And then you store them at what temp, like liquid nitrogen temp? Yep, so it's not like in your freezer. No, and then how long's it take typically to get the genetic results back? Typically within a week or two. Okay. And what depth of genetic testing is being done here? Are you doing whole genome sequence or are you just looking at a handful of SNPs that are pre-identified as the ones that matter? Yeah, good question. So it's evolved over time, and I should say it's still very controversial because there's always a risk of harming the embryos. You're only looking at a few cells. So is it really representative of the embryo? I mean, we do it a lot, and the data definitely shows that if you transfer a normal embryo, it has a very high chance of implanting, but the issue is recently has been, are we discarding embryos that are maybe normal because we think they're abnormal based on the genetic testing, but the genetic testing is flat. So hopefully the genetic testing is really easy to identify and your ploy-d. It's a chromosomal analysis. It's geared up to do that, right? Okay. So most of the time we're using something called next generation sequencing, which is, you know, very high level sequencing, but it's not whole genomes sequencing. So you're getting targeted. Yeah. And you're looking mostly at chromosomal abnormalities, unless you know that the couples that carry for some genetic mutation that you also want to screen for. Yes. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

You're not going to come to my clinic and be seen by an anxiety specialist, no matter what their degree, credential years of service are, and not get some version of exposure therapy. In all exposure therapy is an intervention that helps someone approximate their fear facing it head on in a safe, ethical, compassionate way without putting them in any ethical, legal, or medical risk. Some people might think it puts them at risk, and some people might think they can't handle it. But exposure therapy, which goes back to the 60s, is the leading intervention for things like PTSD, phobias, social anxiety, OCD, and helping anxiety. But to get someone to get there means you have to get them across this process of readiness for change. This model of pre-contemplation to contemplation, to ready to take action. And for a wife is like, I do a good idea that you use cognitive behavioral therapy to bridge the gap until they're ready for exposure therapy. Sometimes, sometimes if someone's so pre-contemplation or so wedded in their rituals, and we see people who are literally scrubbing walls with lice on bleach, where the walls are down to the studs. That's more for things that contamination based OCD. People are doing behaviors that require almost hospital level care. Some of them are not ready for exposure based therapy. In that case, I'd probably recommend someone if they're not a medication, probably can be seriously considered medication. But exposure therapy is the first line treatment for almost everything to do with OCD and health anxiety. Once you get them ready for the exposure. You can say that once you get them ready, but I'm never walking into a client with those of your health things I'm not thinking, I'm not going to do exposure therapy. They're going to be getting it somewhere. So if I came to you and said, I'm an exposure therapist. Okay, so I don't know if this is a realistic enough example, so I'm going to, so if it's not just a Peter, that's not how these people present. So let's say I said, Josh, I travel a lot for work, but I got to tell you with all this news around air traffic controllers going, losing sight of airplanes, I don't know if I can fly anymore. This is now actually posed a real risk to my career. My career depends on me being able to get on a plane every week to go and meet my clients or whatever it is I do. This is a real world scenario, by the way, there are people that are having increases in aerophobia or fear of flying way more than we had in the last few years. Sure, because of stuff that's going on. This is real stuff. So yeah, so the environmental trigger is, yep, there has been a rash of airplane crashes coupled with objective data that say air traffic controllers are overworked and the system is failing. Yes. And something bad is going to happen. And unfortunately, my job necessitates that I'm on the road, you know, all the time. And I can't take buses. It's too far. I can't take trains. Basically, I'm going to lose my job if I'm not willing to get on a plane every Monday and come back every Thursday. And I can't seem, I just don't know how to do it. And I've got two, I got two weeks of PTO. I'm going to do a little bit of medical leave, but I'm running out of options. What is the exposure therapy for that specifically? So let's step back exposure therapy again is one of usually four techniques. One of them is called in vivo exposure. And that is Latin for in life. I mean, you're actually doing real things with real objects. If I had a fear of podcasting on public speaking, coming in here would be a great in vivo exposure. There's something called a marginal exposure. A marginal exposure is actually writing a narrative down or a story, which sometimes we do it with trauma. Sometimes we do it with a marginal situations that have never happened. So there's two different kinds of a marginal exposure. But you're essentially coming up with a story that you're going to write down and record and listen to. So this is just the first part of exposure therapy, as I'm describing. There's a second part that's even more important to me. The third kind of exposure is in torroceptive exposure. And that's commonly used for people who have health anxiety, physical symptoms or panic disorder. And in this case, we're actually inducing real, low grade physical symptoms like ibleriness, rapid breathing, sweating, tummy aches, armsourness. If I unice here and do a two minute plank, my arms are going to be wobbly. So I'm inducing things that people experience in the real world that I merely make them freak out. I think they're having a panic attack. But I think you're saying if somebody is worried about ibleriness, you're going to put eyedrops in their eye. I'm not going to put eyedrops in eyes. We're probably going to look at an iPad that has these sort of cool visuals that's going to make their eyes. There's all these optical illusions. What about the tummy aches? How do you induce that? You have someone spin in a chair? You have someone. You have someone sort of do some cardiovascular exercise in the office. Like sitting up and down, sitting up and down very quickly. You have someone spin on a baseball bat, creating nauseous, nauseous, nauseous, nauseousness and queeziness is not hard to induce. We're not having someone eat something or ingest something because that's going, I think, one step further than you need to. But you can create any sort of physical symptom from legsourness to a headache, kind of symptom to a tummy ache, to tight shoulders, to cotton mouth. People who have a fear of swallowing, who are like drying out fear, like something getting clogged in their throat, you can recreate almost any physical, not medical, physical symptom, safely. If you're now going to treadmill and work out, we're going to create 95% of the symptoms that people experience and they have a panic attack. If you go to a really high level of treadmill or an elliptical, I'm going to create all those symptoms. But I'm not going to bring exercise equipment to my office. So I am helping people bring real world physical symptoms to light and the my safe laboratory in a safe place. I'm going to get to the second part of the point of exposure and second, just so they can experience a thing that they're terrified to experience, but they already experienced it out there. Nothing we do in exposure therapy, have they not already experienced? The fourth kind is just called media augmented or virtual rad exposure therapy. And as people who are using either 3D goggles, virtual radicogals, videos, audio clips to use sort of AV audio visual tools, they're kind of mimicking the envivo and imaginal and interoceptive experience. And that can be something as elaborate as real world simulators, virtual radicogals, or even like watching a flight land on YouTube 20 times a row to see what happens when the flight comes down. All those things, we treat people who have audio and tactile things like misophonia, which is a high sensitivity to sounds or people who are afraid of hearing something. So anything that brings that tool into the place, using audio video. That's part one of exposure therapy, which is you and a patient have come up with an elaborate hierarchy ladder, a list of easy, medium and hard scenarios in their mind, that they think that they could some point do. Most people think they can never do the hard ones and they almost always do successfully. And you're coming up with this hierarchy based on what you asked about that first meeting, that first session, that second session. I'm collecting a lot of raw data to figure out what are the things in their life that are triggering them, that I can recreate to help them face their fears, head on, and come up with new learning. And so Peter, back in the 60s and 70s, we thought that habituation, we're just getting used to it, was the creme de la creme of exposure therapy. We found out that that wasn't really solving it. And then we started shifting more towards cognitive models. Not just habituation and being in a distressed moment, but actually now coming up with new meaning about it, which is called inhibitory learning, that was really started a seminal article in 1986 by Michael Cozac, and Edna Foa, and the foe is one of the pioneers of exposure therapy, both in PTSD and OCD, and has done amazing work out of UPN. Her, Marty Franklin, a bunch of people of the UPN, sort of, over the pioneers of exposure therapy. In 86, they pine your nardicle that taught us that habituation or just getting used to symptoms. It helps, but it's not really getting people moving further. And so when you start having these corrective experiences, when you start unlearning what you thought was going to happen, which anxiety is all about anticipating something and being colossally wrong, thank God. We need to get people to experience being wrong in a situation that mimics what they actually experience. So exposure therapy is shifted from just to behavioral, physiological model to a cognitive model. And that cognitive model is helping people process that information after the exposure. So you just did some weird stuff for 20 to 45 minutes, whether you're hopping and puffing, practicing giving a speech to a screen, putting yucky things in your hands if you have OCD, a germ OCD. If you're afraid of bugs and spiders, maybe going to a local pet shop and looking at spiders behind a glass tank, or putting spiders that are in like resin, fakes, spiders that are dead, like on your arms, all sorts of things that start, whatever it is that you can create that sense of fight-flight or freeze. That sense of fear, that sense of dread. So your amygdala starts producing the chemicals that you experience in your own life. And my private safe place, sometimes we've gotten the community, we've got a restaurant and shops, new odd weird things. And so we're doing that to have people experience that stuff, but also not engaging rituals and compulsions. So exposure therapy is a combination of doing things that bring on a sense of safe, predictable, but uncomfortable, emotional, physical feelings, while also not doing the mental and behavioral things that bring it back down. And if you can stay in that state for 30 to 45 minutes, and do that multiple times a week, Peter, you start learning real distressed tolerance, real resiliency skills. You start disproving that the thing that I thought I had to do either to avoid it altogether, or to undo this sense of dread or feeling, if I don't undo that, and I sit with it, maybe just maybe when it happens in the real world, I don't have to pop a pill, I don't have to run home, I don't have to wash my hands, I don't have to wear the mask. And so we're combining inducing a sense of arousal, psychological arousal, cognitive interpretations that are usually faulty, not doing things to bring it down and stay with that, doing a few different interactive things through 30 to 45 minute experiences, and then afterwards, processing those lessons learned. I'm Peter Atia. With this podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes, and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights, and get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

First question, how does someone assess their cardiovascular health? Family history, very important. Another thing that I think it's so overlooked, but it's so important is blood pressure. Anytime we've done anything around alcohol, it seems very polarizing, let's say. Under no dose helpful, under low doses probably not terribly bad, but under escalating doses, it's actually quite negative. Benefits and potential downsides of a low carb or ketogenic diet. It is nothing magical about not eating carbohydrates that's going to be good for you. It all still ultimately comes down to total caloric ingestion. What do you think are the key principles for a quote unquote well balanced, healthy diet? If you ask 10 diet gurus, I think it's safe to say you're going to get 10 different answers. How can they track their fitness level beyond just weight? When it comes to actual fitness, we're not going to get that off the scale. Hey everyone, welcome to the Drive podcast. I'm your host Peter Atia. Peter, welcome to another AMA. How you doing? Good. Thanks for having me. Always welcome on your own show. So today, what we're going to do is we actually have gathered all the questions over the past three or so years that people have submitted on the AMA portal. For people who don't know, we have an AMA portal on our website where you can submit a question. So if anyone hasn't done it, we'll link to it in the show notes. In that way, there's questions you have that you want to follow up on, whether it's something related to something happening to you, questions on podcasts, newsletters, whatever it may be, you can add them there. And so that's kind of what today's AMA is going to be. Then we'll hit different diseases. We'll hit nutrition. We'll hit exercise. We'll kind of hit a little bit of everything because as people can imagine, questions came through, included a little bit of everything. So I think we'll just jump into it. But with that being said, anything you want to add before we start with the first question. Well, I think the only thing I would add is, you know, we talked about maybe if this format, which is kind of more questions, less depth, more of, you know, how I would sort of answer questions if I were, you know, at a party and people were asking me, if people want more of this, but on a personal level, we've talked about, you know, accommodating that. So maybe we just do, you know, a quarterly episode where I take very specific questions from individuals. If they want to be acknowledged, do so. And, you know, do that. So anyway, I think there's just a lot we can play within this format. So let's just see if folks find this helpful. Yeah, perfect. First question, how does someone assess their cardiovascular health? It's obviously a topic that we've covered in such a variety upon cast. Very important. You often talked about number one cause of death, not only in the US, but in the world. And so kind of in general terms of someone sitting there thinking, okay, I'm curious about where I'm at cardiovascular and as relates cardiovascular disease. How would you talk to them about how they can assess where they're at? So fortunately, if somebody wants to assess their risk of cardiovascular disease, it's we have a lot of tools to do it. Right? We always start with the obvious, which is often neglected, but we should really know our family history. It's not enough to just know, you know, my grandparents lived till such and such an age or my aunt and uncles lived to such and such an age. Whenever possible, you really want to understand how grandparents parents and uncles lived and sometimes it's easier to ask questions like, hey, did they take medication or do they take medication for cholesterol, for blood pressure and understanding those things? Again, some of the patterns that tend to show up here when you see people perishing really young from cardiovascular disease or when you see them requiring procedures, such as revascularization, stance, cabbage, things of that especially at a young age, you have to be thinking about heritable causes of ASCVD. And again, the two most common are going to be LP little A and some form of familial hyperclastrilimey. And now the latter is a lot easier to spot because these people have sky-high cholesterol levels. The former is much more difficult because virtually nobody is getting their LP little A tested. And so that's sometimes the individual who themselves is kind of interested in assessing the run risk is the first to figure it out and then it kind of explains what has happened over generations. So, family history very important. Then you can sort of think about understanding, hey, has there been any damage done to date? And here's where a calcium scan or a cac can be a very helpful test. Now it's full proof test. It has its limitations. But if you think about the process by which damage occurs inside an artery, one of the final stages of that is the calcification of the artery, which actually is a protective mechanism. So the calcification of the artery per se isn't necessarily the thing that's going to kill a person. But it's indicative of very advanced disease. And if you see calcification in one part of an artery, it's quite likely that you have less remodeled plaque elsewhere in the in the coronary artery system. And in fact, those could be the ones there at higher risk. So again, a calcium score in an ideal world is zero, but it's always important to remember that there's about a 15 percent false negative, meaning somebody ends up with a negative CTA, pardon me, CIC, calcium score is zero. But in fact, if you were to put them into a CT angiogram, which uses finer cuts of a CT and uses contrast after it does the initial calcium score, you'll see in 15 percent of those cases that there is indeed some calcification and or some soft plaque. So again, that's one more piece of information. And again, if you want to go to a level above the CIC, then the CTA is valuable. But now you're experiencing more radiation and you also run the risk of requiring intravenous dye or contrast, which again, it's not a major risk, but it's non-zero. The other things I really think a person can do to assess the risk of cardiovascular disease is obviously look at the lipid profile. So the two things we care most about here are apob and LP little A in the reason for that of course is apob is the aggregate marker of all of the atherogenic proteins because LP little A is so disproportionately atherogenic. You have to look at it separately because even an elevated LP little A won't show up elevating an apob. The good news is that you don't have to concern yourselves with LDL cholesterol, non-HL cholesterol, HL cholesterol. None of those things actually matter once you know the apob and the LP little A. In fact, the triglyceride level itself doesn't matter unless it's dramatically elevated sort of north of about 400 milligrams per desoliter, which point you would actually need to manage that as well. Another thing that I think gets so overlooked but is so important is blood pressure and it's just too easy to sort of go to the doctor once every two years, get your blood pressure checked, have it come back slightly elevated, have it be attributed to white coat hypertension, and then just sort of walk away from it. But the truth of the matter is we know pretty unambiguously at this point that having a blood pressure below 120 over 80 is absolutely the lowest risk and is the best way to reduce one's risk and to be clear that means that a blood pressure 130 over 85, which historically would have been considered normal is anything but normal. Now, the challenge with measuring blood pressure in the doctor's office is it's almost rarely done correctly. Correctly there for five minutes doing nothing resting before the blood pressure is checked. It also means having a cuff that fits correctly, having the arm at the level of the right A-trim, so about mid-chest here, not having your legs crossed when it's checked. And I always like to check it and do click it or triple it. And if a person can do that twice a day for a couple of weeks, once a year, again, not a huge inconvenience in my view, then they can have a real assessment of their blood pressure. The other thing, of course, that's worth stating just for completeness, though I think everybody understands it is smoking. If you're a smoker, you're at enormous increased risk of CVD. And, of course, the same is true if you're metabolically unhealthy. This can be anything from hyper in slenemia, all the way to insulin resistance and type two diabetes. So those are really the big ones. There's a couple of things I didn't include there. I don't really look at CIMTs. I don't find them to be helpful enough. And I think the data would agree with that. So I think that's probably 80% of risk assessment for cardiovascular disease is captured in what I just said. Yeah, and if anyone wants to go deeper on any of that, as we said, we have tons of different materials, podcast newsletters. We'll link them in the show notes for people who want to dive deeper on any specific piece of that. But next question, mechanism that gets asked a lot is, how can I use fasting or intermittent fasting to improve my overall metabolic health? And I think a lot of times people use those two terms, fasting, intermittent fasting interchangeably. And I know to you, you kind of think of them a little separately. So it might be helpful to start with how you define those two terms before then getting into how each of them can impact metabolic health. Yeah, I think the terms fasting and intermittent fasting get used interchangeably. I'm not going to represent that I'm the authority on any of this stuff. So I'm just going to tell you that whatever you are talking about, just make sure the semantics are clear so that you can normalize to what other people are saying. I typically don't use the term intermittent fasting. I use the term fasting and I use the term time restricted feeding or time restricted eating to describe what I think most people think of when they say intermittent fasting. But as a general rule, intermittent fasting or time restricted feeding or time restricted eating refers to periods of not eating during the course of a day. So when you hear people say, I do 16, 8 or 18, 6 intermittent fasting. Of course, what they mean is I'll go 16 hours a day without eating eight hours a day of eating or 18 hours without and six hours with fasting is a term I kind of reserve for prolonged fast. Anything that's more than a day. And this will easily be two, three days up to really really long fast, like 7, 10, or even 14 days. Then again, the term fasting implies that it's water only, right? It's none, coloric. So whatever liquids you're getting during that period of time, don't contain any calories. So now let's answer the question, how can you use fasting or time restricted feeding or intermittent fasting to improve metabolic health? Well, I think the data here are not particularly clear. So I'll start with the least clear of them all, which is the use of daily restrictions or intermittent fasting time restricted feeding. The data here suggests that this type of feeding pattern is no better than straight caloric restriction. In other words, when you normalize a person for the number of calories they consume during a day, whether they consume those calories across the course of the day or whether they consume those calories in kind of a small feeding window doesn't appear to have a material difference. What does matter if a person is interested in improving their metabolic health is that they restrict calories. And if you recall, I kind of talk about this always through the lens of three tools that we have to reduce calories. The first is the direct way that you go about doing it. You literally just go about counting and reducing the number of calories you consume. Again, this is the most precise way to do it. This is why body builders do it. Body builders, you're not going to find a person on this planet that is more attuned to exactly what they put in their body and how that fuel gets partitioned. And so again, if you want an exact science, you go about counting every calorie and macro that goes in and you try to create that offset in that way. Again, for many people, this brings a lot of overhead with it. This brings a huge cognitive tax. And so we have two other techniques that can work quite well indirectly. So the first is what we've just been talking about intermittent fasting or time-restriken feeding, where you just say, look, I don't really want to pay attention to what I eat or even how much I eat. But if I just make the feeding window narrow enough, that has got to reduce the calories. And indeed, it can. Not always. There's always a story of that person who in four hours a day of eating still manages to eat, you know, 3,000 calories. But for the most part, as you restrict your feeding window, you're going to also reduce total calories. And then the third way to go about doing this is called something called dietary restriction, which says, hey, I'm not going to concern myself with necessarily how much I eat. I'm not going to concern myself with when I eat. But I'm going to put in some pretty significant restrictions around what I eat. And again, the more restrictive you are, the more you're going to end up reducing calories. So I think the most important point to remember here is it's the calorie restriction that provides the greatest benefit. How you go about achieving it is really a function of, you know, your style. And I actually recommend people try all of these techniques. And, you know, we've covered them in so much detail elsewhere and the ins and outs of what the pros and cons of each are because there are many pros and cons of each. I think I dedicate a pretty significant section of one of the chapters in outlive to covering this. Next question on the list relates to alcohol. And it seems like any time we've done anything around alcohol, it seems very polarizing, let's say, there's a lot of opinions, strong opinions on each side. And so I think the general question is, how does alcohol affect someone's health or longevity and how do you think about it? I mean, there's no denying that alcohol affects our health. Alcohol is a nutrient like any other, but it comes with some particular issues that are a little bit unique to alcohol in a way that we wouldn't say or unique to carbohydrates, fats and proteins. And that basically is the following. Alcohol in addition to being a dense source of energy. You know, carbohydrates and proteins come with four kilocalories approximately per gram and fats are at about nine kilocalories per gram. Well, alcohol is actually much closer to fats. It's at about seven kilocalories per gram. But when we're really talking about the impact of alcohol on health, we're not even really talking about it from its caloric standpoint. Although I can tell you having done more food logs with more patients than I can count, it is always amazing to see a patient's face when they recognize the 25% of their total calories come from alcohol if they're a moderate to heavy drinker. So you don't want to be dismissive of the calories, but I think for this question, Nick, I'm going to just put aside the caloric load of alcohol. So what we're really talking about is the toxicity that comes from the molecule itself, nominally through its metabolism and in the liver and sort of its metabolic byproducts. Now, we have a bit of a problem when trying to study this, which is we have to rely very, very heavily on epidemiology. And epidemiology is of course, you know, one of many tools we have to understand the impact of environmental, in this case, potentially toxins on health, but it just comes with so much baggage. Now again, when you're talking about an environmental toxin that is really, really toxic like tobacco, epidemiology turns out to be an awesome tool, because the hazard ratios are so big that it's impossible for there to be other explanations. The problem is when you're dealing with alcohol, the hazard ratios are quite small. This is basically true of all food. And this is why epidemiology just doesn't serve as a great substitute for randomized control trials when it comes to understanding these things. The problem is we don't really have great RCTs around alcohol. And the ones that we have are very short lived. Now, we did an entire AMA on alcohol. We have an entire premium newsletter on alcohol. So I'm not going to try to rehash all of that. So I just want to kind of give the top level stuff. Right? So when you're doing these studies, one of the things you you quickly come to realize is people who abstain from alcohol for a reason, which is often where people are abstaining from alcohol, they're either former drinkers or they have health reasons that prevent them from drinking. There's often this paradoxical increase in mortality that we see. So if you if you kind of look at some of the larger studies here, and the largest one that I've seen is the recent one that came out in JAMA last year, it included 107 cohorts studies and nearly 5 million lives were studied. And it compared a bunch of different entities to lifelong abstainers. So, you know, usually these are people who often have religious affiliations or other reasons to have never consumed alcohol. Now, when you compare former drinkers, so people who do not drink at all, but who use to drink, they have about a 26% increase in all cause mortality compared to lifetime abstainers. And again, that's kind of in keeping with what I said earlier, right, which is these are people who use to drink. They don't drink now. There's usually a reason for that. Now, interestingly, when you look at, you know, the occasional, the low volume and the medium volume drinkers, they actually didn't have an increase in all cause mortality and just to put some numbers to that, occasional drinkers basically don't drink at all. These are people that are averaging less than a drink a week. The low volume drinkers are going to be up to a drink and a half per day. Well, that's, I wouldn't call that low volume, but that's how they were classified in that study. And then the medium volume drinkers were up to three drinks per day. Again, if that's medium volume, I need to recalibrate. But once you start to get into the high volume drinkers, these are people that are drinking three to four drinks per day. And then the highest volume drinkers are over four drinks per day. These people start to see an uptick in their all cause mortality at 20 and 35 percent respectively relative to the people who abstain. Now, if you look at these data and divide them by sex, you see another thing emerge, which is that across the board, women fare worse with respect to alcohol than men. So, you know, the first and most obvious explanation for this is simply body weight. So, if you sort of said like, you know, women who consume 45 grams of ethanol per day versus men who consume 45 grams of ethanol per day, of course, the women should do worse. And I do think that body weight and in particular lean mask, as remember lean mass is where we see water and that's going to aid with the metabolism of ethanol. That's a part of it. But we also know that women contain less alcohol dehydrogenase, which is an enzyme that's responsible for the metabolism of alcohol. And the thinking at least is that if women have less alcohol dehydrogenase just genetically, then they're going to be more susceptible to the downsides of alcohol. So, again, I think there's a lot more we could say about this. But, you know, the the truth of the matter is when you look across the board, alcohol is associated with at least three disease states. Cardiovascular disease dementia and cancer, in addition to what I just talked about, which is all cause mortality. Now, I want to point out one thing before we put this topic to bed, which is the Mendelian randomizations typically come up with a slightly different answer than the epidemiology. So, the epidemiology usually shows kind of a flat curve for low levels of alcohol. And then a ramp up of mortality as alcohol creeps up. Again, different studies and different cohorts are going to find different places. I generally tell patients that I think conservatively one drink a day is at least according to the epi a minimal increase in risk, whereas, you know, that jam a study found you could get up to two drinks a day, maybe even three, but it was only at three when you started to see the uptick. But the Mendelian randomization, which again is a technique where we look at genes that control a trait. So, you might look at genes that control cholesterol or genes that control in this case, alcohol consumption, because again, we know that there are certain genes that make it very difficult for people to drink alcohol. So, if you you believe that possessing those genes can speak to the phenotype of drinking. And I think this is a decent example of where Mendelian randomizations work. There are some where it doesn't. The MRs show that at any increase in the consumption of alcohol, there is indeed an increase in mortality. So, they show an increasing level. So, we say that that means that the first and second derivative are positive. So, any, you know, standard deviation increase in the consumption of alcohol leads to a greater increase in the risk of everything from hypertension to dementia to cardiovascular disease to cancer to all cause mortality. So, how do we reconcile these two things? Well, I think it's kind of tough, right, because neither technique is perfect, but I think we, we sort of have to suggest that the precautionary principle here would be to obviously not consume alcohol at all because it's not an essential nutrient. There's, there's nothing that it's doing that's good for you. And therefore, after that, you just have to be kind of judicious in your use. And you have to ask a question, like, is this being maladaptive for my life in any other way? Does it, for example, impair my sleep with the ubiquity of sleep trackers out there? I think most people will observe that if you drink a little bit too close to bed, your sleep is going to be disrupted. Does it change the way you eat? For example, if you have a drink or two in you are more likely to raid the pantry or the freezer and get ice cream. And then, of course, there's the, you know, much more destructive stuff like driving and things of that nature. So, I think overall, we can say that alcohol is under no dose helpful. Under low doses, probably not terribly bad, but under escalating doses, it's actually quite negative. And how would you respond to a patient who says something in the following, which is what you kind of see a lot, which is I understand that alcohol may not be good for me, but I do get a lot of enjoyment having a drink with some friends like every other week or once in a while. Do you think that the danger of having a little bit of alcohol outweighs the potential enjoyment of being with friends in that environment? No, I think, look, I don't want to dismiss the importance in the benefit of social interaction and the joy that comes from that. I think it just comes down to the dose, truthfully. So, if that person says to me, look, I just, you know, twice a week, you know, sorry twice a month, I like to meet my buddies and we like to play poker or we like to watch football and we have a few drinks. At the surface, there doesn't seem anything wrong with that, but look, if the answer is twice a month, I'm just going to drink 12 beers. Wow, I'm going to say that I have a hard time understanding how the pro social benefit of hanging out with your buddies that day justified having 12 beers. If the answer is, yeah, like, you know, I like this kick back three or four beers a couple times a month, then I would say, yeah, it's probably not that bad. No, moving on to the next set of questions kind of nutrition related. The first one is what do you think are the key principles for a quote unquote well balanced, healthy diet? Thank you for listening to today's sneak peek AMA episode of The Drive. If you're interested in hearing a complete version of this AMA, you'll want to become a premium member. It's extremely important to me to provide all of this content without relying on paid ads. To do this, our work is made entirely possible by our members. In return, we offer exclusive member-only content and benefits above and beyond what is available for free. So if you want to take your knowledge of this space to the next level, it's our goal to ensure members get back much more than the price of this description. Premium membership includes several benefits. First, comprehensive podcast show notes that detail every topic, paper, person, and thing that we discuss in each episode. And the word of the street is, nobody's show notes rival ours. Second, monthly ask me anything or AMA episodes. These episodes are comprised of detailed responses to subscribe requests. Typically, focused on a single topic and are designed to offer a great deal of clarity and detail on topics of special interest to our members. You'll also get access to the show notes for these episodes of course. Third, delivery of our premium newsletter, which is put together by our dedicated team of research analysts. This newsletter covers a wide range of topics related to longevity and provides much more detail than our free weekly newsletter. Fourth, access to our private podcast feed that provides you with access to every episode including AMA's songs, this bill you're listening to now and in your regular podcast feed. Fifth, the quality's an additional member-only podcast we put together that serves as a highlight real featuring the best excerpts from previous episodes of the drive. This is a great way to catch up on previous episodes without having to go back and listen to each one. And finally, other benefits that are added along the way. If you want to learn more and access these member-only benefits, you can head over to PeteratiaMD.com forward slash subscribe. You can also find me on YouTube, Instagram and Twitter all with the handle PeteratiaMD. You can also leave us review on Apple podcasts or whatever podcast player you use. This podcast is for general informational purposes only and does not constitute the practice of medicine, nursing, or other professional healthcare services, including the giving of medical advice. No doctor-patient relationship is formed. The use of this information and the materials linked to this podcast is that the user's own risk. The content on this podcast is not intended to be a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. Users should not disregard or delay an obtaining medical advice from any medical condition they have and they should seek the assistance of their healthcare professionals for any such conditions. Finally, I take all conflicts of interest very seriously. For all of my disclosures and the companies I invest in or advise, please visit PeteratiaMD.com forward slash about where I keep an up-to-date and active list of all disclosures.

unlike sperm which seem to be an infinite resource, manner constantly generating literally billions of these things. The exact opposite is the case with women. Tell us a bit about that. That's right. First, thanks for having me. Thanks for inviting me. It is true that when an embryo or fetus develops the gonad differentiates into either a testis or an ovary. And the main difference, as you said, is that sperm is produced throughout a man's lifetime, whereas women are born with a finite number of eggs. Actually, the most eggs you'll ever have is when you're in your mom's womb. As a fetus, then by the time you're born, there's about 2 million or so eggs. And by the time you start menstruating, you're down to maybe 400,000 or so. Wow. So fivefold reduction from birth to say, average age would be maybe 14 when a... Yeah, yeah, 12 to 14. And we don't know why exactly that happens, but most of the eggs in the ovaries actually undergo a process we call a treasha, they basically die. So once a woman goes through puberty or girl goes through puberty every month, if she's not on her monocontrosception, one of those eggs grows. Actually, probably a group of eggs every month starts to grow, but then one kind of takes over. And it's released from the ovary, and usually finds this way into the phlopion tubes. That's the tube connecting the ovary and the uterus. And then normally, if there's not sperm around, the egg just resorts and there's no pregnancy and the lining of the uterus sheds and a girl or woman has a period every month. If there's sperm around, there's a chance that that egg might fertilize, and that fertilization usually happens in the phlopion tube, actually. And then that now, as I go to embryo, travels down the tube into the uterus and some of the time implants into the wall of the uterus or the lining of the uterus and establishes a pregnancy. OK, so let's now talk about a woman in the prime of her reproductive age. She's 20 years old as an example. And let's talk through the cycle of what is happening and the role that hormones are playing. One of the things that to me has always been fascinating about this is the selection. So with males, we don't have to think about that problem. The selection tends to be maybe more metabolic or stochastic. In other words, which sperm is the sperm that makes it isn't really predetermined? How is it that, let's say, from day zero, when a woman begins her menstrual cycle, and all of a sudden everything starts to turn towards the next cycle. She's about 14 days out from ovulation. We start to see the interplay of luteinizing hormone and follicle stimulating hormone, particularly FSH. Walk me through what's happening in that period of time that ultimately leads to one and only one egg being the chosen one. Yeah, yeah. It's a little random in women as well, actually. But it's true that the pituitary hormones namely FSH or follicle stimulating hormone and l-h-luteinizing hormone are what drives growth of the, we call them follicles, the eggs are inside the follicles. And as I said, usually a cohort of eggs starts to grow and then... You tell me what grow means. The follicles start to get bigger and the cells surrounding the eggs start to divide. And what do they look like prior to all of that happening? These are cells that only have 50% of the genetic material. Right? They've already undergone myosis. Yes, it's, they're kind of arrested in myosis. Yeah. Myosis is not completed until they actually ovulate and then in some cases are fertilized. Yes. So we have an arrested cell that has one of each of the mother's chromosomes, including one x chromosome by definition, one of her two sex hormones. And it's kind of this question makes sense. But it's, is it still in its young phenotype? In other words, if the, if the woman is 20 years old and all of the cells in her body are functionally 20 years old is this egg prior to ovulation still basically an infant cell? As far as we know, although there's some data recently to suggest that perhaps the cells surrounding the egg are met about a glee active, the maybe aging. Certainly we do know that the quality of the eggs decreases right as women get older. So that affects how the eggs and the chromosomes ultimately divide. Let's part of the reasons harder to get pregnant as you get older. Even though you're ovulating, you may be releasing an egg every month, but that it could be abnormal. And if it's abnormal, it likely won't fertilize. And you kind of don't want it to fertilize if it's abnormal and establish your pregnancy. But you're right. They're pretty much arrested in time. During, certainly, you know, before puberty and then every month a few start to develop. And then one, we don't really know how that one egg is selected. It's definitely hormonal factors play a role, but it's somewhat random, one kind of grows, and then eventually is released. And because as we know that as a woman ages, the probability of successful division goes down. Right. So something changes as a woman ages, but we don't understand exactly. But whatever it is that's going on, makes those chromosome errors much more likely. Back to this process. So it's day zero. So a woman just begins her period. We're just getting ready to embark on her next fertility cycle. The pituitary gland is secreating, loot-nizing hormone and follicle stimulating hormone. Walk me through what is happening in the next 14 days that leads to that ovulation. Right. So a group of eggs or follicles are starting to grow. One gets selected. We don't understand. We don't understand why. It's random. Wow. And that follicle that's in a follicle. Follicle is kind of a fluid build, it's just like structure that surrounds each egg. So that continues to grow. And then eventually what's happening hormonally. So those cells surrounding the eggs are producing estrogen. That estrogen is preparing acting on the uterine lining to build up the lining to potentially support a pregnancy. And then what happens just before our ovulation is there's a surge in a hormone called LH, loot-nizing hormone. And that's what we think triggers ovulation or release of an egg. So the all-it has to happen before an egg is released. So it kind of busts out of the ovary, finds its way to the tube. OK. How long, approximately, just give people a sense of how long of the loopy and tube is? Probably a few centimeters, like by pretend. OK. And everyone's probably used to seeing the image of ovaries being these little eggs and philopiantubes having these little fingers that hug up on the eggs. What is actually in between that space? How does the egg get from an ovary into a philopiantube? Is there an actual connection there? There is, actually. Yeah. They're not stuck together, but they're kind of in close proximity. So that those femuria or finger-like projections kind of sweep up the egg once it's released from the ovary. And it's otherwise in direct contact with the periteneum. The ovary and the tube. The space between the space between them. Yeah. Yeah. The picture's always show like the tubes out here, yes, out here, but they're actually everything's closer together in the pelvis. And you mentioned, OK. So egg is now in philopiantub. How long does it take to get through the length of the philopiantub into the uterus? About five or six days. OK. So completely different experience from the sperm, which are racing at rakeneck speed. They uncover that distance in seconds. So what regulates the speed with which the egg travels through the philopiantube and how does that impact fertility? Is there a scenario whereby it happens too quickly and things don't work? I don't know about too quickly, but there are hair-like projections in the tubes, silly, that kind of help with motility of the egg down the philopiantub into the uterus. The abnormalities on the female side have to do more with potential abnormalities, have to do with lexcarring in the tubes or if the tubes are blocked, then it interferes with the egg like encountering the sperm. And what leads to that? A number of different things, infection probably most commonly, but also scarring from previous surgery potentially or condition called endometriosis. So there are a number of things that can affect the tubes as well. And so is the day for it, assuming a woman's cycle is predictable and normal and we would just say day 14 is ovulation? That is the day that the egg leaves the ovary or that is the day that the egg reaches a certain place within the philopiantub. Pretty much the day that the egg is released from the ovary. Yeah. OK. Yeah. And usually encounter sperm in the philopiantub. And that's where fertilization usually happens. And then it takes a few more days for the embryo now or preembrow to travel down the rest of the tube into the uterus and hopefully implant if it's normal. Now, one of the most interesting things here that is worth repeating, even though we talked about it last week in case anybody missed it. How many sperm is the egg encountering at the time of fertilization? Really? Yeah, millions. So why is it? And I know the answer with this question, but it is so cool. Why is it that one and only one sperm out of millions or even less than that? But let's just say it's hundreds of thousands. Why does only one get to transmit its genetic material into that egg? Well, once an egg is fertilized, there's sort of a chemical reaction if you will that happens to prevent any other sperm from fertilizing eggs. Because that would be bad for you. We want one sperm and one egg to combine. Yeah, it's like an electrical force field that immediately activates around the egg. Exactly. I find this so fast that it is fascinating. Yeah, it is fascinating. Yeah. Okay. So now we have, and by the way, what is the relative size of an egg to a sperm? The egg is actually much bigger than the sperm. I don't know exactly in my grounds how big it is, but I feel like I used to know this answer and it's shocking how disparate they are in size. Like the egg is, I believe the biggest cell on the body potentially. Yeah, I've checked on that, but I believe that's true. All right. So yeah, you have this massive egg that's basically like the sun and like this tiny little sperm which is like the earth and colliding with it. Okay. Fertilization takes place and how long from fertilization, how long from impact until you have that single cell, Zygoth that actually has a lined up pair of chromosomes. Is that a matter of hours? Yeah, within a few hours. See, okay. And then what is the process that occurs for cell division for when that Zygoth goes from one to two to four to eight cells? And so A, how long does that take? And B at what point does it implant into the uterus? Yeah. So most of what we know actually about this is from a vitro fertilization or IVF because we can actually see that happening in the petri dish. So usually the with IVF, an egg is fertilized with sperm by the next day. We can see if it's fertilized. And we know if it's fertilized because it has what we call two pronuclear. So DNA from the sperm and DNA from the egg. And then over the course of the next couple of days, it divides into maybe six to eight cells. So about three days after fertilization, it's six to eight cells and then by five to six days, it's about 60 to 80 cells. And that's kind of the stage where it implants in the uterus. So five, six days after fertilization. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. In the premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

Okay, there's a condition you've already alluded to today that I am sure everyone has heard of and yet if you asked most people to define it, they wouldn't be able to define it. And so we're going to start with what it is, why someone might have it, what is the prevalence, are there false positives? I'm talking about none other than fiber my algebra. Yeah, yeah, what was historically a garbage bag definition? Fiber my algebra is a condition of widespread bodily pain that impacts people above and below the waste of the diaphragm. It's associated with early morning stiffness fatigue, mental fog, often, you know, some GI problems. It was historically based on American College of Rheumatology definitions based on tender points and a lot of an out of 18 places, but that's been replaced by now criteria which involves multiple body sites affected and a symptom severity score. The key thing when the audience hears, well, first of all, it's fiber my algebra syndrome. And whenever the audience hears syndrome, what they should translate that to, the definition of a syndrome is a constellation of signs and symptoms that define a disease, but we don't understand the mechanism. So fiber myology is a syndrome. We do not understand its mechanisms. We know that historically it tended to affect women more than men about 80% ish or so women with a newer definition, we're picking up a lot more men. The cognitive aspects of it are really a problem. It's also associated as I alluded to with sleep disturbances. They get this weird, what we call alpha wave intrusion into their EEG, which means alpha waves are typically in light, awakefulness. So when you're supposed to be in deep sleep or REM sleep, your brain is in light, alert, state instead, and so they're not getting a rustful sleep. This is a syndrome that's caused untold problems, particularly for women. What's the prevalence according to the current definition? I can't tell, I should know how many millions there, Pete. That's a, I should know how many millions I don't. What I can tell you just to give a frame of reference. Chronic pain, we think there's 50 to 100 million Americans with chronic pain. That's a huge range and it depends on the way you ask the question. If you ask it more stringently, it's 50 million if you ask it more liberally, it's 100. We know that there are about 8% of the population are a little over 20, some on million with something called high impact chronic pain. This is a big one and this is where I spend a lot of my research and policy work on. These are the people that has substantial restrictions to their pain in activities of daily living. These are the really challenging people. Of that 50 to 100 million, the most common chronic pain is low back pain at about 28%. Necupane 16%, headaches around 16%. Societyal burden of chronic pain is terrifying. It's astounding. We spend over half a trillion dollars a year in chronic pain. And the reason why in part, it's not more appreciated, is because we have parceled it out. We've broken it into different categories. With heart disease, we lump it into heart disease, cardiovascular disease, even though it's all these different subcomponents. With pain, instead, we categorize it as it's back pain, it's musculoskeletal pain, it's migraines, it's abdominal pain, and it gets diluted out. But when you put it all together, you're dealing with a half a trillion dollars. More than diabetes, heart disease, and cancer combined. Fibromyalgia, again, I'm escaping the prevalence, many millions of people. Huge societal burden. It is historically a disease of histrionic housewives, is how they were mislabeled tragically. And we're having now a greater appreciation for what it is. What's affected? What we have learned is that there are brain systems that are clearly abnormal in the processing of pain and people with fibromyalgia. We find that for the same pressure stimulus, if you apply something like four kilograms per square centimeter, healthy people will give a range of reporting in certain range. People with fibromyalgia, much, much higher. Here's another interest, I think this is an interesting pain concept to introduce and talk about it. There's something called conditioned pain modulation. In the animal world, we called it diffuse noxious inhibitory controller, Denec. CPM. OK. Think back to when you were a kid. Your arm hurt. You walk up to your buddy. You say, hey man, and he's like, how are you doing? He's like, well, my arm's kind of hurting a lot. And what would he do? Hit you. He would hit you, of course. Hit it in your other arm, he'd stomp on your foot and like, while they held it. But this is a boy-only thing. Like, I can't imagine girls did this, but yes, it's of course this is what little boys do. This is what little boys do. I was guilty of a lot of that. But then you say to your buddy, I don't you feel better. And the truth is you did because pain and another area reduces the primary pain insight. It's called condition pain modulation. We're all wired. It is a network predominantly we think in the brainstem involving some of this periac with Dr. Gray, Rossi of Entryl, Medulary, Regions, LeBars, first described this in the mid-80s, mid-70s in animals. So we all do it. We all have it. It's just endogenous, tonic, inhibitory tone that you can activate when you get caused pain in another site. Unless you have fibromyalgia. If you have fibromyalgia, particularly if you're a woman with fibromyalgia, you have impaired CPM, you don't inhibit. And so what is the management for these patients? Is this a curable syndrome or is it a syndrome that is meant to be managed like HIV? Yes, and no. What do I mean? Well, one we don't know exactly the mechanisms or different prevailing thoughts. One thought again is it's a disruption in your central brain processing of pain through reasons unknown. There are some that believe it is a disease, a condition of small fibreneropathy because you can do punch biopsies, little little skin biopsies here. What they find in some subsets of people with fibromyalgia is those C fibers that there is alterations abnormalities of the C fibers in the skin. And that is synonymous with a small fibreneropathy that neurologist typically see. Now that's caused by what? Yeah, that's the thing. Is this infectious? What do people think is going on? So fibromyalgia is frequently preceded by some event. Something traumatic. That traumatic can be a physical motor vehicle accident, but it could also be some emotional or sexual abuse. It can be an infection, we frequently, you know, also hear that story. So there is some insult that people will frequently identify. Coming back to you question on managing this. We frequently use the same medications that we've described before, but we rely on more of those brain modular tutorials. The TCA's are the big. Another one like the lock's a teen, which is in the class of antidepressants, but it's a little cleaner, fewer side effects. It's a serotonin or a peniferin re-uptake inhibitor. This is actually a drug that got FDA approval for a pen. And so we go to this a lot.

How can somebody find out if their radiation oncologist is kind of practicing in your philosophy? You know, it's difficult in terms of actual metrics. Very much like even for the surgeons, like Ted has excellent outcomes, but it's not like it's a published series. You just have to tell me that. The best surgeons often are treating the hardest cases. So it's a handicap right there. It's a handicap right there. 100%. It really comes down to finding someone who's got the experience. In my case, because we do so much prostate, I think I've done something close to in the modern era, 7,000 cases, probably 10,000, even include the pre-image guided radiation days. Someone who specializes in the area that the cancer is located. And so someone like me, I may be extremely experienced in breast and prostate, but maybe for a pediatric malignist here, not going to come to me, you're going to go somewhere or a CNS, or something that's unusual. You have to find the right tool for the job. But you have to just interview your doctor. I think there's anything specific to radiation that's really asking about toxic patients. I think being very open with him is saying, yeah, exactly. And so ideally, maybe you come to someone who knows something. I got a lot of patients who aren't familiar with the field, but they'll have a family member that's a nurse, or a dentist, or a veterinarian, or whatever. It's someone that has some medical background. They can say, OK, let me ask the more specific questions. And these days, with the internet, you can do all kinds of research in terms of, like when I'm talking about matching my volume of the dose distribution to exactly conform to the tumor volume, that's something that's very easy to talk about. But I mean, for an educated patient, they can ask to see the actual computer simulation. So if one of my engineering patients is probably having an easier time than they do. My love for my engineering patients are really the only ones who do this. And I'll be, I usually pull out all the graphs. I show them dose volume, histograms with area under the curve, for each organ, and you can see, OK, the prostate dose, I air into the curve is huge. The dose of the blood and the rectum is super low. You can actually quantify that. But for a lay patient, it's hard. It's not that easy to do that. You really got to go with anything a lot of, but you have to go with your gut, too, in terms of this guy's had a lot of experience. And the initial consultation is where it all comes down. I'll spend an hour with a patient and go through every little nuance of what couldn't happen. And my main, I think my main MO is to sort of over-prepare them and have them be pleasantly surprised. Maybe when the side of effects aren't as bad, rather than the other way around. And it's hard to find the right person. Well, there's a lot of good doctors out there, so.

Hey, so a little while ago we did an AMA and asked me anything on microplastics. And you know, it was, it was a long kind of complex discussion. And at the end, I kind of tried to create a framework to help people make sense of this information. The framework was basically picturing a graph because of course, me being who I am, everything comes down to a graph. And so there on the x-axis you have cost, meaning the actual dollars you would have to spend to mitigate the exposure to microplastics. And within that I also included sort of thing, there are microplastics, but PM and 2.5. So particles that are sub 2.5 microns that we can ingest through our lungs that are potentially harmful in addition to BPAs and phallides and things like that. So the x-axis would be how much money do you have to spend and then the y-axis would be how much mitigation do you actually get? And then you could also think of another way to do this, which is how much effort do I need to do expand and how much mitigation do I get? And you know, just to kind of give you the answer, if you didn't see the AMA, the bottom line is you're never going to get complete mitigation, even with all the effort in the world and all the dollars spent in the world. So for most of us then we have to make a decision about how much energy and how much money am I going to put in to get how much mitigation. And so I just wanted to share with you where I've landed to be clear, this is not necessarily where you should land. I've made a decision, but I wanted to sort of explain it. Okay. So first off, I decided that there are some pretty low hanging fruit things I wanted to do. And by the way, a couple of people, when I voiced questions on the podcast about, hey, I really wish I could find a metal water bottle for my bike or a coffee maker that didn't have hot water ever touching, flashing people were quick to send recommendations. So I really appreciate that. Okay. So let's start with the coffee makers. This was a huge source of exposure to me and it was one of the first things I wanted to mitigate. Now, when I make a French press, it's not a problem because I use this thing. I'd been using this forever. So this is just a pure stainless steel French press. It's steel through and through. There's nothing about this that is going to expose hot water to plastic. However, most of the time, if I'm being honest, if I'm being lazy, I'm just using a drip coffee maker. And the problem is, most drip coffee makers, if not, I'm virtually hollow of them that I was able to get my hands on, they all had some plastic, whether it's plastic in the lid of the coffee pot or plastic where the water is coming through a filter, turns out here is one that does not. So I really, really like this. Now, I'm not going to lie. It ain't cheap. And we're going to link to where you can find all the products that I ultimately ended up going with. But it's wonderful. It filters into a glass, craft, and everything where hot water is touching coming out of this is metal. So I like it. And honestly, despite the cost of it, which is a little bit of noxious, when you consider advertising it over the course of a year or two, it really becomes de minimus. The next thing that people pointed out to me in my request was plastic water bottles, because I'm on my bike all the time. So I'm riding my bike at least four times a week. And I typically use what most cyclists use, which are these sorts of water models, right? So a water bottle that everybody's used to, where you fill it with water. And the truth in the matter is, it's not like we're putting scalding hot water in these things, but let's be honest. If you're out there, especially, you know, in a warm day, that water is getting warmer. And then the question is, like, hey, how much exposure am I getting? And is there a way to mitigate it? And it turns out, there is. So there are at least these two brands of stainless water bottles. And yeah, they're kind of expensive, right? So I don't even remember the price, but again, we'll link to these so you can see the ones that I've tried. I like them both, by the way, I just want to try both in the mouth. And I found them both to be great. Okay. I found about another area where I had exposure that was easy to minimize. And that was in the sauna where I'd always been using a glass bottle for the obvious reasons. That one struck me as a no-brainer even years ago. I used to always take the lid in the sauna with me. So these are the glass bottles that I've always used in the sauna. And they have these little plastic lids under them, and I would just bring the whole thing in the sauna. And it occurred to me after doing this AMA, put whenever I take a drink in the sauna, this little tip does tend to get pretty hot. And if this thing's getting hot, then the plastic that's sitting on it is also getting hot. So the one simple and silly change I made was I no longer bring the lid in the sauna. So when I put these things in the fridge, I just sort of do away with the lid and this thing sort of sits there. So not a monumental change, but an obvious one. Okay, so all of those things are relatively low cost and they're one time costs and again, they do serve quite a bit of mitigation. I shouldn't point out we had already got rid of plastic food containers and things of that nature. So I don't have them here to show you, but if you are using plastic food containers, again, relatively minor cost upgrade to glass, especially if you're going to be putting hot food in and or warming food up in it. Okay, so then bin one in the last one to talk about here. Is air filtration. I think it's important to understand that there's there are different standards of air filtration. And once you rise to the level of what's called heppa filtration, you're referring to such a fine filter that it's I believe heppa cutoff is Merve 18. So you can talk to your HVAC people and say, what is my level of filtration? Most homes are probably about a Merve 13, the higher the Merve number, the greater the amount of filtration. So that was really the last big thing I wanted to do because I work at home so much, meaning I was spending so much time at home. It seemed like a reasonable investment to make. Well what I learned was probably what many of you are going to learn, which is that my residential HVAC units are not powerful enough to push air through a Merve 18 or Merve 19 filter. So what we are going to have to do to make that work is not replace our HVAC, but add units to each of the air conditioning units that basically boosts its power so that we can indeed move to Merve 18 and 19. And again, I've decided to make that decision to make that choice. It's the single biggest expense I'll probably incur on doing all of this. And because obviously the filter changes themselves are not a particularly big deal, but nevertheless that is going to be kind of the last step I take. One other point I will make, I should have mentioned this earlier, but I'm taking it for granted because it's a change I made a long time ago. Was I did move to reverse osmosis filters for water? So we don't have reverse osmosis flowing through the whole house. We just have a handful of these spigots throughout the house where all the drinking water comes from here. So when I'm filling up water bottles downstairs, I have one of these. When I'm filling up the coffee, it comes out of here. And again, the reverse osmosis does it. So if I were to tell you in order of cost, the most expensive is definitely doing the epiphiltration throughout the house. But again, it's a big fixed cost with small variable costs as you replace filters. The second big cost is putting in these. And believe these are about 2500 or 3000 of pop. So big fixed costs, very trivial cost after that. I think the next biggest cost was upgrading to this bad boy over here. And then probably doing the glass containers for food. And then all the other stuff, you know, relatively minor one time cost. So we might hope that helps. That's basically how far I decided to go on the cost and effort curve to reach what I believe is the right amount of mitigation. Again, I want to be clear and I point this out in the AMA, but for those of you that haven't seen it, I don't think the evidence is overwhelming that microplastics are the cause of all the hills in the world. But I just think that the precautionary principle says there's enough smoke to believe that there might be fire. And as such, we should probably take reasonable precautions to minimize our exposure in an effort to improve our health.

There are a couple other toe injuries that are pretty common. Yes. Let's talk about those. Okay. So, you want to start with Halis's restrict this? Yes. We will see this a lot. And I think a lot of it has to do with poor footwear selections, right? We talked about the chronic ankle sprains and the inability to allow the first metatarsal to drop. But a functional halix limit is we need about 40 to 45 degrees of range emotion at the big toe in order to have an efficient walking gate. Yeah. This is my only superpower. I'm probably like 90 degrees at my halix. And you know, excess range of motion is great as long as you can control it. It means to be seen. So if I wanted to sprint though, I would need 65 degrees. Right. Because you're more on your toes. Yeah. And this is where I've seen a lot of former NFL players who get horrible turf toe. That have what literally looks like 10 degrees. If you can catch these patients before they've had. So there's stages, right? So what will start to happen is you'll get an inflammation on the top of the big toe. Yeah. Okay. And the primary pathology, just the repeated timing of that toe. Right. The instability at the first ray. And then they can't drop the first metatarsal. They start to irritate the top of the joint. It'll be red. It'll be swollen. And these patients suffer. I'm on a Facebook group for halix or agitus. It's a support group. And the reason I'm on it is because I find it like, they're, it's a constant battle for these people for footwear. Because they just need, they're like, I need a shoe that's going to eliminate me using my big toe because it hurts when they try to extend it. Have these patients all experienced trauma? No. If they've had like something fall on their toe, if they've had turf toe, then yes. But a lot of them, this is weakness. This is poor footwear. That's why I think a lot of these diagnoses at the foot can be prevented. This is proactive healthcare. You know, I mean, you want to talk about your eggs in your book. I love that story. Okay. But there's no better way to stop the eggs from being thrown than by taking care of our feet from the ground up. But I digress. So your, is your treatment? Let's assume that the trauma was in the past. They're not, it's not an acute issue. Is the treatment the same where, you know, you have to get mobility backed by strength thing? Yeah, I mean, when I, I always say, earlier intervention is better. Even if there's been trauma, you do not want to immobilize something. We know that. When you immobilize, it starts this cascade where, you know, you start to change the neurological input to the tissue. Mm-hmm. And it just really will create an environment where movement will be altered. So even in those initial stages, we're doing like big toe ranges of motion. I mean, it seems so, I always saw my patients. If I don't get excited about you exercising your big toe, but you have to be. Now, sometimes remember when I had my little toe injury three months ago, which still hurts like not as bad, but it's amazingly sore still. That first weekend when I was, you know, the thing was black and blue, you still had me doing isometrics. I'm still doing them by the way. And they do anytime I'm in pain, five minutes of isometrics actually makes me feel better. Why is that? I'm, I call it isometrics my pain meds for my patients. Yeah, so tell people what I'm doing. Yeah, tell people the exercise you had me do. So I was told. With the big toe, what we'll have if there's an irritation in the joint, per se. And just so people know the injury, I had an injury where I got hit on the front of the toe. So it just jammed the toe back. And I sent you a photo next day. And I've never seen, I mean, you've probably seen this for me, the entire side of the foot was just black and blue. I didn't get anything x-rayed because I didn't think anything was broken. I was going to write it out. And within a few days, I knew nothing was actually broken because I could touch the bone. The pain all seemed to be ligament pain. Yeah. It was, and to this day, it's still very tender to touch the side. And I think when, if someone looks at their foot and they see that they're like, oh, my gosh, I better just do nothing. Do nothing. But yes, right away, what we had you do was put the toe in a position of a little bit of extension or something that was comfortable. And then you're basically just contracting on both sides of the joint. So you're pressing down and then you're trying to lift up. But you're getting some type of movement. Isometrics. The reason I call them my pain meds is I will tell my patients whenever you feel pain. Isometrics are safe for you to do because what they do is they decrease cortical inhibition. So when we have an injury, think of it, we'll go into a race car. We have a cortical accelerator, right? So information coming from our brain and we also have brakes. We want to the accelerator and the brakes to be in balance of one another. When we have an injury, our brains are foots on the brake. So if I'm trying to change my movement or improve my movement pattern, I get a let off the brake. And that's what isometrics do. They decrease that cortical inhibition and to be able to do that right out of the gates is extremely important. Yeah, before the damage sets in and you create a long term pattern of rigidity. Yes. So when you can find these patients that still have, you know, when you're doing a calf race for example, someone who has pain at their big toe, the big I cannot do that. It hurts too much. It's pinching. But I'll have, I'll put a band around their ankle for example and I'll pull it to the outside. Remember, that's where Pernie's longest lives on the outside of the leg. So I'll challenge it a little bit so that they really have to press through their big toe to keep their big toe on the ground. When they do that, they're like, wow, that pinching is better. Because I dropped the head of the first. Yeah, there is something so magical about using bands for lateral and medial tension to produce the necessary engagement of the foot stabilizing muscles when you go and do other things. Yeah, I mean, it's the kinesthetic queuing. I think is so important. So important, especially in those plans. That's why the foot's, I mean, it's this multi-directional like beautiful thing that we can train so many ways. So what else are you doing for the rigidest patient? So you're obviously isometric's a big part of it. How do you get the range of motion? How do you slowly introduce that range of motion back? If they are in a functional, how exliminus, which means that they can still utilize their big toe based on if I increase strength of Pernie's longest for example. If we work on range of motion at the big toe, all of those things are key. If you don't do it then, it will progress into how ex-rigidists and I don't consider those the same diagnosis. How ex-rigidists, there's been so much arthritic change to the joint that now you may be have five degrees. So the toes basically fuse almost. So rigidest you're associating with the bony arthritic changes, whereas limitless is hey, your bones, you still can anatomically move, you are limited because of the musculature. And you'll see some type on it. I mean, on a film, you may start to see an ex-ostosis or like liping, right? Because there is, you know, wolfslaw. They'll start to have changes within the bone. But it's still a functional joint. And that's when I get excited because I'm like, let's do this. Let's fix this thing because if not, if that progresses too halix-rigidist, it's game over. Now our treatment has completely changed. Meaning that I have to look at putting them in a certain type of shoe that's going to rocker them through their toe because they now have lost four foot rocker. They cannot rocker through their toe. What percentage of people with how slim it is will progress to that phase of disease? Unfortunately, quite a bit. Because this message isn't quite out there, as much as it needs to be. Because those two diagnoses are often married. People start to see our theoretic change at the toe. They're like, wow, this is how ex-rigidist. I'm like, no, it isn't actually. You still, if I drop your metatarsal down, I can still give you 40, 45 degrees. Hold on a second. Let's train this thing. But without knowing that, and you start to have pain at your big toe, the initial intervention is a carbon plate under the toe. So they sell these little inserts where you can put in your shoe so that your big toe isn't bending at all. Some type of orthotic or very stiff shoe. These patients would be like, oh, this feels great. And I'm like, yes, because you're not moving it anymore. But if you stay on my path too long, you'll lose the ability forever. Correct. And you want to talk about what happens up the chain. And I see patients walk with Alex's rigidest for example. They can't roll through their foot. So they can't push off at 45 degrees out of their big toe. So now what they have to adopt is this is what their foot looks like. So they have more knee flexion for example. And then their hip has to be. Yeah, that's hip flexion. Right? And it's like, what are you doing? But you know, I always want to instill hope because there's always hope. You have to do that. And even if patients have a fusion in their big toe, even if they have Alex's rigidest, you've lost range at one joint. But you haven't lost range at your ankle. And you haven't lost range at your knee or your hip. Those range of motion, those ranges of motion will be compromised. But let's just train them. Let's rocker you through the big toe. Let's give you drills to give you knee extension to give you hip extension because we know you're not going to have access to it any longer. So let's just give you things to work on. And that's where I think I want the two worlds to marry. Right? Oftentimes, there is a time in a place for the surgical interventions. But once that's done, there's so much more that can be done so that we don't start seeing sequela of that up the kinetic chain. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. We'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

Talk to me about formulations. The genius part of it is actually not the carbohydrates itself. It's the, it's the, it's the, it's the, it's the genius. Yes, exactly. That's, that's, that's the difference. So if you were consuming 60 grams per hour spare spare the money and buy orange juice or even pull honey inside and drink it. That, that, that, that, that, that, that where it really comes up, where it differs itself is when you are really starting to push the limit of the concentration. But you can even take, you can even train yourself today. This is something we know. You can even take honey today. And you can mix it in, you can train yourself to go to higher values than what have previously been published like pure normal products. But if you want to get to 160, this is when you need to, you need the technology. Yes, exactly. And, and note, no fat and no protein. Any amino acids throughout that whole race? No, we, we, we, this is something that was also done research on, but we ended up in the end pure glucose and fructose. And it actually has to do with actually how oxygen is being prioritised in the body. Because we have to limit, we have to consider two things here. It's easy to think that while you're only raising at 80% of your view to max or 70 or 90, whatever percentage it is of your view to max. But that's a little bit of a short circuit. Because what we have to think of is that this oxygen, like more oxygen, is going to contribute to more heat as well. So it's not like you have enough, you can just go, whatever, I'm rising at a solo percentage of your view to max. So I can go whatever and do and in the beginning. Because it all will, it will accumulate towards the end of your race. That means already from the beginning, it's critical how you pace and your efficiency as well. Because every inefficiency you have, here is biochemical or anything like this, it will basically end up towards the end of the race. So this means also that at the moment you start, let's say, putting any other substrates into or nutrients into your mixture that the body have to protect as somehow in the system. That means also that there are going to be less oxygen available for pure propulsion. And in the inefficiency, pure propulsion that really sets the winner apart from the rest of the people there. So you basically want to peel away every absolutely everything that doesn't contribute to forward propulsion, use every milliliter, every mole of oxygen purely for the purpose and nothing else. Because oxygen is one of the limitations. So that's, we come to talk about different kinds of substrates and these kind of things. Which is still also a place where we don't know. We are actually doing quite some interesting research on different kinds of substrates from glucose, fructose. Have you looked at the HP? Yeah, hydroxibular? Yes, so we looked at the BHP as well. And one of the things, because the thing here is that if you pure look at the stoichiometry, there are interesting things here. But the problem is that we cannot only do stoichiometry. We actually need to know the enthalpy and we also need to know the Gibbs free energy that is available and not even the entropy. But not, okay. So the Gibbs free energy if you're making the BHB yourself, much more complicated. But if you take it purely exogenously, and consider it an additional substrate above and beyond glucose, do we have reason to believe that we're going to get more ATP per mole of oxygen? No, because the practical limitation of this is that if we think when you do racing, you could have a, let's say if you think of this more first or the principle again. So if you do racing, and this was actually one of my first questions, because we have been working together with one of the leading brands on, or maybe arguably the leading one. And they are situated here in the US. But one of the limitations that you have to look at is basically when you're racing, this has a certain fuel demand. So there's a certain amount of fuel that needs to go through the system there. Yeah. And that means that in the context, when we talk about glucose and fructose, we are looking at basic trying to replace as much as possible, we said, okay, glucose, fructose, or basic carbide, it seems to be a very, very oxygen efficient fuel source when we, when when you do more men. But that means also that in order not to run out of this, we're trying to replace as much as possible, or this, to be able to race faster. Because if you said, this is the, so this is the fuel source I have available in my body, I'm going to race this fast, obviously I cannot go faster than this. So a certain power number, certain duration will the police, this energy is source, or basic bring me close to the police, not that source. Okay. So that means, okay, instead of then switching to other source, or you're basically always using other sources as well. But trying to get more from that source means basically you have to replace more of the power. So more the power now, we have to create an environment where more power can come from the same source. So that means that, for example, if you are at the round, let's say you were originally around at 80 grams, 190 grams, let's say 80 grams for simplicity, say 80 grams of carbohydrates, and you have about chemical efficiency of 20 per cent, for example, that means basically you're getting out, or if you say 4.2, let's say you can get basic as a one gram, basically would be the equivalent of, let's say 1 joule per signal, 1 watt, more or less like this. So you can get from that one. So if you double is from 80 to 160 now, that means basically, you're going to get double the amount of what's coming from, from carbohydrates here. The problem with with ketons is that you, the strategy is not to basically fuel the amount you are using in a race. You don't fuel with ketons in the same way. Like if you go to 70, 80, or even 100 milliliters of of of of of of of ketons consumption in an hour, you're going to have so high levels of ketons in your body that you will start to feel almost like you are getting diabetic, like you feel like you're, you're, you're, like in this state, let's say if you're in a banking almost. So the thing that is there is more like it's inducing a state in a body rather than you actually fuel using it, because you in order to fuel. So let's say your idea was that you're going to replace what you're losing from your body, because that's driving your body also out of homeostasis as well. So you're going to try to keep homeostasis as much as possible or try to keep the state of the body as unchanged as possible. That would mean that you would need to ingest like so large amount of ketons during a race that it would be crazy!

So I had a discussion yesterday with a patient about her questions were on starting a GLP one agonist and I thought the discussion was actually kind of applicable in ways that went beyond her. So I thought I would kind of share this. So the woman is in her early to mid 40s. Very healthy, very active, and you know, by her estimation probably 15 pounds overweight and has been working really, really hard through both exercise and nutrition, stopped drinking alcohol, really is eating quite little and is really struggling to lose this last 15 pounds. And now I long ago gave up on the idea of trying to solve weight management as a strategy. I've met people who can manipulate their weight quite easily, and I've met people who work just as hard and cannot manipulate their weight at all. And I know that when you're in the camp of people who can do it easily, you always look at those who can't, and you think it's some failure of willpower, and I have pretty strong feelings about that just simply not being the case. So we must accept that there are people with very different body types, and for some people manipulating weight is, you know, as easy as changing your hair length and color, and for others it's as difficult as changing your height. So she sort of asked me a few questions, and I think the take home of this was that look, I don't think it's worth going on one of these drugs if you're not willing to stay on them and the most people are going to regain weight once they stop taking the drug. That's not true across the board, and it might be the case that over time we're going to learn better and better ways for weight maintenance, following the removal of the drug. And I think the best case for that might be an individual who's otherwise not exercising. Another wise doesn't have great eating habits at the outset, but who uses the weight loss as a way to spur those new behaviors. That's an individual who might be able to come off the drug and then maintain a healthier diet and exercise program. But in the case of this one, I was very blunt with her and I said, look, I think given how hard you are working right now, whatever forces, whatever gravity is pulling you in the direction of this excess weight, it's probably going to come back if you stop. So the goal should be to find the minimum effective dose, and then accept the fact that you're probably going to stay there. She had some concerns about safety, and I shared with her the best of our knowledge, which of course I discussed on a recent AMA, which is look for all of the wrong tense and purposes these drugs not only look safe. It's possible that they may end up being even zero-protective. Now that's a very bold statement, and not a reason that I think anyone should take one of these drugs yet. But nevertheless, the skepticism that I had around the safety of these drugs in 2020 and 2021, has based on the number of patients who have taken them for the duration that they have, become more muted. Cost of course is a huge issue, and I think that that's something that everybody has to contend with, and therefore, you know, the hope is that over time, the economics of these drugs on an out-of-pocket basis becomes more manageable. And of course, in the case of this woman, someone who just needs to lose 15 pounds without type 2 diabetes is not going to qualify for any sort of payment. There are of course programs out there that can maybe lessen the burden. But honestly, the biggest issue that she struggled with was, and I found this very both sad but interesting, was she said she felt like a failure. She said, I feel like I'm a failure if I take this drug, because why have I not been able to do this on my own? And so I guess to bring this somewhat rambling discussion to an end, I don't think that's a fair assessment. I shared that with her, and I think that I think that one should not discount the role that genetics play in body habitus. It is one of the most conserved traits, genetically, and as such, an individual who is genetically predisposed to be a certain shape. I think should take comfort in the fact that there is today a class of drugs that can, again, fight the gravitational pull of that. So anyway, for anyone listening, who's thinking about this in the same way, hopefully this framework and ideas a little bit helpful.

Are we seeing more body builders now use GLP1 agonists to yes? Yeah, I was about to say right like why wouldn't you it would make it would make the most difficult part of body building easier which is the calorie restriction right? You said that in a way I cannot say any better. There are 3 groups of people in body building today. People that have emphatically adopted the use of GLP1. Group two or people that either use or don't use but don't say much about them either don't care don't know or they're using but they're kind of about it. And then there's another group that is just absolutely viciously opposed to them. For reasons that are almost always wildly irrational but more realistically understandable. Just to be clear, there is a category of body builder who fully endorse the liberal use of antibiotics steroids but oppose the use of GLP1 agonists vehemently. And the moral argument is you have to suffer through the hunger to earn your right to call yourself a competitive body builder. What do you think about that? It could probably steal man. Yeah, I mean look, I think having never done body building I'm probably not a good person to sort of offer a point of view on that. Obviously, you could argue that if the stripes are earned through that type of suffering or let's take a step back. If the stripes are earned through suffering, there's two types of suffering. There's the suffering you do in the gym, the pain of the gym and then there's the pain of the the the the second one the starving the life of the calorie restriction. And if they're saying you have to have both of those to be one of us, then steroids are not a problem. In fact, they allow you to suffer more potentially. They allow you to push yourself much differently true. So maybe in that sense, steroids are an important part of body building. If the suffering is the is the card and the GLP1 agonist is not. So maybe that's the argument. Again, I I probably wouldn't have come to that argument. I probably would have said, well, if we're in the business of using any form of pharmacology to enhance our physique, we should take whatever we can get provided at safe. Yes, I'm in that campus. Well, there are at least two things those folks aren't considering. Thing number one is that if you're going to achieve a certain level of body fat with a chlorocrystriction without GLP1s, when you use any given dose of GLP1s to produce your hunger, you get two things out of that. One is now you can push even more exotically lean levels, which you should be. We're not trying to race to the same point, but destination changes. You can get some think, loot striations, and when a few shows without GLPs, maybe you can get completely stripped out of your mind with them. It's just as hard. You're just as hungry, but just as hungry a 3% body fat is a very different look than just as hungry at 6%. One is GLP enhanced, one is not. That's a big deal to remember. The other thing is you have to deal with side effects of GLPs. I mean like they give you heartburn. There is a certain amount of food focus they don't eliminate. Like watching TV shows and watching people on the meat tasty foods on your own prep is not as difficult because you're not physiologically as hungry, which is still of cravings. And cravings are lower but they're still there. And you still dream about food and the whole gamut. It's not the since not complete combustion of hunger. Now I hope one day very soon will achieve that and that'll be a man. I'm miraculous thing that will save. I don't know. Hundreds of millions of people from the obesity epidemic. Oh, little like footnote and in history, but that'll be cool. And then your job will be like if you want, if you have more bandwidth because shit is easier, just push your conditioning further. Get even leaner. That's a big deal that people seem to forget. The other deal is there is a preposterous amount of assuming that work and diligence are the big variables that separate bodybuilders. Usually that assumption is made by people with elite genetics. And it's just not true. My jiu-jitsu coach, a gentleman named Mr. Will Stark's phenomenal professional MMA athlete. Will needs a very clean diet, very very healthy diet, but he has, you know, tons of freebies, potato chips, pizza here and there and no big deal. He trains from mixed martial arts. He's a pro. He has glute strations. He walks around and lives his life at 7% body fat. That's just how he exists in the world. It would take him one cycle of training to turn pro. He's drug free. If you look at him in the gym and if you put on some posing trunks and you look at his glutes. You ask some people in gym, what's that all about? The band of men must take a lot of our work bullshit. Took no more no work at all. He trains his ass off in MMA. But I'm in MMA. Guys, do you see what's trying to glutes? It's almost nothing. So you would look at that and be like, let's say he diets for six weeks. And actually starts resistance training for hypertrophy. For the first time in his life, I might add in his mid 30s. This is our plan for Will once he's ready. He's going to, he's going to turn drug free pro his first or second show. No problem. And people are going to go mad. I must have taken a lot of work. You need to be like, huh, well, actually, not really. And so if you have someone on stage against him who takes second place, but they started their diet at 20% body fat. And their diet took 18 weeks, who worked harder. People would tell you the guy was trying to glutes didn't they would be fucking wrong, wrong, wrong. So when you look at people using GLPs, you assume everyone has kind of decent genetics. That's not true. And people who have been fat or before have a much harder time getting leaner for a bunch of different reasons. They're dealing with the same genetics that got them fat and they have excess fat cells that scream, hunger signaling into the ether all the time. So the idea that bodybuilding is about earning your keep and grinding and suffering is true. But we already use enhancement in so many different ways. Why not use enhancement in this other way? I never gotten a clear answer on that because most of the people are spots that your opinions don't have the patience or intellectual capacity to deal with such issues. So just something to scroll by and Instagram and go and note it. Scrolling onto the next thing or turning my phone off and flushing it on the toilet. So Mike, what do you think that tells us about kind of the the morality of GLP1 use much more commonly? Because obviously the majority of people using GLP1 agonists and dual agonists, etc. Our bodybuilders and our professional people who's lively, hoods depends on their physique. It's normal people. Again, let's also take out the category of people with type 2 diabetes or with such significant obesity that it's impacting their health in ways that are direct and measurable through the excess out of capacity. Let's talk about what is probably the majority of people who would use a GLP1 agonist right now, which are people who might actually even be healthy. There might be overweight. Yeah, but still be per- GLP1's right now. Yeah. And so tell me, why do you think that there is a bit of a moral panic about this? Yeah. Most of the people that are morally panicking will tell you why. Most of what they say is that you have to earn your fitness. And if you are lazy and you just take a pill and you lose all the weight, you haven't addressed the root cause of the issue, which is your poor diet. And there's something to say there. But I don't understand much further about their own logic. I would say they're not thinking a lot. They're just having a lot of feelings. If you talk to most people about politics, you'll realize that most people are not geopolitical strategists or concentrations. They just feel a lot. And so this is one of these things where people have a lot of feelings, but if they pulled it back and actually logic through it, they would conclude that like, oh, these modern and erected drugs are tools to accomplish something. And whatever tools you use that make sense for you should be a valid consideration for the goal. But a lot of people use physical fitness, especially external, as a proxy for conscientiousness. The ability to organize your life to delay gratification so on and so forth. And the reality is that probably the two biggest predictors of how will be someone is are your genetic hunger drive and your degree of conscientiousness. So the only thing that the GLPs eliminate as a category of problem is the hunger drive, eliminate it, but they do a great job, they're just substantially. So now we're left with people that are leaner, some of whom just have average conscientiousness, but now low food drive and now they're leaner. And this especially upsets people that have lost weight themselves on their own and they took a certain moral worthiness, a certain gold star on their chest for it. So I was conscientious and willful enough to do this. And to those people, they're absolutely correct, like what they did was monumental and all-term impressive. And they feel sort of ripped off because other people are now doing it, but just like taking a weekly injection. But that belief in yourself, that flexing your conscientious muscle that you did, it's your benefit for yourself to keep. And the other way to think about it is if you just, if you had to lose 20 pounds and really focus yourself to do it and to keep the weight off your focused all the time, what you could do is take an an electric drug GLP1, for example. And now you don't have to try as hard to limit yourself because your food, your natural appetite is like normal. And you can take all of that bandwidth of willpower and effort and conscientiousness and apply it to something else, business, family life. If you have to diet hard enough to lose a bunch of weight, you're bandwidth for your work, you're bandwidth for family, you're bandwidth for enjoying your life, half to go down. Otherwise, you're just not dieting hard enough. And if you now have a solution to the hard-diting problem in which you can actually do much better job with less input, that doesn't mean you're on the couch eating cheetos, though it could if you choose. What it means is now you have more bandwidth that opens up for all of these other wonderful things in which you can express your conscientiousness, build your business better, spend more time with your family. So has that been your experience, which is it hasn't actually changed, what you're eating, it's just given you the privilege of focusing less on the starvation and the management of diet? That's exactly been my experience. My wife was either genetically, epigenetically geared to just get fat. At one point, she was almost 200 pounds at four foot 11. And she probably has more willpower than I've ever seen in a single human being. She'll break herself before she quits it stuff. And her hunger signaling was so profound that she battled at her whole life. Had lots of victories, lots of defeats. And her introduction to GLP's to OZEMBIC was the kind of thing that porters on the religious experience for the first time ever to be like, oh, this is how normal people live their lives. And now she's whatever bodyweight she wants to be and lives at a category level of body fat. Oh, sorry, I can't a level of life experience. She was unable to access before because especially of females of reproductive age, having 70 pounds extra at a positive how the world sees you, how you see yourself is totally different. She almost failed out of medical school because she was dieting so hard to try to stay to certain body fat their brain just wasn't working. And it's easy for bodybuilders and other folks to say like, we just got to go through like, guy, you don't do anything. Subtutes to parents play playstation and train with weight, thank God for your supplement contract. There was somebody on social media that she sort of opened up about her journey and this like bodybuilders not even competitive. He's just a guy who lifts weights, he's a personal trainer. He said something like like, you base, you failed at life if you needed the ozempick and like my friend, if we start listing off my wife's like accomplishments, it's going to be a 10 to zero against you. Like you're nothing to her. She had every bit more willpower. Whatever it is, you got good at, she could recreationally get good at faster than you better than you just as a joke and then quit and then come back and do it again. But because you have no idea what it's like to want food that much, you're out of touch. I would say it is for me became very easy to connect with my wife on food drive after I had a dieted down to body fat that was a competitive bodybuilding appropriate enough times. You feel what it's like to be absolutely thinking about it's food. All you're thinking about food tastes good to a level if you're like, am I eating drugs? Like what the hell is going on? And you're in pain physically from the expansion of your abdominal tract and you're still eating and your eyes are this wide like a hungry ravenous dog who like he just tortured and not allowed eat for a long time. That's how a lot of people live in the world. And again, there's two variables that come into determining how fat you are primarily. One is food noise, one is conscientious. So if we just end the food noise, some people will still be overweight even if they're on a zempo because they're like, whatever, just Reese's cups and enough Reese's cups can defeat any amount of pharmacology so far. For those people, all those discussions about like, hey, they could be more diligent. You should be planning. Yeah, they're all still valid. But if we can just remove one impediment, amazing. People come at this for morality. You have to earn your keep. Now, I'm in sport competition. Yeah, value it's cheating. Now, I'm not even in competition and I'll test for drugs at all. It's not cheating at all. But people take this morality, this cheating stuff and they put it out in the real world. But do you think it should be, I've talked about this before, in cycling, a sport where they're very clear on what the rules are, no performance enhancing drugs. But to date, all of the performance enhancement has been on the generation of power, right, EPO to testosterone, things like that. But anybody who's ever written a bike knows it's half power, half weight. Cycle has spent a lot of time being hungry. Many of them do. Some of them don't. Uh, you also hear a total calorie expenditure throughout the week of superpastress. Sometimes you cyclists have trouble keeping up their weight. So you see all the whole range. But if there is a drug that solves a very big problem for you that makes you better and you're purporting to be a drug free federation, yes, you should be testing for it and it should be a band substance.

I would say 15 to 20% of our patients are on triseptotide. And unlike five years ago, when we started using some agglutide in patients, and we're just watching muscle fall off these people. And frankly, my point of view five years ago was, I don't know about these drugs. I think there's some benefit in some people, but I think there's a lot of downside. I today think that virtually anybody can use these drugs safely, but, and by safely, I don't just mean in the obvious sense of the word. I mean, safely for long-term muscle health as well, right? But it requires a ton of deliberate attention. So I'm glad you brought it up. That's this is exactly the group of people who you want to be using easy to digest protein sources. And if you're on triseptotide, you don't really want to stake. You don't really want to have a big chicken breast. You might not want to even have an omelet. But if we have to make sure you're hitting that 1.6, you might be doing a bunch of liquid shakes. And yeah, we can sit here and poop who processed food and say, how disgusting is it that people have to resort to eating shakes. OK, fine. But if the alternative is they're not getting enough protein and they're on a drug that is making them anorexic, I mean, we know we also know the downside of that. Well, the answer is clear, right? You don't want to be losing muscle mass, for sure. My point is, we do dexib before and after. We're not seeing the type of muscle loss we saw with our V1 approach to this. Right. What kind of dose are they on a higher dose? No, I mean, I think for, for triseptotide starts at 2.5. Some people are getting enough benefit there. The other thing that I think our approach has been is that slow and steady wins the race. So we've seen anecdotally some data. I've seen, I've heard from others. And we've seen it as well, that yo-yoing on and off these drugs is probably a bad idea. So I always tell a patient, look, I'd probably rather you were on 2.5 milligrams until there was a new drug that we felt was even better. Then you're on 10 milligrams. You lose a ton of weight. You come off. You gain. You go back on. You lose. Like this idea of being on a saw is probably a bad idea. I think the data suggest you're getting most of the value by about 10 milligrams. So once you go to 12.5 and 15, which are the two highest doses, you're still getting a benefit. But it's like most drugs. You're getting most of the benefit at the lowest dose. So five to 7.5 milligrams of trisepatitis, probably where you're getting the majority of the dose. And again, I'd much rather a patient be slow and steady on it and as opposed to try to go for maximum and rapid weight loss. What do you think about some of that data on heart issues or bone loss? Do you think it is that concern you at all? Sure. I think it all does. I mean, I think all of the stuff has to be paid attention to. And I think the question, again, comes back to how much of that is occurring due to training? How much of that is happening due to the loss of amino acid intake and the loss of training? Well, the neuropsychiatric, I mean, that's another one on the eyes. What I'm interested in is we have these GLP when receptors are like so many different tissues. So what, systemically, like, how is it beneficial? Was it not beneficial? I don't know that we really know. We have data where there's obviously positive effects. You see reduced Alzheimer's disease incidents with people taking this GLP one receptor agonist. But is that how much is that due to weight loss? Right? Yeah. We've looked into this a lot because I do remain, it's funny. We did a podcast on this somewhat recently where I went through this particular question, which is will GLP one receptor agonist ultimately prove to be geopolitical. And I came up with a very obscured way to define that, which is independent of weight loss. Because obviously at the macro level, they're going to be geopolitical because if you apply them to people with type 2 diabetes and significant obesity, and you correct the metabolic dysfunction, you're going to live longer. So by that regard, it's a geopolitical agent. But the real question is if you take a person who is of normal weight, who does not have type 2 diabetes, but maybe has a higher risk for Alzheimer's disease, and you microdose them. So you're giving them 2.5 milligrams per day, which, by the way, we are doing in some patients for metabolic condition without obesity. So we have patients who have diabetes, but are already at very low body weight. We have two patients actually in our practice in this regard. And after lots of detailed back and forth machination with Ralph DeFranza, who's a previous guest on the podcast, we sort of realized that at least one component of the drug regimen for these patients was going to be a GLP1 agonist. Now, it seemed very counterintuitive to give Trezzepatide to people who have a BMI of 23. But we've been able to do it without them losing weight. So again, very careful strategies around nutrition and the effect on their diabetes is profound. So they're looking more metabolically healthy. Oh my god, totally. I mean, these are really interesting cases that maybe at some point, obviously a D identified a way it would be interesting to talk about where you have OGTTs that are unrecognizable. You simply cannot believe the degree of metabolic dysfunction in a person who otherwise looks the way they look. And in one case in particular, it was so confusing that even after all the genetic testing we did, we simply couldn't figure out an answer for this. We couldn't understand where the beta cell fatigue was coming from absent a formal diagnosis of type 1 diabetes. And within three months of being on 2.5 milligrams of Trezzepatide, this individuals, OGTT had almost normalized and I suspect by about six months it will. That's fascinating. And we've managed to do this without any weight loss. So this to me is the interesting question, right? Which is when you look at some of the Alzheimer's biomarkers, which are improving significantly, it begs the question, should this be part of the playbook for an individual who's at high risk? Especially given that we now, I think really understand how to make sure people don't lose weight and don't lose lean mass. And therefore I suspect don't lose bone density and all these other things that matter. Or like you said, if you're doing this microdose, like maybe you're not going to be as satiated. Like you still have somewhat of an appetite because you're on such a low dose. Maybe you're going to have a little bit of a... We've also seen some other weird things anecdotally. Patients have told us that when they inject in the abdomen, so when you inject in the fat of the abdomen, the anti-basically the anorexic effects are greater than if you inject in the leg or butt. And we looked into this and there was some mechanistic data to suggest that maybe you're getting more vagal tone when you inject in the abdomen. Again, I just don't know if any of these things are correct. They would need to be studied. But again, that would be a very important piece of data. If there's a location you can inject this where you minimize the anorexic effect of the drug. Again, for some people, that would be a feature, not a bug. For some people, that would be a bug as opposed to a feature. So you have to understand how to use the tool.

The other thing I want to talk about is, another area where you have the great amount of expertise, and that is around head injury. About, oh gosh, 10 years ago, I had a friend that suffered a very significant head injury, writing a bike down the street, and a jogger bolted out between some parked cars, didn't notice him riding, and they hit head to head. You know, the jogger got the worst of it, because he was wearing a helmet, but nevertheless, they were both devastated by this. He was going about 40 kilometers an hour. She's sustained multiple fractures to her head, but he sustained a concussion that was so bad that basically he wasn't himself for about two years. He's more or less himself now. Can you explain what a concussion is? Even this, like the idea of what concussion is, is quite hotly debated. But in general, you would classify a concussion as a mild traumatic brain injury, with more severe traumatic brain injury, you might think of complete open skull fractures, and direct penetrating to trauma to the brain things like that. So this is, the skull remains intact, but there has been some transmission of force or a wave of blast wave, say if it's a blast injury, there's been transferred to the brain. Then, at some level, in order to have symptoms of a concussion, you have some kind of disturbance of neuronal function, and that can either be because of abrupt loss. So there are some significant head impacts in particular where you can get sharing of axons, direct axon injury of neurons, and then that cell is essentially, there's essentially lost as you sort of ripped it apart. But even more milder impacts may cause disturbances that include like the neuron firing when it shouldn't, this can then sort of create this pattern of activation, again, that's not expected or in an area, the brain where it's, you know, would normally occur in a way that it wouldn't normally occur, and then this can then cause these downstream processes within cells that can cause my condure damage swelling, you know, you then might see the accumulation of certain pathological proteins, so towers, it's like just like you see in Alzheimer's, dementia is also a response to neuronal injury in a concussion. I work with a neurosurgeon who's definition of concussion is any impact or force to the brain that causes the disturbance of function of one neuron. Unfortunately, that's not something that we can measure, because you probably need multiple or, you know, large sections of the brain to have an average function for you to be able to actually measure it or detect it. But, you know, those are the various processes that are going on when you get a head impact. So it could be as, as quote unquote, milder's just a headache for a few days following a head trauma, or it could be, you know, in the case of this friend of mine for a couple of years, light was, they had a lot of photo sensitivity, they had a lot of auditory sensitivity, they had difficulty, you know, processing things, they were much more irritable. How common are those types of, you know, more severe symptoms than just a headache for a few days after a hit to the head? So in reality, it's quite difficult to say how common things are because millions of concussions happen every year in the US alone, most of which probably go unreported. And so it's only when you see more significant symptoms, or, you know, something's, you know, is happening in front of a, so you're playing sport, it's happening in front of a doctor, you know, you get a formal assessment. And, you know, the downstream effects are varied, you know, can be around, you know, verbal effects, post-sensivity, noise sensitivity, effects of memory, focus, reaction time, you know, depending on how you're measuring things. And probably some of it is exactly which area of the brain was impacted. And then there's a systemic response aspect as well. So there are, you know, you can only really do this in animal studies, but parts of the process of, of the, the sort of the disease process, after traumatic brain injury is a systemic immune response that seems to sort of contribute to some of the symptoms. So, you know, how much of an inflammatory response you get, how much of a fever you get, that can then, you know, cause some issues throughout the brain as well. So what do we know about the short-term management of concussion and the long-term? And what is the relationship between concussion and a traumatic brain injury, which are terms that I think, both people are hearing. And of course, the term TBI in the past decade is sort of more front and center for people. I suspect in large part due to two things, right? Probably a greater understanding of TBI occurring in the battlefield, and also in at least one sport American football, though obviously it occurs in more than that. Yeah. So like I said, the concussion is generally considered within the, so all of these are TBI's traumatic brain injuries. Okay. Of, you know, various severities. A concussion is sometimes also known as a mild traumatic TBI, a mild traumatic brain injury, or M TBI. And then, and I think this is where probably most of our, you know, focus today will be on, because, you know, the more severe brain injuries, so say if you do have skull fractures or penetrating head trauma, or you have, you know, significant loss of consciousness that requires, you know, intensive care. It, that requires specialists in your surgical treatment that's, there's probably beyond what most people here will be thinking about. But if instead, you're thinking about concussions on the sports field or blast related or sub-concussive exposures, which might happen again in sports or in the military. And there's increasing evidence that says that sub-concussive impacts or blasts, so an example would be sniper fire, right? You essentially have a mini explosion happening right next to your head several times a day, right? If you're, if you're in the range practicing, and there's some evidence to suggest that even that over time, the damage can accumulate and cause issues with cognitive function. And there you call it sub-concussive because each individual one doesn't necessarily cause symptoms, but depending on how you define, concussion you may or may not get symptoms anyway, so there's kind of a gray area there. But, you know, each individual one wouldn't be able to detect it really, but the damage seems to accumulate over time. If you have a significant head impact, so say on the sports field, there's probably again where people are most familiar with it. There's probably two aspects that are worth separating, so there's the formal medical process, medical assessment that you should undergo, and there are people who made, you know, in multiple sports now, they may have some baseline cognitive testing, so that when you do get concussion, they retest you, they make sure that you get closer to your previous baseline before you're allowed to play against, so things like the impact assessment is often used in a sort of youth and college sports. And so there's that part, but then what I'm particularly interested in is how can we mitigate the effects of an impact initially like are there supplementation of other strategies that we can do to make the athlete, who's or somebody who's at high risk of concussions, more resilient to that impact, and other other things that we can do to support recovery or minimise the effect of the impact, so with the short term sort of post concussion management, there are two or three things that I think are particularly important. So the first is thermoregulation, and so which is basically managing normal body temperature. My PhD was actually looking at the effects of temperature on response to brain injury, and it's very clear that the hotter your brain gets after injury the worse you're outcome. Pretty much any type of brain injury, stroke, traumatic brain injury, you know, also these neonatal and pediatric brain injuries that I study. And we know that a lot of sports happen in heat stress environments, so you're on the field, you're hot already or you're out in the sun, and if experimentally, if you heat that brain up first, which happens during exercise, and then you have an impact in that brain stays hot, that can that seems to worsen outcomes. So getting somebody out of a heat stress environment, cooling them down if you need to, if you need to, and you can use external ways to do that, you can use things like tie-on, also help regulate body temperature. And that particularly becomes important because at some point a few hours later in inflammatory response is going to kick in, and it's very common to get fever. There's been a big, I mean, it's decades of what. How long does that, does the, does the, sort of power or potential of that intervention last? So if a person has a concussion, you know, at two o'clock on a Sunday afternoon, is should they be in an environment of taking Tylenol and cooling themselves off for the rest of the day, or something that would you'd want to carry out for a couple of days and just continue to run the clock Tylenol to keep, to prophylactically ward our fever? That's a great question, and it's something that the field probably still struggles with, but a period of 24 to 72 hours after the initial injury is probably the most critical. The, the most important thing is preventing fever, and the reason why the reason why fever causes issues is because you, you increase the mismatch between metabolic rate and capacity to produce energy to match them metabolism. So if you have my conjure dysfunction, you're basically increasing that gap in terms of required energy production, which then exacerbates the injury. So if you have it in for cooling, Tommy, so for example, and obviously as you know from your work, when you're doing certain types of heart surgery, you can actually cool the patient to 19 degrees Celsius, at least back when I was training that was the sweet spot. I don't know if what the temperature is today, but if you were, basically doing anything where you had to cross clamp the aorta and prevent cerebral profusion, you would, you would, you would cool the patient. And obviously that was very protective. So is there any evidence that someone sustaining a concussion should go beyond just getting out of the sun and taking Tylenol, but perhaps be laying down and be, you know, Bay, at least have their head covered in ice. So the, the short answer is no, there's no evidence for that. So that's the reason story to answer that question. So in animal models, and again, this is something that I've, I've published extensively on. Hiperthirmia is magic for acute brain injuries, right? If you can decrease core temperature by three to four degrees Celsius for, you know, three, you know, 24 hours and 72 hours after the injury, you get a significant reduction in in brain injury. One specific scenario, and that's acute, acute brain injury in babies that have some kind of issue around birth, third piece of hypothermia. So cooling to third, 3.5 degrees Celsius, called temperature for three days is the standard of care. It was brought into the resuscitation guidelines. And then they didn't take it. They do that just externally. They're not using ECMO or anything like this. No. So if, so some of those kids can go on ECMO, but that's because of respiratory failure. And you see, you can call on pump. But no, this is just an external cooling with a blanket. In models of TBI, it is similarly neuroprotective in animals. Huge bodies of work say that if you create a traumatic brain injury in an animal model and then call that animal down, they get decreased injury. Dozens of trials, billions of dollars have been spent trying to replicate this in humans, and it has not worked. And people thought the temperature wasn't right. The duration wasn't right. Obviously, in traumatic brain injury, we have a very heterogeneous population, maybe the population wasn't right. But in reality, there's no evidence that hypothermia works for concussions or any kind of traumatic brain injury. But what does seem to work is maintaining normal thermia. So basically, a core temperature, at or below 36.5 degrees Celsius, ideally. There are some people out there who will sell cool caps and things. I think I once spoke on a podcast and said what I just said. And somebody emailed me and was like, here's my unblinded open study of my cool cap in some hockey players that shows that it improves recovery from concussion. There is no high quality evidence that these things work. So particularly, because it's sternly cooling the brain, you're probably not going to get the brain cold enough to do it. So what you need to do is you would need to cool the blood going up into the brain. So yeah. But in reality, I don't think there's much evidence there. So focusing on preventing fever or managing fever, I think is very beneficial, but then active cooling below that doesn't seem to add anything. And these studies, they demonstrated, they were actually cooling the neck, they were demonstrating that they were achieving a significant reduction in brain temperature. So these external devices like cooling the neck in individuals with concussion that hasn't been shown to be beneficial when they've trialled hypothermia. Oh, I just mean, I was afraid that they actually demonstrate efficacy of cooling, not that it reduced no concussion, but did they show that they can cool the brain? No. So this is another issue is that particularly with mild external forms of cooling, how do you know the brain is actually going to cool them? And so sometimes in these studies, you may see, like particularly they're doing external cooling on the scalp, they'll do measure scalp temperature and say, well, the scalp is colder there for the brain as colder. That's not necessarily the case. So no, there isn't documented evidence that these things can directly significantly cool brain temperature. Yeah. So there's two problems, right? One is we don't know if we're even cooling the brain in these studies. And of course, therefore we don't know if cooling the brain would minimize or mitigate this risk. It could be the complexity of the human model and given our surface area relative to, finally, infants have a surface area amount that allows for easy external cooling. In fact, that's when challenges of taking care of pediatric patients is they're very susceptible in sensible losses in the way that adults are not. So here you're using it to your advantage. So that's very interesting. If it doesn't work, in other words, if we could be sure that those studies are indeed cooling the brain, but it is not having an impact, what is your explanation for the discordance between that and the pediatric and animal literature? So there are two potential things that the curd conceivably remain as our answer question. So one is that the majority of cooling studies, although this has been overcome in a lot of them, but the majority of cooling studies are probably not cooling soon enough. So there's actually a very narrow window, again, based on animal studies that says, in an acute brain injury, you basically need to start cooling therapy within six hours, but probably ideally within three hours of the injury. If you're running a clinical trial, this one has to be found, right? It's the same as doing thrombolitis in stroke, like trying to get it as soon as possible, is very difficult. So if you could immediately call, maybe that's part of the issue. The other issue, which is potential a little bit controversial, but I think is increasingly appreciated in the neonatal literature, is that when they did the original cooling trials, the control group were kept at 37 degrees Celsius and had a lot of fever. So it could be, or you mean the controls were managed with Tylenol and the thermoregulation to keep them at 37. No, so originally, they were, in those original cooling trials in neonates, the control group was hot. So if you look at a baby's normal temperature after their born, they don't immediately go to 37 degrees Celsius. They may never get there. They'll slowly warm up over a day or so. But in those trials, the control group were immediately warmed up to 37 and they also frequently had fever, and they weren't managing those fever. Because that was in the era where you're worried about the kids getting cold. So the reason you may have made the controls worse off in artificially treated a gap. Exactly. So in more modern cooling trials, they do targeted temperature management in the control group. So the control group is kept at 36.5 degrees Celsius core temperature. And then compared to that, the cooling group doesn't seem to have a benefit. So some of the effects in neonates may be due to a worsening about coming in the control group rather than benefit in the intervention group.

So if I recall, Jeff, the end of week one was when we do our story, right? Kind of depending on where you were in the order, but yet, it tends to be the last few days of week one. Talk about what the instruction set was for how, for each of us as we went off and prepared to do that. Well, the guidelines that we would typically give folks, again, we just, you know, we all, well, well, we always suggest that the clients, you know, write something out, bullet point it. And we'd ask that the story be told within the framework of the trauma tree. So, in these stories, don't need to be void of success and great moments. And if it wasn't for my grandfather and that stuff, but, you know, there's a thing we're here to focus on as well, right? So the what happened to me. And that we've been given the 45 minutes to tell your story. And we try to stay out of the way as much as possible, okay? Unless it's therapeutically necessary, you know, some folks, you know, not rescue would be the wrong word, but some folks need to, can get to go in down the rabbit hole of disregulation with their emotions and go in into detail. So that client may need a little help moving forward, right? Whereas another client may machine gun through a story, right? It's in that's ingenious too, right? Don't have to fill it if I don't stop and we might need to slow that client down, right? But the essence of the story again is just to tell the what happened to me. And then I think where the real magic can happen is during the feedback. Because as you get 45 minutes to use your mouth, and then we ask you to use your ears. And we ask folks to play by one more rule. And that is, please do not give feedback to the feedback. And then we're back to the control word, right? Because I've got this thing I'm ready to present perhaps I've presented at 10 times and I've got it written out or I've at least got bullet points. And I feel good about no problem. But you start telling me how you felt and what came up for you Peter when I was talking about my dad and what he did, I don't know how that's going to fill for me, right? And so and so many times, almost 100% of the time within the spirit of not giving feedback to feedback is feedback is, feedback is almost like equates to I'm going to throw some love on you. Okay? Like maybe I didn't have anything in the world coming with you, but when you talked about that thing at eight years old, I felt myself getting angry. And that's how somebody let somebody know, I was listening to you. I was there with you, right? And 90% of the time at least, when it's so hard for folks to not give to just sit there and let somebody share from the heart and to not give feedback to that feedback, right? And but so many times it's like, well, but my brother had it, my brother had it a lot worse. It just and it's like, and it's like, I just throw my hands down and I'm like, it happens almost that's why we do. It's like somebody throws some love on you. And it's almost like out of my shame in my wound in this, I need to remind that I'm a piece of shit. It had happened so often. So we're just like, you get to, you get to talk about it. I'm pretty afraid that cycle. It's very, very difficult. A lot of folks they think that change is about announcing what that they've been know what they're about to do. Right? I know this is going to sound code dependent. All right? Well, if you're firing on all pistons as a therapist, the response should be then don't say it. Right? Because there's enough muscle memory there. We need to practice the uncomfortable thing of not saying the thing you've been saying for years, not doing the same. I'm the last person to be black and white about many things. I think much of my work with clients individually in groups, what have you with human beings is finding the gray, right? And but I tell you, well, when it comes to compulsive behaviors, complex post traumatic stress, these things that we've been doing for years and decades, you're either eye myzer strengthening an old connection or I'm building the new one. You know? And so that's back to the when those clients say, what should I do when I leave this group room, do something different. And experience what it's like to do something different. And so many times, it's not doing something. All right? I mean, we've took the vacuum cleaner away from clients before. I mean, it's an ingenious damage control strategy. It's a safety map. I mean, it's like, it's written all over the walls. You know, we're here to talk about some deep stuff. And I'm finally going to be expected to talk about my stuff. All right? So, and we even encourage other clients to break rules. Some folks at the bridge, you know, might not like that, but it's like you need going that you need to go take some coffee into the morning meeting. Even a rule follow your whole life. Yeah, we were only allowed one coffee a day or something. Right. Yeah, first that's not much. What I understand is not the strongest coffee in the world.

How do we define health span? So if you look at the statistics, if you accept that 60% of Americans have at least one chronic disease, and the median age in the United States is 38 point something, and then you think about how long are people living on average? That would suggest if you say that, and again, this is what you're getting up the definition of health span. I would not define health span as ending once you have your first chronic disease, but that's the definition most people would use. If you use that definition, most people are spending three decades or more in the absence of health span, right? Or in six span. So, I mean, the situation is even in the United States where life expectancy is relatively short compared to other nations, a big chunk of that life expectancy is not spent in good health, and it's exactly for this reason. But the two different issues that are being confused here in the discussion. One is the issue of whether, you can help middle-aged people live longer, and everybody's agreed that we're getting better, that we're pretty good at it, and that certainly contributes to whatever you think health span might mean. That's an issue, however, that is quite different from what a concoction that slows aging to do so by extending health span. Those both have the word health span in them, but they're different, and shouldn't ever be confused with one another. The other point in this question, you ask us, what is the health span? My own personal answer to that is it's a useless term. That is because no one can define it. It's not because no one is smart, it's because the term itself is vacuous and nebulous. If you have somebody that gets a certain chronic disease here, and then another one, and then they fall down and bump their head, and by the way, they go to the hospital, and with COVID, et cetera, et cetera, defining when in that broads, over that 20 to 30 year period, they flick the switch, now they have gotten to the end of the health span is impossible. And of no interest, the general notion that people are interested in is whether that you can do stuff to keep people healthy for a long time, either without changing their life expectancy, or by changing their life, with changing their life, explosive, interesting. But you don't have to assign a number. But couldn't we get away because I agree with you completely. I don't like the medical definition of health span, which I believe is, quote, the period of time, in which an individual's free of disability and disease, I find that to be a very unhelpful definition. Because it, but part of the reason it's awful is it's binary. And that's, yes, silly. But if we made it analog instead of digital, right, and not saying that makes it easy, it's still very challenging. But now it allows us to start talking about things, right? Or is it, except it's a concept? It's a qualitative concept, right? I mean, I think we should try to make it to where we can't actually come up with a way to measure some, whether we call it health span or not, that doesn't really matter. But I kind of agree with rich. Like I agree with what you're saying, except, I think it's a really useful term as a concept. I think it's a really useful way to communicate to a broader audience what one of the goals is, right? Which is to increase the healthy period of life. Yeah, I kind of like the term health for that. I have a way that helps you out with your health. And you don't have to. See, maybe it's a function you can define it as a number. But there is a period of, I think we all could agree. There's a period of life where you are in relatively good health. And then there's a period of life where you aren't. And so I think the idea that we're trying to increase that component of life is really important. So I don't think we're actually disagreeing on much other than whether we like the word. I also think there's an individualization of this that we're missing. To me, health is a state of your physical being that you can do the things you like to do. And therefore, if you like to climb mountains, your health span is going to be different than if you like to play golf, for instance. And a lot of this is personal. You know, if you can't run a marathon anymore, some people will say, oh my health is, I'm going to never pay attention to the mental health piece. At least the biologist. So it's just a question. What is my health span? I would only be able to ask you that. Well, yeah. So we do this exercise, guys, because I completely agree with you. Steve, we call it the marginal decade exercise. OK. So we say to everyone of our patients, and I write about this a lot in the book, right? Everyone will have a marginal decade, which I define as the last decade of your life. So obviously, by definition, everyone has a marginal decade. Most people do not realize the day they enter it. But most people have a pretty good sense when they're in it. Right? OK. So the exercise we do is we go through with the patient, and we say, what are the things that are most important to you to be able to do in your marginal decade? And they generally fall into three buckets with a sub bucket. Physical, cognitive, emotional, social. The physical bucket we kind of divide into activities of daily living and recreational activities. So that's where, again, most people obviously into it, that boy, I would really not be happy if I couldn't take care of myself. If I couldn't get out of bed, get dressed, shave, cook. Like that would be disappointing to me. But then, of course, you have different levels of ambition within the recreational side. And yeah, I've got patients who say, when the day comes that I can't helly-ski, I'm going to be devastated. And other people are like, I just want to be able to garden. So that's going to create a very different standard. On the cognitive side, you have people who say, I want to be able to run my hedge fund and still make money and make really important investment decisions. And other people are like, I want to be able to do crossword puzzles and read the newspaper. And that's my standard. And again, we can go to, I don't know. So this is why it's very, I agree to it. You can't define it, but it doesn't mean we shouldn't try to personalize it.

Let's talk a little bit about brain computer interface. There's this large and growing field that we call neural engineering. That is really trying to use computers, sensors, chips in order to interpret, even stop on how the neurons are signaling to each other. Regardless of their pathology or the biology, but just what are they saying to one another? Can we eavesdrop on that? Can we interpret it? Can we decode it? And then more importantly, can we use that information actually to guide, you know, sort of more normal signaling? Why this is potentially important is that at the end of the day, the function is from that electrical activity. It's the propagation of those action potential binorons, which give rise to our thoughts or ability to communicate our ability to walk, move our arm, without that, it's not there. So I would say neural engineering as a complement to the biological or pharmaceutical approaches. How would you explain this to somebody at a party if they said, but it sounds pretty high-tech, but what is it? Okay. Well, okay, so let's just break apart the terms. Brain refers to really any kind of thing that interfaces with the cortex or the deeper structures. The computer is a digital device on the outside. A lot of people now call this BCI, brain computer, and face it for short. It's a very messy term because it could mean a lot of different things. But I think at a nutshell, what it means is for most people, a system that is recording from the brain, whether it's non-abacive from the scalp or something that's fully invasive, like within the brain itself, and connecting those signals to a computer that analyzes the signal and then does something with it. In many cases of BCI research, the application is, for example, to remove a computer cursor, or in the research that we've done, is to replace speech words for someone who's severely paralyzed and unable to talk anymore. So it's about interpreting brain signals and then using a computer to interpret those signals and then transform them into a form that's useful to us. So in that example, you gave your describing a patient with a phasia who can't speak. Let me be very specific about that. So a lot of the work that we've done is on people that have severe form of paralysis. And phasia, we typically refer to someone who's got, let's say, a stroke in the language centers of the brain, where we've focused recently is on patients that have a severe form of paralysis like ALS. So their problem is they have largely normal language, but they can't get those. So they can't get the motor signal out to the vocal tract, the lips, the tone, the jaw, the larynx, those descending fibers are severely affected by ALS, they degenerate. And that's why people progressively become paralyzed and loseability to speak. And an important part of that is that they loseability to speak, but they still have full cognition. Yeah. And for that individual, by attaching a computer to their brain, you're able to hopefully extract in written cursive text, whatever across the computer screen, what they're wishing to say, that's right. Okay, let's talk about how that could possibly be done. You mentioned earlier, at least two broad ways to extract that information, a non-invasive way where, presumably, you're putting electrodes all over a head that's as well as shorn as mine. Alternatively, a very invasive way where you actually remove the scalp and you lay these things on the cortex itself, correct? Yeah. So the range would be EEG, which is where sensors are placed on the scalp directly, recording non-invasively. You can remove them at any time. And then the far other extreme is electrodes that are actually placed into the brain, the most EEG. ECOG would be electrodes that are on the brain service. That's short for electrocordicography. And that's where we've done the vast majority of our work in my lab. And that's just placed on the surface of the cortex, under the dura on the cortex. That's absolutely correct. Yeah. Okay. So what's nice about that is that you don't have the injury to the brain itself from the insertion of the electrodes. It's a stable recording over time. We now use ECOG devices to essentially help people with seizures, for example, where you can basically have a pacemaker now that records from the brain service and stimulates to help stop the seizures. And this is a fully implanted device? It's moving towards that. So the work that we've done in our clinical trial is using an array that's surgically placed, but connected through a port. We call it a perky canus port because it's actually physically attached an anchor to the skull. It's an array on the brain. It comes out the dura and is anchored in the skull. And there's a port exit the body? Right on the top of the scalp. How do you prevent infection with such a close? Yeah. It's a really good question. And that's what the main problem with this early prototype BCI. And it's our group. There's other groups around the world that are using similar things primarily to show if, you know, it's possible actually to decode brain activity useful purposes. So what's happening right now in the field is a lot of these technologies are now going to become wireless over time. But you're absolutely right. One of the main reasons is that we want to move away from the perky tenious. We want to move away from the ports which are infection risk on top of other problems. And move to things that are fully implanted for a global, fully wireless. How long do you want to do your away from that? Basically about a year. We've been working on it for quite some time. And so it's a really interesting time where we're seeing a convergence of what's possible with electrical engineering. You know, high bandwidth wireless, press a way beyond what we can do with Bluetooth. It's an advanced electronics that now allows to print some of these sensors on a substrate that is thinner than a piece of paper. Really, really small. And on a substrate that can conform to the convolutions, you know, the different peaks and valleys of the, you know, human cortical surface. So what is the tradeoff between ECOG and sensors inserted directly in the brain? Yeah. What's the resolution difference? Well, that's a very important question that we and many other people are trying to figure out right now. Most of the time when people are putting an electrode into the brain, there has to be some gain for that. And usually that's for recording a higher resolution, usually trying to record the activity of single neurons. A single cell. How can you isolate a single cell? Yeah, really small electrodes. Super small electrodes. And that's, we do a lot of work with this in our research. The challenge for the field has just been that it's very hard to stable it record from single cells more than a couple of hours or days. So that's one challenge. The other prop challenge is that when you put the electrodes into the brain, it can create a reaction. Those glial cells, so we talked about the very beginning, those support cells, they actually have immune function as well. They detect that there is a foreign body and they'll activate and they'll react to it, create a scar around the electrodes. So the advantage of having electrodes in the brain to do this very microscopic kind of recording is that you can get a finer signal from single cells. The disadvantage is that it can create a reaction that reduces the fidelity of those signals over time. One of the reasons we've been most interested in using these sensors on the brain cortex is that we've learned over time that if you don't have the electrodes penetrating through the peel surface of the cortex, that's the outermost very thin membrane that's covering the cortex. If you don't have anything going through that, you can avoid a lot of those immune reactions, avoid a lot of that's going, preserve the function that's underlying. But this is something that we're actively trying to understand. So just to give me a sense of magnitude, if EEG on the surface is one, one unit of resolution, what would ECOGB and what would implant an electrode be? Is it one, ten, hundred, what's the scale at your thinking of resolution? Well, I would say from the scalp, let's say we just are particularly called that one. You know, and then you think about what you could do with the ECOGB. I think we're really talking about, let's say, you know, a thousand times better resolution. We've been able to answer very fundamental questions, actually, about how the brain works using those kind of surface recordings in a way that's impossible with surface scalp electrodes. Wow. And then once you go take that further to single neurons and you've got another resolution, probably six to five, five thousand. So there is a big jump is just going from an EEG to an ECOG. Correctly. That's a three log change, whereas you're a five X change going. Right. And so one of the reasons for that is the skull and the scalp are a major loss of signal. The signals are small to begin with. So once you're trying to interpret them through the skull of scalp, they're basically gone and very diffuse too. So trying to understand where they came from in any precise ways, almost impossible. When you're recording directly on the surface, you're basically at the source itself. The cellular level, the single cell recordings are terrific for trying to understand that ultra-fine resolution primarily in the case that we use some force for research, primarily to understand what's happening at those units. But still to this day, there's really no way that you can chronically instaably record from the same cells, you know, over the same reaction. Also because of how fine of a problem it is, like how precise it has to be, we're talking about a single cell, you know, a couple of microns, and diameter, you've got a electrode, any micromotion at all, anything changes that. And so typically what we see with a lot of those systems that record from those is there's a lot of turnover from day to day or hour down, meaning you're drifting between which neuron you're recording in. That's exactly right. Yes. Does that imply then that, I mean, just taking a step back, you said 82 billion neurons in our brain. So you put the probe into one and it moves over to the next one and the next one and the next one. One, like me would naively assume, they're all the same. Like, you know, those are like three row homes that are basically all identical on the upper west side. Like, that's, we're not talking about trybacker here. Does it really matter if the probe moves between those three? Sounds like the answer is yes, but I'm curious to hear. The answer is yes. And because we now know that, you know, cells that are right next to each other can have some very different information. Now that being said when you go through a column of the cortex, the column is this vertical organization, typically what we were thinking about when we look at is the two dimension of the surface. But there's a third dimension of the information processing which is the different layers of the cortex that we call the lamina. And typically in some of the sensor areas, for example, if you put a electrode, it's primarily going to be tuned to the same information across those different neurons across that depth. So you're right. In certain areas, you may have neurons that are tuned to the exact identical thing. And for decoding purposes, that may actually not be a big deal to have it not, you know, not very stationary over time. In other instances where you're trying to code for areas where it's a lot more intermix, it could have really profound implications where you have to recalibrate the algorithms that the machine is doing to interpret the signals, you know, every couple of hours or days. So when you do ECOG, how do you direct the sensor at the part of the brain you want to go to? Because I assume it has to be far more nuanced than just where you slap it on the cortex. Yeah, we're definitely getting into details and I love that Peter. You're not afraid of getting into the details. And so this is one of the actually the elutes to one of the things we were talking about earlier. The part of my brain and the part of your brain that is responsible for speaking, especially in the motor control part, is largely the same. It's in the same ballpark. There's a lot of variation when we come down to the details. The micro geography. But it's in the same, it's like largely in the same city, if we're talking about geography. Where your house is for my house, et cetera, that's going to be a little bit varied within that. One of the nice features about using ECOG or electrocordography is that you can put an array over that entire area safely. And you can sample very, very densely across the other, you know, across the entire city. Let's say. And so it doesn't really matter actually at the end of the day, if one person's there that seems to actually be a feature, not a bug, right? Absolutely. The bug is you give up the resolution at what's happening in the kitchen of that house. But you now get to look at all the houses. Exactly. And you get to do in a way that's very safe and scalable. And you're only, I mean, the biggest thing you give up is 20 percent. You give up 80 percent of the resolution roughly. But yeah. So with ECOG, tell me how many words per minute you could capture from a patient with ALS. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcasts summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today. A Peter Atia MD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

And you two live in this world. I would say I'm adjacent to the world, but I don't live in it. And most people aren't even adjacent to it. So death is a really foreign thing. The reason I suspect that this can gets kicked down the road so much. So much in fact, that after all the can kicking people get to the end of their life, there's no road and there's just a pile of cans. So what is it culturally that prevents us from talking about this when we're 50, when we're 60, when we're 70? When we're 70. Yeah, like why is it because it's it's become such a, I don't know if I want to say it's a black box. I don't want to say it's a mystery, but, but it's just something that we don't want to talk about. And as such, I really believe that that's why we get to that three, we okay, fine, we're pulling the plug. It's three weeks and you fall off a cliff kind of thing. Do we know anything about other cultures? You know, do we know how is it in Japan? How is it in Europe? How is it in, in other parts of the world? Do we know anything about how, at the end of life functions there? A little bit culturally, there's a lot to study. I mean, often be so fun to take a couple of years and really study the anthropology around and which cultures, cultures do this differently. We've been dying a long time. You know, so, but one thing I think is a great skill. Yeah. Yeah. We're doing good. You will definitely do it. Yeah. I think you will not fail. You promise you. So, and I think what you're calling attention to, there's the culture. So, I scan an avian cultures. Japan, a place that generates its elders, you know, and aging and dying are different. But they bump into each other a lot. So, I, my armchair read on say, life in Japan, where the comfort of being in old skin might be a different experience. But there, you're still left with the sort of natural phenomenon, cultural phenomenon of aging, bumping into this healthcare system idea. And that is the cognitive dissonance. We have these systems that are engineered and wired in such a way that are so at odds with mother nature on some level. And so, blind to cultural issues in the name of science, and so many sort of reductive ways, that I think it's still, if you were in Japan, I think you'd still find a healthcare system that struggles with this question, even as the culture maybe doesn't as much. Similar probably in Scandinavia. But I think in those places, I know in the Scandinavian model, you will, one of the things that comes up for people than of life is other living issues like housing, like, you know, your relationships, they're still there. So, we, one of the things that makes dying harder in this country is the social determinants of health and society are not carefree. So, you still have your housing issues when you're trying to die. You still got billpaying things that are, you know, that's the stuff that makes dying extraordinarily hard in some cases, or in many cases. So, you're saying that the lower, the wider net of the social safety net here compared to a country like Canada or Japan presumably, just adds one more stressor to an already stressful situation. Largely, in any one sense doesn't do it just as, because as you said, the healthcare systems, these places, they can also do amazing work. And so, I don't want to just blindly categorically denigrate a healthcare system in any country. There's some good things happen, but it is such a mixed bag. And as many problems as it solves, it creates some other ones, especially around issues that people are struggling to look at. To your point still holds, like, that we do have a problem in why Bridget and I came this far, science to see or smiling face. But to talk about this in such a way that allows an audience, as large as yours, to begin to think about this before it's sort of too late. This is, I think, all of our work as citizens to begin to rope this part of reality into our view, so that we can prepare ourselves for it. And we can live with these realities and not be so surprised by the fact that we die someday. In part is so that we learn how to advocate for ourselves. Versus, yeah, I'd love to see our health system mature around these issues and we'll continue to work on that or towards that. But I think the bigger note for your audience is what can each of us do to prepare ourselves in ways that the health system is not. In some ways, you're going to have to say, no, to health. Got to die well in this country at some point. You have to kind of have to say, no, thanks to medicine. One thing your audience needs to appreciate and why advanced directives are so helpful. For example, is the system is what it is, it is by the default modes of our health care system would be just do more stuff, prop your body of anything to give you a pulse. Unless you've written or stated otherwise, we're going to just try to protect you having a pulse. Most of us don't equate having a pulse with actually really being alive. And that becomes a problem at some point. We in this sort of carnival where we can really prop up a body almost indefinitely. So it becomes a, you have to find a way to say no to that and unwind what that hospital can do. You have to get out of the way of that to die peacefully in this country. Does that make some sense? No, no, I mean, it makes so much sense. And as you're saying it, I'm just reflecting on the internal struggle that I think most nurses and doctors experience. And I, we don't talk about it much, but I remember during residency, the pride that I took in how heroic we could be, what we could do for a patient in the ICU. Like how many central lines I could put in you and how I could look at all the different cultures and figure out the five antibiotics you need and how good I was at managing your dialysis and getting that CVVHD to manage the pressure and this and that and how I could alter the aerotic inter-aortic balloon pump to just keep your, like we were, there is such a sense of awesomeness in like this technology. It is awesome. But then you take a step back and you're thinking, what am I doing? What am I doing? This is a physiological experiment. It's not a life anymore. And you would say, well, is there a chance that this person is going to recover? Well, of course, there's always a chance, but how big does that chance need to be for the expected outcome to justify what you're doing? And there's two ways to answer this question. The first is economically. That's an easier way to answer it because expected outcomes are probabilities. It's what is the expected outcome of this survival multiplied by the cost of this intervention. And take the dot product of those. You add them all up. There's the cost of your health care system with respect to end of life care. Let's put that aside. There's the human one. There's the how many people are spending their last weeks or months in an ICU where they are, for on-tents and purposes, no longer there. Because the amount of sedation you have to put on a person to keep them in that state is extreme. They're now swelling into a Michelin man. And is this what we want their families final memories to be? That's something I, you know, something I, as you're talking, I just like feel, I have such a visceral memories of, you know, sitting in those family meetings in the ICU where the person the bed is unrecognizable. And, you know, the expectation that physicians and nurses and social workers and spiritual, you know, that the healthcare teams are, they should be able to have all of that expertise knowledge, you know, not all of it. Just some of the expertise knowledge that you just outlined. And then also the very nuanced interpersonal capacity to with a relative stranger asks some of the biggest philosophical questions in a moment of crisis. I mean, that is like, in some ways, beyond human expectation of physicians, which is where the, and many do it, I mean, just like with profound grace and beauty, even when it really doesn't feel like it to them. But that's where sort of like the consumer side or the patient side is like, you know, come in, having wrestled with it, not because you were given a diagnosis of a serious illness, but because we all do die and that, and that kind of gets back to your original question, like, this is hard because it's kind of impossible to imagine not existing anymore. To actually psychologically spiritually philosophically grapple with like, I'm here and I won't be. And my children are here and they won't be, and my spouse is here and they won't be. And maybe I can kind of wrap my head around that being true for my grandparents, maybe, and then my, you know, it's, it, like, this is a fundamental sort of contemplation of being human. And, you know, it's a good muscle, good. It's a, it's a life-giving muscle, I think, to start to flex when you are healthy. When you feel good, when you're like, it is actually true that I don't know when I'm going to die. It could be because I'm hit by a basic could be from some unexpected instantaneous physiologic thing or it could be some process when I'm 85, like, we don't know. And collectively, we have a hard time talking about and being in spaces together when fundamentally we don't know. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

You know, what is the consequence of poor bone health? What is the consequence of low bone density? I think, you know, some people are, who will be listening to this, will have already known issues of bone density and some people have never thought about this before in their life. And so, you know, what would you say to those people on why they should care about this and why they should think about it? This is one of those things that I would say five years ago, I was not paying nearly as much attention to as I am today. And I think the easiest way to show this is, I put a couple of figures here. So can you pull up figure one neck? Okay, so this is a figure that we made an internal analysis, but it's a very straightforward analysis. All we've done is taken data from the CDC database from 2019. The reason we used 2019 is by the time you have the 2020, you start to get some COVID data mixed in there. Although the accidental stuff only changes and that you see a higher rate of overdose. So you're looking at the absolute number of deaths by decade for people aged 25 to 35, although we up to 85 and up. And we basically break accidental deaths into four categories. So overdoses, transportation accidents, which are mostly car accidents, falls and everything else. As you can see, those first three, accidental overdose, transport deaths and falls represent virtually all accidental deaths. So you can almost ignore everything else. This is the absolute numbers. These are total numbers. And I think kind of two things stand out here. Really clearly, the first is that four people, younger than 60 overdoses are the predominant cause of accidental death. And for people over 65, falling is. But if you go to the next figure, it tells I think a more important story, which is when you adjust for the population, because remember, in figure one, what I'm showing you is total number of deaths. But what you don't realize is that as you move left to right, the denominator, the population is getting smaller and smaller and smaller. There are fewer and fewer people in each bucket as you go to the right. So to correct for that, we would ask the question, which is how many of these deaths per 100,000 people occur in each group. And if you look at that figure, I think the story is readily apparent, which is, but the time you're 75, the risk of death from a fall is enormous. Now, it's not as high as Alzheimer's disease, it's not as high as cancer, and it's not as high as heart disease. But it comes in pretty much just after that. So this is what sets the stage. Because on the one hand, I think you can look at these data and say, wow, this is really problematic. But the other point is, you can't wait until you're in that bucket to decide you're going to do something about it. So just as for atherosclerosis, we don't want to wait until we've had our first heart attack to say, oh, and I really need to worry about my APOB, and maybe I should stop smoking and make sure my blood pressure is okay. You don't want to wait until you have osteopeenia or osteoporosis in your 60 years old to say, it's time to do something about this. Now, if you're there, there's lots to do about it. But it's just as important if you're 25 years old, and frankly, it's just as important as a parent, if you're thinking about what your five-year-old and 10-year-old and 15-year-old should be doing, to make sure that they're setting themselves up for the best outcomes possible, as they age, of course. Okay, so let's look at figure three now, because so what you're looking at here is the excess mortality for women, which is shown in the top, men, which is shown in the bottom, following a hip fracture, and this is going to come up over and over again. We're going to get into some data about what are the fractures that really end lives, and you're going to see it's primarily hip fractures. A pelvic fracture, I think, is probably second, and again, in part this results from the immobility that comes after it, but I think there are some other reasons that play there. But so what we're looking at here on the top graph is women, following a hip fracture, men, following a hip fracture, and you're looking at mortality as a function of age. Now, this is kind of staggering. I mean, when I first saw this, I couldn't believe it. And I apologize for people who are only listening to this podcast. Again, this is one of those podcasts where I think it really helps to be able to see the figures. I'll do my best to kind of explain what the figures show. But for those who are looking at it, I don't think you need me to say anything. So you can just plug your ears and go, la, la, la, la, la, as I explain this, because there's nothing I need to say if you can read this graph. So if you're 90 years old or above, and you're a man, and you have a hip fracture, in this data set, and we're going to talk about other data sets in a moment. 40% actually more than 40% of you will be dead within a year. Now, that mortality comes down. That's generally the case. The mortality tends to come down because there's kind of a survival benefit. Or there's fewer people in that group, right? So, you know, what's the mortality of people who are 90 over the next 10 years that numbers going down because most of them have already died? You can see for the younger demographics, the numbers go up. So, you know, the good news is in this cohort, at least if you're 70 years old and you break your hip, you know, 10% of those people are gonna be dead in three years, but that number just keeps going up and up and up. So I think the important thing here from this data set because we're gonna look at another one in a second, I think is more stark. In this data set, what you realize is that for older people, people over the age of 85, people over the age of 80, which I would argue is not really that old. I mean, I think most of us, you know, listening to this podcast, if we're not that age, certainly have aspirations to be that age, your mortality is, you know, in the neighborhood of a third within a year after a hip fracture. So, you know, you know, Nick, we're gonna have Michael Easter on the podcast coming up soon, aren't we? Like I think we're having Michael, I mean, I know we do the interview next month, so that'll come out soon, right? Yeah, that will come out mid-Summer probably. Yeah, so for those who aren't familiar with Michael's work, he wrote a book called The Comfort Crisis, which I'm gonna say is probably, you know, one of the 10 books that I'll sort of force down most people's throats if given the chance. I think it's a really important book. And it'll, a topic from that book will actually come up later in this episode, Nick, when we start to talk about exercise and what we can do to reduce the loss of bone mineral density as we age. But in the book, he makes some references to a few studies that I went back and looked at, that talk about some of the unbelievable high mortalities in other fractions. So, so if you look at another study, study had like about 200 people in it. It looked at the six month mortality in people who were 65 or older who fractured their hip. And the mortality was 25%. Again, I wanna repeat what the implication of that is. So, if you look at a group of people who are 65 years old or older, who fractured their hip falling, 25% of those people will be dead in six months. Now, obviously, when you include younger people, that mortality goes way down. So, if they lowered the threshold in that study to people 50 and older, that mortality came down to just under 14%. Another study which was a finished study that looked at a little over 400 conceptive hip fractures in patients found that the one year postoperative mortality was just over 27%. So, again, totally different patient population, but identified and buzz weight of a country, very similar trend. And I think perhaps the most rigorous of these studies was a large study that looked at about 120,000 participants who were at least 60 years old from various cohorts. So, Europe, the US, et cetera. Followed them for 12 or 13 years on average. And during that time, found 4200 hip fractures. This study was able to then compare total mortality and look at the hazard ratio in the first year following the hip fracture. So, now this is asking the question, what is the probability or what is the increased risk of death one year following the hip fracture in this patient population? Again, these are people enrolled at the age of 60 or beyond. And the hazard ratio is 2.78. So, again, what does that mean? 2.78 means a 178% increase in the risk of mortality within one year following a hip fracture. There are lots of studies like this. I don't think we need to spend the rest of the AMA on it. I think regardless of how you slice and dice these data, a hip fracture is a devastating outcome. And it's something that we really wanna avoid at any age, but especially when we're into our seventh decade and beyond. Just for reference, what's the hazard ratio for smoking again? The hazard ratio for smoking on all cause mortality is less than 2.78 for sure, because the hazard ratio for end stage renal disease is about 2.76 for all cause mortality. Smoking is probably just below two. So, great, great point, Nick. This has a greater mortality than smoking. Yeah, not the other really interesting thing when you look at that. Those two graphs is I would love to do a study on the people who were over 90 when they fractured their hip and survived at 10 years. You know, who are those people in their hundreds? Just like kicking around, still going strong. It'd be really interesting to see. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles, packed with actionable insights, you'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

Do you want to talk about the history of HRT? I mean, you know, it was a largely normal practice in the 1960s. They, you know, certainly had some fits and starts, right? They initially were just replacing estrogen. Um, figured out pretty quickly. I mean, within a few years that if you only gave a woman estrogen, you were going to run the risk of endometrial cancer going up because the endometrial lining just continued to get bigger and bigger and bigger and you eventually developed hyperplasia, which presumably became metaplasia and ultimately cancer. They figured out pretty quickly how to combat that. If you've just opposed the estrogen with progesterone, you keep the endometrial lining in check. And this largely became the, um, the standard of care through the 1980s, uh, and into the 1990s. And this was largely validated by epidemiologic, uh, observations, which showed that women who took hormones did significantly better. Now, people who listen to this podcast are well aware of how critical I am of epidemiology. And it's certainly very easy to make the case that in the 1980s, women who were taking hormones had a healthy user bias, right? These are women that probably had better access to health care. They were probably more health conscious. And as a result, they were probably doing many more things to improve the quality of their health. So the NIH did something that I think made a lot of sense. It was the right thing to do, which was they said, look, we can't rely on this epidemiology. We need to do a randomized control trial. And they did it through something called the Women's Health Initiative, which had two components, a nutritional component that was asking a question about low fat diets and then, um, a component that was looking at the HR team. So, um, would you like to pick up the story as to how the study was designed? Maybe talk about some of the, the potential pitfalls of it. And ultimately, how the results of that have been misunderstood and misinterpreted for so long? The fact of the story hasn't been made into a Hollywood biopic mega drama. I don't know, right? This is a big deal, a billion dollars of our resources went into doing this study. There are many things that we learned that were helpful and useful and this huge set of data that we're still using today to extrapolate information from and there was a lot of good that came from it. But there was a lot of misinformation and just really bad marketing or really effective marketing, you could argue because what is so wild, Peter, is that when this study came out and they did a press conference. Okay, before the study was published, they did a press conference. Have you ever seen the NIH to a press conference? Matt Lauer talked about or that was made it on you, you know, like good morning America. Like they did a press conference. I remember I was in medical school at the time. Like I remember sort of all, you know, this happening. And they said, okay, this, we had to stop the study early. It is increasing the risk of breast cancer and increasing the risk of blood clots and cardiovascular disease. And we have to stop the study. And everybody, this, there's different statistics out there. The people say about 40% maybe of women were on hormone therapy at the time overnight, it went, it crashed in nothing. You're talking billions of dollars of an industry went to nothing. And the people who are prescribing the hormone therapy were like, this doesn't make any sense. I do this. I've been doing this for 20 years, 30 years. I don't have a clinic full of people who are dying of blood clots or heart attacks or who get breast cancer. Like this is not my clinic, whose clinic is this. And then over the years, you know, then they published the paper and as we talked about or, you know, before we did this podcast is that they misinterpreted the data so drastically and scared everybody so with so much fear that you actually have an entire generation that has forgotten how to prescribe hormone therapy. And this is where the nightmare that we're living in today because now we realize that the data was misinterpreted. So if we talk about, and again, and the WHI was one medication, one dose, that's it. And it was a sort of birth control pill style kind of hormone therapy. So a synthetic estrogen and a progestin, it was not sort of the, what we call, you know, more, and we can talk about the marketing term bio identical. But the FDA proof products that we use today, like Estridile and progesterone, they're different medications that we use today. And so you're talking one medication, one dose. And we are still practicing fear-based medicine. 30 years later, whatever it is, saying like, like, like, we don't practice any other medicine like this. Well, there was one study about surgery, 30 years ago and that's the way we practice medicine. Right? We evolve. We learn new things. So what it is, show. Let's talk about the good. When you took estrogen and progestin or estrogen alone, you had a decrease risk of colon cancer, but decrease risk of fractures, like significant decrease of fractures. Decrease of diabetes. Okay, that seems like a good thing. Those things like all good things. This is in the hormones we don't even really prescribe anymore, right? We saw a decrease in overall mortality, a decrease in cancer specific mortality. And then when you looked at the cardiovascular data over time, and again, I'm a urologist, I'm not a heart expert, but you saw there was actually no difference. Right? It actually wasn't so scary. Now as you get older, we know birth control pills can cause blood clots. So we do worry about giving a birth control pill to grandma because you can increase blood clots. Right? That's true. I agree with that. When it comes to breast cancer, the most fascinating data that didn't make the press conference, women who are on the estrogen alone. So they didn't have a uterus, so they didn't need the progestin therapy. Had a decrease risk of getting and dying from breast cancer. Right? And the new estrogen was never this, even in that study that put the box labeling on all the products, it's not true. Right? The estrogen and the progestin groups, there was a fear that there was an increased risk of incidence, but not mortality from breast cancer. And even when you look at that data, there is questioning of the fact that the placebo group actually was more protected by breast cancer because many of them had been on hormones in the past. And when you use a correct placebo group, the lines actually go together. And so you're more of a statistics nerd than I am, but the reality is there was no difference. And so we scared an entire generation of people away from hormones because of a bad misinterpretation of statistics. So Rachel, I don't know how good you are at sensing a person's blood pressure from across the room, but if you were able to sort of project your vision into my carotid artery, I see a bulgogi. Yeah, you'd notice that my blood pressure is up. I'm probably at 180 over 120 right now. First off, I think that was a remarkable succinct summation of the WHOI. I'm only going to repeat a few things. Bec, not because I didn't think you did a great job, you did, but because sometimes hearing it twice highlights the agregisiness of this study. Shout it from every rooftop you can find. And truthfully, I have friends, female friends, and I have patients who to this day are paranoid about hormones. And I just, I want to offer yet another opportunity for them to sort of understand what's going on. So this was a study that had, you know, two parallel arms, right? One, where women without a uterus were just randomized to either this synthetic or equine-based estrogen versus a placebo. And then one, where if you had a uterus, you got MPA, a synthetic progesterone, and the estrogen. As you pointed out, the elephant in the room here was the one finding that got all of the attention was that in the women with uterus group, if you got the synthetic progesterone and estrogen, you had an increase in your incidence of breast cancer. It turned out it didn't actually lead to any change in mortality from breast cancer, but there was an increase in the incidence. Now, the number is really scary if it's given in relative terms. It was a 24% increase in the incidence for the listener, meaning getting breast cancer, right? So you had a 24% higher chance of getting breast cancer if you took the two hormones. On the surface, that sounds devastating. But again, as people who lose some of this podcast know, we always need to think in terms of absolute risk. And relative risk doesn't mean that much if you don't understand absolute risk. So if I said to you, Rachel, I have a treatment for you that is going to fix a hundred problems, but it increases your risk by 100% of getting hit by an asteroid. Would you take the medicine or not? Well, you'd have to know what your base level risk of getting hit by an asteroid is. And given that it's almost zero doubling it doesn't mean anything, right? So the absolute risk increase for these women was 0.1%. So to put that in less technical terms, it meant that you will even if you believe the results of that study and you've offered a great explanation for why the actual results should be questioned. But even if you take them at face value, for every one thousand women who were put on HRT, an additional one got breast cancer, though she didn't die from it at any increase rate to the women who didn't get the hormone. This to me is, and I'd like you to push back on this, although I'm worried you won't be able to because you share my bias. This is the greatest injustice imposed by the modern medical system in our lifetime. You are not going to get pushed back from me on that. I think women's, I think that... This is a disaster. I just got back yesterday from teaching at the largest internal medicine conference, ACP, the American College of Physicians, and you're talking more than 20,000 internal medicine physicians. I was asked what a wonderful thing I was asked to give a course on female sexual dysfunction, it was wonderful. I talked a lot about menopause. There was no other menopause content at this course. There was no courses, how to prescribe. Given everything you've done, my colleagues and myself have done to bring it into sort of just popularity. Patients are coming in, asking questions, and there wasn't even a course to learn. I can't say that's true for GLP ones, or any of these lipid lowering agents or all of the things that you've been pushing. The problem is you now have a, you have a brain drain, I think, because the doctors who prescribed hormone therapy either retired or died, right? And there was no one they taught. I had of them. Now I was very lucky. I had very good mentorship and incredible experience, but we are now trying to make up for a lost time to train people how to write prescription. So it's not enough to say, hey, the WHO was misinterpreted and we've done a bad thing for people. You know how to do this. And it's not a small, it's a huge problem. And the reality is this is half the population. This is not niche medicine. The fact that menopause medicine is the tiniest little room of subset of gynecology, which it should not be under gynecology, right? This is whole body medicine, and yet nobody seems to care. Yeah, it's really interesting to hear you say that because you're highlighting something that's as dramatic and potentially more dramatic than the thing I've tended to focus on. I've focused more. So maybe I just take for granted that I got lucky and I had amazing mentors and they taught me how to do this stuff. But it's also the nature of my personality to just be endlessly curious and show up in somebody's clinic for two weeks and do this. I've tended to focus on the lost generation of women. So I had my analysts do this analysis two years ago. And I don't remember the exact numbers. But the analysis was calculate for me or estimate for me the number of women who were deprived of HRT because of the WHO and calculate the excess mortality that was achieved through that injustice, through hip fractures, cardiovascular disease. We just went through the entire list, right? So calculate the number of lives that were lost, the amount of disability that was incurred because to your point, even if you don't die from a hip fracture, 50% of survivors never regain the same level of function. And I didn't even know how to quantify all of the sexual side effects that women unnecessarily endured, all of the vasomotor side effects that they unnecessarily didn't even try to quantify that because I don't know how to. But that's the thing that I focus on. And again, it's personal to someone my age because my mother and my mother and law are in that category, right? Like they're the ones that got absolutely screwed by this system. You're highlighting something equally and potentially catastrophic with potentially a greater impact, which is we failed to train a generation of doctors to do anything about it. And if that's not reversed, the problem doesn't get much better. The data's very clear on this, right? Less than 6% of internal medicine, OBGYN or family practice doctors get even an hour of menopause education in their training. Do you remember learning about menopause in your medical schools? Zero. Zero. I didn't learn one minute of it. And so here's the... I did learn that hormones were bad. Oh, yeah, you were right. So there's this, so because you are taught hormones are dangerous, or the bodybuilders take the hormones. The snake oil salesmen take the hormones, right? Like we don't talk about this in real medicine, right? So you actually have everyone says it's not my... It's not my... it's not my... it industry. It's not my thing. I went to this internal medicine conference, you know, yesterday. And all the internal medicine doctors were saying, but this isn't... This isn't my field. Like I don't feel comfortable, right? And endocrinologist was standing there saying, I don't feel comfortable doing this. I said, you're a hormone doctor. Like that is what you do. It is so embarrassing I've been asked to speak at multiple academic centers to teach on hormone therapy. And every time I'm like, is this real life? I am a urologist teaching hormone doctors about how to prescribe hormone therapy. And it is real life and this is why I'm so loud about it, because we have to change this. We have to change this on a big level, because I need the ICU doctors and the pulmonologist and the card... and the heart doctors and all the doctors to know that menopause affects their organs, right? Coal and cancer. Why aren't... why aren't GI doctors talking to women that estrogen prevents colon cancer? Why are we checking dexas at 65? Like, why are rheumatologists not prescribing hormone therapy? I found out recently that psychiatrists, because I do a lot of teaching about how to prescribe hormone therapy. A few of us are very passionate about it. And I was like, sit with me, I will teach you how to write the prescriptions. I've had psychiatrists tell me their malpractice insurance will not cover them if they prescribe hormone therapy. And I said, wait a minute, you prescribe postpartum depression drugs, which are pregestin-based, right? You do reproductive psychiatry, which means birth control is a part of what you do. And you're being told you're not allowed to prescribe hormone therapy. When hormone therapy is one of the greatest antidepressants in the history of medicine, it is insanity. We're living in a nightmare. Packed with actionable insights, you'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at Peteratiamed.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

how much protein should I be eating, what should my family be eating? You know, our guidance to our patients is pretty straightforward. And it varies based on their preference. We have some patients who are vegetarians who have been lifelong vegetarians who can't stand the feel of meat, right? They're not, this is not like a belief that they have that meat is bad for them. They genuinely don't like meat. We have other patients who won't eat any animal products. So they're gonna have a harder time reaching the upper limits of protein consumption. And so, you know, with those people, we're just trying to nudge them as high as we can get them. And that's probably not gonna get much higher than about 1.2 grams per kilogram of body weight. But the guidance we're giving people is we really like to see you at about 1.6 to 2. It's an easy, heuristic, it's easy to remember too, because you're basically consuming almost a pound, a gram per pound of body weight. So how would you advise people? I would say, if you just wanna survive, stick to the or. If you just want to survive, the RDA is probably okay for most people. But if you want to thrive in these goals that most of us share, then I would aim for in the neighborhood of two grams per kilogram per day, per person spaced out throughout the day. So for example, if you want to pass, you should study this many hours per day and you will get a C, right? But if you wanna have the best shot at getting into the best college, you could get into, because you wanna study engineering, you should probably study this much, and you're probably gonna need to try to get A's. Great analogy. To me, I look at and say, life support, basic maintenance RDA. Strong evidence for thriving, tuition. Above two, probably more benefit, but you're starting to hit the ass and tote, I don't know that it's gonna come down, right? I don't know if anything that says that it's not gonna be monotonic, that's gonna turn around. But diminishing benefit, and then starting to get into more costs of economic costs of buying fancy products, of the costs of that your time and attention on it, the costs of not eating something else you might like. I know you and I are both sort of, out of struggle with is the right word, but wrangled with fruit, we both like fruit. And we both play with diets at times that where we've minimized the consumption of fruit for other goals, and yet both perhaps come back to it a little bit and said, I don't wanna give it a fruit. And those are examples, I think, there's some optimization, but I see no harm, and I think the more refined your goals are, then the more it's reasonable to push it a little bit. If I wanted to win the Olympics, I'm more motivated to push it. For me, if I can lift one more pound of weight on the bench press, who cares? But if I'm trying to win the Olympics, it matters. So what is your best aggregation of the data on where you start to reach diminishing returns? I think the evidence is very clear that when you go from the RDA level of point fourish grams per pound or point eightish grams per kilogram, up into roughly double or even a little bit more than that roughly two, I know no evidence of harm in any group, other than perhaps, again, the very rare folks, and even in people with chronic kidney disease or anything else. I think there's lots and lots of evidence for benefit in at least medium term observable phenomena, like body weight, like appetite control, like bone, strength, muscle, and so on, for people to be consuming more. And I think it's especially true in people who are recovering from injury, bodybuilding, looking for performance in athletics, looking for strength, who are older, who are growing, all of those things. People keep raising these questions of harms. I said, show me the data. Can anybody send me? And it was sincere. I said, this is an open call and I sent it to like some of the top people in the world, including those who are a little bit hesitant not protein intake were integrated. And I said, can anybody send me one or more papers that are intervention studies, not observational ones, that are in humans, ideally randomized, but I'll take an intervention, even if it's not randomized, but it's got to be controlled, controlled intervention study, in humans feeding different levels of protein, in which the different levels of protein intake are separable from other effects. That show deleterious effects on a clinically or intrinsically meaningful endpoint, right? Don't show me that this molecule change, so this gut microbiota change, and what do I do with that? Why do I care that that gut microbiota changed? Nobody cares about those things intrinsically. We care about them only and so far as if they give us heart attacks or strokes or earlier or later death or greater strength or make us better looking, right? We care about how long we live, how good we look, how we feel, our strength, what we can do. We don't intrinsically care about whether this molecule or our body is higher than that molecule, or this gut microbi. And I said, can anybody send me one? Nobody. What you did is the right thing to do, which is look guys, we're having religious debates on social media where people are using their Twitter platforms to like lambast people they disagree with and call them names and do all this sort of nasty stuff. Why don't we just do this like grown-ups and show me the data, right? And so the data is show me human clinical trial intervention studies that demonstrate the deleterious effects of quote unquote high protein.

Do you want to quickly walk through the tactics and your longevity toolkit? And then from there, we can go into detail on each of them. Yeah, I mean, I think broadly speaking, there are five buckets of things that we have control over to impact all of these things we're talking about. So one, we just talked about exercise. And you can probably tell my bias is that that's the single most important one for the most part. So the second, in no particular order, would be nutrition. So what you eat matters? And we'll talk about that. I'm sure in more detail. The third one would be sleep. So the difference between sleeping well and not sleeping well has an enormous impact on your brain, but also on your metabolic health, which then indirectly plays a great role in other diseases. The fourth would be all of the sort of medications and supplements, drugs, anything that your doctor prescribes or that you can buy over the counter. And these are of varying degrees of efficacy. Some of them are incredibly dubious. Some of them can be life-saving. But again, all of those things we'd want to think about. And then the final bucket would be all the tools that we would have at our disposal to improve our emotional health and well-being. So we've already touched a little bit about why exercise is important. But for people in this audience, how can they start just safely exercise while also managing physical limitations? It's hard to provide a blanket statement on that because everybody's going to be different. But I think it's safe to say that people are less fragile than they believe. And I meet many people, for example, who have back injuries. And say, look, I have a back injury. I can't really do anything. And the reality of it is when you sort of probe a little bit further, what you realize is nothing tends to make their back hurt more than inactivity. I don't remember who made the statement, but I loved it. And I've paraphrased it or plagiarized it many times. Sitting is to lower back pain, what bourbon is to alcoholism. So any of you who's back has hurt will probably think about that and go, you know, he's kind of right. When my back hurts, sitting is the one thing I don't like to do, or after a long drive it hurts worse. And, you know, for most people, actually being active makes them feel better. Now, let's be clear. There are certain activities. Like if you have no cartilage left in your knee, more walking won't make you feel better. And so you've got, you're going to have to see an orthopedic surgeon. They might need to do a knee replacement. But boy, I will tell you in this day and age, in 2025, what can be done with a knee replacement, a hip replacement, even a shoulder replacement? I mean, these operations have come along so far. And they have restored so much quality of life to individuals. So, every one of these cases has to be managed individually. But if you have a really good PT or rehab professional who knows what's fixable with more training or more conditioning versus, hey, this actually does need some medical attention, I think the aspiration should be, what can I do to get as active as possible? Moving from exercise into nutrition, we saw questions come through that different diets are being talked about and they aren't sure which one they should follow. So, is there a diet that you think is best or does it depend on the individual? I don't think there's a diet that is best. I think there are principles that matter and everyone should find the diet that best allows them to adhere to the principles. So, what are the principles? The principles are not to eat too much and not to eat too little. That sounds dumb, but it's just the reality of it. And I think everyone struggles with a different end of that spectrum, right? There are some people who just don't like to eat that much. They're like little birds. And as they get older, that becomes a huge problem. They are too frail. At the other end of the spectrum, you have people like me who like to eat too much. And we will spend most of our life fighting against the urge to eat too much. And that also becomes a problem as you get older because the heavier you are, the more weight you're putting on each and every one of those joints. And again, we're thinking about all these things that are working against us as we age, not to mention other complications that come from eating too much. But I would say that in an aging population, the most important thing I want to emphasize is getting enough protein. First of all, I just think for many people, it's kind of hard to get enough protein in. Even I have to pay attention to it and I don't have a problem eating. But I need to be mindful of, hey, that I get enough protein. It's really easy for me to get all the carbs in the world. It's not, I don't have to go out of my way to eat more fat. But I do have to be cognizant of getting enough protein. And enough protein is a pretty big number. It's about one gram per pound of body weight. So I would challenge each of you to pay attention to, hey, if you weigh 150 pounds, are you getting 150 grams of protein a day? And I would bet that especially for the women here, that's even harder. Now, if you follow a little bit short of that, it's okay. But if you're at half of that, you're really not getting the optimal amount of protein. And as we age, we develop something called anabolic resistance, which means that it is harder and harder for our muscles to synthesize and grow new muscle cells with the given amount of amino acids, which are the building blocks in protein that we get by eating protein. And therefore, we actually need more and more protein to overcome that. So, we talk a lot about obesity. We talk a lot about osteoporosis in osteopeenia. But there's another condition of aging called sarcopenia, which is the condition of muscle loss. And that's a huge problem. And there's really two ways to, in concert, two ways to address that. One is consuming enough protein, and the other is doing enough resistance training. So again, doesn't matter if you're a vegetarian, doesn't matter if you're like a Mediterranean diet, doesn't matter if you like steak and potatoes. If you can adhere to those principles, that's gonna make your life easier. Is it harder to adhere to those principles? If you're a vegan, yeah, it's a lot harder. But it's not impossible. I know lots of people who have done it. But looking at a food tracking app in your phone is a great way to spend a week evaluating how many grams of protein you're getting. And I think you'll be surprised that for many of us, it's we're probably underdoing it. Now I'm moving on to sleep. Sleep is something that you've written a lot about. And you said that you didn't use to take it very seriously, but now you do take it very seriously. And that's true. He goes to bed at eight every night. So why do you think it's so important? I think I'm up till nine these days. Yes, sleep is important. And you're right. I used to probably until 12 years ago. I think my mantra was all sleep when I'm dead. And I just would try to sleep as little as possible. But the evidence are pretty overwhelming, especially for both near-term and long-term function of the brain that sleep is very important. Now I think at your age, a couple of unique challenges emerge. Again, I think most people, once they're over 65 or 70, they're not fighting the will to sleep because they want to be out partying all night. It's more that other things are getting in the way. So we know that as a person ages, they tend to sleep a little bit lighter and their sleep architecture tends to change a little bit. We also know that other things get in the way, especially for men, which is it gets harder and harder to make it through a night without having to get up to pee. And I mean, I'm already at that stage, where at least two out of the seven nights a week, if I am not mindful about when I had my last glass of water, I'm gonna be up at two or three in the morning to pee. And sometimes that's harder to go back to bed after. So what are the things that we have under our control? Well, one of them is absolutely timing of water. Now again, water is super important. The older a person gets, the more susceptible they are to dehydration. The older a person gets, the less reliable, thirst is as an indicator for fluid status. So at a liviage age, you don't really, we do not need to pay attention to how much you're drinking. First will be the guide. But that becomes less and less true as you age. So you're juggling a narrow problem, which is on the one hand, you have to be mindful about drinking enough. But at the other hand, you can't drink too much too close to bed, and that's gonna keep you awake. Another thing that makes a huge difference in sleep quality is timing a food. So the longer you can have between when you have dinner and when you go to bed, the better. So we eat dinner really early because we have young kids in our house. And that's why I can get away with going to bed at nine because it's still been three and a half hours or three hours since I ate. Another thing is alcohol. So some of you probably drink alcohol. And the less alcohol you have in your system, when you sleep, the better you're going to sleep. Having a super dark room, having a super cold room is going to make a big difference. And perhaps the biggest thing to sort of make a point about here is consistency of timing, especially on the wake up. So if you could head through yourself to one time, it's what time do I wake up? And if you force yourself to wake up at the same time every day and don't allow yourself to take a nap during the day. And this is a big ask because I know napps can be tempting. It's going to regulate when you end up going to bed by building up enough sleep pressure. So if a person tells me, I'm struggling to sleep at night and I find out they're napping during the day. The first thing I want to do is get rid of the nap. I want them to, and then I want to fix the wake up time, eliminate the nap, and then actually let them get into a better sleep cycle that way. Are there any good sleep supplements that you recommend taking and that are like not damaging to you? Yeah, there are. I mean, and I think one has to be very careful with this stuff. We, you know, there's certainly evidence to suggest that as we age, melatonin levels go down and therefore melatonin can aid, at least with sleep initiation. But it's important to know that melatonin really is only the signal to initiate sleep. It's not going to necessarily keep you asleep all night. So if you're not doing all of the other things correctly, melatonin is going to be limited in its efficacy. So before I go down the route of supplements, I want to get everything we just talked about. Vsavee, the hygiene completely dialed in. And then yeah, if there's still an issue falling asleep, I think melatonin can be a viable tool. Although I really want to make sure it's the lowest dose you can buy. They tend to sell this stuff in high enough doses to kill horses. It's not necessary. The lowest dose, which is maybe 300 micrograms is probably all you need at most twice that dose. But you don't need anything north of a milligrams. I think one has to experiment a little bit with other things. I find Ashwaganda a little bit helpful for others maybe not so much. OK, and then we'll quickly touch on the last one, which is emotional health. And a lot of people think that this is not really something that kind of matters in longevity. But you talked about this in the last chapter of Outlive and how it's really important to you and that you've recently discovered it. So do you want to talk a little bit about that and how it's important as people are aging? Well, I think it's actually important at any age. And I think that what I imagine is so appealing about living at a place like this is you have a built-in system of friendship. And I would imagine that that's probably a great source of well-being that many of your peers would be missing out on if they were living alone. I think about how little I see my parents because we live in a different country. And so I can imagine that things that we take for granted when we're young, like being close to our children or our grandchildren, aren't guaranteed when we grow older. Now, of course, she's signed a contract that says she can't leave Boston. So this won't be a problem for me. But I think social support network and some sense of purpose might be the single most important part of the emotional health toolkit as it pertains to living longer. Every one of us knows the story of the couple that have been married for 70 years, one of them passes away and then the other one has dies within a year. I don't think these are just anecdotal. I really think there's an understanding of why that happens. So you can do everything right. You can eat the right diet. You can sleep right. You can exercise. But if your emotional health is lacking, then it's like you won't live as long. It's possible. But I would say even more than that, regardless of how long you live, if it's unhappy, why bother? You know what I mean? So let's say you do live a long time, but you're alone or you're miserable. In some ways, that would be the ultimate purgatory. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles, packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

Tell me about the impact of cold plunging and sauna and hot tubbing on fertility for men. Okay, so the testists has outside the body. Yep. It's 3 degrees cooler than the rest of the body. So 95 versus 98 degrees Fahrenheit. And then there's a reason for that unknown. We had that conversation don't really know why, but it may be that it's an immunologic sanctuary and that's the only way to do it in that God or Don't We can figure out. But if you heat up the testicles, it's also close to the skin. So it's a radiator. So when the heat comes down in our turbo blood, it has to cool. So it raises in lowers and there was a journal in the journal of air reproducible results about 20 years ago. A man went to Big Sur and wore nothing and he measured ambient temperature and then he marked on this leg with a marker where his high-scrowed him hung how low it hung and he could tell the ambient temperature by how high or low his scrotum hung. He became a thermometer. So so it does go up and down. Is that Peter a tealactic? Journal of air reproducible results. Oh, really cool. But it's showed that it's very temperature-centitive. Right? And it goes up and down to regulate it closer to the body when you want it warmer. Except right, going to a cold shower or a plunge where your testicles, they're way up there. In my abdomen. Yeah. And that's all the creamest jerk muscle and it's all temperature driven. So it spends all of its time regulating its temperature to stay at 95. Now, sauna's bad. Hot tub secosis, steam rooms, change that. Right? The worst one of those is anything underwater, submerging underwater. Because your one centimeter away, your liquid, it's a liquid. You're going to turn that temperature and maybe not the inner part of your body. But little kids going into hot tubs, right? They overheat. So testicles will certainly overheat. So you get into a 105 degree hot tub, which is a very typical temperature for a hot tub. It's 105 to 110. You're saying within a relatively short period of time your testicles will assume that temperature. Absolutely. Yeah. You're 70% liquid. Yeah. And this is right at the surface. Published in the Brazil and Journal of Eurology, very, I published 200 studies. This was the hardest one to get in. Everyone said we know that it affects fertility. So I don't, we're not going to publish it. So American Thailand, the Brazilian Journal of Eurology. Then went to the New York Times as a press release. That's how popular it was. It's probably my most cited paper ever and it's certainly not my best. It's very interesting. I took in fertile men with low sperm counts and stopped the tubs. They were in hot bas Urcus. I used to work jacuzzi, jacuzzi called mepsit stop. Don't use that word. So I don't use that word. So hot baths are tubs. And I told them out and they went up 300% They're seeming, and now, seeming quality went up 300%. Total amount count. In three months or four months and 600% in six months. So you know, you have to give us some time. And that's that curve, right? The recovery curve. And we didn't look at fertility. We just looked at that recovery. And someone was zero and went up to close to the age range of these men. They 35. So fertile men. Yep. And you can see. Yeah, these are men who are not able to conceive. You're making the diagnosis. I think it's your hot tub. Let's get you out of there. And they have a sixfold increase in sperm count. Total amount of sperm count. Mean count, motility. Meanly driven by motility. Interesting. So it's motility that the price. The biggest one. But cost of count might have doubled to me. Chilly may have gone up threefold kind of thing. So sixfold increase overall. Then I calculated after that, I calculated a lethal dose of tubbing. So what's the lethal dose? What's the only 50? Yeah. So lethal dose to me means you're zero. Yep. You do it enough. You have no sperm. And it came out to be 20 minutes of a hot bath or a tub. 20 minutes on 140 degrees. Three times a week would probably make zero. Wow. There have to be a lot of guys out there who are spending at least three times 20 minute sessions in a hot tub that's at least 104 degrees a week. And the highest group, the biggest, interesting, the largest group of people in Tubbs at Northern California would do this study where environmental lawyers. I don't know. It's like, is your job that stressful? It's okay. It is. I mean, it probably isn't California. All right. So then then I think there's been studies. That was the, I mean, the only study ever done prior to that was a PhD thesis at Vassar College. Where someone had a guy dip their test skills into a bucket for 20 minutes that really hot. And looked at their sperm counts or their fertility and they went, they went, they really. That was the only, and I couldn't even find it wasn't published. I had to go, you had to figure out the thesis thing. But that's how little was written about it. And they gave me so much plaque for publishing. This was really funny. And the New York Times had an article said, you know, a juicondum and a juicondum, a birth control pill, that was a juicondum. It's like, picture, picture contraceptive. So it's huge. And it's, I asked it, I'd say 10% of my populations in it. And the next question is, what about sonas? So sonas is not underwater. It's not some version. But sonas are, you're not, you're in a hot room. You're going to, it's going to affect it. And I would say the effect is one quarter to one third. It's a profound, as a hot bath or some version. So my friend was absolutely right to have those ice packs on his scrotum. He's thinking he's reading. Yeah. He's listening to his Markiplier. The Turk protocol. Yeah. And then I would say steam rooms, showers are probably fine. Yep. Because you, you're in an ambient temperature's normal. And I think steam rooms are probably between sonas and, you know, events are much time you spend, but it's probably not normal, but not a hot bath. Hot baths are terrible. Okay. And then what about the cold? I don't worry about cold. I remember surfer magazine call me and said, you know, I'm on the other California surfer, right? No, I'll say surfer. And they said, I'd get a surfer magazine call me and say, I'm surfer surfer surfer surfer. I'll let you say, is that water bad for them? Because California waters are extremely nice. Yeah. And I said, no, I've never met an infernal surfer. So I don't think it's bad at all. All right. So the cold is okay. Because you're such a plunge where you're talking seconds. Yeah. Yeah. You know, your test moves are going to go up. Yeah. And you're going to be able to maintain the heat. I think if you did it all the time, it would probably be bad. Yeah. Because enzymes work in the testicle at that one temperature. They work optimally. I'm Peter Rattier. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterRattierMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

If you were to consider a group of 10 individuals who are similar in most observable ways, externally, right? And you want all of them to create a new habit in a domain that is entirely foreign to them. Are there attributes of these people that would allow you to predict who is more likely to be successful? For example, does willpower, which might form the basis of the initial, you know, for lack of a better word activation energy getting over that hump the first few times? Does that factor into it? I mean, truth certainly I think I understand the science of willpower, so maybe we can spend some time on that if it's helpful. The answer is absolutely, but I'm going to caveat the answer by saying, there are certainly behavioral characteristics that make it easier for some people to understand how to change their habits and adopt new habits. There does not seem to be a great deal of evidence that there's genetic reasons to predict that. Now, some researchers will say there is slight genetic variations. We think that some people are more prone to willpower than others are, but it's so small and insignificant in comparison with the behavioral training that you have, right? The environment that you've grown up in, if you have parents who teach you willpower habits, if you're someone who is an athlete and so you have a team that's taught you how to push yourself a little bit harder when pushing yourself as hard, you already have an intuitive sense of how to adjust your own habits. And so as a result, if you're in a room with someone who has none of that background, they've never played on a team sport, their parents let them do whatever they wanted, it's going to take me longer to change that second person's habits because I'm going to have to train them more and the training just takes time. That makes sense. Okay, so it's not that one does herinability, yes, exactly. High environmental and behavioral exposure is absolutely. Absolutely. And the research is pretty consistent on that. This is an exact metaphor, but we can think of willpower as a muscle. And like all muscles, it gets stronger the more we practice using it, but it also gets fatigued in the short term. And so this is why if you look at a data on when accidents happen in surgery, they most often happen when a surgeon has been either in his second or third surgery or her second or third surgery or when it's a very long surgery. Right? They've been using their willpower for so long. They get fatigued. If you look at the number of affairs that happen among lawyers and doctors, they most often happen when someone has been at the office after 9 or 9 or 9 or 30. And for years people thought, oh you get to the evening and it's like kind of romantic. No, it's that after 9 or 10 hours of exerting your willpower in your office, your guard is down, your muscles weaker. And so when someone comes up and they kiss you instead of pushing them away, you kiss them back. Thinking about our willpower muscle, both strengthening it, but also protecting it when we need it, is critical to being able to be the people that we want to be. And so part of that then is recognizing when you're vulnerable. Yes. So you're, and I mean, you used an extreme example of having an affair, but also vulnerable to fall. So let's use a less extreme example of I really want to eat less dessert. Yeah, right. I really just want to eat less dessert. Well, it's just smoking. Okay. So it's a great one. It could be because James Prochaska at the University of Rhode Island has spent his whole career. And like the data that we have on smoking cessation is enormous. The vastly outpaces almost everything else. Yeah. So, but, but, Diane, right, you, or no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, yeah, yeah, yeah. So, okay. So let's talk about what happens. Nicotine, as you know, is an addictive substance, but we're only addicted to nicotine for about 100 hours after our last cigarette. By that point, nicotine is out of our bloodstream. Like, we don't have a physical dependency on nicotine. And yet we all know people who create, who smoked for years quit and they crave a cigarette a decade later after they have breakfast in the morning. Right. Let's, so I didn't, I didn't actually know that Charles. So four days after you smoked your last cigarette or had your last exposure to nicotine, you can go with longer have a physiologic need for nicotine. Yeah. It's out of your, you have, you have completed with withdrawal. Now, that, that is, that is, I mean, I had no idea of that, but what you still have. You still have the cue. You still have the, you still have the, you still have the, you remember the reward. Right. Exactly. The habit, the habit loop still exists in your brain. Like, if you have a, if you have a cigarette with every morning cup of coffee, as soon as you pick up that cough, cup of coffee, your brain is craving that nicotine. And that feels just like an addiction, a physical in fact, it's, in some ways, more powerful than a physical addiction. And so, so what, so what Prochosca did is he looked at how people quit smoking and this gets to the point you were raising before about learning. He found that on average, a smoker needs to quit seven times in order to actually quit. So, so committed smoker. Somebody who's been smoking for years, they will give up cigarettes seven times before it actually works. Which raises this kind of interesting question. What is happening in those seven times? Like, why seven instead of four? What's happening? What the research tells us is that the first time I give up cigarettes, I focus on willpower. Right. I say, like, I'm going to resist, I'm going to resist these cigarettes. I'm throwing them out. I'm going to change my environment a little bit. But all those cues are still there. The craving for the reward is still there. And when my willpower gets taxed, my mother-in-law comes to town, I've had a really tough day at work. My willpower is really, my muscle, that muscle has been exercised all day. That's the moment that I give in and I pick up a cigarette and I say to hell with it, I'm going to start smoking. And just to be clear is what happens when you have that first cigarette? Why can you not on that first cigarette go, hey, it was just a lapse. I'm exhausted tomorrow's a new day. Well, it's because you don't have a plan. Right. So you're caught off guard by this relapse. And as a result, it tends to shake our faith in ourselves, even if it's almost subconscious. It tends to shake our faith in ourselves that we can't quit. Now that's the first time. That's the first time. So I just want to interject here. This is something that we try to talk a lot to our patients about, which is, because again, we're not dealing with something that's as binary as smoking. Let's just say it's exercise and you're like, we've set a plan that you're going to do something for 30 minutes every day. And then you're going to have that day when you don't. What we tend to spend a lot of time coaching on is absolutely positively under no circumstance to you judge yourself for that day. And the next day just get back on the horse and don't let one bad day be to. And then it's fine. Because I think what we see is a lot of times a personal goes six days of an exercise, you know, of their routine, they miss a day, they beat themselves up and then they're done. They're like, well, forget it. I screwed up and or you know, it can happen in the reverse. Yeah. Well, and it makes sense, right? Because we're talking about rewards and positive rewards and negative rewards. I miss a day. And I start beating up on myself. I'm flooding my brain with negative rewards, with recommendations, with feelings of shame. My brain pays attention to what gives me positive rewards and negative rewards. And it's saying this exercise thing, it's a soccer game. Because if you do if I feel good for a couple of days, you're going to miss it. You're going to be a terrible laugh of when I miss it. So you're exactly right. We can't not engage in that self-laim. Well, this poor smoker, this poor smoker, his his mother-in-law, who nags him comes into town. His his willpower is exhausted. He's been dealing with their all day long. He grabs his. He lights up. Sneaks outside and shame. Yes. So here's what happens. You do that once you do that twice. You do it three times. Here's what's hard happening around the third or fourth time. And this is what gets to your exercise as well. Suddenly, people stop looking at it as a moral lapse and they start looking at it as a scientific experiment. Okay. Here's the data that I've observed. I do a pretty good job of avoiding cigarettes until something really stressful happens. So I need to ahead of time figure out when that stressful thing occurs, what am I going to do instead of smoking? Because if I don't have a plan in place, what's known as an implementation intention. If I don't have a plan in place, I'm going to pick up the cigarettes. So here's my plan. Instead of beating up on myself, I'm going to write down that the next time my mother-in-law comes to town, I'm going to have some sweet candy in the house. Because I know that I'm going to have an urge to put something in my mouth. I'm going to want some type of quick boost reward and sugar can provide that to me, the novelty of taste. I'm going to have that candy in my house. And when she's driving me crazy, I'm going to walk over pick up a piece of candy and go outside and eat it. So what happens is that over time the reason why it takes seven times to quit smoking or the reason why you're your clients and your patients, they have these moments of willpower failure, is because instead of looking at that as a failure, we have to look at ourselves as scientists who are conducting experiments and paying attention to the data. And my wife is a scientist and you're a scientist. So you know, if every experiment that a scientist does succeeds, they're a terrible scientist. Right? The goal is to figure out where it's succeed and where it fails and learn from the failures. We have to look at our own lives at the same way and say, I meant to go run today and I didn't. Let me try and figure out why. And then I'll come up with a plan for the next time. Next time this obstacle emerges. I know what to do without having to worry about. Is it the case you think that that people are able to kind of do that on their own or is this the enormous opportunity to to coach a person through that and say, you know, to create an accountability partner for example and say, look, I want to hear about it when you fail just as much as I want to hear about it when you succeed and when you fail, I'm going to direct all of the inquiry towards learning. What did you learn? What can you, you know? I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

Let's talk about the mechanism by which this is happening. My assumption, which I don't know if it's right or wrong, is that at least one of the reasons that BFR can produce so much hypertrophy at such low load is, is in response to the metabolic challenge that's posed. And so one of the things I was doing quite a bit was testing lactate levels with and without BFR. And you get it's very easy to demonstrate that when you acclude your arm, for example, will distill to that occlusion lactate is going through the roof because you're exercising that arm and you're not letting the lactate clear out of circulation. So pin-pricing my finger and getting very, very high lactate levels. And so, you know, that's obviously a metabolic byproduct of any time you're exercising and then especially when you're doing this type of exercise. And so, yeah, I could demonstrate that I had a higher level of lactate doing blood flow restriction than not, even when I was lifting slightly more weight and doing something traditional. What do we think, do we think that that matters in this equation? Do we think that that's partially driving this? Or what, and that's just one of the metabolites that we can measure easily. There's plenty that we can't. Yes, I would agree. I think that there's kind of two schools of thought. One is that the pulling of these metabolites in and of themselves is turning on some of these anabolic signaling pathways, meaning just the fact that you're pulling lactate around the fibers that that's able to activate growth. I used to be interested in that idea. We tried to test this using a couple different ways. We didn't find an advantage to doing that. So, we kind of started to say, well, maybe there's nothing to metabolize in and out themselves, but maybe it's what they're causing a muscle to do. So, in other words, maybe the way we think about it now is that as you said, you're exercising with blood flow restriction, the metabolites are being trapped. What we think is that they're augmenting muscle activation. So, they're causing the muscle to have to work a lot harder than it normally would, because you're pulling this lactate around it, and you might fatigue some of these cross bridges, so we have to recruit more and more and more and more fibers. So, that's where we think the benefit of metabolites is, is that they're basically inducing fatigue which then leads to further muscle activation, and muscle activation for a sufficient duration of time is the name of the game, at least in my opinion, for making a muscle grow. So, one of the big kind of questions always is, are the mechanisms themselves different from traditional exercise? If I do high load exercise, is that going to be a different mechanism than when I do low load exercise with blood flow restriction? And I don't think so, and I'll tell you why. I think that the mechanism involved in activation is different. But once the fiber is activated, all the signaling pathways from what I understand are going to be very similar. So, when we lift a heavy weight, it requires a tremendous muscle activation to even lift one rep. If you are trying to do a bicep curl, and you're only activating a small portion of your fibers, and you're trying to lift 70 pounds if your 1 orm is 100 pounds, right? That's enormous bicep curl. I'm really feel pretty pathetic here, yep, let's go ahead. So, choose any left, right? In order to lift that heavy weight, you need to activate a large portion of your muscle structure, otherwise the weight isn't going to move. Compared to low loads, where you don't need to activate the same amount of muscle fibers initially, because the weight is extremely low. So, when we exercise with low loads and bph, we're activating only a small amount initially, but those metabolites as you just got start to become trapped, and we activate more fibers, more fibers, and more fibers, and then by the end, we've activated a similar amount of fibers as we did with high load exercise. By the way, is there an order in that? So, if your 1rm bicep curl is 100 pounds, and then without, so with no blood flow restriction, you pick up 80 pounds and bang out, I don't know, 10 reps, 8 reps. Compare that with if you picked up 40 pounds and banged out 40 reps. What is happening from a fiber fatigue standpoint under those two scenarios? In general, we have what we call the Hennemin size principle, where you recruit type 1 motor units first, and then, as you require, based on the exercise you recruit, type 2 in addition to type 1. So, when you lift a heavy weight, you're getting to the type 2 is very quickly, because you need them. Whereas with lower weight, you're probably taking a little bit of time, but then you are eventually getting to those type 2 motor units. So, if the person in my example fails at 8 reps with 80 pounds and 40 reps with 40 pounds, at the, it's just that the 40 reps took a lot longer to burn through the type 1 fibers, and then the type 2 a's and the 2 a-b's, and then finally at the very end the 2x failed, whereas when he did the same exercise, you know, 20 minutes later at 80 pounds and failed at 8 reps, he just got, he did the same sequence, but he just got to the 2x much sooner. Is that what you're saying? Yeah, and the reason why I say that is if you look at, if you pull out fibers following training, type 1 and type 2 fibers, have both been shown to grow in both high load exercise, as well as low load exercise, with them without blood flow stations, so they both respond. Some people have suggested that type 1 might grow a little bit more with low load training, but I'm not, I'm not convinced on that yet. I think that it's probably very similar to high load exercise, although I see the thinking, but yeah, both of them will grow in response to both types of exercise. In general, at the extreme level, there's a bodybuilders, high-perter-feed, more explained by type 1 or type 2 fibers, or are they both massive relative to anybody else? Yeah, I would say probably the increase in both, although I don't, there's not one thing I can point to, that would suggest that for me, but I think that in response to training, my guess is that both of them would increase. I think you might be able to make an argument that people who might, again, go back to our argument earlier, who start lifting weights and realize, man, I'm actually able to grow quite a bit. Maybe they already had more type 2 fibers to begin with, which is something that is more responsive to loading. So maybe you can make that argument, but I think in response to actually, when a bodybuilder exercises, I would probably guess that both of them are going to grow both types of fibers.

Let's talk a little bit more about autism. Now, of course, it referred to as ASD, right? Correct. Autism spectrum disorder. Spectrum disorder. Tell me today how is the diagnosis of autism made? Because I think when many people think of autism, you know, if they're old enough, they might think a rainman, right? You're going to think of somebody who in a very short interaction, a non-clinician would go, that person is not neurotypical, that person clearly has something about them that's quirky and very different. And you might think of even more extreme examples of children that are non-verbal and things of that nature. But, but again, given the nature of this and the fact that it's a spectrum, that must make it even more challenging to find the diagnosis correct? Very, very. So, I have so much to say about autism, right? But the diagnosis and how we make it and how it's changed so much over the years. So, autism spectrum. So, first, it's a spectrum. Huge spectrum of what those, what this means, what people remember it from decades ago as from, you know, non-verbal, very little, you know, communication skills, being somewhat isolated, not interacting with other people, mannerisms, such as flopping your hands, very, that sort of a classic description that we do remember from, you know, over the last couple of decades. Nowadays, many children who have a lot of speech a language skills, who do communicate a lot, but to struggle with the social communication that we have with each other, who have many, many strengths, but do struggle with social skills and do have some restricted interests of repetitive behaviors. They also qualify under this umbrella term, called autism spectrum disorder. And this term, autism spectrum disorder, that term came out in 2013 with the DSM5. So, how we diagnose it is based on, again, clinical traits, but the definition and the checklist of those traits have actually changed many times over the last few decades. So, currently, it is, you work with an expert who is a lot of experience with autism, and they do an analysis of someone's behavior in the two areas that we look at social communication skills, and the other is the repetitive behaviors restricted interests. So, for social communication skills, our current diagnostic criteria requires that a patient has differences in three specific areas. One is their social reciprocity. So, this is the back and forth of social interactions. It's how to initiate socially, how do you respond socially? The second area is related to nonverbal communication skills. So, it's how someone uses their nonverbal communication, I contact gestures, as well as how they understand and interpret somebody else's nonverbal communication. And then the third area is related to how they understand relationships. So, it's about building friendships, playing with peers, how they understand the social contacts of being in a group. So, those are the three key areas when it comes to the social communication piece. And in order to get the diagnosis, you do have to have differences in all those three areas. Is this something that is done during one assessment or is this something that's done over repeated assessments? Great question. Depends on the level of severity in the child. So, first of all, it's important that whoever's doing the assessment really understands that child. Who in your clinical team does this? What type of training does this person have as it a physician? Is it a social site like, yeah? Yeah, great question. It can be a physician or it can be a psychologist. Those are, that's generally who does it. So, physician, it would either be a developmental behavioral pediatrician or a psychiatrist. That's most often. Cache, it's a pediatric neurologist or somebody else in, with some sort of similar background and training, but generally D.B. P. or psychiatrist. And then, if it's not a physician, then it's a psychologist that usually does the assessment. The assessment could be multiple things. There's no gold standard, like the assessment has to include certain components. But again, I could mention that it's important that the clinician get to know the child. I think it's important to understand the child's profile. The label is only one piece of it. To me, if someone tells me their child has autism, I actually really don't know much about their child. Hmm, say more. I, because you tell me your child has autism, I really don't know what your child does like if someone tells me that on the street. So, and again, like then we come up with treatment plans for like a child with autism. It's like, well, there's a saying, you've met one child with autism, you've met one child with autism. And so, to really, you know, make a difference with the treatment plan, you need to understand that profile of that child, that child's strengths and challenges. There's multiple goals with the assessment. One part of the assessment is to make a diagnosis. Because the diagnosis can be a tool to help the adults around that child better understand that child. It gives some sort of structure of like how to approach that child and leverage their strengths and, um, and work on skill building, it can help get resources at school or through insurance. The diagnosis is a tool. However, to really make a difference, you want to understand what about that child is unique and different and how to use to part that child. So, you're asking how do you do an assessment? So, when it is a, um, more significant case, um, with significant impairments, we frequently can make the diagnosis. You can make it pretty quickly. You should take a good history. You should definitely meet with the child, work with the child and the clinic, but there are many children where of trained clinician can do that diagnosis pretty quickly. In a child with very significant autism. It'd be obvious to you if you were in a restaurant, you saw someone with autism. You know, it's obvious to many people. But for children who have milder symptoms, it is really important that, um, that there probably is multiple visits to see the child on multiple days, um, that different types of assessments are done, uh, directly with the child in addition to taking history with the parents and in addition to collecting information from other people involved in that child's life, such as teachers or therapists, uh, it's important to get different perspectives. So, you mentioned that, um, the diagnosis in sort of, probably more severe cases can be made earlier and earlier in life. Sounds like sweet spot is three to four years of age. But then you said half kids are half of the kids are diagnosed, above six. Yes. So, is that something that is a relatively recent phenomenon of the past decade since the DSM five broadened the inclusion criteria or was that even true in the 70s and 80s? Yeah, great question. So, it's complicated. I'll say it has a lot to do with the new diagnostic criteria. So, before 2013, we had Asperca syndrome. Yes. We don't use that diagnostic label anymore. And we also have to say the, called PDDNOS, pervasive developmental disorder, not otherwise specified, a mouthful. And PDDNOS was a term we used when it had similarities to autistic disorder, because all three of those names were under the umbrella of autism. Um, and so there were a lot of kids who received this PDDNOS because they were like, uh, something different. So, it's different. They're sprinkled with bits of autism, but they didn't quite meet all the criteria. When you didn't meet quite all, all the criteria, you got PDDNOS and then there was Asperca syndrome, which generally described an individual who had good cognitive skills, you know, average or high high cognitive skills, intellectual skills. They had a lot of speech and language skills. They actually had a huge vocabulary. But again, their social reciprocity back and forth conversation, picking up on social cues that was at a typical. And they also had a lot of like restricted interests. They would have things they were really interested in, but then they would like dive deep into those things. Um, so in 2013 with the DSM5, we put all of that together under autism, uh, or, I'm sorry, autism spectrum disorder. Um, and so now the kids who have the more like clear cut, very traditional autistic disorder, they, you know, they're picked up at two years of age or two and a half, three years of age. And it's the kids who have, you know, the stronger cognitive skills, the stronger, they have speech and language present, um, they're picked up later. By the way, nowadays with the new diagnostic criteria, um, language impairment may or may not be present in the diagnosis. So when you give the diagnosis of autism spectrum disorder, you also have to clarify whether there is intellectual disability. So with or without intellectual disability, and then we say with or without language impairment. So with all of these changes, um, the spectrum has, it's, it's, it's, it's very broad.

So let's talk a little bit about peanut allergies. Probably everybody listening is no stranger to a peanut allergy. In fact, I don't know what the prevalence is, perhaps you do, but it's quite prevalence. So there's again, the probability that someone listening to this doesn't either have a peanut allergy or no somebody with one is probably close to zero. So let's talk a little bit about this. Has it always been this way? And if not, when did this become an epidemic? Well, it really isn't epidemic and it's tragic and people can go into severe antiflexus just being neuropunit without even ingesting the peanut. In 1999, Mount Sinai did a study and estimated the prevalence to be about half of 1% and the vast majority were very mild. And it's there are many theories as to why that might have crept up from zero generations prior. The American Academy of Pediatrics decided to address this problem by issuing the recommendation. Now they didn't know what to recommend. They honestly literally had no idea what to recommend. I went back and interviewed some of the individuals who made that recommendation. It was a strong recommendation. Even if it wasn't made with such absolutism, it was interpreted as the law of the land. And the recommendation was for all children, zero through three to avoid all peanut products, including the little peanut butter moms would put into food and infancy. And pregnant mothers and lactate mothers should also avoid 100% peanut abstinence. And what happened immediately after that recommendation in the year 2000 is peanut allergy rates in the United States began to sore. And we saw a new type of allergy, which is the severe and a phylactic reaction, the ultra allergy where if someone used the same ice cream scooper as in the pistachio, even though they had rinsed it, that kid could end up in the emergency room when we saw emergency room visits skyrocket. So the American, so the medical establishment deletes, I'll say not the rank and file doctors that think independently. And the latter than rank and file doctors knew they just made this up. And somewhere had immunology backgrounds and knew this doesn't fit with immunology. And immunology, you need to be exposed to things early in life to be immune tolerance, something called oral and immune tolerance. Parents had known it as the dirt theory, sometimes you around. Can't the funds get developed a robust immune system that helps the illiterate and life bubble kids end up getting really, really sick later on. There's a pediatrician named Gideon Lack who's an allergist who was one of these enlightened guys early on and he said he noticed kids that had. I think it was like iron or metal in their teeth for dental work were less likely to get a reaction to ear piercing later in life. And so he had done research in immune tolerance and knew this concept if you're exposed to something you're less likely. Well a bunch of pediatricians to test this recommendation tried to speak up they were basically silenced or sideline and this recommendation took on a life of its own parents were told for their kids. Remember one two three at age one you can introduce milk at age two eggs and age three finally you can introduce some peanut products. So it became known as the one two three it took on a life of its own it became dogma. As the peanut algae rates soared the medical establishment said what's going on here we're telling people what to do they're not listening we need to double down we need to get people to comply we have non compliant parents out there if we can only get everyone to comply with this we can defeat this epidemic. If you can dear little echoes here of modern day correlations so this doubling down took place. And the more they double down the worse it got to the point where now there's an estimate the one eight one and eighteen kids has a peanut allergy. But the severe peanut allergy is that the real issue now where it's banned in a lot of schools about 20% of schools in America banned all peanut products altogether. And the more you ban the less exposure the more immune sensitization because now you have to think about the one and eighteen kid with an allergy. So it became a self-licking ice cream cone it was like you know more abstinence more abstinence what are you doing. And the parents who are like no I'm going to introduce peanut butter as my grandmother did and for generations whenever we're no peanut allergies they were seen as anti science they were ridiculed schools would address these parents sometimes. I have two medical students well graduate students doing research in my research center at Johns Hopkins from Africa. Once from Cameroon and once from Zimbabwe and they came to fly over to the research meeting in their first days and they were like what is it with the peanut allergies here. Like they're announcing it on the plane to be WI there these all these products are like contains no train nights. And they're like what have never seen this before my life and like some student invited one of them to dinner at his house because he was a new student from Africa. And he goes oh would you like to come over for dinner sometime and he goes yes sure. Do you have any peanut or other allergies and he's like Marty what that always with this peanut obsession here we have no peanut allergies in Africa. And I was like wow faith have you ever heard of a peanut these are public health graduate students. So we have no peanut allergies in Zimbabwe then I would call relatives that I have back in Egypt same thing I've never heard of a peanut allergy except for there was an expat living here in Cairo. And you realize this is a unique American epidemic that was created. But there must have been some index cases that caused the hysteria. Yeah so that incidence from outside I suggest half one percent it might have been microbiome related we think. But but the peanut abstinence just through lighter fluid into this fire and it really resulted in where we are today. So where is the American Academy of Pediatrics today on their recommendations. So here's the thing the study got done eventually 15 years into the recommendation that doctor Gideon Lack I mentioned. London published a study in the New England Journal of Medicine with a with 640 kids doing a randomized control trial to early peanut butter exposure in infancy. Four five six months not as they're sold diet he's go pro bet breastfeeding right and whole peanuts have a choking risk. So I mean the smart way. Yeah and then some peanut abstinence and peanut introduction and infancy. Fast forward a couple years radically eight full different rates in peanut allergies and severe allergies published in the New England Journal of 15 years. Why didn't the American Academy answer what year was that study published 2015. Okay then of course full difference so we're talking about that's almost like a significant as smoking. Giving lung cancer versus not like smoking versus not smoking and lung cancer was about a tenfold difference. Yeah one of the biggest odds ratios you see in research. Yeah and then of course the you know the beer crats at Nye add and NIH from the National Institute of allergy and infectious youth. They fought two years later they get around putting a position paper and all this stuff. So so 17 years. But do we also understand how much. How much is that position paper reverse the behavior in parents because when it comes to kids that are born today. Do we know that the amount of peanut abstinence going on is virtually gone now. I think it's unknown but it's a great point you raise why not reverse the recommendation now that the science is clear with the same vigor. Right. Which you put it out initially why not show some humility why not what.

Anybody who's ever prescribed the statin to people knows there's a very small amount And it's even in the package insert that comes back and tell Docs since you started this I'm not right. I'm thinking right I'm not calculating right my brain is in a fog And we use the word brain fog again and extreme minority of people given statins have that we had no clue what caused that Environmently would stop the statin trying another one it usually occurred or if it didn't find but if not then We'd have to figure out other ways to a lower LDL cholesterol which was not easy years ago But anyway my hypothesis now it gases these small number of people get brain fog I wish I had this monochrome levels on them could some people be very sensitive to the effects of a statin We know in the periphery hypersynthesizes of cholesterol respond Incredibly well, this is that and so our should be over synthesizes do hypersynthesizes do not so who knows but That if that being said now here comes the next part of that epidemiologic study where they correlate at low Disemustral with serum desemostral people who had low serum desemostral had a much higher incidence of cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease which would lead simply to the hypothesis that Serum desemostral is a usable biomarker to say is somebody at risk for Alzheimer's disease and This goes back to when I met Richard Isaacson with Peter we started throwing these hypotheses around and we've watched that ever since Where would it come into play so if we're and you know until recently you Estatins were our only game in town So if we write a statin especially if used in higher dose if Desemostral was dropping low and we use an arbitrary cutoff point to 20th percentile Would that be maybe you don't want in Hibbit cholesterol synthesis in the brain to that degree? Might we want to attack a pobe with another agent all hypothetical Reason's I'm putting on the table here right now and I think right now we look at that especially in who Who are the people that we know are slightly prone to? Dimension cognitive impairment the e4 carriers people maybe which strong family histories People that have other Identifiable traits that make traits that make us think they're prone to AD we would watch Desemostral incredibly closely in that population So now the last thing I'll tell you if the astrocyte is not making cholesterol because of it's being over suppressed by a statin The neuron would be getting less cholesterol the neuron would convert none of that cholesterol to 24 S. hydroxy cholesterol because it's trying to conserve every cholesterol molecule again So I think if you were somebody who could measure 24 S. hydroxy cholesterol in the serum you would not see it And somebody who had cholesterol synthesis suppression in the brain this all has to be worked out in future clinical trials But there there are looking at this in some clinical trials right now. So one day will be a lot smarter on this Right now if you want you could measure Desemostral and perhaps use that as a cautionary marker Number one if they're not on a drug and it's low Yeah, they haven't done an April E4 genotype you might look at it But if it is somebody who has a propensity Desemostral and you have to use a statin Maybe you want to watch that the good news is and I think it's why our Manitri is if we have to use a statin we start with low dose statins. We have very little use for the hydro statin in the year 2024 because None of the other April B lowering drugs be a ben pedolic acid is that a mime certainly pcs canine inhibitors get into the brain and suppress cholesterol synthesis So we have many ways of lowering April B if we were a little fearful of load as maustral in a patient prone to a day or so So that's As much as we want to get into probably with brain lipids right now Understand April E is a big player up there and there are different types of the April E protein But understand cholesterol homeostasis has a lot to do with what is in the peripheral cells We can look at markers of synthesis The markers of cholesterol absorption that we use big time when evaluating peripheral cholesterol homeostasis Obviously is not at play in the brain the brain is not absorbed in cholesterol from your gut before we leave that time What is our hypothesis around the hydrofobicity Of various statins and do we think that certain statins are more likely to cross the blood brain barrier Are there certain statins that should be ignored in patients with marginal desemostral Great question in the thoughts of changed on this too because early on if you go back probably Maybe even listen to the podcast you and I did in 2018. I believe We were talking about hydrofilic and lipophilic statins in the lipophilic ones Can pass right through the barrier little easier than the hydrophilic one which need receptors to pull them in But subsequent analyses is shown all statins get into the brain ultimately once you have a steady state Staten level in the blood They all will get into your brain and they all have the ability to suppress cholesterol synthesis in the brain Now the last thing I want to say about statins before everybody says oh my god I'm stopping my statin amar I can't get it does most role level Oh, they're available if you look for them, but in general if you analyze all of the statin data the many trials be the observational or Randomized control there is no signal whatsoever that in a population statins Worsen or co-is cognitive impairment or Alzheimer's disease There's a few studies that even suggest perhaps some lowering Maybe that's through a thoracic cerebral vasculine disease who knows But don't worry that statins in the overwhelming vast majority of people are not hurting the brain But I think we've introduced perhaps a biomarker that you might know with a little more certainty If you have to write a statin in somebody subject to dementia Yeah, we actually covered this at length in one of the previous AMAs and I went through every meta analysis on this topic it's important for people to understand That at least at the time and I don't think this has changed there has been not been any statin trial where the primary outcome was dementia The primary trial is always cardiovascular disease but there have been more than a dozen such trials Where the secondary outcomes are dementia it's worth noting that in every one of those trials regardless of statin used There has either been no change in the risk of dementia or a reduction in the risk of dementia Now it's interesting these studies were almost all done in the setting of trying to determine If lipophilic versus hydrophilic statins were more or less or better and the answer always emerged It didn't seem to matter which of course makes sense if you understand now that they probably all across the blood brain barrier So the question remains will there ever be a study done that tests this question specifically as the primary outcome In other words where the study is powered to ask the question does the use of a statin increase Decrease or have no effect on the risk of Alzheimer's disease and dementia or will we instead be forced to rely on these Secondary outcomes which are always subject to some Potential misinterpretation again. I take much more comfort in knowing that they are all either neutral or favorable That would certainly be better than the opposite But again that remains a bit of an unknown and you might be right Tom it might be that On average it's having no effect on the brain on Average it's having a beneficial effect through the vascular system But then there might be edge cases that are not being captured in large clinical trials based on Hundreds of thousands of people and it might in fact be those patients in whom a little extra knowledge Goes along way these of e cholesterol synthesis in the brain and the final point I'll make here is What a privilege it is to be practicing medicine in 2024 when we don't have only statins But we have is at amy we have benpedoic acid we have short acting PCS canine inhibitors We now have long acting PCS canine inhibitors We have ASOs around the corner There really is no need for a patient to ever endure a side effect of lipid lowering medication today We can we can lower everybody's lipids without side effects and and so that's that's you know That's and that's only going to become more and more true in the next decade Can argue with anything you said there's brilliant what you said and also this is not a reason not to use statins You individual I we're not evaluating populations we treat people one at a time so In somebody we're worried about dementia We have a biomarker that's probably usable and if God you can't take the statin so what we can't get your able Bego pretty easily with the other things that we know Are not affecting the brain what Peter said wouldn't it be nice to have a randomized blinded trial to answer this question All statins are generic I don't know of any form of companies gonna spend the billion dollars to prove or this proof What statins do to a cognitive Functions of the brain so it's not gonna happen so if it's not we can use an individual patients these Oddball biomarkers that is what I think is part of medicine three point out where we Maybe use a little smarter knowledge to Trying to a better job the last thing I'm gonna paint Peter as heart this enough to we can I Maybe I'd bad mouth I go stands we don't use them When I treating a kill carinary syndrome patients where maybe you want to be out of high dose statin for x amount of time You can get most of the apobe lowering with a statin with the baby dose this has been proven in trial after trial Most of the LDL receptor up regulation occurs with the lowest dose that inhibits cholesterol synthesis You start doubling tripling quadruple you might get another six seven percent not the original 30 percent lowering or so So in today's world why do you ever have to double triple or quadruple the dose of a statin? When we have all these other additive drugs that you take a baby statin my Sort of acronym for a low dose statin and you combine it with a ZMI benpedoic acid or p p says can you nine inhibitor? You've got a A military machine that can destroy a poe b So that should be the thought processes about attacking apobe nowadays we have so many options Which we didn't have in the heyday? I always say one last thing because I'm old enough to remember where did all this hydrophilic lipophilic stuff come from? the first two Competitive statins on the market were symbol statin Which was a Merck's most potent statin more potent in their low-vest statin or nevacore So everybody jump on zilkor or symbol statin but bristomir squid may privacy statin hydrophilic And there was a lot of thought looking at other bio markers that the and even catabolism that the hydrophilic statins were safe for them the others Was there a little more brain fog with mevacore zilkor than there was with protocol and it totally people said that I never saw it Trial it looked at that so but that's where it all came from form a competitiveness hydrophilic versus a little bit of the statin

You know, in many ways, you're kind of the OG guy when it comes to talking about habit formation. Give folks a bit of a sense of your background and maybe even how that factored into you taking an interest in this topic. Yeah, absolutely. I had two experiences that really got me interested in habits. The first is that when I was in Iraq, I got embedded with a unit that was right outside of Baghdad. And I was talking to a captain there, actually he was a major. And now I was asking him, how do you how do you train soldiers to become soldiers? Because one of the things that you see in a war zone in particular, or anyone who's spent around the military, is that the behaviors of so deeply ingrained, right? The goal is to ingrain a set of behaviors that if a bomb goes off, which happened underneath my car, everyone around you, the 50, 18 year olds around you who probably don't know how to do anything with their lives, they know exactly what to do in that moment and they react automatically. And so I was talking to this major. And he's this like little short guy and he kind of like, you know, really muscular, he chaws all the time. And I said, how do you do this? And he said, well, you think you have to understand, Sun, because he called me Sun, the thing you have to understand is the military is a giant habit change machine. This is what we do. We teach young recruits who maybe don't have any self-discipline, maybe you know our prone to emotional we teach them the right habits and we've made a science of it. And when I came back to the U.S., I kind of had this experience where I was thinking about that and I was thinking to myself, if I'm so smart and so talented, if I have this great job and when these words, why can't I get myself to lose weight? Like, why can't I get myself to go running in the morning every day? Why is this such a struggle for me when I'm so good at other things? And I realized it was because I had not learned and studied how habits function in my own habits and that once I learned that, I had the tools to change how I behave automatically, which is of course the most important component of our behavior because it's what we do every day. How did you come to understand the ways in which a myriad set of behaviors? Because as you said, like a soldier is able to do so many things that basically become autonomic, that might be very counterintuitive. In fact, might be counter to the value of your own life. Absolutely. Like moving this direction as opposed to that direction under threat. Absolutely. Or are training people to kill? Yes. The many people have a natural reaction to not kill. So how does the military do it? Yeah. So how do they employ this reward punishment? Yeah, leverage. So one of the things that they do is they pay very, very close attention to teaching cadets to respond to cues. So one would think about saying, okay, if a bomb goes off, what are you supposed to do? Right? Let's talk about the behavior that you do when a bomb goes off. The thing about a bomb going off is that a bomb going off is a little bundle of cues and we need to talk about which cues you should pay attention to in which ones you shouldn't, which one should trigger not an behavior. So in Iraq, the issue with bombs going off, IEDs was dust. When there was an explosion of dust, that is when you should react and we're going to practice that. So we're going to take you out into the field and we're going to use ordinance that does not actually produce sounds, that does not produce fire. What we're going to do is we're going to put stuff in the ground, that creates a huge cloud of dust and we're going to train you to react to that. Because we have found that dust is a more predictable and reliable indicator of when you should behave than the noise of an explosion or being able to see the fire. And to be clear, the noise could be coming from anywhere you don't know where it's coming from. It's often a alarm. It could be something that's a town away. That's exactly right. And oftentimes overwhelming, the thing about like a visual stimuli in this context is that it's very, recognizable, whereas an audio stimuli, it's hard to tell. It's hard to localize, but it's also, and it also sort of so overwhelms you that it can kick in that fighter flight instinct that we're trying to avoid. So that's the first thing that they do is they pay a lot of attention to cues and they think really, really hard about that training. In one of my other books, smarter faster, better, there's a chapter about bootcamp for Marines. And it's probably the most scientifically well-fined to training you will find on Earth because it takes in hundreds of thousands of people every year and we have to train them to be Marines. The other thing that they pay a lot of attention to is how do we reward that behavior in a way that will make it automatic? Right, we mentioned that a habit is a cue, a routine, and a reward that's known as the habit loop. But what happens in our brain to form that habit loop is that the part of the basal ganglia, which every animal on Earth has a basal ganglia, the basal ganglia's job is essentially to make habits. Because without those habits, we essentially can't evolve. We just spend too much time in cognition. And what the basal ganglia helps encourage, and this is oversimplifying dramatically, but is it takes that cue that routine in that reward and it puts them in a kind of circuit where the neural synapses connecting the behavior centers of those three items becomes thicker and thicker, which means that as a result, the electrical impulse can travel down that synaps faster. So if I'm the general, my goal is to take these soldiers and to change their brain so that when they see smoke, they react immediately, which is they pull out their gun, they look for the thread, they go through the mental checklist of look for these five things, and then I want to have a reward for them that's predictable and consistent. Now, in that situation, there's not a natural reward. I have to create that reward. So one of the things that I do is I have them trained as a unit, and as soon as they all take position, they all say to each other, good job, good job, I'm in position, good job, good job, good job, good job, they're all positively reinforcing each other. That becomes a reward that can build this behavior, which is why looking at the unit or the platoon is so important in how we train soldiers is because oftentimes the rewards that are reinforcing our habits are social rewards that we're getting from other individuals. And during training, let's say it's the first day they're going through this drill, and two of the guys follow out of formation, they fail to get in position. The absence of being able to say good job is that sufficient, or is there also a punishment of, hey, you two guys, you were in the wrong spot, let's go do it again. Well, it's the Marines, right? So they start certainly the drill sergeants. They were certain reputation depalled about about yelling at people, but no, it's actually not doing that much. It's not really doing that much. It's helping people correct it's creating sort of that instead of a wicked feedback system, a positive feedback system, where I'm learning very quickly, but it's actually me seeking out that reward. One of the things that you'll find, if you look at surveys of why people fight, inevitably they will say, I joined because of patriotism and I stayed in the military because of my router because of camaraderie. So the guys next to me, I couldn't go home. I couldn't, I had to have to take care of them. That's really encouraged by the military, and that becomes the dominant overwhelming positive reinforcement, is that you act for your fellow soldiers. And when one of them turns to you and says, good job, good job. What he's really saying is, you helped protect me, and I'm going to help protect you, and that feels amazing. So when you think about the number of people that make it through the various forms of training and whether it be Marines, special forces, elsewhere, et cetera, are they screening for the capacity to be able to form these habits? Or is there a point of view that we can basically instill this in anyone provided some basic set of criteria of aptitude or psychological well-being as present? It's the latter. It's latter. And I'm kind of curious in your work how that plays out. That's exactly why I'm asking about it. Yeah, because what they believe in, and the science tells us is true, humans are habit machines. Right? We literally have evolved to brain that is fantastic at making habits. And so we can take almost anyone, assuming a baseline, physical readiness, and mental capacity, we can take anyone and we can teach them to be a good soldier. Now, some people are going to be a lead soldiers, right? Some are going to become special forces. They might have an aptitude where they're more comfortable with willpower, they're more comfortable with grit, they're more comfortable experiencing discomfort. And so they might be able to create habits faster. They might understand it's sort of just intuitively or through learning how to infect their habits, but we can do this with anyone. Which actually, I'm curious when someone comes to you and they are showing a habitual behavior that you think is negative. They want to race and you want to race. Are there some people who you believe like, it's just not going to happen. Like, I can't help this person. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

So I think what we're going to go next is starting to look at what people can do to improve their bone health. I think we made a lot of the groundwork that we need to do. And this next section we'll get into kind of everything people can do to improve it individually. But before we get to kind of like how you the person can do it, we did have some questions from subscribers who said, you know, they have kids and they want to improve their bone health and we've talked about how important it is. So before we get to the individual, yeah. So the next set of questions fit perfectly with where we're going, which is, you know, lot of questions on what does physical activity have to do with bone health. You know, you kind of hinted at it, we got a lot of questions on other certain types of physical activities that is better for bone health than not. We talked a little bit about it just now with kids, but as people who are adults are also thinking about this, what would you say to one? Well, again, I just want to go back to what it is about muscles that have such an impact on bones and this is. This is not always clear, right? So the more force that a muscle is applying to a bone, which is directly related to how much force you're trying to put on the muscle, you know, picking something up, contracting a muscle under an enormous external load. And by the way, I think that can be isometric, I don't think that has to be isotonic. In other words, I don't even think the muscle has to change in length necessarily for that force to be experienced. So there are lots of safe ways to do this. You're applying force to the receptors there, those receptors are translating that tension into signals that say lay down more bone. Okay, so, you know, we look through some of the literature on this and I kind of tell you, this is one of those things where I was kind of surprised. I saw some things that I just didn't expect to see. I already mentioned one of them, right? I kind of thought running was going to be really great. It turned out that studies looking at resistance training found them to be significantly better at retaining BMD. When compared to anything errobic, you know, running swimming cycling. And even impact things like pure jumping. So power lifting turned out to be more effective than just regular strength training in maintaining BMD in postmenopausal women. So think about that for a second. When we talk about power lifting as a sport, we're talking about, and I've seen women do this at all ages. We're talking about someone doing a squat, a deadlift, and a bench press. And the squat and the deadlift, or, you know, that is lumbar spine, that is hip. I mean, that is really stressing the lower body. More than just going into the gym and lifting. Okay. And then we talk about high force impacts sports, such as football and MMA, where it's associated with the highest BMD values. On the flip side of that, these low weight bearing low impact things like walking swimming cycling don't really seem to do a lot to improve BMD. And again, I don't know the studies, you know, it hasn't been done, but my suspicion is that when you make those things a little bit harder, especially with, you know, walking with a rucksack and walking uphill, you're going to apply more strain, also walking downhill. So again, when I'm rocking, I'm always trying to find the maximum elevation change. And I actually, you know, the walking uphill is harder cardio, but the walking downhill puts more strain on the muscle. And again, the take home point here is the more this strains your muscles, the better this is for your bones. Yeah, I'm going to pull up that figure as well that you mentioned metrics and colors and graphs for people to see this too. Yeah, this is this is an interesting figure. So on the on the left here, you're just looking at the absolute BMDs. You may also recall just where these units sit, right? So all of these athletes have very high BMDs compared to, you know, what we were looking at is the average man in the average woman. We don't have to flip back to that, but I just unfamiliar with the numbers. One point two grams per centimeter squared was considered a really good BMD for a middle aged man or woman. Remember how we've seen that that number 1.2 is pretty common, right? Yeah. Okay. So when you're looking at this, just to put in perspective, even the swimmers or, you know, the resistance training females and females are tend to be a little bit lower than men. They still have excellent BMD. So I, you know, we do not want to be suggesting that some sports are bad for BMD. That's not the take on message here. The take on message here is if you really have to juice it, what do you want to be doing? Again, even the distance runners here, all of them. So you're in the brown one in the black one, you know, you have to look at which one separate men versus women, right? So for example, like blood, sorry, red versus green is showing you the difference between male and female resistance training, whereas all the swimmers, all the distance runners, all the track and field athletes are in the same bucket. Now again, compare distance, the track and field, what's the difference track and field more power, right? A sprinter has more force being applied than a distance runner. What I find amazing is the MMA and the football, like, I mean, just staggering, right? Now, I'm going to say something else that's kind of unpopular. Not really sure playing college football is a great strategy for increasing your BMD when it comes with so many other injuries, not to mention all the head trauma. So the purpose of this analysis is not to say, you got to go be a college football player. No, it's to just give you a sense of what types of forces are involved in generating higher BMD. And I think most people who have even watched a football game can appreciate the kind of forces that those athletes are experiencing and as you talked about with MMA, you know, incredibly strong forces apply to cross muscles transmitted to bones. Yeah, no, yeah, good for the bones bad for the brain. Right. So what's the sweet spot here? To me, the sweet spot is resistance training, right? All of these things come with risk if you don't do them correctly. I mean, hell, if you don't swim correctly, you're going to tear your shoulders apart. So we just have to think about this through a risk reward lens. MMA can, I don't know anything about it, but I'm guessing it can be done safely. I'm guessing there were ways to do it and not be, you know, not put yourself at risk to tear your meniscus or tear your shoulder or, you know, have a lumbar spine, disc blow up because you get folded into a, you know, half like a pretzel. You can hurt yourself resistance training, but also you cannot. So if you're going to take one thing away from this, just notice that walking isn't on here and gardening is not on here and golf is not on here. So I just want people to understand that if they're in the business of trying to increase their BMD, they have to get wicked forces on their muscles. I feel like you didn't have to do golf like that. I feel like I'm making enemies like non, I'm just killing myself today here. I know, I feel like that has a potential to be the most thing that we get feedback for. It's like, yeah, you can insult the different organizations, but once you talk about golf like that, I can't even know what I'm saying. Don't play golf. Look, race car driving is not on here, okay. Our true reason not on here. My favorite things in the world aren't on here. Let's do that. All right. Is that is that an appropriate, you know, me, a culpa. Like the things I love doing are not on here. So I just don't want to be diluted into thinking that all that time I'm in a race car. I'm increasing my BMD. It's not enough. You know, yeah, that's a BMD gym. Got to be hitting it. Kind of on that realm moving from exercise to nutrition and supplements. We do get a lot of questions on how nutrition supplements can impact BMD. One of the first kind of questions we got was what are some essential nutrients that are important for optimizing bone deposition that people should think about. Yeah. So if you don't mind pull up figure 12 because I think, you know, one of our analysts put this together and I think it's, I think it's just a great way to lay all of this out. I think there were the big three you want to think about. So there are other things that matter protein matters total calories matter. All of those things other matter. But when we think about kind of the micronutrient side, the big three are calcium vitamin D and when I say vitamin D, I mean D three and magnesium. So in the first column here, you can see the required daily amounts. And I consider this a minimum, right? So so this is, you know, this would be like a letter grades C, right? So you might want to think about having a B or an A. So calcium about a thousand to 1200 milligrams daily vitamin D, 800 to 1000 IU daily and magnesium 300 to 500 milligrams daily. Now these can be supplemented. So if you can't get this in food, if you're not sufficiently getting this either through sunlight in the case of vitamin D in food, calcium carbonate calcium citrate or reasonable options in the magnesium school. You know, it really depends on what your gut can tolerate, right? So magnesium citrate, glycinate and oxide are fantastic if you're looking for a little speed up of the bowel. If you aren't, you want magnesium carbonate. It's also worth noting magnesium carbonate more fully absorbed than mag oxide citrate or glycinate, which is actually why those three help with bowel regularity. So personally, I like to mix them up. I'm sort of using three forms of magnesium. So I'm supplementing with mag carbonate in the mornings. I use mag oxide at night. And I also use a bit of mag glycinate with L three and eight as well. So you know, I'm routinely hitting about a gram of magnesium supplemental. And then the final column here is you can sort of see the foods where these things reside. And you can see why I believe most people are magnesium deficient. You know, it's pretty hard. I think to get 500 grams predictably of absorbed magnesium every single day. And by the way, I think that's a real minimum, right? I mean, I think a gram is really where you want to be. You've got to, you've got to do a little bit of work to make sure you're getting that from your nutrition. The same, I think calcium's a bit easier to get if you consume dairy, but you know, look, a lot of plant-based people aren't going to eat dairy. They have to sort of look to other things. And some of those other things, I don't think you really want to be eating a bunch of like look at how high figs are dried figs. A cup of those is 300 milligrams of calcium. So that's, you know, a quarter of your daily minimum amount. But, you know, I don't know that I want to be in a cup of dried figs every day for other reasons. I love tofu, so, you know, but I'm not eating it every day. So, again, I think this is something we need to be paying reasonable attention to both from a dietary standpoint and then for a number of us also from a supplementary standpoint. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future. Thank you.

The unfortunate nature of everything we've just described is you create a fringe movement. And unfortunately, I've seen a lot of Doc on a box hormone practices that are, I believe, putting women at risk. And I believe are doing bad things to women in the name of doing good. And I don't believe that these are inherently bad individuals. I think they are, I think they're ill-informed. I think they're just not that bright. And maybe some of them are just actually charlatans. And they're seeing an enormous opportunity here. As a general rule, I tell patients be very, very suspicious of a doctor that is selling new hormones, be incredibly suspicious of any physician who has their own compounding in the practice and is giving you compounded formulations and also making money on it. Talk a little bit about the, I don't want to call it the dark side, but just kind of the fringe side of this world. So I would argue that people care about their pain points. People want to feel better. People will go to anyone who tells them, here's, you know, there's a whole supplement aisle at CVS that makes all these wildish claims that we're going to help you with everything. And the reality is is I just got done saying you're going to college is in your internal medicine doctors are going to, in that 10 minute visit tell you that you don't need this. This is not going to help you. And so enter the fringe people. The snake oil salesmen, the people who are doing wildly inappropriate things. That doesn't mean the hormones themselves are bad. It just means we have a marketing problem here. If we're not doing it and helping people, people are, you know, they hear their friend did it, they hear their neighbor did it and they said, I want what she's having, right? This is why we call ourselves the menopause. This is why we teach so loudly is because we're trying to bring it back into medicine and evidence-based medicine and say you can actually do this quite reasonably. In fact, there are many FDA approved products that work, you know, much better that are more regulated that are totally safe. You know, here's what they are. They should be covered by your insurance, you know, and giving them that knowledge because the problem is is when no one is right, it's too quiet. No one is giving people answers. No one's even looking at the questions. So then the fringe people take over and are unfortunately doing very inappropriate thing. You know what? We see this with men's health too, right? As a urologist, we see shot clinics and all these wild PRP clinics and testosterone pellet clinics and compounded pellets and all of these things because my colleagues, we are not doing enough to take care of men's sexual health. And so these clinics exist to prey on those patients who deeply want to connect and get their answers, right? Which is why my colleagues and I are even loud about it on, you know, for everybody. Yeah, the number of online testosterone clinics is mind-boggling and, you know, a lot of them are prescribing, I think, second tier drugs, right? And you know what I say? I say, you know, with these things, is the people who need it are not being offered it and the people who don't need it are abusing it, right? And that is true for hormones for everybody because they just talked about this the last menopause meeting, less than 4% of women are on hormone therapy, right now, less than 4%. That's worse than 4% of the energy of women who would be able to be a good person. Yeah, 4% less than 4%. That's worse than 10 years ago. That's worse than 10 years ago. It is so bad out there. I did the same calculations you did when I was on my Uber on the way over, I said, how many women are over 40? It was something like 84 million according to AI, right? And I said, okay, and there are about 3,000 people on the menopause society website that doesn't mean everybody knows what they're doing or that they all do the same thing. But divide 84 million by 3,000, it's a big number and we can't see patient panels of 27,000 people, like that does not, the math doesn't math there. So we need people to step up and write the, so who should be writing estrogen prescriptions? Who? Every doctor who sees a woman of that age? Every doctor who sees a woman of that age and so who actually does? Nobody. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

if someone's listening to this and they're trying to figure out how to select a good IVF clinic. What? What are the things they should be looking for? Because I would have to assume that it's like any other field of medicine, right? Not all doctors and not all clinics are created equal. And just because you see a lot of advertising, doesn't tell you anything, right? So in other words, you're going to have to become a very, very intelligent consumer. For most people, this will be the single most expensive out-of-pocket health care expense they have. Yeah, that's true. And so it's not just that it's the most expensive health care decision they're ever going to make. It might be one of the most consequential as well. For sure. And yet, I mean, I know what I suggest to people when someone says Peter, you know, my wife and I are thinking about getting IVF. What do you think? I just go down the rabbit hole of like, here's a hundred questions I would ask. Yeah. And it usually begins with, tell me your success rate individually. I don't care about their national success rate. It means nothing to me. So how would you counsel someone who's trying to come up with their checklist of questions to ask? Yeah, there's a good question. And you know, these days is a little bit easier because obviously there's the internet and there's just some questions online. So you could look at, there it's true there is some variability amongst clinics. Although there's a lot of consolidation happening in the field as well. So a lot of the, you know, practices are becoming common to most clinics. But some of it is practical, right? Like which clinics are close to where you live because as a... You have to be aware that these ultrasound... Yeah, you gotta go in every few days. So you can't be going to another state. And you know, most people can't. But in most major cities, you have multiple options. In most major cities, that's true. Yeah. So you're right about individual clinics, success rates. Although technically it's hard to use those to compare them to each other because you don't necessarily know the patient population. We don't have the patient population, right? So how do you normalize it to... Right. Right. So one thing for sure, look at the success rates. And we're one of the few fields of medicine where actually you can get clinic specific success rates. So... You mean publicly it's available or... It's available. Yeah. So... Where do you find it? Well, the CDC... ...vintil recently. There is a law actually that says you have to report every IVF cycle in the success rate that was passed in the 90s. So because of that, the CDC tracks this. Although all the people that work in that department were fired recently. So we don't know what's going to happen with that. But also our professional organizations called Society of Assisted Reproductive Technology has a website called SART.org is the URL. And all the clinics in the US or most of them are on there. And they have to report their success rates and they're published every year. There's usually like a two-year lag because the babies have to be born and everything. So I would send people to that website first. Look at the clinics in your area. Look at the success rates. Keeping in mind, right, the populations might be different in different clinics. I probably would go to a clinic that does a sufficient volume. You know, you have to do at least 100 cycles I would say, but ideally more than that. Your clinic has how many doctors? Our clinic has about six doctors. And how many total cycles do you guys do a year? We do like six to 800 retrievals a year. There's a lot of variability. There's some clinics that do thousands. There's some that do like 50. So that would be one factor that I think is important just volume. Like, and you have how many embryologists? We have something like nine embryologists. Yeah. Yeah, there is a shortage of embryologists, you know, nationwide and reproductive and chronologists because of demand for Ivy that is going up, right? So I would definitely look at the clinic success rates. Look at the volume. The other thing, you know, with the internet, especially, you can look at patient reviews, you know, word of mouth. And got to take those with a grain of salt, right? Yeah, they take these negative selecting. Right. Not everybody has a great experience necessarily going to post it on red it. But everyone who has a bad one does. Yeah. Yeah. So you have to take that with a grain of salt. But they're objective ways. And you can also like interview your doctor. Yeah, what are questions you should be asking of the doctor that are independent of the objective metrics that we might have just discussed? You can ask about their sort of philosophy about protocols about things like add-ons like genetic testing, you know, for example, is like, are you a clinic where everybody is encouraged to do a genetic testing? You know, that's not necessarily the clinic I would choose, right? You talk to the patient about the pros and cons and you let the patient decide. And we do a lot of genetic testing, so it's not like I'm against it or anything. But, you know, you want to get a sense of the vibe of the clinic, you know, are they just, you know, interested in money, not that doctors, everything like that. But you know what I mean? So sometimes it takes having a consultation with one or more clinics to see where you feel more comfortable. You know, I'm a little bit biased towards some academic centers just because our missions include education and research, etc. But there's several very excellent private clinics as well. What would be some red flags if you're going through this process? And by the way, do you have a, is, how much of a Delta is there in cost within a same city? Or did prices tend to converge within a given geography? Yeah, within a given geography they're pretty similar and it's not cheap. What are we at today? Fully low cost? You know, an IVF cycle is probably around $20,000 per cycle. But that doesn't include genetic testing or does. Including genetic testing. Okay. If per cycle. But how does that compare to 20 years ago? Is that more or less inflation? Traces like most things have gone up. It has. Yeah. Okay. I mean, and I guess it should go up just based on the cost of labor that goes into all these things. Yeah, and there's, you know, even though the genetic testing is coming down. Yeah, yeah, innovations and things. You write like you think as volume goes up eventually prices go down. But that quite hasn't quite happened. And new things get out of it. And it just tends to become more expensive. And most people are probably still paying out of pocket. Most people are not getting this covered by insurance. Again, depends where you live. Yeah, but across the country. Yeah. And I think there are now there are 24 states that offer some kind of fertility coverage about 15 of them include IVF. So most of the, you write most places. And at a pocket if your employer doesn't happen to offer infertility insurance coverage. Yeah. Um, so red flags. You know, again, communication with the clinic. So a lot of your experience is going to be communicating with nurses and, you know, Yeah, just setting up a coordinator's. Yeah. So, you know, you want to get a sense of what that is like because that could be stressful if it's not smooth. And oftentimes, you know, our, our clinic included sometimes it's not smooth. I mean, there've been, you know, some things we try and do like texting and apps and things to make the communication. You know, easier. And, um, but. Doesn't always work the way it's supposed to kind of thing. And you want to get time with your doctor. So some clinics, you hardly ever see the doctor. And you see maybe the ultrasound on a further note that that's bad. You know, but it's kind of nice. Some patients prefer to have that sort of more frequent interaction with their actual, probably a sweet spot in volume where you, It's from an inverted you ship where if they're too low, they don't have the reps if they're too high. It's a bit of a sweatshop and if actually you want, you want in the middle there. I'm Peter at here. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive. Every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at Peter at EMD.com. Forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future. Thank you.

You know, most people listening to this are not going to lament the fact that they didn't run as fast as they could of when they were younger or that they didn't punch or swim with as much, you know, prowess as they could of where I think we should all care about this is that it's not just that the energy leakage costs you performance. It clearly does. It's that it predisposes you to injury. And that's where I think we have to bring this back, right, is what, you know, when I exercise today, I don't care about the performance. I care about the preservation and longevity of my body for whatever number of years I have left. So this is really where I think stability matters. It's, you know, what are the exercises I need to be doing? What are the exercises my patients need to be doing? So that as we age and we walk up the flight of stairs or carry something heavy, we don't hurt ourselves because we don't have that core stability that can resist the deformation that's going to allow energy to seep out of the system. Well said, a story was coming to mind as you were saying that, all be giving a lecture or teaching a class and I'll show some data from an elite athlete. And there will be therapists and clinicians in the room who say, we don't deal with elite athletes. We deal with the elderly or we deal with sick people. And I think, what are you thinking? I'm showing you what the human body has the potential to do and your arrogance won't allow you to learn what is possible. And I'm going to give you a very emotional, I hope I can get through this, a very emotional story to show the arrogance that exists among some of our colleagues. Occasionally medical groups, a hospital or whatever will ask, would you come out and assess three patients in our auditorium in front of all our medical staff? I was at this facility. It was in Europe and they brought out the first person was a rugby player fair enough and I at 20 minutes and declared what I thought was going on. The next one was a woman in our early 70s clearly distraught. You could look at her posture, her carriage. She was defeated by the world. She came onto the stage and I said, can you tell me your story? And she said a little few sentences and then she said, but the therapist says that I have to leave my home now. When I get off the toilet, I'm a bit unstated and she's afraid I'm going to fall on the floor. I can't get off the floor by myself and I'm just going to lay there and no one will discover me. I have to leave my home. You started to cry at this point, Peter. She said, what's going to happen to my cat and all this sort of stuff? And I said, really, would someone please bring me out of school and this will be our simulated toilet. So in a system of running, so along the stage, I said, okay, pretend that's the toilet and the seat she turned and had no idea how to move and just sort of plot and collapsed on the toilet. And then I'm just going to turn this down because I want you to see my lower body kinematics as we're moving here. And then I said, would you get up off the chair? And I can't remember whether she was wearing a skirt or pants. I think it was, but nonetheless, knees together and she just sort of collapsed and I had to help her. She was going to collapse onto the floor. And so I said, I want you to humor me now. You're my mirror. And I thought when I coach, I try and use minimum words, I said, do this with your hands. But your kneeca between your thumb and your hands as you slide your hands down. Go ahead. Now, I want you to be a leaning tower, leaning tower forward and backwards and play with the curve of your back. Do you have any pain now? She said, no. And I said, watch my shoulders. You're shrugged. And I said, come on down, and you're going to be able to go ahead and do that. And now I said, well, your hands up your thighs, like pulling your hips through. Don't lift us your back. Well, your hips through. See, she hadn't done in three repetitions. That was not her pattern. And I said, okay. Think of what we've just done and sit on the toilet. And I said, oops, strength your feet apart. And there she went. Her hands down. And now I said, then she put her knees together. And I said, now stand up. She was going to right back to the incompetent movement that caused her inability and disability before. I said, strangers of part and employer heels underneath you. Sift some air. Now lean forward and do what you now know how to do. And she did a perfect squat. Do it again. And then by the third repetition, big smile came on her face. This is the emotional part. I said, what's up with you? She said, I don't believe my home do I. No. Do you know, many of those hard-baked surgeons and clinicians started to cry as well? For the first time they realized all I did was teach her weightlifting 101. And remember how this story started with the arrogance of some of our colleagues who say, I don't want to hear stories about elite athletes. I deal with old people or sick people. And that's why they continue to not have the skill set to help their people. All I did was learn from the best with with first the world. People who know how to move load, learn what the efficiency was and turn it into a hack to change a person's life. Anyway, that's a pretty emotional story. And I hope we do that quite often. But it's a matter of, you know, I know you like cars. Why does Honda race F1 race cars? Well, they don't anymore. But when they did. And the reason was they learned about automotive technology. And the gear shift change in your Honda Civic came from the F1 race track. So that's why we work with elite athletes. So I can bring it down. That's what I love working with. Of course. But this is the, they just give it away free to us. And yet some of our colleagues are just so close to off. They don't want to hear about elite performance. Let's talk a little bit about first of all. That's a, that's an absolutely beautiful story. Stuart and thank you for sharing that. You know, it's a sadly common story too. And to me, I think the saddest part of that story is how many of those patients don't get the chance to sit on a stage with you for 30 minutes and learn that movement. And I, I don't, you know, you've been around long enough that I'm sure you have a better sense of this. But I feel maybe optimistically that we are in a place now where people are starting to appreciate the importance of strength and stability and that we're less afraid of this. You know, there's more discussion of the importance of resistance training and that it's not a, it's not a young guy thing to do. It's an everybody thing to do. But given the arc of your career, am I being just sort of delusional or do you really think that we're in a, in a, in a, in a coming of age here? I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today. A Peter Atia, MD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

Is there a difference, for example, between the individual who can't fall asleep, you know, this initiation of sleep in Somnia versus the person that I hear much more about, and frankly, I experience more, which is, that's not that hard for me to fall asleep. But boy, I will jolt up at one in the morning with some thought or anxiety, that I can't get out of my mind. And my mind starts running and I can't go back to sleep. Or I get up because I got a P, but when I come back, I erroneously just do something with my mind where I get thinking about the day's problem or whatever. So do you think of those as difference or the same side of a different coin? Different side same coin, I guess I'm. Great question, great question. So those people need the same stuff. And the people who can't fall asleep at the beginning of the night, their mind's just racing earlier than yours. Yours is just waking you up. And there's a whole suite of interventions that are part of cognitive behavioral therapy for in Somnia, starting by addressing the racing mind issue. I always tell patients, if you don't deal with what's causing you stress or anxiety during the day, it's going to demand to be dealt with in the middle of the night. It's going to say, I noticed you're laying there peacefully, not doing any work or tasks. And you don't have anything you need to do right now. So you're going to pay attention to me. And it's going to demand your attention at that time. Other people, that happens right when their head hits the pill at the beginning of the night. Oh, you're relaxing. Okay, here's your 10 things to worry about. So one of my favorite interventions that's actually born of anxiety treatment, but that I've co-opted and I've moved into cognitive behavioral therapy for in Somnia, because it fits with the theoretical framework. It's something called scheduled worry time. This sounds a little bit panicked and silly, but hear me out. If a patient came to me and said, Ashley, like, I worry all day. I'm worried about all of these things. My life is just a constant ball of worry. And I said, okay, I've got a solution for you. And it's two words. Ready? Stop it. Yeah. That wouldn't work, right? Doesn't work. So I take the opposite approach. Okay, this is really important to you. This is something you're doing all the time all day. Guess what? What do we do with things that are really important to us? Make time for. We schedule them, exactly. So I have my patient literally get, we sit back in the day of paper calendars. This was like, this felt like a different exercise. Now, people get out their phones, but I have them get out their phone or whatever. I say, all right, we're going to schedule worry time. And it's going to be an hour a day for the next seven days. It is non-negotiable. I may or may not schedule an email to go out to you at that at the end of that time. And you have to go and reply to it and tell me what you did, right? And what we find is that when people work with this during the day, it does two things. The first is, let's say it's 9 a.m. and you are trying to do something in your life and instead a worry pops up, you can actually think, oh, okay, I don't have to deal with this now. I'm going to write this down because at four o'clock, I've got scheduled time to deal with this. So that way you're uncluttering the rest of your day by moving all of the worry into that schedule time. So this could be a valuable technique, even absent in Somnia. Totally. I would tell I'd say that probably between a third and half of my patients who come in with in Somnia, they've got some bad sleep stuff for sure. But for some of those people, it's a primary anxiety disorder and sleep is suffering also. Whereas other folks, it's primary in Somnia, that's driving them anxious, right? But to rewind back to your earlier question about the middle of the night versus being in it. So the other thing that's scheduling worry time does decides, unquuttering your whole day, is it helps you get it done during the day so that when your head hits the pillow, it's not there. Oh, I already worked on this and also the knowledge, oh, I have time set aside tomorrow to work on this or to think about this. So I don't have to do that now. And cognitively, this all makes sense and maybe think you can think your way out of this, but you can't, you actually have to try it. And I've done this with a lot of people I've done this with doctors, police people, all people from all walks of life can really find this valuable. The other thing when it comes to falling asleep at the beginning of the night versus the middle of the night is that there's sometimes low hanging fruit that we can think about. You mentioned getting up to go to the bathroom. I've found that for a lot of men who are 45 and up who still have a prostate, just not drinking very much fluid with dinner and after dinner is huge and also throwing an electrolyte tab in there can really help. Granted, it's got to be the right Osmalarity and everything else, but there are ways to find this. Don't slam gatorate at night. That's not what I'm suggesting, but just throw a noon tab or whatever elementy, whatever, electrolyte replacement and I've had some male patients go from waking up three times in the night to be to one time. And the fewer times you wake up in the night, the fewer times you risk not falling back asleep. So little things like that can actually make a difference for waking up in the middle of the night. The other one I have about the middle of the night is a little more out there but hear me out. If I had five cents for every time, I took away a downcomputer from someone and their sleep got better. I'd have like eight dollars. I mean, this is huge and this is because everybody's heard of circadian rhythm, right, but it's missing a word. It's circadian temperature rhythm. Right, your body is supposed to be its coolest at night and it's warmest during the day. And my favorite people to talk with about this are actually anesthesiologists. They know more about body temperature than anyone. It's remarkable. But what I've had the great good fortune of learning is that your body temperature, it's supposed to be the warmest during the day in the coolest during the night. And when we do things like trap heat with downcomferters, quilted nonsense, even cotton replacement dovet, if the word dovet isn't it? Comforter is in it. I like that's a no for me. And I give people a handout. I'm like, here's the definition of a cotton blanket. Here are links to examples of what cotton blankets are. If you are cold, buy two, buy three, use these. And I'm telling you, it's made a huge difference for a lot of women, in particular with night sweats. And people wake up less sometimes because they're not giving their body this message that it's time to wake up because they're not as warm. People complain about their feet in their hands and I say, that's fine, you can put your downcomferter over the foot of your bed. You can wear some socks, right? But I take body temperature regulation very seriously and sometimes it's a quick fix and we don't need a whole lot of moss and fuzz. Now you've probably tried to, this is a very long way to answer your question. But I'll finish after this. The people at the start of the night, it's worth asking people to start at the night if they're cold, if they're hands and they're feet are cold. If you've tried to fall asleep when your hands and your feet are cold. Yeah, I mean, I try to be comfortably cold when I get into bed. Right, but your hands and your feet. No, generally not. I mean, it's just my body. Right. But again, I'm using a device to cool me as well. It's slightly different. Yeah. Yeah. But spoiler alert, it's pretty hard to fall asleep when you have cold hands and feet. And what we have data on from some interesting research in a totally different realm is that people with extremity circulation disorders, like who have really grown hands or something like that. Right. Yeah. They will have more early in what we call early in Somnio, which is difficulty falling asleep at the beginning of the night. Yeah. And when they get successful treatment or when you warm their hands in their feet, much easier to fall asleep. The whole warm foot bath before bed thing. That's an actual thing. So warming your extremity is help you dump heat. Right. So when you actually warm your hands in your feet, you can actually help dump heat from your core because your vaso dilating. And when you fall asleep, you want to be dumping heat from your core. Hard to do that when your vaso constricted in your hands in your feet. So for folks who have trouble falling asleep at the start of the night, we want to make sure their hands your feet and feet are warm enough. Right. And that they've dealt with the thoughts and the worries during the day. And that they're not trying to go to sleep at nine o'clock when their body doesn't want to go to sleep until 11. A lot of people just think I need to have this much time and bed each night. And they get into bed and they struggle for two hours before their body actually wants to go to sleep. So a major part of CBTI is aligning when your body can produce sleep with when you're in your bed.

So what about sleep medications? And let's talk about as many as you want. Like we get talk about benzos, we can talk about trazodone, we can talk about ambian, we can talk about the erects and base drugs, how many of the patients who come to see you are on a regularly taking one of these prescription based drugs, firstly. A lot of people take over the counter drugs and prescription drugs for sleep. And there was a huge shift that I noticed when COVID started. And there was a ban on flying to different countries, Mexico and Europe. And it turns out there are a lot of people who will fly to Mexico to get their ambian or end-filed Europe to get very sleep drugs that you can't necessarily get here. So all of a sudden, I saw a wave of patients dealing with withdrawal in the early months of the pandemic because they couldn't go get more of their drugs. Oh my gosh, I'm screwed. What am I doing now? How do I cope with this? So there was a meeting? And why couldn't they get them here in that situation? Oh, ambian's prescription only. And if you're saying they were buying it. I got it. Okay, and they just, they couldn't get a prescription while they were here. Yes, because they were taking so much that they were well beyond what they could convince someone to prescribe them. And a lot of physicians are, and a lot of my patients are physicians. And a lot of physicians are pretty redocent to go above FDA recommended doses when it comes to ambian. A lot of people don't realize that I believe, I believe this is the case. Ambian is still the only drug that is differenturally prescribed to men and women according to the FDA that's starting dose for women should be five milligrams. Starting dose for men is five to 10. For instant release, and then for extended release, I believe for women at 6.25, and then for men at 6.25, I've all of the way to 12.5, because women metabolize it less efficiently. So, I mean, the people who I've seen, I've seen people taking 30 milligrams. Big doses, right? And gosh, this is a very loaded question. But there's a lot of patients who come to me who will say, I've read something in the news. It turns out this medication I'm taking for my sleep is bad for my brain. I'm gonna be like, oh, I see, they saw that. And I wanna quit immediately. I need to quit by next week. Oh, okay. And you've been taking it for how long? Oh, 20 years. Okay, right. That's, oh, mm-hmm. So that never works, that never works. And I wouldn't say that I have any sort of extreme expertise in the different classes of sleep meds, but what I can tell you is the ones that people most often are coming to me saying, I wanna quit this. I hate being dependent on this. What do I, what do I do? These are gonna be the benzos, which doctors are becoming less and less hip to prescribing for sleep. Ambient, the senata lannesta stuff. And then over the counter stuff, like benadrill, maybe your occasional doxipin, and then people are often prescribed remeron for sleep, and they run into metabolic issues, and they need to get off of it. So if folks are showing up on 20 milligrams of volume or, you know, Sanxer, pick your favorite benzo, do you have them go and do a tapered detox with their physician before they come into the CPTI program? No, I have them do it with me. Most of the times, so you will manage the medical withdrawal on that? Let me explain exactly what I do, because a scope of practice, right? So first of all, I always work with the prescribing physician. I never start without making sure the prescribing physician is explicitly aware of what I wanna do. I talk with them. And this has to be one of your colleagues at UCSF, or whoever they're prescribing physician. Who ever is prescribing the medication to this person? We now share a patient and have an obligation to. Great. Every single time I have done this, the physician has been in support of getting their patient off of benzos, except for one time, which isn't even worth really getting into, but the point is, it's an overwhelming amount of support. Yeah, I can imagine. Most of the time, these patients have already tried to get their patients to quit, and to reduce. But in my opinion, they've tried to do it way, way, way too quickly. And that's because there are physiological dependencies on these drugs and psychological dependency, dependencies on these drugs. And we have to attend to both of them while we're doing this taper process, or it's gonna be a botch, and the patient's gonna relapse, and we're gonna be back at square one, or square negative one, unfortunately. So here's what I do is, I'll, let's take, can we take a boring example, pick your favorite benzose? I don't particularly like them myself, but let's take value. Well, okay, 10, 10 milligrams. Yeah, sure. So let's say we've got a patient on, a value them, they've tried to quit. They've occasionally abused, they've gone up, they've split in extra and half, they've gone to 15 sometimes. What not, the first thing that I do with a patient is, is they all right, we are going to get you stable. Actually, for sake of better example, for sleep, let's just put, put you ambient, because it's a little fun, and we can make more coffee. 10 of ambient, 10 of the night. Let's say 10 of ambient every night, the beginning of the night. And then let's say sometimes they're actually taking a fiber in the middle of the night when they wake up, because they wanna get back to sleep. Right, like I like the party dose. Right, right, so let's say there, some nights, it's 15, some nights, 10, what do we do? So the first thing I do is I take out the middle of the night dosing, and I say, we're done with that. You limited to 10 of the night, and you gotta take it before bed. Well, yes, you have to take it before bed. You've taken the same time every night, but if you're going 15, five nights a week, and 10, two nights a week, I'm gonna make it a 12.5 before bed. Let's be generous, start higher, right? So we'll agree on a dose that the patient will take and it'll agree to pun time. So the prescribed or an I agree on this, like, okay, same page, this with patients gonna do. And they start doing that. Generally, the patient's like, no, no, no, no, I'm trying to quit. I don't wanna take more, and I see no, not before you quit, it must be stable. You cannot quit from a point of instability. It will not work. I've seen people try. And people say, oh, I wanna quit. I wanna go from 10 to five. No, that's not how we roll. So let's say this patient's taking 12 and a half. And they're like, okay, I wanna cut down, I'm like, all right. Okay, so how does it going from 12 and a half to five sound? And they say, oh my gosh, that's gonna be really scary. I don't think I can handle that. And what I actually have them do is I rate it on a scale from one to 10. With 10 being the most anxiety-provoking upsetting thing and one being not upsetting at all. This is called a subjective units of distress scale. So it's okay, I have them suds it. So I say, okay, so going from 12.5 to five, that sounds really terrifying now, because they've just done a week, right, with our consistent with 12.5 at the beginning of the night, they've had no middle of the night crutch. And they're not feeling great about that, right? So then I say, okay, so how about going from 12 to 10? And they say, oh, not as bad, but that's still like a six on my scale. And I do this process all the way until I get them to a one. And I'll say, all right, so next week, we're going from 12.5 to 12. How are you even making that increment? Yes, I can tell you exactly how I're doing that. We're going on the internet and we are buying something called the gem scale. Now you and I both know that people who are wealthy and have gems worth measuring aren't measuring their own. So the people who are buying those scales are using them for other things. And so what my patients end doing is they buy these scales and they get a full blown, like, breaking bad setup in their bathroom. We're going to, okay, we're cutting pills, we're weighing pills, we're doing math because the pill actually weighs more than 12.5 because it's got binders and fillers. And what percent doing it, and we kind of make it fun. And they end up having to put the crumbly pill into a shot glass with water. We shoot it in the whole thing. We make a whole production out of it, right? But the point just is, they're going from 12.5 to 12. And we do that for like three weeks. They've been on it for years, we're looking at three weeks. And the first couple nights are a little rough. So they're only doing a seven week program with you, you're not. Oh, no. This table program, we make, and it will last a year, it'll make a long, it'll last a long time. So when they enter the program, it's a separate issue. This is a separate issue, and we do this after they finish CBTI treatment. During CBTI treatment, I stabilize them on their meds. And we just get it, so they're not erratically taking five different cocktails of things. When people come into CME for treatment, they'll say, oh, yeah, so Monday's I do ambient. Two states I do triad. So it won't Wednesday's has been a drill, because they have it in their head, because they think they don't want to get dependent on one. So they think they're by doing a rotating merry-ground of these things that, that's actually smart, I wouldn't ever even thought of that. Oh, yeah. Well, it's sinister. Working great. Yeah. So I generally work with the doctor, and we decide, okay, here's the one you're going to do. Here's the dose you're going to do, and you're going to be consistent with that. Let's see, vodka on Monday. And then Tequila on Tuesday, red wine on Wednesday, and then Shard and A Thursday, and this way I'll never become an alcohol. Oh, you figured it out, Peter. So in short, I have people really stabilized during CME and sometimes during week four, week three four, they're ready to start this, and we start them on this program. And once I have them in this way, they're able to do this on their own. So they'll go from 12 to 12.5 for like three weeks, and they'll be keeping sleep diaries. So they'll see, like, oh, okay, and they'll get some confidence. And then they'll email me, you know, if I message me and I'll say, okay, so now what? And I'll say, all right, well, how you feel? And like, how, what if we go down to 11.5? How do that sound? Like sometimes that'll be too scary. For some reason, crossing the five threshold is really scary, so we go from five to four, 0.75 sometimes. And just to be clear, this is psychological. They're can't possibly, a physiologic difference between four and 4.75 and five, and five, and a bandian. That's what, the medicine isn't even homogenously enough compounded within the capsule, to, like, yeah, okay. So as long as everybody understands that. Probably not. But, you know, it's a test. I'm thinking some of her tablets, and I don't know about the homogenes, I don't know about the requirement. Yeah, because the binder and the active ingredient are in no, like, yeah. And generic SB85% similar to the, to real deals, and there's all kinds of messups here. This is, remember how I said, there's the psychological part in the physiological part. This is the psychological part that I think it's left out of a lot of the, oh, just cut it in half to start decreasing your dose aspect, which is dealing with, okay, what can we physiologically do? I'm talking about what can we psychologically do? And do you think that this methodology of the incredibly slow taper with incredibly high precision? Do you think it works for opioids? So I, don't think I've ever seen that in my clinic, it's just not something I've had to do it. I don't know if it's for sleep. I just mean in general, like if we're dealing with people that are, or is the problem so grave that you have to be a little more aggressive? And switch them to a completely different class of drugs, like that's so far outside of area. Okay, I can't speak to it, but what I can tell you is just that doing this method with the sleep drugs slowly over time, people get more confidence, and they can make larger reductions at a time. And then importantly, Peter, when someone gets is tapering and something crazy in their life happens, like a child gets diagnosed with cancer, something terrible happens, we stop the taper and we stay where we're at. So your taper might look like this. Yeah. Right? But there's not a huge rush to get off this thing. You've been on it for 20 years. Better to stable you get off it. I always joke with people like, yeah, if you think, if you can lose 10 pounds in two days, how quickly do you think you can gain two pounds? Right? So when it comes to quitting these meds, slow and steady wins the race, having people gain the confidence that they can do it is such a big part of it. And I know that one of the critiques I've gotten from folks is like, wait a minute, some of these pills have coatings and dead, but it's a lot of it is psychological. So this works really well for a medication taper and people can do it themselves. There's no, there's no magic.

So basically, if there's a person with Type II diabetes listening to us today, and they're taking 75 units. That's very soon. That one of the takeaways should be, what do I need to do with my nutrition and other pharmacologic activities plus exercise plus everything that's under my control to maybe get that down to 35, where I would be at a physiological level? Absolutely. There are things that you're in already insinuated weight loss. If you can get people to do it, exercise, and then we can add medications in combination with insulin, insulin sensitizers or some drugs to help you lose weight that will also allow you to get that dose of insulin, you know, reduced. The other thing we showed in this study, Dr. Del Prado, who's past president of the European Diabetes Association, we took normal healthy lean kids, 18, 25 years of age. And we gave them, we put them on the clinical research center for three days, and we gave them a very, very low dose of insulin infusion. And we raised their fasting insulin from eight, which is what a normal person would be to 20, which is really quite low. And within 48 to 72 hours, they were as insulin resistant as a type 2 diabetic patient. So hyperinsulinemia induces insulin resistance. This is, why is that the case? So what insulin does is it down regulates the insulin signaling transduction system. So that insulin binds to its receptor and then it activates iris 1, pi3 kinase and a KT. That's just them is down regulated by hyperinsulinemia. All of this that I'm telling you about, it's all published. These are all studies that in in in in humans. And this also been shown in in in rodent models as as well. So this is another reason why we don't want people to be hyperinsulinemic. You have to explain that to me again, Ralph, that is mind-boggling to me. I would never, I would never have predicted that. So let me say it back to you because I, I feel like I missed it when I was writing something down. You took normal volunteers who had a fasting insulin of 8. Yep. And they're lean healthy. Okay. And you simply infused insulin in them, presumably with glucose. Oh yes, of course. On the clinical research center, we can monitor, keep the glucose perfectly Cons that we're not letting the glucose change. So person shows up in salineate glucose is 90. You do a you glycemic clamp where you bring insulin up only to 20. One and a half per, one and a half. Much less than, yeah, be when you eat a meal. Exactly. Not even a pros-prandial bump. Right. But now it's constrictively sitting there at 20. Yep. And you've obviously had to bring glucose. You're doing a few glucose to maintain you glycemia. Correct. Did you say that in four days, 48 to 72 hours. And these people are as insulin resistant as that due diabetics. Okay. Again, very, very counterintuitive because if our, if our model is that insulin resistance, which is the hallmark factor, contributing to type two diabetes in the combination of beta cell fatigue is driven by lipotoxicity, which we're going to come to. That's an important one. Yes. These people didn't have any of that. No, these people didn't have any of the intramyosolular lipid that we talked about with your colleague. No, Jerry Reven as a predisposing factor. It's the direct effect of insulin down regulating the insulin signaling system. And probably other distal metabolic within the cell as well. Okay. So then when you turn the clamps off, let's just say we ran this for 72 hours. Yeah. We've made them functionally diabetic. Turn the clamps off how many hours or they do that. What would you predict? I would predict probably within 24 to 48 hours they would return to normal because we did this acutely. Now, if we were able to do this for several months, then I would anticipate that the insulin resistance would remain for a long period of time. And remember, when we treat type one diabetics, we're always giving the insulin into the periphery. And you arrive when you ingest the meal, where does the insulin go? It goes into the portal vein. So the liver is seeing a high level of insulin. That's good. It says stop making glucose. But now it removes half of the insulin. So how much insulin gets into the periphery? Half of what you secreted. Why? Because we don't want the insulin in the periphery over insulinizing the periphery because we would make the muscle tissue very insulin resistant. So the portal, the pancreas, the secreting insulin into the portal circulation, liver disease, the insulin, good. Stop making glucose. But it also takes up half of the insulin. So less insulin gets enough to nourish the muscle. You're enough to shut down the fat, producing free fatty acids, but not enough to hyperinsenize the system. And in a certain way, if you're a diabetic and you are insulin resistant, or an obese person, and you are insulin resistant, and you're a hypersecrating insulin, it's kind of working against you because it's a reverberating system that's making the insulin resistance aggravated. So one of the big things that we've forgotten is that insulin, I told you, there are two problems in diabetes. One is, you know, I'm making an oven insulin. The other is your insulin resistant. You need to attack both problems. And the paper that I recently published, which is a perspective in Lancet Diabetes and the chronology, was to bring people back to look, we're focusing on obesity and weight loss and we should. But we need to remember that we still have a genetic cause for the insulin resistance. You know, you go back to 1950. You know, the incident to diabetes was 2%. I've seen even data that says it was 1%. As recent as 1970, it's very low. Yeah. But these people were all lean and they're insulin resistant. So there's a genetic cause of the insulin resistance.

If you're really committed to developing your cardiovascular fitness, you're trying to maximize the area of a triangle, right? So the triangle has a base and the triangle has a peak. And the goal is how big an area can I get? Not how wide, not how tall. You don't want one that's this wide in this tall. And you know what one that's this tall in this wide? You want the max. The base is your zone two. The peak is your VO2 max. From a training perspective, the rule of thumb that is applicable for people like us, IE normal people. And the best athletes in the world is roughly 80-20. 80% of your volume is down here. 20% of your volume obscene. In fact, some of the really, really elites are probably closer to 90-10. So you're saying no matter if you're just an ordinary athlete or you're the best, it's still roughly the same. Ta-di, pogotcher, who's the greatest cyclist on this planet, two time winner of the tour de France, absolutely mopping up the field of cyclists like their children, that guy is doing 80-90% of his training at zone two. And I know that for a red fact because we know who is coaches. If you know it's 80% 20% let's break out of the world. I just start with how much time am I willing to put into this. Now I got to be honest with you. I wish I could be putting 10 hours a week into cardio. I do. I mean historically I've put in 14 to 20 hours a week into cardio up until 10 years ago. So it's simply not possible today. All of the obligations that I have and there's, I've done the math 10 ways to Sunday. I'd have to give up something I'm not willing to give up. I heard it give up archery or give up driving or give up my kids. There's something like I'm just not willing to give any of these things up. So yeah I basically start with what's the most amount of time I can put into dedicated cardio. And for me it's like four to five hours a week, not including rocking. I sort of keep that in its own bucket. So then it's a very simple calculation. 80% of that time is zone two and 20% of that time is VO2 Max. And how are you breaking out? Let's just start with zone two. How many? I divided into four workouts a week. So four Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday, Sunday. Actually, what I was walking through the whole week, that'll be easier. So Monday is just strength training. So that's about 90 minutes to two hours when you include the stability training that I do as well. So movement, perhaps stability training, strength training and that's all lower body. That's Monday. Tuesday is zone two followed by dedicated hour of stability. Wednesday is upper body strength and stability. Again, 90 minutes to two hours. Thursday is a repeat of Tuesday. Friday is a repeat of Monday. Saturday is zone two in the morning, upper body strength, repeat of Wednesday in the afternoon. Sunday is zone two followed by VO2 Max. And will you ever do VO2 Max before you do zone two? I generally don't just because I like to have a lot of reps before I go for broke. So even when I was like a cyclist and doing two zone VO2 Max workouts a week, they were always preceded by a long, the metric we would use on a bike was kilojoules. So as how many kilojoules of work would you do before you would do the super hard sets? And it had to be at least a thousand kilojoules, which is translated to at least a thousand calories of work. And four zone two, I know you said you kind of like to break it up, if someone is like, hey, you know, I can do four days a week of zone two, but I can only do 15 minutes a day. Would you say I'd compress it? I would say do two 30s. So in your zone two sessions you like to do at least 30? At a minimum. And now when you're in those zone two is are you like when you hit the bike and the clock. No, I take 10 minutes. I do it all mine on a bike. Sometimes I'm in treadmill, but what I do is there's a, like a little, it's the computer is programming to the Wahoo Kicker, which is the device I'm sitting on. So it's taking 10 minutes to ramp me up. And maybe just walk through what modalities can people do zone two on? treadmill by anything that is steady state. So you know, swimming is a great way to do it because you can really swim in a pool at a steady state. Running is a great way to do it because you can pretty much run it a steady state. Cycling outdoors is generally hard. Unless you have specifically like fiesta island was a great place to train. I used to train at fiesta island because for people who don't know where that is in San Diego, where all with a time trial bike races were and it's just a seven kilometer loop that you can ride on without lights or anything like there's no traffic or anything that gets in your way. But for the most, I wouldn't be able to do zone two outside here in Austin. It's just it's too hilly and there's too much traffic and it's just it's, it's fits and starts. I can do my VO2 max here because I go to a hill and that's my favorite way to do VO2 max is on a hill. That's about a mile long and just do very hard up the hill and then easy down the hill. But a treadmill is another great way to do it. Just one of a walking incline typically. Rowing machine if you're really a good roar. You have to be efficient enough. Most people are not efficient enough and they just, they don't have the strength, they don't have the stability to row really well for 45 minutes. Stair climbers and other really good one. But you know, depends again if you're if you're starting out brisk walking is probably good enough too. Yeah and we we don't have to get into all the reasons of the benefits of zone two because we have so many podcasts within you go. Sound malon people can listen to but you kind of hint at another thing there which is, you know when you start your zone two workouts you'll ramp up. But also a lot of times we get questions where you know hey I did a 90 minute workout and I was in zone two for 45 minutes of it. Is that am I good? No I mean I think what you mean in that question is you know like I went out for a three hour bike ride today and when I got back my computer told me I was in I did 40 for my own zone two so two issues there one is that's just a zone two based on heart rate that's generally the worst approximation of zone two so zone two really is more based on lactate if we're going to be if you're purely accurate or at a minimum RPE but even if you posit that that 45 minutes of zone two from your heart rate is roughly accurate it's not the same physiologically because usually you're passing in and out of zone two in that situation and so you're not getting kind of that constant steady state turn which you're looking for what we're really kind of looking for is the harnessing of mitochondrial efficiency and to do that you just you have to be able to push oxidative phosphorylation right to its limit before you trip into glycolysis and you're just you're at the limit of that glycolysis being the dominant energy source whereas if you're on that ride you're going into and out of glycolysis constantly so it's not that you're so much in zone two for 45 minutes as that you passed through zone two for a sum total of 45 minutes which again that's the still there's still value in that but not for what we're talking about yeah and what about votomax what modalities can you do votomax training on you know here I think it's it's probably easier in a way right because it's pretty much anything that gets your heart rate up and gets you very tired so you know look it could be you know an air bike it could be a regular bike it could be a stationary bike stair climber treadmill running outside you know the skies almost the limit something like burpees is probably pretty tough once you get into something that intense like jumping because the sweet spot for votomax is kind of three to eight minute intervals so you don't want to be doing things that are so intense that you can't do them for at least three minutes and so what's your what's your current votomax workout so you mentioned kind of three to eight minutes on is it typically I do four on four off is sort of where I spend most of my time sometimes three on three off on a rowing machine I got into that quite a bit last summer but these days and sometimes by the way I just am in a bit of a rush and I'll just do one minute on two minute off at a much higher intensity on the stair climbers so I have one of those like industrial grades strength climbers and sometimes I'll just go sprint for a minute up the stairs and then it takes me two minutes to get my heart rate back down to about a hundred and then repeat that for 20 to 30 minutes so that's kind of like my poor man's cheating votomax workout but what I really like to do is four minute repeats four minutes on four minutes off and on the four minutes on are you going a hundred percent for the full like how how should someone think about yeah this is one of those things you have to you have to play with this there's a this is years and years of practice to know what that feels like so again I'm doing this on a bike so I'm looking at wattage and my watts are so low now I'm embarrassed so I'm not going to tell you what the watts are because there's so much lower than they used to be but I know I have a sense of what I need to average my wattage over those four minutes so I might go out at 105 percent of that wattage and it feels pretty easy for the first minute if it doesn't I've gone too hard by three minutes I'm very uncomfortable and at a minute I'm I mean I'm with at that in that last minute I eat at four minutes I don't have much left so that's you know if you go out all out in that first minute you're not going to get to four minutes you're you're just going to crash and you're sort of not in that zone you want to so it's not there's no question I positive split the thing meaning I do more work in the first half than the second but I don't want it to be more than about 10 percent

Jeff, what advice do you have for somebody who's out there trying to find a therapist? They've listened to us today and they've been like, okay, you know, these two guys have got me at least thinking, I ought to maybe scratch this a little bit. See if this scabbleeds, what are the attributes they should be looking for? First of all, how do they even begin to, like, what do you go on Google and search trauma base therapy? How do you find somebody? And more importantly, when you find somebody, how do you say, like, I'm going to give this three or four sessions to determine if this is a good use in my time? What are you looking for? Is it, hey, if I'm not uncomfortable in three or four sessions, this probably, this person probably isn't doing a good job, what are the metrics? I certainly want some input from a professional, a seasoned professional. A personal referral. I mean, if you will, you mentioned that I just did a go Google, like trauma informed is kind of like the buzz thing. And what does this mean? Did you, did you go to a 45 minute seminar on trauma does affect folks and now you're trauma informed, right? Yeah. Is there a certification that people should be aware of that says you're a true trauma-based therapist? There are several, but I would be more interested in, what I do when I look at bios. Sometimes I get more concerned about the more specialty, so I see, right? And, you know, a niche, you know, is so when I see these lists that cover every class that someone takes during a graduate program for counseling or that troubles me, you know, because, well, because it, it looks great. I cover all of these different things. No depth. Yeah, but like, how many, like how much muscle memory do you have as a clinician? Working with a certain population, the way that you do it, you know, and where did that muscle memory come from? So, and that's a, it's a big part of what I do, you know, is, is helping folks make sure, you know, that they are with the right person or they can go, that's where I go with the efficiency of it. Like, no one in the story, learning the story, getting that eye opening moment, and then that, hence that someone wants something different, right? And then to be a part of that process or to put them in the direction, point them in the right direction. What else should they be looking for? So, so they, they find somebody, they think, you know, they even get a personal referral that says this person is good, how should they evaluate what is going on and if they're on the right path within a month, for example, what's a sign that things are going well, what's a sign that things are not going well? I personally think that sometimes, I would say that challenge, like, how, how challenged do you feel, right? How do you feel going into a session? How do you feel after the session? Okay. What's a good sign to that, to the going, is going in, apprehensive and coming out exhaust at a good sign? I think, yeah, yeah, absolutely. I don't think it's a good story when it's like, I can't wait to talk to Jeff, because I'm going to get to Grite for 55 minutes and he's going to let me pay him for that, right? Now it's happened before, and I would just say, we need to call this what it is. Okay. You know, if this is where you want to put your anger at, for an hour, we can do that, but let's call it what it is, because we're not working on change here, right? So what's happening? What's being illuminated, right? Because they wouldn't call it a blind spot if I could see it, right? So what's happening within that back and forth that's what I, what did I not know? What made me think? What made me pause? But the main thing is what's different? And, you know, not all therapeutic relationships are a good match. And so to just know that that's a reality. And to give yourself permission to, you know, after an adequate amount of time, this isn't working, what's not keep doing this? You know what's not keeping doing something's not working, you know, watch short.

What would you say to a person who's listening to us, who's trying to even understand if they've experienced trauma? Which sounds like a dumb thing to say, but let me give an example, right? So you have a person who's listening, who's either introspective enough to realize that there's some of those things we describe as the four branches of the trauma tree, whether it be codependency attachment disorders, some sort of maladaptive behavior, et cetera, addiction, maybe. They're like, okay, I mean, if I'm being brutally honest, I'm not flying on a perfect level, right? Yeah, and my spouse has complained about XY and Z, and there does seem to be a little bit of interpersonal discontent in this relationship, et cetera. Okay, fine. And then if they're, again, in a particularly charitable mood, they look at the kind of five roots of the tree, and they're like, well, okay, yeah, I mean, these sort of things happened. But they can't make the leap to say, but does any of that stuff actually rise to the level of quote-unquote trauma, even little T trauma? Like, is the answer just that I need to get my act together and drink a little less, you know, just try to be more present with my kids or, you know, whatever it doesn't matter what the fix is. But they're just not sure that going back and stirring the pot of what happened to them during the first 10 years of their life is going to be an exercise worth engaging in. How would you help that person decide that, you know, you're right, it's probably not worth stirring that up. Let's just work on some behavioral tools right now to address the behavior versus actually, I don't think you're ever going to truly fix these things until you go back to the root. I think that's a perfect way to approach it. So let's try that. You just, in your example, like maybe I should just do this less and do this more, all these behaviors. Let's try that. Let's put together a plant goal setting, okay? This is, you know, I'm coaching you. We're not doing an intervention here in the therapeutic intervention and then we, and if it happens, it happens, right? But folks who realize or already know that they have trauma or have been wounded significantly, sometimes I think the word just trips folks up and they just can't get over the word, right? It's wounded, right? Survivors, whatever we want to call these folks, they have a really hard time putting knowing into action, right? Like, I spent many years as a very well-informed prisoner, right? Like, I know all this stuff about why it is. I do the things that I do, but it's the putting it into action. The thing that you did said about the not doing, that's where we get to realize, hopefully it meant to self, if that's the fact when I come back to C.J. for whoever, well, the goal is still failing. For some reason, I just can't do that, right? Okay, well, perhaps there's something significant connected to this. Maybe something needs to be integrated, the part of you that is unwilling to do this thing that you say is the goal and the plan when you sit in front of me, that's who we need to work with. So how do you begin to do that integration, right? So, you know, let's go back to the example you gave because it's so profound and probably tragic where that four-year-old boy that learned how to manipulate and deceive to protect his mom has now carried that behavior into his marriage. So, step one is obviously getting to the point where we uncover that story and make the connection, which was an inner child is wounded, that inner child adapted when the strategy that was very positive. Everything about that strategy made sense, but guess what your dad is and kind of hurting your mom anymore because luckily she got a divorce and he's gone and you're now applying that same behavior pattern in relationships that I've nothing to do with the relationship and which that was developed to be protective, right? And he says, okay, I get it, Jeff. How do I change? Like what are the next steps? How do I go from the understanding of that to creating a new pattern of behavior? Because this is really wired. Yeah, these pads are heavily, heavily, violated at this point. So, in general, what we're gonna have to do is we're gonna have to expand your window of tolerance if you will to vulnerability, right? Because typically that protective behavior, again, the enemy is vulnerability. And so to create some muscle memory doing something different when vulnerable, not doing that same thing, okay? And when you talked about your experience at the bridge and you talked about what it would have been like if we had a taken away exercise, okay? Like, simply sitting still for some folks is a very vulnerable experience, right? And so to create an environment for that person can experience the discomfort. And that's why I think that within my work and a lot of professionals looking at individuals from a part's perspective, right? There's different systems, different theories, internal family systems, structural dissociation, but this language that I'm using. It's not necessarily new because it's like you're talking about, so this is original self, this wounded self, this adapted self, right? The adapted self tends to have some really hard line beliefs, right? Safety equals control, safety equals distance, safety equals self abandonment, safety equals somebody else, right? And as long as that part of self, right, has that core belief, I believe it's going to be damn near impossible to do those things that I know I should do, right? So to know that there are interventions that will fit that process within, the first question is, do you get issue with this? Right? Because I'm back to if you like it, I love it, right? Like, when a client is talking about, you know, they're at the bridge and they're there because they're spouse, you know, that their spouse is going to leave them, their spouse is finally fed up with it. And, you know, they've got all these opinions about it. So here I am because they said I needed to go to a place like this and you know, you're like, you know, it doesn't sound like you got a problem at all. What do you mean? I was like, it just sounds like you can keep being you. You just got somebody telling you now that they're not going to deal with it, right? So it might maybe it's the biggest controlling jerk in the world, right? So all you need to do is go find another dormant, you know? I'm just hearing you say your spouse is not. So you decide whether there's a problem there or not, right? And so this behavior, again, that's become the problematic behavior, how difficult it is to unravel and stop doing that behavior, again, tie it into the trauma, tie it into it being an ingenious, damaged control strategy at a time in life, perhaps. And perhaps done multiple times successfully, right? So, you know, there's a part of self that says, why not do this? We've been doing pretty well like this for a long time.

You know, one of the things that I think is, I don't know that we'll ever know an answer. I don't know the we'll ever have an answer to the question, but I think one of the challenges of trying to reconcile all of these disparate data sources is it's all apples and oranges with respect to the metrics, right? It's your comparing hours of exercise a week to mileage run to, you know, true measures of fitness like VO2 Max. I guess the question is, and I've thought a lot about this. I'd be very curious to your thoughts. If you could reverse engineer where you want your VO2 Max to be when you're 90, what would should it be? Because if you have a sense of what your VO2 Max should be when you're 90, you kind of know what it needs to be when you're 80, 70, 60, blah, blah, blah, blah, all the way back. And, you know, at that point, it's not necessarily about how fast you want to run a mile, though you may say, look, when I'm 90, I still want to run a nine minute mile. I don't know, but it really starts to get into the activities of daily living and how much pain are you willing to tolerate to walk up to flights of stairs with your groceries. And I suspect, so I know for me, I don't know for me, I hypothesize for me that when I'm 90, the real risk is that I won't be able to get up out of a chair more than that I won't have the VO2 Max. And there are, you know, I don't remember these act numbers, but there are thresholds of VO2 Max below which they hypothesize that you can't, I come on, it's like 18 or not. It may be a nine or something like that where it's like, at this point, you've crossed the sort of mortality index where we think you're going to die in a few years because you can't do activities of daily living. So there is some research into that, but for me, as just my personal, I can look at myself and say, you know what Alex, far before your VO2 Max is too low, you're going to be the guy who falls on the floor and can't get up. And so again, from a health perspective, that's why I said, you know, the next thing, if I had, you know, magic motivation dust, it would be like, you need to put on some muscle mass. And for other people, it would be totally different. There are people I know who don't necessarily exercise a lot, but who just have a lot more muscle mass than me and it's like, you need to, you know, make sure your aerobic fitness is taken care of and maybe you don't need to worry as much as me about muscle mass. So there's, yeah, but I agree, you figure out where you want to be and for all those different things. So I'm doing exactly what you said, except I'm doing it for muscle mass and I'm like, this trajectory is not good. And of course part of that's predicate on the idea that we know there's an inevitability of decline. So if you do nothing, you're going to lose x-pounds of muscle per decade on a, if you're lucky with a tailwind. If you train really hard, you might be able to reduce it to this amount of loss. And if you really go crazy, you might even be able to keep it flat. But here's the scenario under which that occurs. What do you think is the, I mean, I assume there are pretty clear tables on what the decade by decade drop of maximal aerobic output is? There are. I mean, the problem with the tables is that they, they draw a nice smooth line. Do you lose, I think it's 9% per decade or something like that, at least in that, once you get into your 70s, it gets steeper. Yeah, there's an inflection point. There are sort of revised thinking is that that's, that works on a population level. But what actually happens is the decline is not that steep for any individual. But what happens is you have certain events in your life. You get an injury and you're, you're stopped training for six months and then you're hoist. Yeah, so either you have reduced activity for six months or you have bed rest for a week, which can be disastrous. And you lose 7% in the course of a week and you only get 2% back. And so it's this punctuated decline. And so that, I mean, that puts a lot of emphasis, that it sort of points to the idea of really taking care to avoid, to the extent possible, obviously, to avoid these sort of events because you can actually, in the absence of those, those events, the decline doesn't have to be that steep. You can, you can hang on probably better than people used to think. Can you say more about that? Because I, I don't, I don't think this point can be stressed enough. And so that's a listically how much aerobic capacity, maximal aerobic capacity can a person lose with a couple weeks of inactivity. And what's the difference between being bedridden versus going on vacation to Europe where you're not quote unquote training, but you're still walking every day. Like neither of those is exercise per se. But one is active and one is complete inactivity. Bed rest is terrifying. There's a guy named Luke van Lune in the Netherlands. His focus is his muscle muscular strength, but he's done a bunch of bed rest studies. And he, I, I, I, I, I, I, I'm giving the talk once and he, he had this great anecdote about, you know, they, they, they, they'd spent a whole, it's really hard to get old people to put on muscle, right? But they just managed to finish this two and a half year study where they got, I can't remember. Some fairly large number of septageinarians, octagenarians to do strength training and they'd put on like two and a half kilograms of muscle, which is a huge victory. And they were feeling really good about it. And then the results came in and for their one week bed rest study. And they'd lost like 2.6 kilograms of muscle in one week. So it's like, they did this like, herkulean effort to, to shepherd these people through strength training for for a long period of time with full support. But man, whatever it is, you know, grandma gets pneumonia and is in in hospital for a week. Bam, she's lost a year of training or, or what, you know, whatever the case may be. So I, I don't have the numbers at hand for YouTube. I think it's like up to 20, you know, maybe 10 to 20 percent in that range if you, if you stop training for a month. It depends where you're starting though. Like it's say, if you're, if you're well trained for a short period of time, you'll lose it quickly. If you're, if you haven't been training, then resting doesn't make any difference. And if you're well trained for a long, long period of time, then you have structural adaptations that are going to take a lot longer to disappear. So, you know, there's no one number for anyone. And, and the one thing I, I would add is that this is not a recommendation that you should never take a break from exercise that you should be obsessive and train 365 days a year. Certainly if you're training hard, like if you're, if you're training as a, as a marathoner say, man, you should take a week or two off. And off doesn't mean bed rest. It means play a couple games of tennis, go for walks, chill out, go for some bike rides or whatever. But you, so you shouldn't be terrified of, like, missing a day. Yeah. But you should be terrified of bed rest. And of, and of totally, I mean, look Van Lune, one of the things he said is like, if you're in bed rest, you know, hospitals should be forcing you if you're at all possible to walk down the hallway to get your meal. Even just walking down the hallway is infinitely better than not moving at all.

Okay. All right, let us move now into the really confusing realm of I show up in your office. I can't tell you what's wrong, but I show you a picture of me 10 years ago and I say, I want to look like that. And I should have brought a picture in of me so you could actually see it. But like, you've already described it without having seen the picture, right? I don't have bags under my eyes. My skin just looks better. Everything just looks better. Part of it is color. I will admit, 10 years ago there was no gray anywhere in my beard. We're not going to fix that problem. That's fine. But but aside from that, um, like, oh, and the wrinkles in my forehead, like, I noticed in pictures of me in the past, I had some wrinkles. Now it looks like I have a wrinkle farm. Right. So, so go again, go over the changes. Assuming I had that photo, how would you describe them pathologically? Or maybe that's too strong a word, but you know what I mean? So I think, um, there are three basic changes that happen to every single person with aging. And we've touched on this a little bit and we'll dive deeper now. So there's skin changes. There are volume changes. There are gravitational changes. Um, and maybe we should throw on the fourth, which is, you know, bone structural foundational changes. And so those happen to everybody. Um, when we see patients in our clinics who are presenting the way you've just suggested, we will spend extra time analyzing the individual nuances of skin, volume, boni, ligament to anatomy, gravitational changes that are specific to your face. Um, and then also we'll just rely on just general knowledge that we have about what types of aging changes we see at this point. And, um, it's a very complex process. I tried to analyze this a little bit before walking into this podcast today. Like, what am I actually thinking about when I'm starting to come, come and hit with the patient? As soon as I see the patient, while I'm, you know, making some niceties and saying hello and get to know them, I'm already analyzing. I'm already looking at their skin. I'm looking at the bone structure. I'm analyzing the facial proportion. I'm looking at areas where there's volume loss. It's obvious. I'm looking at the dynamic movement of the forehead and the face. I'm analyzing how much heaviness is on the eyes. It might be driving front towels, muscle tone, it's causing forehead wrinkles. I'll be, I'll be looking for facial asymmetries. So a lot of the, a lot of the physical exam that we do in our offices happens in the first 15 seconds, because we're just, this is what we do. And it just happens quickly in our mind. It's a blank moment. It's that blank moment. Yes. You lit it for me. I know what I'm going to do on them. Yes. Yes. The urologist doesn't have this advantage. Right. He can't, you know, examine the prostate and the scrodoltissued during that first 15 seconds. Very good boy. Yes. So, so we do that, um, when we walk into the room, that analysis already happens. And then, because I've already got that sort of snapshot anatomic analysis already in my mind, then the next step that I'm doing is, and I'd love to hear what your process is, Susan. But the next step is I'm now going into their mind and trying to understand their psychology and what their motivation is. And the problem that we have is that the patient doesn't know what words to say. Yeah. They're like me for them to communicate what's actually driving them. Yeah. And so I have to pull that out of them. This was a little bit of detective work, um, a little bit of background. Um, my parents are both psychiatrists. I actually went to medical school thinking. I was going to go into psychiatry. And then I rapidly pivoted into surgery and it up where I am. But that initial love and appreciation for what's happening inside the neuronal processing and subconscious is something that we actually work with every single day in our offices. And so, um, so the next step that happens in a consultation is, I would say, hopefully. I mean, to me, that's a, that's a great thing. But I, I don't know. I, and not to be a downer. I, I don't know that that's true of every, you know, person who is, who is dealing with with aesthetics. I would guess there are a lot of people who are just kind of doing this in a coin-operated way. Yeah. Yeah. I think you're right. Unfortunately, there is a, there can be a tendency to take a cookie cut or approach where you recognize this and there's a, it's a knee jerk reaction. There's wrinkles on the forehead and jack bowtocks. You know, there's gels do a facelift. That's not the way that we should be practicing aesthetics. Every single individual has a totally customized situation anatomically physiologically and psychologically. And so our job is to try and figure that out when the patient doesn't have the ability to express. So, sometimes it's almost overlaps into pediatrics, which is something that I know you've got some history with in, in surgery. But, you know, you're trying to do a physical exam and get history from someone who's unable to communicate what they're actually able, what they want you to figure out. And so, we'll all start asking questions. You know, did you like the way you looked when you were 20? If they say yes, that means that they actually like their natural facial proportions and they're probably looking more for a rejuvenation. But if they say, you know, I always had a heavy eyelid and an ever-couped makeup on Rye. Then I know that there may be looking for something that's a more substantial result in that particular area. That's just one example. And then I'll try to get to know them from just what are the, what kind of, what's their occupation, what's their situation at home? Do they have kids? Tell me a little bit about your life. I'm trying to understand their social history to see if there's any red flags that would stop the process and say, okay, this is not the right time to be considering aesthetics. You got to get your mental health in order before we proceed, which is something that I would, you know, very openly telepacient at the right time in the consultation. But if a woman came in and said, my husband is leaving me, right, which is unfortunately probably not an uncommon thing. And let's make it more extreme, right? A 50 year old woman comes in and says, my husband of 25 years is leaving me for a 20 year old, understandably she's in derress and she's probably comparing herself to a 25 year old. Would that be a non-starter in your mind? So the scenario you described is actually very common. Yeah. I see this kind of situation all the time. And then and this is why a schedule 45 minutes or an hour for initial consultations. Because once we start talking about that, tears may start flowing because the patient is now in a safe zone, talking to a medical professional is actually listening to them. We were talking about time in a cook before. And so then we start to fall into the role of a therapist and we're letting them express because I want to see how deep is this trauma? I'm trying to understand, you know, is this something that is now a non-starter or what should we do here? Because there are scenarios where someone is in that kind of scenario situation where we certainly would not want to make any drastic moves or big changes or shifts. But is it appropriate to recognize that this person is, you know, desiring something that is a reasonable goal, but the current emotional state is not appropriate to do the procedure to get there. So maybe we say, look, let's do something irreversible. Or is we do something reversible? Yes, exactly. Because the fear, sorry to interrupt, but I'm guessing that the fear here is if you say no to her, she's going to find some guy down the block who will do anything. And it's better that you do something small and develop a relationship with her that will ultimately serve her interests. But you can't give her everything she wants at the moment. Is that a fair assessment? Very well said. I, that is exactly right. We're trying to build that trust and build that relationship on the front end so that this individual who's trying to get from A to B, we're going to take them there safely. Whether it's, you know, over a couple of months or 10 years, we're going to try to get to that goal and there may be some obstacles along the way and choices that we have to make will navigate it together. And it's all built on building that relationship on the front end. So the trust exists where I can tell the patient, we are not going to do this maneuver right now. And then that patient will listen to me because the trust has been built up enough that this individual knows that I have their best interest in mind and we're going to get to that goal eventually. And so, so yes, this scenario that you're describing, the individual might be best served with, okay, look, I think we can get there one day with procedures. But right now, I'm going to refer you to a therapist. You have a lot going on your life right now. Let's do some simple things that we're not going to regret like neuromodulators and fillers and some skin treatments or lasers, things that are low risk, they're not going to create any scars or permanent changes and then we can eventually get to that next step. We're not going to do the face lift next to correct. Yes, that's on hold. So, so, you know, the first step is we do this kind of snapshot anatomic dynamic analysis. This is not just a single image, just we're looking at the muscle movement and then the second step is this deep dive into the social situations, psychology. And then, presuming that everything's kind of moving along smoothly and now we're getting ready to talk about what we're, you know, what should we do now? Then I'll spend time educating the patient on their actual anatomy because they've never actually had that information presented to them. Right. So, I will put the mirror in front of the patient and I will say, let's go through what I'm seeing with on your exam today, together and we'll start at the top and I'll go through every little detail and I'll throw in little caveats like, I'm sorry, I'm not trying to make you feel bad about your features but you're here for me to tell you, so I'm going to tell you everything. We're going to talk about your bones, we're going to talk about the wrinkles, we're going to talk about the asymmetry you never noticed, which, by the way, is almost always the case. People don't notice the race symmetries and so we point out these asymmetries to them. And then, after that, kind of, you know, relatively, you know, lengthy discussion about their individual anatomy, then we'll start to say, okay, now you initially told me that these are some of the errors about are you? Here's what we could do to fix your eye region, your cheek, your mouth, your gel, whatever it is, and I'll present typically options that go from minimally invasive to more substantial and based on how the individual is responding to the conversation. I can usually, at this point, 20 years in my practice, dial in, like, what is the appropriate scope for this patient? They don't really know whether they want to face the turn-out. Maybe I need to explain them the complications where the incisions are, so they really understand what that procedure means. And then, if that seems like it's too much of them, we will dial it back and I'll have to tell them, look, we're not going to be able to get the results of a face of a lot of faces, but I don't think you're ready for a face lift, so maybe we should start with something smaller and kind of taking baby steps. And then, just to conclude, usually we'll end up finally telling the patient what they showed up to here, which is my opinion. And that won't give them my opinion about what we should do until we've gone through this whole process. And I've watched their body language as we've talked about procedures, sometimes I'll suggest something that's minimally invasive and they seem uninterested because it's not enough for them and I'll read that body language and kind of dial in the treatment for what I suggest for them. And so that'll happen at the end of the consultation, typically. So I know that was a long answer, but that that does, I would say, describe my typical consultation. How about you, Susanne? Yeah, pretty much everything that Tanish said. And I was so glad to hear that you talked to the patient about their mental state at that time too, because we do a lot of almost like psychology in therapy with our patients. If they open up to you, then that's an honor to you and you have to take that and you have to help them through that issue. And my I have a psychology background as well. So it's biology and psychology double major in schools. And I find that I use it a lot. It's so important. But I approach patients very similarly, but I try to put things in terms that they can understand. So I tell them there are the five hours of rejuvenation. And it doesn't mean they need all of it at that point in time. But at some point in their life, they're going to need one of them. And no, make it through all all five. And that is, we need to relax over active muscles. And I'm showing them on their face, the movements. I will say we need to refill lost volume, whether it's through fat, grafting, which is still one of my favorite procedures to do, or refilling with fillers. And I tell them we need to resurface the skin, because to me, how the skin looks is absolutely much more important than how tight they are. So patients sometimes come in. They're like, I just want to lift here and they want to lift their lower face. And their skin is terribly wrinkled and they have hyperpigmentation and sunspots. And I'll tell them if I lift you now, no one's going to notice that you look better. But if I make your skin look better, people are going to notice you look better before I even do the surgery. So we have relax, refill, resurface. We need to do redraping. So there are going to be times that you can't lift in as I fill enough. You have to lift. So they either will lift with devices, such as micro-needling radiofrequency devices or ultrasound devices to tighten the skin or a face lift just some sort. So those you need to do. And then what people don't realize my fifth are is that you have to keep renewing because the aging process continues. And the minute they leave their office, everything you just did on them looks great and they start to diminish. And that's what we talked about a month. That's what we were just talking about. The renewal was the maintenance. Absolutely. So you have to keep renewing because otherwise you're going to lose that benefit. And what do I mean by renewing? You definitely maintain your neuromodulators and your fillers, but they have to be strategically placed. You don't need a lot of fillers. You need to keep the skin priming itself and turning over. And so you can achieve a lot of that at home. And I think people underestimate how much they can do at home with their skincare regimens. And then have to do less than the office. And that's my big emphasis. Do more at home. And then let us do an office a little boost here and there afterwards. And so those five hours make it very easy for these patients to comprehend. And they might not need all that. Yeah, for at some point they're like they're going to have all of us. Five. Five. Five. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much this journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better longer life together. Become a premium member today at Peter AtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

But why don't we start with a softball like NSAIDs? How do they work? Everybody's heard of Adville, you know, a leave, neprox and all of these things. What they do is a couple of things. They reduce some of the inflammation and their anti-inflammatories. So I was alluding very briefly that there are substances that can be released down in the periphery during injury that wind up that no seceptor. And amplified. Prosthig landins, histamine cytokines, interlucans, all of that. This inflammatory soup that occurs after every single surgery, every single injury that we experience. You get this inflammatory soup. And it's classically mediated by swelling, redness, temperature increases. And aspirin and a cox to an hip or end said, do a nice job in reducing that inflammation. Now, this is where medical science, you're going to probably be much more informed on me and form than I am on this. But medical science has been slowly shifting in its view with this. We have historically thought, take these medications in an acute injury. It knocks down that inflammation. And all is well and good. Well, some of the data was coming out in the orthopedic literature decades ago that people who were taking NSAIDs during total joint replacements were getting non-fusion of that joint to the bone. They were getting failures. And then more recently, there's been some question as to whether knocking down the inflammation is a good thing after all that may be that inflammation is part of the healing process. And that by giving an NSAID, aspirin, we're delaying the natural healing effect and causing more problems. So where's the truth? This is tough. One, I don't think we have the whole story yet on the NSAIDs. Two, I'm a gray guy, meaning I don't live in black and white. And I'm also appreciated that every medical field has their own lens that they look at in the world. And I think we have to appreciate the complexity of the patient, meaning if it's perhaps something minor and they can get by without the NSAID and it's not going to change significantly the level of function and maybe not taking it will improve healing. They can't get out of bed. They can't go to work. But an apperson helps them to do that thing so that they can engage with their family, with their friends, with work. Well, then heck yes, take the NSAID. You know, if it's helping with that, level of functional improvement. Now, are you talking about this through the lens of a cutepane or only through the lens of chronic pain at this point? Little both. But I think through chronic pain, we start to introduce all the broad or the longer term negative consequences of this. Impact on blood pressure, your heart, impact on your kidneys with long term NSAIDs. Particularly if you're older, I remember I think it was in your book. You took Viox. Yes. I loved Viox. I did too and I still remember the day in, oh God, it must have been December 2001 when the FDA came down and said no more Viox and I looked at my last bottle and I was like, oh God, no. I stockpiled it. I wish I did. I called up all the drug reps I knew because it couldn't give it out and I'm like, can you just hook me up? And so I ran out of stockpile of that for a long time and this is another classic thing if you cut this if it's too tangential. But every field looks at the problem through their own lens. Here you had a drug that was causing heart attacks. Well, I mean, in the world's most susceptible individuals that are relatively small, absolute rate. At the top right, it has discussion, okay. Okay. It was like mistake. Negative. That was right. Absolutely. Net negative. So yeah, because I've always won. Works is faulted. They should have been much more transparent about this. Yeah. Put a black box label on it and we should all still have access to them. Stocks and 50 milligrams use the 25s and you're right. Don't give it in susceptible people and I think it's a class again. Yeah, the baby got thrown out with the bath. That's right. And it's a class, you know, we all do this. We look at the world or our own particular field. It's like with the latest blood pressure guidelines, the cardiologist want it really low. But it screws up the kidneys. And while the cardiologist say, you know, save the heart screw the kidney. And so yeah, a great drug, wish it was still around. Why do you think there hasn't been any drug that's come close to that? Like, celibrex is a joke. Like none of the drugs that are in the... That's a trot. Had a valdecoxib, I think it was a little bit close. But I think if I remember it, had a Steven Johnson, a bad rash with terrible consequence. I think the drug companies get scared of the lawsuits. Oh, so NSAIDs, new ones around taking the version. Do you have a version on dos? I mean, do you say 800 milligrams of, of ibuprofen TID three times a day, 2400 milligrams would be, you would tolerate that for how many days if a person needed it. Yeah, you know, week to two weeks on that. Make sure you read this. Yeah. Food and the stomach fluids. If you're either older, you've got kidney issues. You've got GI issues. Talk to your doc first. You know, don't just go into this stuff blindly. Yeah, it is interesting that we can buy acetaminophen and ibuprofen over the counter. And yet they can cause a ton of damage if not taken correctly. I mean, the ERs see people with acetaminophen Tylenol overdoses and, you know, cause of, while you know this is... It's a liver filler. Now, let's talk about acetaminophen for a while. When I last tried to understand it, there was no clue as to how it worked. Do we, to this, to this day? Do we understand how it works? Menomely, more information. And I haven't, in full disclosure, I haven't read up on it a lot. I know it has some cycle oxygenase. One impact, a lot of it is thought to be central. I haven't tracked it much beyond that. I saw some interesting, the side studies where it seems to have some impact in the brain around emotional modulation. And so there's a degree of emotional blunting on acetaminophen. Now, whether it translates into a real world or if it's just an experimental manipulation, I don't know. But there's a nice synergy with acetaminophen and ibuprofen because different mechanism of action, different organ systems are impacted. So you can take less of each when you combine them. What's your take on that? I think you just set it, Peter. I mean, you set it beautifully. I use those in combination to get the two for, to get that synergy, the one plus one is not two, but three. So you can take Tylenol historically. We would say up to four grams a day. More recently, there's been some push to try to reduce that to two grams a day. Clearly, if you've got liver dysfunction, if you are drinking large amounts of alcohol less. Yeah, my go-to stack, if I am actually in pain, like if I'm having a year ago, I had, I had to get a crown replaced. Or sorry, I had to get a crown put on a tooth that had an old filling that broke. And it's the funniest thing because of how remarkable the teeth are at sensation, but the crown was a little too high. Okay, so what's the impact of that? That meant every time I took a bite, that one tooth was bearing the brunt of it. It was the last tooth I had, but right in front of my wisdom tooth. And I'm talking to my dentist, and he's like, yeah, Peter, it's just too high. Just come in and let me shave a little bit of it off. Well, I didn't have the time to go in. So for two months, I did not go in to get this thing shaved off. The pain was, this is how stupid I am. Like, I couldn't spare the two hours to go to the dentist in a, and he was willing to see me nights and weekends. This is the most accommodating dentist in the world. Everybody should have that kind of dentist. Tony Pachaco, I can't say enough about him. And yet I couldn't make the time. So for two months, the pain got so bad that I eventually couldn't chew on that side at all. So my point is I had to be taking something to get through the day. And the stack that worked was 400 of Adville 500 of Tylenol three times a day. Okay, so, Jeremy. Now let me ask you, does I be a pro-f and work better for you than an a person? I don't know, but the reason I prefer it is that I can line up the dosing with the Obsita Menafin because I believe an a person you only take once a day, right? Twice a day. Twice a day. You're right. Yeah, I wanted something where I could do a TID instead of BID. Sure. The reason I ask is I find huge individual variability in response to hand sets. Okay. Napperson works beautifully for me at 500 twice a day. I'd be pro-f and not so good. But what dose? 800 three times a day. Wow. Yeah, with food and water. Are there types of pains people should be thinking of where these things work especially well and other areas where, yeah, that's just not going to have much efficacy? I don't find it as effective in neuropathic pain. It might take a little bit of the edge off. No susceptible pain typically as you go to. You're kind of your no susceptible or your no susceptible inflammatory pain that kind of pain you'd see in a joint. Those are your typical go to forms of back pain, particularly in acute situations, but also somewhat in chronic. And you know, I get a lot of patients that say, yeah, that didn't do it for me. But if you inquire and ask questions, you find maybe it knocked it off a little because in our game, we're trying to knock off pieces and pieces and pieces of their pain experience. The issues with the different responses are very individually based. And I think in part, it has to do with a little bit of what we call pharmacokinetics or where the drug is getting and different inseds confirming a different tissues at different rates. So you're saying, maybe we should be empirical. In other words, try the nepox and try the ibuprofen, figure out which one works. Obviously, don't take them together. Obviously, don't take them together, but your take on message is spot on. Do you have a concern with people taking a seat of benefit and consuming alcohol? Do you tell people to refrain from alcohol when they're taking time on all? I tell them no more than I just said a conservative. Listen, don't do more than like a drink a day. You know, is at the right amount. I don't know. But if I tell them one drink a day, they'll go do two. And they're probably still okay with that. And then I am looking in their chart just to make sure they're not drinking for a, and there's liver issues. What do you do? I typically, when I'm taking a suit of benefit, I don't drink much anyway. I'm probably going to have four drinks in a week. So, meaning four days a week, I will have a drink over three days a week. But if I am taking time on all, I'm just going to refrain. Again, I don't have any evidence to suggest that that's necessary. But it's probably the safest. It's the precautionary principle, it's finest.

Okay, so let's just walk through how IVF works and then we'll kind of dive into the ins and outs of some of the nuances. So a one comes to you, probably she's progressed through some layers of treatment, but you know, you've collectively come to the decision that this is hands down the best opportunity both for success and, you know, risk. So how does the treatment go? Yeah, so typically we do a bunch of screening tests on both partners. I include some blood tests, seamen analysis and ultrasound to get some assessment of their egg number, the woman's egg number. And then when the cycle starts, takes about two to three months to complete a cycle of IVF. And when you say egg number, are you determining that through an AMH or through a physical examination of the ovaries? But so we do an ultrasound, we can count the number of follicles. How small are these things? You know, a few millimeters. And you have the resolution to see that on ultrasound. Yeah. Okay. And that gives you some sense of about how many eggs that particular patient will produce with a variant stimulation. So anyway, when she's ready to start cycle, everything usually starts with their period. Usually we depending on the age again, but usually the patient starts on a couple weeks of birth control pills. And what that does is kind of suppresses the ovaries because we want all the eggs to kind of go up the same rate. Yeah. Stop the pill. Then you start the gonadotropans, which are this. That is injectable. Yep. And they're injectable. Just under skin kind of injection. So meaning HCG and FSH. Not a HCG, but primarily FSH. Okay. The little bit of LH. Okay. Okay. So you're on those for about eight to 12 days. And then every few days while you're taking those medications, you have to come into the clinic for ultrasound monitoring and astrodial levels, blood levels. And we can monitor how many follicles are growing, how big they are, etc. Usually medications are pretty well tolerated. Typical symptoms. Most common, I would say, is bloating as the ovaries get a little more enlarged. There's a small risk of something called ovarian hypers stimulation syndrome when the ovaries get a little bit too stimulated, but that's exceedingly rare. Usually your signs is happening. We can always back down on the dose. Sometimes patient doesn't make it as many eggs as we were hoping. So sometimes we have to increase the dose or change the protocol. But usually we guess pretty right. And then once the follicles are certain size, that's how we know the eggs are mature. Because of course we can't see the eggs on the ultrasound. You can only see the follicles that continue at the right. So then the patient gets H-C-G, which is another medication which kind of simulates her own L-H surge and the purpose of that medication causes the final maturation of the eggs. And if we did not do an egg retrieval, she would release all those eggs. But of course we time the egg retrieval to happen just before the woman ovulates. So that medication is very time sensitive. And do you harvest the follicles in the philopion tube? You need to re-enter the ovaries. In the ovaries. So the egg retrieval happens two days after the H-C-G trigger. Wow. I would have thought it would have taken two days for her to 36 hours specifically. So she usually takes it in the evening and then the retrieval is the day after in the morning. Okay. So when it comes into your office, a day, two days later. And like, walk me through this. So you layer on a table, you've got an ultrasound on her ovary and you're literally putting a needle in there. Well, first of all, she's asleep. Filet asleep or just local sedation. Yeah, yeah. So this is done in a surgery center, typically. Okay. We're clinic with anesthesiologists present, IB sedation, proposal. So it's like a colonoscopy or dental extract. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. All done vaginally actually using the ultrasound. In that day, there is a needle that's guided by the ultrasound that goes through the vagina into the ovary. So you're looking where you are and with the ultrasound and you're using the needle to puncture the ovary, get into the follicles. And the needle is attached to like a vacuum suction. And so the fluid and the follicles collected goes through the needle into the test tube. And then that test tube is handed off to the embryologist. They look under the microscope and try not to sleep the egg. Okay. So how long does that procedure typically take? I'm happening. Okay. And you've got the embryologist next to you and here she is under the microscope, going check, check, check, check, check. Yep. And here she is validating that you indeed are getting ripened eggs. And they look different presumably, right? Like those are easy to identify under a light microscope. Basically they tell us they got eggs. We don't know if they're mature yet we know nothing about them yet. I see. But long we get the eggs. They go to the lab and then the rest of the process happens there. So in the retrieval we're just aspirated and all the follicles try to get as many eggs as possible. Got it. Tell me the time course now and how you move from retrieval to fertilization. Right. So then the eggs are sitting in the petri dish in the lab. So the embryologist transfers this to the media. Yep. Few hours later the eggs are inseminated. So with conventional IVF, we just put a bunch of sperm in there and let the fertilization happen by itself. With XE or interstitoplasmic sperm injection, the embryologist takes a single sperm and injects it into each egg. And the only time you get you need to do XE is if the sperm is so dysfunctional that it can't even on its own with no barriers make its way to fertilization when placed in direct proximity even egg. It probably could but maybe there's two few sperm. So anytime there's a male factor, we tend to do XE. Any male factor you just need to do XE? Yeah. Yeah. And in fact, a lot of times it's done even when there isn't a male factor because fertilization rate is a little bit higher with XE compared to IVF in very few cases. You don't get fertilization so you don't want to bind out. Oh, by the way, your sperm can't fertilize your egg. That's the whole problem on long because then you got to get a lot of sperm. I think that's the way to get it. So for again, for a couple listening to us now, this is something they need to be talking about with their fertility doc which is, hey, do you do XE out of the gate no matter what? Or yeah, it's a little controversial because it adds cost. How much cost? You know, it's probably another thousand dollars or two thousand or something. Probably a thousand. Okay. But so the data to be clear shows that XE and IVF have similar success rates for non-none. Male factor. But I'm just telling you that a lot of times we're doing it anyway because we don't want to find out small, very small percentage of cases that have zero fertilization. That's like not a conversation. Oh, that conversation. Yeah. Because you've lost those eggs too. Right. Right. So that's part of the reason that we do it. So by the next day, usually we look at the embryos to see or the eggs see if they're fertilized. Usually about 70% of the eggs fertilized. So let's say we get 10 eggs. You can expect maybe seven of them will be fertilized in another seven embryos. So we discard the unfertilized eggs, continue to culture. Okay. So how many days you go to 14 days? No. No. No. Five days. Okay. Six days. And depending if we're doing a fresh transfer or freezing the embryos or fresh transfer weeks. So you'll take both, right? We do both. Yeah. So time we're freezing because you're doing genetic screening because we're doing genetic testing. Okay. So let's go through that exam. Okay. So we're cultureing these embryos in the Petri dish for five to six days. Then we look at them again. The ones that have made it to that stage, which is usually only half of them. So remember, you're seven. Now maybe they're three or four. So what explains that? So most likely the ones that didn't make it are the chromosome. We have normal ones. Remember, we talked earlier about those ones. Not making it. Well, the items. How long does it take? Typically to get the genetic results back? Typically within a week or two. Okay. And what depth of genetic testing is being done here? Are you doing whole genome sequence? Or are you just looking at a handful of SNPs that are pre-identified as the ones that matter? Yeah. Good question. So it's evolved over time. And I should say it's still very controversial because there's always a risk of harming the embryos. You're only looking at a few cells. So is it really representative of the embryo? I mean, we do it a lot. And the data definitely shows that if you transfer normal embryo, it has a very high chance of implanting. But the issue is recently has been, are we discarding embryos that are maybe normal? Because we think they're abnormal based on the genetic testing, but the genetic testing is flat. So personally genetic testing is really easy to identify and your ployedie. It's a chromosome analysis. It's geared up to do that, right? Okay. Right. So most of the time we're using something called next generation sequencing, which is, you know, very high level sequencing, but it's not whole genomes sequencing. So you're getting, yeah. And you're looking mostly at chromosome abnormalities. Unless you know that the couple is a carrier for some genetic mutation that you also want to screenplay. Yeah. So let's say one of the parents, well, this would be a bad example. But cystic fibrosis, like let's say both patients. So both of them have our carrier for CF. And so there's a one in four chance that you're going to get two copies of CF. So then you're looking directly for this CF. Exactly. Exactly. Exactly. Exactly. Yeah. There's a whole bunch of them, right? And part of the screening, we didn't mention it, but most people doing IVF will get carrier screening to see if they're carriers for any genetic mutations. That's a pretty common scenario where you have two people that are CF carriers, neither of whom have CF. They most of those people would say, I'm going to do IVF because I don't want to take the chance that might kid. Okay. So let's just say you know, you harvested 15, you fertilized 10, seven had good morphology. Six came back genetically good. Okay. Those would be reasonable numbers. Yeah. Seven is high. Yeah. So five came back genetically good. Let's say, okay, young person. Yeah. So you got one third of what you harvested, you could implant. You're saying each of those is 70 to 75 percent success rate. And yet you would only implant one at a time. Yeah. Which is interesting. Because if you implanted two, let's do the math. You're talking about 50 percent chance. That's right. That's right. Exactly. Yep. Twins. You got risk. Yeah. I mean, you know, obviously, you know, we believe in patient economy, patient usually gets to make that decision. But you're going to make the case for where this one is. No, no, no, no, no, no. You want to help the baby in the end. You want to help the mom. Yep. Okay. So now let's talk about, um, not it's time to implant. So how does that process work? So that process is much less complicated, but equally important. So usually does it's time to write it has to happen at a certain time in the cycle. So we either use the woman's natural cycle to time it and time it at the time that implantation would normally occur, which is like the second half of the cycle. Or we use what we call a controlled or programmed cycle where we basically give the woman the hormones. And then again, time that transferred to happen at a specific time. The actual process kind of like a pap smear. It basically doesn't require any anesthesia or anything. We do do it under ultrasound guidance. So abdominal ultrasound. We saw one of the embryos, draw it up in a little catheter with a little syringe on the end. Place the speculum in the vagina and then just pass the catheter through the cervix and we're looking on the ultrasound for the placement. And where are you implanting it? About 1.5 centimeters to 2 centimeters from the top of the u-race. And then are you done or are you still doing ongoing hormone therapy? Sometimes we give supplemental progesterone, that's another hormone that helps maintain the pregnancy. And then usually 12 to 14 days later, the patient has her first pregnancy test. Hopefully she's pregnant. We usually follow the pregnancy for the first few weeks. And then she transfers to her non-harbid. That's what? Yeah. Wow. I was just kind of amazing that this all works. Yeah. I've been doing it for 30 plus years and I still find it fascinating. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

in his consciousness necessary for the internalization of this full gamut of pain. Yes. Yes, it is. I believe it is. I believe firmly it is. And I'm a recovering anesthesiologist. I haven't done it now in, oh gosh, 20 years. But when I did it, and when you were operating on a patient, the patient is unconscious, they are not experiencing pain. You need a conscious brain for the experience of pain. Now what people incorrectly made the leap of is thinking, well, they're not experiencing pain, so everything's okay. That would be a logical fallacy. Because all those signals are still coming from the body, still hitting the spinal cord and having their impact there, all those injury signals because let's face it. When you do surgery, it's really nothing more than a controlled injury. Yes, and I just want to point out, and this shows you how long I haven't been in surgery, but 20 years ago, my recollection is, an anesthesiologist was giving not just one medication, but several. Yes. So they were giving something like halothane, to my understanding, we didn't know how it worked then. Do we have any idea how it works today? That or we still are trying to unlock the whole consciousness aspect of things, but we're inching our way there. But it wasn't enough to give that. Right. When I say we, the anesthesiologist still had to give, typically on narcotic. They were still typically giving something like fentanyl, even though the patient was unconscious. Yes. They were also often giving an mnesic, so that they wouldn't have any recollection of what was going on. But of course, we all hear the horror stories of the patient, and a paralytic on how to evolve it, right? Exactly. So you hear these horrible stories of the patient who is paralyzed, but somehow conscious, you can miss on this state sort of thing. But just to make sure I understand, in theory, a paralytic, and an inhaled anesthetic, it should be sufficient to eliminate the perception of pain in a patient who is being cut. Yeah. Part of the challenge was, and now here, I'm starting to step outside of my wheelhouse, even though I was a member of the anesthesia tribe for a long time, is the levels of volatile gas anesthetic that you need to necessarily obliterate reflexes and full no-susceptive impulses would be so high that it would depress one's blood pressure. Got it. And so you augment that with an opioid. I understood. Like, fentanyl, like, morphine, like, whatever, and you combine those together, and that's why what the anesthesiologist do is quite magical. Got it. So in other words, you give the inhaled anesthetic just to get unconsciousness, but not to fully suppress the no-susceptic system. Instead, you bring on the opioid to do the remainder of that work. They're working synergistically on the working at different mechanisms. And during that process, the patient is not feeling pain if they're unconscious because you do need a conscious working aware brain to feel pain. But all of the electrical impulses coming in from the body that are slamming into the spinal cord and the brain are open full bore. They're impinging on all those brain systems responsible for stress responses. So does that mean we are seeing a cortisol surge? We're seeing whatever one would expect a conscious person to experience with epinephrine, nor epinephrine, cortisol, all these things still surging out. Yes. In response to pain. Yes. And in response to no-susception. Independent of perception of pain. Right. And you notice that I'm trying to be precise in my language. Because sensor unconscious there's no pain, but there's plenty of no-susception. So arguably more than you would ever experience. I mean, if you think about what surgery, think about what we do in surgery, my God. Take down the gallopal. Yes. And then take an electrocordery and start burning tissue. Right. I mean, there's no level of no-susception. You could ever experience like that while being awake, unless you're in a burning car. Absolutely. That's exactly it. And it's remarkable. Through modern medicine that we get people through all this as a reflection of the advancements in surgery, advancements in anesthesiology, advancements in post-operative care. But it is no different than a controlled injury. It's done in a nice sterile environment, but it is a massive injury that people are undergoing. Yeah. And they're just not awake. And it's nice and clean and sterile. But there is a stress response associated with that. Most people recover well. What one of the hot topics of research these days is why do most people recover, but a certain percentage of people go on to have persistent pain after surgery? That's an area that I used to research years ago. Many others are doing some great work in that space. It turns out that a lot of the factors we're going to get to this is what people bring to your operating room table, meaning early life events, levels of emotional, health, cognitive health and everything else. So to answer your question and getting back to it, no, I don't believe there is the perception of pain without a conscious brain. And there's all sorts of nuances to that. Yeah. So let's go back to something you said at the outset from an evolutionary perspective, which is pain and pleasure have been the driving factors that have been the engine of natural selection. Yes. And but clearly those things have had to work in pre-conscious models. Yes. So that means that whatever we're defining as pain there did not include a perception of pain. Yes. So what does that mean? That's where it gets muddy. And there's some art of people than I that would probably be more articulate. But I think this is why I think on first principles you have to define the thing that you're talking about. When we typically talk about pain, we're talking about it from a uniquely human standpoint. Does a dog experience pain? It's easier to accept. Yeah. To accept them a dog person. I believe they experience pain. You move on down the evolutionary at what point? Right. Does a goldfish experience pain? Goldfish clearly experiences no such option. They clearly have all the classic with draw, protection survival aspects of it. But what level is there a conscious brain that is translating it? And also on top of it, remember in our human definition of pain, we bake in it's an unpleasant sensory and emotional experience. Does a goldfish experience emotions? I you leave that to the goldfish experts. You see how muddy it gets. Yeah. And you go down rabbit holes pretty quickly. Which is why I tend to stay with humans. Which is just for enough. Right away.

Is it possible to say anything about fertility rates changing over the past 50 years? Is there any statement you can you can make on that? Yeah, there are some data that seems to suggest that infertility rates are increasing over the last several years. It's pretty common. I don't know if you're listeners know, but about the lifetime risk of infertility for each person's about one in six. So that's close to 20%. In the last few years, the United States seems to be kind of a plateau of the prevalence. But as far as the reasons for the increase in infertility prevalence, it's not super well understood. Part of the reasons delayed child barriers. But to say you could make it 100% if every woman decides to have a baby when she's 70. By definition, you look like 100% for fertility. Yeah, exactly. Exactly. Yeah, so women are waiting longer, of course, to start their families, to pursue education, careers, etc. Maybe they haven't found the right partner. And so that definitely is contributing to increased rates of fertility. There's some data that show that sperm counts are decreasing globally. It's a little controversial, but that might be plain and roll. There might be a slight increase risk and sexually transmitted diseases as well. So all those things are probably factors. But do we know if a 30-year-old woman today has a higher rate of infertility than a 30-year-old woman 50 years ago? We think so, but I don't know that data of top of my head. I got it. And so if the answer there is yes, we would then, I don't know that it would answer all our questions because it could still be explained by decreasing sperm count. It could still be increased by increasing paternal age. This would be very difficult analysis to do. Right. Environmental factors as well. Our exposures are different now than we're 50 years ago. Well, and then the question, of course, would be if this is an environmental reason, what are the environmental triggers now? You mentioned STDs a minute ago. So how do STDs in which STDs play a role in fertility? The ones most well-earned are probably gonorrhea and clemitia, which are very common sexually transmitted diseases. And on the female side, those particular infections can ascend to the phlopian tubes and cause scarring in the phlopian tubes, which then interfere with that process that we talked about earlier or the egg and the sperm meeting and can lead to infertility. And is that something that happens if it is left untreated or is that something that's easy to address with antibiotics if caught early? I mean, if it's caught early, then it's usually treatable with antibiotics or there are some issues with antibiotic resistance, especially with gonorrhea. But usually if you catch it early, it's treatable. But if it's late stage or it's unrecognized or untreated, then it has more likely more likely to send to the phlopian tubes where usually cause fertility problems. How prevalent is gonorrhea today in the US? I think it's pretty common. I don't know. Really? Yeah. Yeah. In certain populations is more common than others. But, um, yeah, unfortunately. And there's a number of reasons for that. Some of it is just lack of awareness and education about safe sex practices. Maybe less testing as well, especially we saw that during the pandemic for sure. How does it present? In women usually with pelvic pain, fever, vaginal discharge, those are the most common symptoms. And is it equally transmissible from male to female to male? It's probably more transmissible from male to female. Okay. And is it, is it an STD where the person who has it knows it? Like if a male has it, does he know he has it? No, it's not. It's not. It's not transmitted this readily. Yeah, not always. Okay. What about HSV? Does that factor in fertility at all? Not as much. No. And, Climity, again, I apologize from my ignorance. I just don't remember any of this stuff since taking, you know, the USML leads. Yes. Tell me how Climity presents and how it impacts fertility. The same, actually. Yeah, very similarly. So, pelvic pain, fever, usually they're both present together. Okay. And does it have the same pathology where it creates, it ascends the phalopian tubes and scars the tubes? Yeah. So, if, if, if, worst case scenario, if a woman undergoes a severe infection with one or both of these, it's not treated in time. She has completely scarred phalopian tubes. Is it still likely that she could get pregnant through IVF or the eggs still? Yeah. Genreal, is the, are the eggs and uterus still preserved enough to? Yes. Yes. It doesn't usually affect the uterus or the eggs or the ovaries. Yes. Now, she may not know that she has blocked tubes until she starts trying because you wouldn't necessarily feel different if your tubes were blocked. So, one of the tests we were talking earlier about, you know, what testing we might do in addition to a cement analysis and getting menstrual history, et cetera, is we usually do an x-ray test that's called a hystrocell pingogram or HSC for short. Yep. And it's done specifically to evaluate whether or not the tubes are open. So, are you just injecting contrast in, you go, I assume you do this externally, you go into the sermons into the cervix, into the, and you just inject dye and take an x-ray. Exactly. And you're looking for how smooth and so tell me what is a normal phalopian tube look like on that test. So, first the dye, so it's done in radiology facility usually by radiologists, although some gynecologists do that, it's this test as well, but usually fills up the uterus so you can also see the uterus. And then the tubes are kind of like these wire like, yeah, what's the diameter of a normal phalopian tube in that setting? Like, less than a centimeter. Yeah. That's, that's pretty big. Yeah, the whole tube, but the actual sort of opening. No, yeah, how big is the lumen? My crons. Oh, wow. Okay. Or millimetres. I don't know. Exactly. But you can see it, definitely see it on. Yes, right? And you can see it. Well, you can see it. It's probably a millimetre or a little bit, and not my crusher. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. And then the dye is filling up the tubes and then spilling up the tubes so you can see that. The ovaries are not visualized because of the finger like projection. So it's actually spilling dye into the perennium at this point. Right. Okay. Right. And based on that visual inspection, a trained radiologist and gyn can say that is smooth, that looks great versus that is jagged and or obstructed. Right. Now, if it's obstructed, I assume that the woman has a much bigger problem, which is every month, one of those eggs comes out. It's not getting past the point. Right. Is it just atrophy and get reabsorbed? I see. So it wouldn't necessarily cause pain. So let's say you do the analysis. And I assume if you, if there's scarring on one side, but not the other, would you intervene or would you just say no, we just have to. It's just going to take twice as long for one to get through. Yeah. There's still a chance to get pregnant, although whatever process call caused the scarring in the one two probably affected the other tube as well. So just because it's open, doesn't mean that it's functioning normally. Certainly can give, give it a few months of trying. But the other issue you have to worry about is what we call an ectopic pregnancy. If that tube is not normal, if fertilization happens, that embryo can implant in the tube. And that's kind of a very dangerous situation. Because obviously the tube can accommodate a pregnancy so usually eventually that causes pain. And if it goes unrecognized. So surgical emergency. Yeah, exactly. At how many weeks of gestation is a woman typically? Because that's, you know, I did my training in general surgery. So that was one of the things we were always thinking about was ectopic pregnancies for women presenting with abdominal pain. But I don't think I know the answer of this question, which is how many weeks of gestation is a woman when she's showing up in the ER complaining of abdominal pain? Usually about six to eight weeks pregnancy. Two months pregnant. Right. Now, remember we time? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Pregnancy from like two weeks before ovulation. So she's, you know, but at times she recognizes she's pregnant. She's already a month pregnant. Yep. So in the next month, it's probably the most common time or are those, ectopic pregnancies present. So when a woman has an ectopic pregnancy, can that philopian tube be salvaged? Sometimes, sometimes if you recognize it early, it can be treated either medically or surgically and that tube can be salvaged. If you recognize it late in the tube ruptures, then often time the treatment is to just remove the two, especially if it's not functioning normally. Yeah. So when you remove that, let's just say it's a young woman. She's 25 years old. You can't salvage the tube. You end up taking the tube. You're leaving the ovary. Right. So you still want her to have her endocrine system intact. Right. What's happening to the eggs that come out of that tube? They just get released into the abdomen, puritanarmon resort. So do you tell that woman your fertility rate just went down by 50 percent? Kind of. Yeah. Yeah. She can still get pregnant if she has the other tube in intact, but most of the time, if the egg ovulates from the right, it's going to try and go down the right side. Although there have been cases where you can ovulate from the right ovary and it can travel down. It makes it's way over to the left. It makes it way over there. Yeah. It's rare. Wow. But it could happen. Yeah. What are the risks for ectopic pregnancy besides former STDs that lead to scarring in the tube? Previous surgery, pelvic surgery, in particular, like ruptured appendix or something like that, endometriosis, concuss scarring of the tubes. Those are probably the most common. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity-focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

There were three other questions that I want to ask you going back to hormones postmenopause. And these are, I'm saving the three most contentious questions for, for last on this topic. Question one, I buy your argument. This is someone's posing this question to not me. I buy your argument that hormones are safe. But I am now 56 years old. I finished menopause at 49. Isn't it too late to do anything about it? Yeah. So we have this idea in menopause medicine called the timing hypothesis. Or the window idea, right? So the question of the timing hypothesis is, what are you afraid of? What are we worried about? We're worried about blood clots. We don't want to hurt people. We're worried about cancer. We're worried about blood clots. We're worried about heart disease. But the question is, is does the hormone therapy that we use? Apply to the data that we have and I would argue it doesn't. And so there is a level of we don't know what we don't know. But even the timing hypothesis using prem pro, which was the medicine used in the WHI, is under question. So Susan Davis from Australia just wrote a big paper questioning the timing hypothesis. And say, actually when you look at the data really closely, even it doesn't really hold mustard. We shouldn't really be forcing people to, like say, you cannot start hormone therapy after 60. So I think this is where shared decision making really comes into play of what are we treating? What are we trying to do care about your bones? Do you care about your sexual health? Do you care about, you know, sort of your mental health? And do you want to see a hormone therapy helps with these things? Now hormone therapies indicated for three reasons. Vazemotor symptoms, hot flashes, night sweats, that sort of thing. Prevention of osteoporosis, which to me is a green light. So anyone should be offered hormone therapy because who wouldn't want to prevent osteoporosis? And the thing I just talked about a lot is the genitaline urinary syndrome of menopause. So anybody of any age and I'm talking even parry menopause and premenopause, vaginal estrogen or DHEA is safe and really helpful to prevent UTIs and should be used absolutely everywhere throughout life. Throughout life. Okay. Now I'm going to ask another question that is the extension of that question, but I think your logic is going to hold the same, which is the hedging strategy, which says not only use as little as possible for as short a duration as possible, says you really need to stop this after 10 years, right? I mean. So even if you were lucky enough to catch a woman through parry menopause and you know, you got her on hormones by the age of 49, now that she's 69, you got to stop it, right? Definitely not. So that's really the, there is no data to suggest stopping it. In fact, stopping it, all of your bone gains, that's right. They all go away quickly. By the way, that was the argument put forth to me with one of the authors of the WHO, who is by far the most willing to concede that mistakes were made, right? Which was, okay, yes, I will concede that the Estrodial is doing amazing things for the women's bones. But remember, they're going to go away when you stop the hormones, as though that was a necessary thing to do. So keep them on, right? And again, this idea of if hormones, if it's not broke, don't fix it. By taking a woman off of hormone therapy, you actually potentially could be disrupting any plaques that are there. You could be causing vasospas. Like, there are all these things that could happen. And so we really don't want to take women off their hormone. Therapy, unless there is a reason too. And the only reason I honestly see is if a woman has an active cancer that you are going to target hormones as a target for your treatment of cancer, that's not to say the hormones cause the cancer. But we have a target sometimes because all body parts have hormone receptors. And we have used hormones as a target for our breast cancer. Therapy is in some other cancer therapies. Is that helpful? Does that make sense? Yes. And it actually does. Tales perfectly into my third critical situation, which is how do we manage hormones in women who are at risk of breast cancer from a familiar standpoint who have been diagnosed with DCIS, which is not cancer, but increases the risk of cancer. So that's kind of a subset of the first group. And then in women who actually have breast cancer or have a history of treated breast cancer. So I would imagine you see women that fit into all three or four of those buckets. How do you handle it? Yeah. So first we take a long time at my clinic and we get to know each other. And we really try to dive into the data and say, what do we know? What do we not know? And I always tell people, you can't take hormone therapy because Rachael Rubin tells you to take hormone therapy. You have to do your own research, figure out what you, you know, what you're interested. And so I have a lot of colleagues who are talking about this. You had Alvaram Bluming on your show. And he has a great book called Estrogen Matters. He's an oncologist who's questioning a lot of this research. We have amazing colleagues of mine like Corinne Mann, who is a gynaecologist who had breast cancer as a young person in her 20s. And now takes hormone therapy and talks a lot about hormone therapy and teaches courses on hormone therapy and breast cancer. So I am always learning about what data. So I don't like fear. I don't like telling women they can't do things with their body. I like understanding what we afraid of. And so when it comes to the brachapatians, if you do surgical menopause on someone and they don't have cancer and you do not give them back hormone therapy, you are trading one problem for another. You may give them extra life from a breast cancer perspective, but you are shortening their life from a bone health and a cardiovascular disease perspective. That is very clear. So the other problem is the DCIS. If you are not going to give someone endocrine therapy of any kind and they're done, they have surgery, they're done. There is no reason why they can't take hormone therapy. And then when it comes to active breast cancer, there is a lot of emerging questioning in this patient population. And again, the question is if you're allowed to get pregnant, are you allowed to take hormone therapy? And that's really the pushback that we give some people. And I think there's a lot of data that we need here, but we need to be asking these questions. I'm a urologist to stop when I came out of my training, it was testosterone fuels prostate cancer. Now 10 years later, it's you have prostate cancer. Sure, we can give you testosterone. No problem. If you have metastatic disease, we target testosterone. So we're going to use castration level androgen blockers. But that doesn't mean if you have localized disease that you can't have testosterone therapy. So we think of testosterone and prostate cancer as a saturation model concept. And I actually think we need to be using that model potentially when it comes to breast cancer and have more logic and understanding unless fear, it's marketing. All prostate cancers testosterone sensitive prostate cancer. But we don't cut off testicles for the fear that an abnormal cell will happen in a prostate. All a lot of breast cancer is estrogen receptive breast, and not all of it, right? But some of it is that doesn't mean that estrogen causes cancer. Is that helpful? Like I think it's a it's insanely helpful. And of course, it echoes exactly what Ted Schaefer said when we spoke about this after discussing the traverse trial, which was I think to me the most telling thing that Ted said was, look, if I have a man who's got a glee sin 3 plus 3, means he has prostate cancer, and we are going to follow this. And if it becomes a 3 plus 4, we're going to actually have to take this thing out. We'd put him on TRT if he needed it. And his argument was exactly your argument on the pregnancy side, which is the reason we would happily give him TRT is, let's just assume he's a man replete with testosterone. Would we castrate him during that period of time of observation? Of course not. So why would I not give him testosterone if he needs it, even though he actually has prostate cancer? And this is again where that patriarchal divide happens is we're willing to take those risks and focus on quality of life when it comes to men's health. We castrate women with the mere thought that they may develop an abnormal cell in their body and completely ignore their quality of life and all of those things that go with it. And that women are more than breast tissue. They are so much more than their cancer risk. And we have to understand it actually have these reasonable conversations with women. And what I say is your oncologist is not in charge of you. They don't tell you. They give you advice. They are so, it's like a pit crew. Let's go back to our car model. You have a pit crew, but you get to decide who's on your pit crew and who fits into your pit crew. But it can't be just one doctor. You may need someone to talk about your sexual health. You may need someone to talk about your menopause hormones. You may need a bone doctor. You may need a, you know, a heart doctor. So you need to collect your pit crew. But with one doctor says no, you can't do this with your body. I don't like that termina. I don't think it's fair anymore. And when you give women information about how their bodies work, they make great decisions for themselves. They can look at the menu and say, listen, I'm most worried about all timers. And I've looked at the data. And this is what I choose to do. Or hey, I'm more worried about osteoporosis. Listen, my grandma died. Sorry, my grandma broke a bunch of ribs. She had Alzheimer's and osteoporosis. And my grandpa hugged her and she broke a bunch of ribs. Like that's not how I want to age. Right? So what do I care about? I don't want to get osteoporosis. I don't want to get dementia. And I've seen all the literature hormone therapy sounds pretty good to me. Right? Like, and that's really the key. I think there's a lot of people on social media. Maybe negative about hormone therapy. But if you look, they are on hormone therapy themselves. They will say they have an estrogen patch on. I'm sorry. I don't, because I don't pay any attention to social media. There are people out there saying they're, they're anti HRT, but they use their chart. So I don't, what's their argument? What are they talking about? This idea that we are overselling HRT that not every woman needs a HRT. And I'm not suggesting every woman needs HRT. But I want every woman to be offered the menu. Right? I want them to know what they are like, like, just like I want people to know how to exercise and lift weights and eat healthy. Here's the menu. If you choose to smoke and drink and do drugs, that is your choice. But I want you to know that the menu exists. Does that make sense? I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

Well, let's pivot for a moment to talk a little bit about the amount of psychological trauma that exists in the patient with lower back pain. And I'm thinking very specifically, even about some of my own patients or friends who have been in the throes of lower back pain. And if nothing else steward, I take a great degree of comfort from the injury, the third injury that I had the one in 2000, because it lasted so long and because it was so debilitating and because I'm here today without pain, my confidence around small recurrences is so high that I don't tend to awfulize about it and work myself up. But I have great empathy for a person who doesn't have that knowledge. And instead, I don't know how to help someone sometimes because I can't tell what is mind and what is body at this point. And I suspect that there's a significant interplay. So can you speak more about this phenomenon? And what those of us who want to help these patients can do? I am certainly much more conscious of the point you're making now than I was 30 years ago, absolutely. I'm going to start with a little story. But this happens very often. You mentioned earlier how MRIs don't show you the mechanism of pain than I can give all kinds of reasons why. But let's take this patient. He came to see me and he said hi doc, I hear you're different. I've got this pain. I've been everywhere. I went to the pain clinic. They gave me narcotics. And now they say the pain is in my head. I can live with the physical pain. I cannot live with someone telling me the pain is in my head. Because that means I'm crazy. And if I'm crazy, I don't deserve to live. You've got two weeks. And in two weeks, I'm blowing my brains out. Now there's a heavy psychosocial challenge. And a little bit of a story about what the system does to people. And it's not unusual for someone to come here suicidal. So I said, all right, you don't appear to have pain right now. And he says, no, I don't. And I said, OK, what causes your pain? And he said, well, it's when I do a certain movement that I get a flash of pain. That feels like someone has broken a beer bottle and have ripped open my hamstring muscles. It's awful. I said, oh, can you show me the pain? And he said, what? You want me to show you how I create the pain. And I said, it's the only chance I have to understand it. I said, you've been to 15 different clinicians. He says, no one ever asked you to show them the mechanism of your pain. And as I know, whatever it touched you, he says, no. I said, well, it's the only way I know Peter, I put on my instrumentation, which was muscle EMG over the torso, the glutes, et cetera. We put on this fine motion on her 3D motion, it's fine on her. And then I said, all right, let's see what causes this. So he stood there and he did a very weird thing. And he said, all right, well, here you go. And he wound himself around in a circle like this. And he got to 10 tucked at center. Oh, no. Now at that time, I heard like a little cavitation, little paw, come out of his back. And that was the brap of the sciatic nerve. And he was in a bad ways. You know, I laid him thrown on a table, tried to give him a bit of decompression. And he went home. And I said, I know exactly what the mechanism of your pain is. Here's what you should do over the next three days. But I want you to come back, but promise me you aren't going to do anything silly. Remember what the threat was hanging over us. He said, I promise. I called him that night. I called him the next day just to make sure. Then he came back. And I said, I know exactly what your mechanism is. As, and here's what the data showed, as he was winding himself around, he was using muscle, muscle, as stiffening, and stabilizing. It's centrating of the joints. And as he got to top it, send me shuff all his muscles off. He completely relaxed. And then there was a little shear translation or a clump. And that's what we heard. And that's what strapped the sciatic root. I said, OK, you have no pain. Push my fingers out. Error. Good. Hold that. Now talk to me and keep talking to me with that controlling. And we focused on through this in a minute. Very simple. I said, oh, keep the tone now. And we're going through. And as he came to top that center, you could see it. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh. I said, we're there. Do it again. Hold on. Keep control. He didn't clunk. Now let's talk him about four months to wind down the ache. But he never had another clunker at drive. 10 years later, he brought his daughter to me. And I saw her for back pain. And he brought me a case of beer. And he said, I said, you know, I did my one year follow up with you. But how have you been? He says, fabulous. I said, did you ever get another episode? Never had one. Now some people will think that that's a fantastic impossible story. P, after one close, close and gave him, he was so coachable. And he got it. He understood. He was a mechanical mind. You know, he never had another acute episode ever. And so think of a suicide case from the medical system, not having a sufficient evaluation procedure to really get at what the mechanism of his pain was to a point where they defaulted and said, we've tried everything with you, it's not working. Therefore, the pain is in your head. So it was a process of understanding the mechanism, giving him a strategy to address the mechanism. And the psyche just changes. It empowered him. I'll give you one more story. Absolutely. OK. I was giving a lecture in England. And there was a fellow off to the side. And he was slumped down. Now if you get a clinical psychology textbook, the picture of depression is this. He used to get a slumped down in that demeanor. Now if you have a posterior disbolge, that is not a position to be. So they were starting with clinical depression, beating a disqualch. So you don't go together. And then in the break, he came over to me. You're a very quiet spoken fella. And he said, I hear what you're saying. Do you have 30 seconds for me to tell you my story? And I said, sure, I used to be a police officer. I heard my back. I went through the NHS system that they only gave me exercises that hurt me more. Finally, they gave me a pamphlet. How to live with your back pain? And he said, that book destroyed me. What? I have to live the rest of my life with my back pain. And no one's ever touched me or shown me any of this. And I said, oh, and then you'll remember that spot procedure that we went with the older woman that I described her. I simply showed them that. And he went back and he sat down on the chair. I said, tall. And then at the end of the lecture, I went over to him. And I said, how is your pain? And he stood up. And he said, it's gone. And he started to cry. Because he realized now what the system had done to him. In the meantime, he lost his job. And he realized that he'd been stolen from. And those are his words. He said, they stole my career from me, giving me that book out of live with my back pain. Why didn't anyone show me what my pain was like? You just did in 30 seconds. And it was just, I've been watching this pattern for so many years. You could see it a mile away. Anyway, those are two stories to link the mechanics. And ultimately, what we're trying to do is to empower people in showing them they have the ability within themselves. They just need to understand the mechanism. And most of the time, they are able to mitigate the cause and then build a robust foundation. So I wrote back mechanic. And people would come, I started the experimental research clinic at the University of Waterloo. We were the only clinic, maybe you heard of this. But I've never heard of another clinic where they follow up with every single patient that they ever saw. We did a two-year follow-up with every single patient who came in and we subcategorized them because we assessed everyone into the mechanism of their pain pathway. We gave them an appropriate exercise prescription. We followed up to see, did they even comply? Because some people didn't. And then how are you doing after two years? If you were in the subcategory that everything has failed, you've been told you need surgery. So you're at the end of the road now. You're a surgery case. In the two-year follow-up, following the plan that I just described for you with this thing called virtual surgery, which is part of it. 95% reported that they avoided surgery and they were glad that they did. So that's my efficacy to the empowerment and psychology issue. I don't know if that answers your question. Sometimes I get a little bit, I try and create a logic flow. I hope that works. Yeah, I'll tell you what stands out to me the most in those stories Stuart is your consistent, adamant drive towards understanding the mechanism of the pain. So it's a, how do we break this down into a physics and biology problem? And I guess my question is, where, which type of healthcare providers are most in line with that? I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

I think we made a lot of the groundwork that we need to do. And this next section we'll get into kind of everything people can do to improve it individually. But before we get to kind of like how you the person can do it, we did have some questions from subscribers who said, you know, they have kids and they want to improve their bone health. And we've talked about how important it is. So before we get to the individual, is there anything in particular any advice you would have for people who have kids? On those very important ages, you know, the eight to 20 on what they can do so they can really optimize the bone health. Yeah, I think this is very important. You know, when I stop to think about all of the things that, you know, a parents got on their plate to try to help their kids with during this relatively narrow window that your kids are in your house and and therefore somewhat amenable to your influence. You know, I think the most important thing probably comes down to being adequately nourished and being very active and in particular being very active in things that load bones. So one of the things that was a bit surprising to me was that running didn't have a greater impact on BMD. So in a moment, we'll pull up that figure neck that I think is pretty interesting that shows all of the different sports and how they impact BMD. Now, I'm going to posit that the running one has a confounder in there because if you think about it, running puts a lot of force on muscles, right? I mean, especially when you think about the hips, which are two of the three bones that are attached to muscles that feel experienced, that experience great force during running. So why is it that running where you're potentially, at least at the knees experiencing eight times your body weight with each impact? Why wouldn't that do more? And I've been thinking about this for some time and maybe somebody knows the answer, but my suspicion is that the confounder here is body weight and BMI, right? And that when you talk about elite runners and usually these are studied in elite runners, they're very weight conscious, right? Running in cycling are the ultimate strength to weight ratio sports. And I do wonder if we're seeing basically mal-nourished runners. What do I mean by that? Basically, people that are BMI is too low, might be perfect for being a runner, but it's too low for optimizing bone mineral density. So I guess this is a long-winded way of saying, running might not be enough. So obviously running's a great thing to do and it comes with a lot of benefit, but you probably want to make sure that your kids, both boys and girls are doing other sports that involve more power. So probably things that involve jumping and actually lifting heavy things. This is kind of a great plug for rocking. You know, I mentioned Michael Easter briefly at the outset. I mean one of the things that Michael writes about in his book, The Comfort Crisis, is the importance of just walking with heavy stuff. So either doing a farmer's carry, doing a rock, which I love, you know, I try to rock five days a week. So it's, you know, backpack with heavy weight in it and just walking around and always trying to find a hill to walk up and down, kind of loading myself without the knee joints being susceptible to that. So going back to the kids, I think we just want to make sure BMI is not too low. Cormon dysfunction is not there. Energy availability is there. Body fats not too low. All of those things that tend to occur. Obviously smoking, you know, we obviously want to make sure nobody's smoking, but as we just talked about, kids beneath the age of 16 are uniquely susceptible to this. So again, it's pretty straightforward. Lots of nutrition, lots of physical activity, and specifically physical activity that builds muscular strength. And because I think that's going to apply them greatest force to the bone and the bones as we talked about our mechanical sensory entities that are going to remodel in proportion to how much mechanical stress they're under. So again, lifting heavy stuff matters. And that doesn't mean that 12 year olds need to be deadlifting three times their body weight, but we also don't want to shy away from kids lifting things. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today. A Peter Atia MD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

People ask me all the time, hey, you know, I understand Peter that as I my work load increases, my production of lactate increases and as my production of lactate increases, my capacity starts to fall off because as lactate goes up, it's buffered by a hydrogen ion or it's married to a hydrogen ion, and that's what creates the acid part of lactic acid. And it's that hydrogen ion that's causing all the trouble. It's not the lactate. It can consume, we can tolerate endless amounts of lactate, and we can't tolerate, and lactate is crucial in the metabolism. Yeah, we just can't tolerate the hydrogen that comes with it, and it's that hydrogen that actually paralyzes the act in myus and filaments prevents them from disengaging, and that's what leads to that seizing up that you feel, the rigidity you feel when you're at, and when you exceed your lactate threshold. So the question then becomes, what can I buffer this? And everybody in the brother talks about, hey, what if we, you know, took lots of tons, you know, anything that we could get sodium by carbonated into our systems? My looking at that literature, which I haven't done in a while, was that this strategy didn't really pan out, that there wasn't really a great way to orally ingest enough by carb to make a difference. Obviously intravenously, you could, but that's probably illegal anyway. I mean, I don't think water would permit that, but even if you weren't concerned with that and just asking the theoretical question, unless you're on a stationary bike, it's not practical to have an IV drip of bicarbonate to buffer your hydrogen. So what is the state of buffering agents to reduce and lessen the impact of lactate as lactic acidosis? This is a little bit of a complicated domain simply, unlike all the other simple domains that are discussing today, yes. No, the, the, the reason for that, I've been very fortunate over the last decade to be involved in, like, at a lot of edge case researchers, plenty that, let's say, we are maybe year, we are, or not maybe, we are years away before this will be published, not necessarily because we don't want to publish any, but, but there just remains work to be done. You have to understand it. And for example, again, this is also a place where, where we have some indications now, but where some of my colleagues, they have actually also tested on larger population, but Gustas highs view to max actually is done under bicarbonate utilization. How? But Gustas. How? How is it in the minister? So, so the way it was administered is that there's a company in Sweden called Morton, and what they did, this is actually something that is going to be studied now also in actually in, in health, let's say, or let's, in medical settings as well, because it actually has some quite interesting applications there too. But how this was administered is basically that it is packed in a hydrogen, and it allows you to buy, so you get rid of a gastric P, you bypass the gastric pH and you get it into the intestine. That's in, using the same mechanism. You basically pack your, let's say, the agents into a vehicle to deliver it where you need it more efficiently. So this means that we can go to concentrations that are significant. What have you seen is the difference in his lactate tolerance within without this buffering? So this is a place, again, where obviously the sample size is still limited. I didn't him. Yeah. In a super, in a world class elite athlete. So the interesting thing there is that here we have two different cases, and that's for example, I have some athletes that have almost twice as high lactate concentration in the blood when they're using. So this is why I said, we're opening a kind of, yeah, did the deal. Yeah, did the, of lactate buffering? Yeah, exactly. Because we also have them to remember because then we have to come back to the technology where we measure and where it's called again. So this brand is called Morton. Morton. Morton salt. Well, yeah, yeah. Well, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's written and, and now, our T.E. and Morton. And they basically are, like, people go crazy over the gels and everything in during races. They have a gel that is actually based on the same principle. So actually without, we open up that box as well. But basically Christian Gustav sits comfortably in the eating 160 grams of carbohydrates per hour and basically this is then quantified using as it'll traces as well. So they don't only eat it and it starts packing up in the stomach. It's moving. They use the use. So this is a commercially available product. Yes. We're using it. And what, is there any sense of why some people find like Gustav seems to find huge benefit from it? Sounds like Christian does not? Well, I wouldn't say that Christian doesn't, but it depends a little bit on, let's say, dissecting we are using it in as well. And Trotland is inherently complex in the sense that you have tree sports that you put together and we're very, very intenseity or the things that are happening there, which makes it a little bit more complicated. And then there also is some benefits, but also, all that's, but can also potentially be disadvantages with it. But the benefits that also comes with it is that actually also increases your plasma volume fairly instantaneously as well. Simply because you're just pulling, yeah, you're pulling fluid. Yes, that's why it's. But the studies early studies that have done on this and then which will be published on this, basically shows that there's a positive effect of using, using by carbonite now or using, for example, the molten product. We have studies now on larger population, done by some of my colleagues, which indicates this. And then on top of that, but what I would say is that we don't fully understand why it is like this. It's a one interesting one interesting hypothesis I presented to the to the to the to the research group is that if because on one side what we think is that, okay, this, this, this increases the buffering capacity. So we, we think, okay, if it increases the buffering capacity, then you can basically do more, then you can go more anaerobic or tap more into anaerobic or glypholic resources. Because one thing that we are fairly sure about is that you never gonna run out of glyphogen. Really, like you come to a certain level and the body will rather start to sense that it's really, really low. And that's why you shut down. You don't shut down because you basically depleted every gram of glycogen in your body. That's one. And then the order of preserving mechanisms. That's easy to verify with a muscle biopsy at failure, right? No, the problem. No, the problem with that is that even in muscle biopsies, you will see that if you basically do sampling just across one muscle. So you do not know what's going on. There's a lot of control. Yeah, that it's so hee to genic that even in well trained accuracy. So if you, if you wanted to do it, you would need to biopsy multiple times, multiple side simultaneously, or even make somebody radioactive and start to do nuclear, or a magnetic reason. Resonment, yeah, measurements on people. So it's something, it's so impractical to really study that you have to go more by, again, coming back to, for example, first order principles. Like, for example, looking at gross efficiency and then calculating that's basically how much subsidier using basically is already involving inaccuracies to it. That's why you just have to sometimes just say, okay, we're going to look at auction consumption, versus a, let's say, mechanical power output. And then you just say, we don't care about whether that's RQ correlates to this value. You just have to have the raw values. But back to the bi-carbonate, bi-carbonate, and so on. One way we can, one way, what we can observe, for example, is that when we do blood gas and analysis, so when the athletes are exercising, so true, all basically along the protocol, we are taking blood samples to look at basically pH level in the body. And what is interesting to see there, even for Christian, he does not have a doubling in his, like the concentration. So Christian have almost unchanged, almost unchanged, like the concentration in his blood level of exertion. Yeah, whatever, even all of any given power, any given power. So the interesting thing here is that the interesting thing here, that is that for this, is easy to think now that when an athlete has double, they like the concentration of blood, then it has to be double the contribution from the glycolysis. It's not. We have to remember, we measure in the blood, this is a concentration metric, and the state can be completely different, all the places in the body.

And I remember another story, Joe, that we kind of bonded over a couple of years ago, which was the student that was really struggling in entry-level chemistry. Yeah. And I mean, I think anybody who's been through chemistry can empathize with that the first time you're doing, you're going through physical chemistry and you're trying to balance the chemical equations. And this kid is dying. And they think the problem is, I'll never, it's chemistry. They problem is chemistry. And you came in and said, no, actually, the problem is fractions. You didn't master fractions in third grade or fourth grade or whatever fractions are introduced. And you're failing chemistry because you did, you, for this exact reason, we're going to go back and fill the gap in, in fractions. And this will become easy for you. And of course, that's what science, knowledge is hierarchical. Right. And this is back to mastery, which is why we do poorly. We've given up mastery in this country. Why? We're a time-based system. Right. At the end of third grade, you're moving to fourth grade. And at the end of fourth grade, you're moving to fifth grade. And we don't hold kids back. We just, we've said, we're just going to move kids through no matter what. Because it's time. Because there's all these other social issues, right? And, you know, oh my god, I can't have my kid hold back the pressure on the school to relax the standards. You know, 80% of kids at Harvard get an A now. You know, it's just grade inflation. You know, grades look like this. Yeah. So, you know, it's just, you know, it's just, you know, it's just, you know, like, you know, it's just, you know, it's just, you know, it's just, you know, it's just, you know, right? And it's just, we've just got, and for whatever reasons, we've done it, but in a time-based system, you know, and here's part, just even grading. You know, there's this concept that, you know, okay, you got a 70, you know, you can pass in 80s at B, right? That's great. I'm coming because it'd be student 80. The problem is, you know, if you only have 80% knowledge, you're creating all these holes, and it all compounds were eventually, and it starts to when you had algebra or chemistry, right? That you're, you think it's the current material. Yeah. But it's your pre-rex. It's your foundation. It's your foundation. And, you know, we talk a lot about parents, because a lot of this is, you know, we all grew up in this time-based system and just the old system. And so this new way is very different. But the best analogies we always use the parents totally understand is sports, right? Just like game film. Like, have you, your test figure out what's wrong? Masteries the same one. You know, which is, if you're the point card and you lose the ball 20% of the time going down the court, the coaches and like, let's work on the advanced stuff. They're like, kid, let's learn how to dribble. We don't even worry about dunking yet. Correct? No dunking. Like, let's focus on, right, get up to 99% get to mastery that you know how to do the basics. Everybody in sports is like, if you're not doing well, go back and do the basics. Well, academics is the same way. And if you apply that same logic, right, but in a time-based system with a teacher in front of a classroom, right, you can't get every kid to mastery, right? And that's when we get into like the new solutions and why we get these crazy, you know, kids can learn tendons faster. It's because we're able to get out of a non-mastery, non-time-based system or a non-mastery time-based system that has a teacher in front of a classroom. Right? Teachers are great, teacher in front of a classroom is bad. You know, that dynamic. And so but into your point hierarchical, you know, chemistry is just algebra with advanced word problems. Right? Physics is literally calculus with advanced word problems. You know, algebra is basically advanced fraction manipulation. You can give kids a fraction test and predict their algebra score. Right? And then fractions are, how's your division of multiplication tables? Do you mean that? That's a lot of fun. And so it just keeps going down, the whole track, you know, all the way down. And so part of what you have to do to fix the system, right, is figure out age grade? Oh, wait. I'm an eighth grader in algebra. And knowledge grade. Wait, I don't know my fractions are different. And so, you know, what a teacher in front of a classroom though. It's not their fault. Right? I'm a teacher. I'm an eighth grade teacher. What do you teach? eighth grade material. Yeah. And I have kids who don't, who don't know some third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh material. What do I do? Right? And this is why, you know, so many people hire tutors. You know, after school, private schools, right? There's, you know, it's crazy. We have all these people go to private schools and hire after school tutors because the school doesn't teach them. And, you know, the tutors just like, okay, I'm going to go give you the earlier grade level material. That's it. When we talk about kids, all these hundreds of kids coming in who are, you know, three years behind, seven years behind, the second part of what I tell the parents is that's freaking you out because nobody wants their kids this far behind. But it's so easy to fix. The remediation of this stuff is no time at all. That when you use these, you know, learning science based AI tutors and the apps that we have, kids can learn 10 times faster, 10 times faster. So when you actually look at material, there's 180 school days, right? Our day plus homework. So a couple hundred hours. Most of grade that one subject, right, per grade level, takes our alpha kids between 20 and 30 hours to finish an entire grade level, two mastery. So you can take fourth grade math and be like, you got 26 hours kid, you do an hour day homework, you're 26 days away, right? 22 hours is seventh grade and sixth grade, 22 each, right, for math. And Joe, would this work if, and again, as just as a thought experiment, if each student had one teacher, the private tutor, if you could put a private tutor in front of a student for 22 hours over the course of, you know, whatever two months or one hour a day for 26 days, are you confident that that individual, and of course we'll talk about why that's not practical, but that that that individual if skilled enough could navigate and weave that child through. If you give me a few more hours, then what I just gave you, because the AI can do a little bit better than most tutors, but yes, fundamentally, the paper that was written when I was in high school, about education, like so learning science and we didn't, you know, learning science has been around for 40 years. They've been writing papers. There's 10,000 papers published by all the schools of education, Stanford, and you know, all over the place that is, we know kids can learn to five or 10 times faster, right, we've known it. In, you know, blues to say, blues to sigma as a seminal paper, and he just said, if everybody got a personalized tutor, was his first point. And second, they did it to mastery. They worked to master. So mastery-based, not tenure-based, correct? Just you have to know the material before you advance. And there's an individual tutor to coach you. You will get two sigma better performance, which is right, your leftmost part of your curve, your worst students are going to be what today is considered the top 10 percent in a two sigma performance. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes, and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity-focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

So how old are you, Mike? 40. Okay. I know I look 50. Not where I was going. What would you look like now? I'm going to just pause it. I'm guessing that you have good genes. Well, you train very hard and you're using enough antibiotics, steroids, to fuel a small country. If we subtracted that last one out of the equation, because I don't have a sense of what the relative contribution is, what would you look like if you did everything the same minus the antibiotics steroids? Or if you if you run like regular TRT, you were taking 100 milligrams ofcipient A to week. How much of a do you have a sense to quantify how many pounds lighter you would be in terms of total muscle mass? Me personally or the average. No, you personally. Yeah, I want to get a sense of having had use steroids before. High doses are not having ever had used them. Oh, very good chance. Yeah, good question. Let's do both. Yeah, let's do both. So let's assume you when did you start using high doses of antibiotics? Or when I was 27 years old. Okay. So let's say we go back to 27 years old and we put you on the same path of doing everything you're doing in terms of your training intensity, all of the scientific principles that come into it, et cetera. But you've just you've never gone down the path of taking mega doses of steroids. And if you've ever taken testosterone, it's literally to bring a hotel to you up to 800 nanograms per year. Yeah. After at this body fat, I would probably weigh about 200 pounds versus 230 versus 230, versus 230, 235. Okay. Not 35. I know that's a lot of muscle. A lot of muscle. Yeah, but I would still be very jacked. I mean, before I had ever started taking antibiotics, steroids, I was already an elite power lifter. I weighed 270 pounds at probably 30 something odd percent body fat. But I probably, I've dexed myself in a master's program when I had been totally drug free. And I had a hundred and somewhere between 175 and towards the end of my drug free era close to 185 pounds of fat free mass. For someone who's five six, like myself, though, if anyone asks I'm five nine. So your FFMI would have been north of 30. Oh, not quite. But up there. Yeah. FFMI for folks not familiar with it is fat free mass index. So it's total fat free mass and kilograms divided by height in meters squared. And just for reference, you know, it's pretty hard to be above 25. Yeah. I'm likely. Unlikely. So that's right. There suggests kind of some interesting genetics that you were probably 29ish, 2829. Something. It's easier to do when you're really fat, though. But I have, but your ALMI was probably very high as we're all in business. I have very elite genetics, not swagger. It's just stating a fact. Anyone who sees this on video will notice that my head is curiously shaped like my massification muscles are absurd. I looked like this before I ever took any steroids. I have a picture of myself on Facebook from the side before for sure. I took anything. And I was like, holy crap. I usually wasn't bald back then, but I shaved bald. I was like, yep, they were. Those weird, mass-dicating muscles. And so yeah, I was kind of built for the ship. But also, I got plenty out of steroids, but not as much as some other people. Some people without steroids are not overly jacked. But with steroids, it's a total transformative event. And then when they retire and they come off of steroids, they're like, holy shit, did you're back to mortal-sized? How? Where's other people? Come off of steroids. And they keep most of their muscle mass. And they're on TRT. And they just look so jacked for forever. Huge, huge variation. But for me, steroids did a lot. But nothing crazy. I didn't gain 70 pounds of muscle. But I gained ya 30, something like that for 13 years. And then what? And so now the reverse question, which I guess is tomorrow you just decide, you know what? I'm going to keep doing everything I'm doing training wise. I'm going to gradually taper this thing down until I'm just, because at this point, you're going to need to be on testosterone throughout your life, I assume. I don't have to be. My testicular shrinkage has been zero. My spermatogenesis is seemingly zero. And so people just don't suppress your, and you're, how many times a week, a year, you completely completely off any in a ball of agent. Zero. And how many years has that been? 13. I find it hard to believe you would continue to make testosterone. Huge, legionatically variable. In addition to that, even if I make not making any now, within several weeks, my my testosterone production would likely resume. Now, if I had balls of size of capers, yeah, you'd be like with uphill battle, most people can resume normal testosterone production after the cessation of metabolic endogenic steroids. But not all, maybe like 90, 10. You don't want to be that 10, which is why it's a huge thing for me to say. Don't just start steroids or TRT without a real long heart think about what the hell you want out of life, especially if you have yet to have children, but want children, because I know people personally who've done one of two things. I know people who on full steroid cycles. During that time, fathered children, I now call my friends. The real humans, I can point to and be like you're a steroid baby. The freak you're doing pissed. I'm kidding. Obviously doesn't go into the germline cells. The other thing is I know some people who you blast it for a long time cannot have children. Try everything. It's just not in the cards. There's dramatic genesis. It's just gone. Yeah, I don't. I can't imagine it's 90, 10 though, Mike. I cannot imagine that 90% of people that use antibiotics derives for more than two years would be able to resume. I made the incorrect. It's gone from production. I would look into it. I think that most of the stuff you hear about how the comeback is difficult. This from people for whom the comeback is difficult. And having been in the bodybuilding powerlifting space for a long time, most people come off and they're just normal after. Almost everyone knows it's come off completely. It's just normal after. So when do you think back to the original question, if you were to come off today, how much of the call at the 35 going down at regular TRT? Not super tiered. Correct. You went down to 100 milligrams a week or none if you were able to make that on your own. Sure. Of the 35 pounds of Delta supplemental muscle, how much of it would you keep you think? About half. Yeah. So in other words, there is a difference between the muscle you gain versus the muscle you never had. Huge, which is why if you have a natural bodybuilding Federation that allows you to compete after you've used steroids is not a share. Yeah. Yeah. Now, let me back that up. If that's the explicit rule of the Federation, I don't like that it call it a natural Federation. I respect every athlete and I think it's wonderful that they're doing what they're doing. And in a sense, it's a very different category. So it's cool. If I was making a natural bodybuilding Federation myself, you would have to sign paperwork that says, I've never used antibiotics. Because the literature we have now on how much muscle you gain and keep forever is unequivocal. We even have mechanistic data on how it happens. Your satellite cells that are incorporated into your musculature, which are kind of dormant and then they get in and then they grow big. We have no reason to believe they ever leave. It's like, you know, living you're letting your act come live with you for a few weeks. And like, Rosanne Lind is here for forever. Here's our children. It's like that. So having done higher doses of engines ever for weeks or longer on end can give you a higher level of muscularity, especially, well, actually only if you've gone beyond your natural limit. People generally can gain only so much naturally and only so much on steroids. Starrers are unlimited for games. If you were going to ever have 160 pounds of fat free mass, and if you went from 150 to 160 with steroids, but you could have gotten there and would take you three times longer without steroids than the inherent advantage you don't have because you just got their faster. But if you got to 180 on steroids and then you quit all the steroids and now you're back down to 170, you could walk around and maintain that 170 on a normal secretion of testosterone and a normal TRT. You would have never been able to do that without the steroids. So it's a permanent advantage. If you've been hyper muscular from steroids, you will probably never be as small as you would have normally been ever again. And that's a big deal. Very, very big deal on Olympic sports because you can just kind of hide out. Don't get into the doping pool, crank it, get into the doping pool, you drug free, but you have muscle that will never leave you. That's a massive advantage. Yeah, sure sounds like it. Not that anyone ever does that.

Is there anything else you want to add before we hop into the Q&A? No, let's turn it over to you guys. Yes, so why did you decide to start focusing in longevity? Yeah, that's a great question. I guess there are sort of two things, right? The first was when Olivia was born, she's my oldest, and I bet all of you can appreciate this. Those of you that have kids, which I'm guessing is most of you, something about your mortality kind of kicks in. There are many stages to mortality, but I think having a kid is one. I think losing a parent is one. I think losing a friend. As we gain and lose things throughout life, we become aware of its finitude. And her birth was a moment where I was like, this is amazing. I'm not going to be around forever to be a part of her life. So that kind of got me thinking about it. And that coincided with me also coming to the realization that there are lots of things in my family history that might otherwise suggest a short life for me. And I wanted to get very serious about it. So my own journey into this space was actually very selfish and was strictly geared towards me figuring out things for myself. Awesome. Okay, I'm going to repeat that question. There were two questions there. The first was an update on Clotho, and I'll explain what that is for everybody else. And then the second was on the gram of protein per pound of body weight as it ideal body weight if a person is overweight. I'll start with the second question. The short answer is, it depends on how overweight. So if a person came to me and said, look, I weigh 260 pounds. I probably should weigh 200 pounds. I would tell them, you know, if I agreed with that assessment, I'd say being closer to the 200 is probably fine. You don't need to be at the 260. Okay, this gentleman was asking about a podcast I did. So I don't know how many months ago it was six nine months ago. I had an amazing scientist on my podcast. Her name was Dina Duball. She's neurologist at University California San Francisco. And she studies a protein called Clotho. This is a protein that is made by the body. It is made in response to exercise, but it also is just made, you know, endogenously and declines with age for reasons we don't understand. So children make six times more of this than adults. But of course, any one of us can transiently increase it by exercising. What's special about this protein is it seems to be one of the most important proteins that protects the brain. And so in both mice and monkeys, when you inject this protein, if these are animals that have signs of dementia or cognitive decline, it reverses. If these are normal animals, they seem to get superpowers like super cognitive powers. That protein is going to be tested over the next three years in humans. And if the results of that look promising, then a larger clinical trial will take place. So I would say the best case scenario here would be that in, you know, seven to 10 years, this could be an actual drug that humans take either to prevent cognitive decline or to treat it. So what is the best type of protein supplement you recommend to get to your grams these days? So I always ask people if possible and it's not always possible, whatever you can get from food is great. But I understand that for many people and again, especially for women, it's really hard to just mash through that much protein. So we turn to supplements. Now, when it comes to foods, the three that stand out the most are dairy products, beef and eggs. And there's a, because there's a quantitative way that you measure both the type of amino acid and what's called bioavailability of the amino acid. So how complete are the sources of amino acids and how readily can the bodily access them? Can the body access them? So again, if you're thinking about eating, beef, eggs, and dairy are the big ones. Again, you can get lots of amino acids and lots of other proteins. I'm not saying don't eat chicken or fish or vegetable proteins, but those are big ones. Therefore, when you're supplementing, way protein, which comes from dairy, tends to be the winner. Now, KCN is also great because it's also from dairy. So way or KCN probably stand out a little bit above, but so does egg protein supplement. So what I tell people to do is figure out what works best for you, because there's some people that just can't do dairy proteins. Remember, if you just because you can't tolerate dairy, doesn't mean you can't tolerate a dairy protein. Most people who can't tolerate dairy can't tolerate the carbohydrate in the dairy, but they're totally fine with the protein. So give it a try. So you're saying, a few years ago, you did a genetic test, and it did not show a genetic, okay. So let's assume that the test was correct. What it was screening for was very likely a gene called the apoe4 gene. And this is a gene, the apoe gene that exists in three types. There's the number two, the number three, and the number four. Now, every one of us has two copies of every gene, because you got one from your mom and one from your dad. So if there's three types of a gene, and there are two copies, there's six combinations. We can go through them all. You could be a two, two. You could be a two, three. You could be a two, four. You could be a three, three, a three, four, or a four, four. Okay, why is that relevant? One of those types is higher risk than the other two, and that's the four. So people who have two copies of the four are at significantly higher risk for all simmers disease, about 10 times higher risk. Now, it doesn't mean that they're guaranteed to get it, but their risk is significantly higher. People who have one copy, typically a three and a four, are at about a two times risk. And so what that study told you was you, what I'm assuming it said was you did not have a copy of the four gene. So you might be a three, three, which by the way, most of you probably are 60% of the population is at three, three. That's the good news. The bad news is it doesn't mean you're free of risk. Because the only people who can't get Alzheimer's disease are people who don't have brains. I mean, a being glim. Everybody with a brain is at risk. And unfortunately, women are at almost twice the risk of men. Now, we don't have a great understanding of why there are lots of theories. I won't expand on them now for the sake of time, but this is one of the areas where women are disproportionately affected to men. The other one, by the way, being osteoporosis and falls. So we've touched on both of the areas where women are at higher risk. Of course, men have a higher risk of cardiovascular disease. So yeah, the takeaway for me is I'm at three, three as well, but I don't rest on it. I act as though I'm high risk, meaning I take all the steps possible, exercising, being the single, most important thing we can do to preserve brain health, managing nutrition, sleep, all of the things that I can do. Sure, okay. So the first question was talking about how your mom had a fall. She broke her hip, had a long protracted recovery, managed to survive, but was never the same again, and basically slipped into a state of cognitive decline. And your question was, is there a relationship there? Very good question. My intuition is that there is a relationship there. In other words, we don't know the parallel universe experiment where we could see how she would have been, had she never had that fall. So what we're trying to understand is, is there any causality between the fall and her cognitive decline? And my intuition is that there is. And it's exactly what you said. It's that with the period of profound inactivity, and probably with it, not just the physical inactivity, but also I would suspect some cognitive inactivity. If nothing else, it may have sped up by a period of years, something that may have ultimately happened. But I think probably was happening sooner than it should have. But again, I don't, it would be a very difficult thing to prove that, but that's what my intuition says. And I think that's just yet another reason to think about all these things we've talked about as far as, like, what are the steps we can take to minimize our risk of a fall?

What are you seeing that you're worried about? What trends do you see that people are doing from a biohacking, longevity standpoint that have you concerned? Either, and I'll put this into buckets, the higher bucket would be safety. The second bucket would be predatory behavior around, basically people getting, you know, having their money wasted, even if the agents that are being sold are not necessarily harmful. Yeah, I think the first one, I'm excited about Jean Therapy. Don't get me wrong. I think it's interesting, and it may really change the feel going forward. I even kind of like Palestine, but I'm Palestine is a protein. Yeah, but I think that those treatments are not very well proven yet. And I would not do, I asked the question, what you have been selling? $100,000 for Palestine and Jean Therapy. I probably don't have to spend the money and I still have a dud at this. I've done MSCs though. Yeah, I've e-c to try that. And I think, you know, stem cells, it's a different question there. I think if you're repairing soft tissue damage or something like that and injecting them directly, probably works. For aging, I have no idea, but I think it's probably safe if you have somebody that's a good practitioner that knows what they're doing. But I think there's a lot of, this problem with stem cells, you go places, and you really don't know who you're working with. And, you know, if they're really treating the cells correctly, if you're putting the right things in your system. And so there's a safety concern there based on the practitioner, I think. And so those are things that concern me. I haven't gotten totally on board with growth hormone yet. I mean, I think probably use correctly, might be okay. The data is interesting. Are you aware of human data that, and I'm in your camp, by the way, which is, actually had a bunch of friends over for dinner last night and this came up. And yeah, I was sort of, I said, look, I can't point to a study that tells you this is, this is a bad idea. And I've never spoken to a person who takes a modest, judicious dose of growth hormone, who doesn't tell me they feel bad. So it's hard to believe it's not making people feel better. I also have never seen data to suggest it initiates cancer. But it seems very biologically plausible that if you have cancer, small amounts of cancer, your probability that this becomes clinically significant is higher in the market. Yeah. Again, I say that with no data. Yeah, me. And so, yeah, my view has just been despite my own interest in trying things. I've left the growth hormone one off the list. Is that an answerable question? Do you think? Yeah, I think we could do clinical studies. Yeah, and some are being done. How would we address the safety concern, right? Because you really need to be able to track people for quite a long period of time. That's the problem with the cancer susceptible. And all of these things, right? We don't know what the long term is. And I guess, it's a gray area. This is a weird thing with these clinics, right? Because I think from what I read in your book, you're doing sort of validated stuff. You're not really out there in the stratosphere doing crazy stuff that we don't know about. Some of that I would like to think I'm not. But I'll tell you, there are people who are very critical of my use of rap and mice in patients for geoprotective reasons. There are people who might think I'm crazy for giving people SGLT2 inhibitors who don't have diabetes. So I think there's things that we do, not for all of our patients. And again, I fewer than 10% of our patients take rap and mice. And because my view is unless you're willing to have a very lengthy discussion about the pros, the cons, the risks, the uncertainties. And I don't give people an answer that says, oh, this is the stuff's amazing. My answer is I don't know. Here's how I think about it probabilistically. Here are the trade-offs. And again, after you can tell I'm not a good salesman. If only 10% of the patients are taking it. Look, I think that's perfectly reasonable. But they're cutting, stewing some really out there stuff. And how do we know the long-term safety on it? I think if you're going to go do that stuff, you need to go in with your eyes open. You're taking a risk. I just seen so many orstories of people that have come back from parts of the, because you can't do this a lot of the stuff you can't even do in the United States. So they're coming back from South America, Mexico, places in Asia, having done fallostat and therapy or other very questionable stem cell therapies. And I mean, people that have had horrible infections. Like literally just artifacts of the treatment. And again, that's a practitioner problem with this. Yeah, exactly. Yeah, but some great stuff happening to I work with Bermaryngrad Hospital in Thailand. And they've got a longevity clinic now and they're very grounded in good science. And so, but the problem is if you're a consumer for these products, it's really hard to know. So someone listening to us who's saying, guys, can you give me some rules of thumb, some heristics for navigating the never ending landscape of longevity hacks that keep showing up on my Instagram feed, my TikTok feed and at cocktail parties? Yeah, I mean, that could be diet books. And I'm just going to clinics around the world. I think it's really difficult to sort that out. And because it's what I was going to say is it's clinical practice and research at the same time. It's a very unique situation, right? And there aren't many examples of that I know of that are really maybe some functional medicine is a little bit like that too. But it's interesting. And I feel like it's better for scientists to engage with where it's possible to engage with these clinics and try to help them than it is to just let people do things and without, if you can provide oversight that's helpful, you should be doing it. And so that's kind of how I feel about it. But a lot of academics don't even want to work with these clinics at all too, so I get criticized for working with them sometimes. It's an interesting world right now. I'm Peter Rattier. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today. A Peter Rattier MD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

One of the drugs that I have studied with Jared Younger, who's now at UAB, is a drug called Lodosanal Truxone. This is a fascinating drug. And it's got like this underground reputation out there that it's all over the forums. And the reason for it is because it's been around for decades and often patent there is zero money for any pharmaceutical company for it. What is now Truxone? How Truxone, when given it 50 milligrams, is used to block opioid receptors. It's an opioid blocker. And so we use this in the treatment of opioid and alcohol addiction because it blocks the rewarding experiences of alcohol or opioids. And so it's used as a treatment for addiction. And it's about 10 milligrams. At four and a half milligrams, one tenth of the dose. It has been shown to activate, to block, toll like four receptor on the microglia. Now I just introduced like this really technical concept. So, allow me to briefly explain. The microglia are these cells that hang around nerves, but are not neurons. And when I was in medical school, a few years, several years before you, what I was taught was these microglia, we're like the warm fuzzy blanket that propped up the nerves. I don't know what you were taught, but they provided structural support to the nerves. What I learned is that was only part of the story that they're key neural immune modulators. And so what I mean by that is, in times of stress, injury, fever, these microglia get activated. They release all sorts of inflammatory mediators, chemicals that sensitize the central nerves responsible for pain perception, pain transmission, pain perception. So you give a load of it and I'll truck down it blocks that. It blocks that neuroinflammatory soup. And in some patients' Peter, this drug's been magical. Like magical. I give it in four and a half milligrams. What are the other areas where LDN is just captivating the world? Complex regional pain syndrome. It has had a, that's a very tragic pain condition that is a neuropathic pain condition. We see a fair amount of, I've got a clinical trial. I'm just wrapping up on that using Lodos and L-Tracks on funded by the RSDSA Association. And another is actually multiple sclerosis. They've used it in and they've found some reduction in reoccurrences of MS. I think they did that UCSF or UCLA. But it's in these weird neurodegenerative type conditions where there's things in them. Now I've had some wacky, really wacky patient responses. If, I mean, I can share one. He is disarthur, he can't speak. He's got weakness, he has hemibody pain. Burning pain. This is that central pain. Okay. The Llamic pain. So he comes to me several years later, comparing speak at all. He's tried everything. Oh, let's try Lodos and I'll truck. So why does he come to a pain doc? Because he's got terrible pain. Okay. So he wasn't coming to you for the speech issue. No, no, no. He has a speech therapist. It's not getting any better. He's a couple of years out, stroke a stabilize. Okay. So it's this burning pain. Burning pain. On half his body. Half his body. I trial him on four and a half milligrams of L-D-N. He goes away, comes back a couple months later. Pain is improved. But not only that, he's now speaking and throwing a few words together for the first time in like census stroke. I'm like, what the hell, I bump up his dose. You cannot hurt yourself on this drug. You know, I know you know this. It's also, I go to nine, one out ten. Well, because it's easy to take two capsules. He comes back a few months later. He's now like talking in sentences. And I'm like, I said, are you sure this isn't due to your speech therapist? And they swear up and down, absolutely not. I go on up to like 13 and I go up to 13 and a half. And now he's having conversations. And how does his pain? Massively better on this. And really remarkable effect. I cannot, the only way I can explain these things is, you know, in a stroke, you've got like these, you've got dead tissue, you've got live tissue, you've got these intermediate zones. And somehow with reducing maybe inflammation, you end up with... Yeah, more functional brain. Somehow, if that model makes sense, which at least twoologically does, something about that inflammatory zone in the middle between what was clearly gone and not is poisoning the part that's still okay, right? So what is the downside of this? Meaning what would one need to be mindful of in trying an approach like this? This beauty of this drug is the only side effects that I've typically, I see, 20, 30% of people get vivid dreams. They get technical or dreams. Not bad dreams, not nightmares, but their dreams just take on a more colorful nature. Everyone's on well, see somebody who they say it activates them, we tell them to take it two hours before bedtime. And if it activates them a little bit, take it in the morning instead. I guess where I'm going with this is we think that at least a subset of people with neurodegenerative diseases and you mention multiple sclerosis, but we think this is true in at least some cases of Alzheimer's disease that neuroinflammation is a part of the pathology. Yeah. So would there be any efficacy to a trial there in either an individual with MCI, mild cognitive impairment or as crazy as the sounds as there are reason to consider it prophylactically in high-risk individuals? With the caveat that, hey, by the way, if you happen to get an infection like this would be a good time to stop it and ride it out and get better. I think the short answer is yes, a little bit of the longer answer is everything, I know, you know this, everything we do is weighing risk and benefits. Yep. This is one drug. I am hard pressed to come up with significant risks. We have decades and decades of experience with this drug in people with addiction. At 10x the dose. At 10x. How long are they typically on that drug? Lifetime. So meaning for a subset of individuals just putting them on the party dose of 50 milligrams of Naltrexone keeps them free of alcohol and opioids for life because it's so blunts the pleasure center. Yeah, the problem is all the addictionologists know is that it's hard to keep people on this because they can just stop it and go back and use. Yep. So that's why you have to want to be off. You have to want to be off. They have injectable versions of this. It's not called the vitroal is it? It's an injectable under the skin that lasts X number of days months. But yeah, we've got a lot of long-term data on this. And from a pilot standpoint, with informed consent obviously and just, you know, I would view that as a kind of a novel treatment in patients that one could try out monitor. Do some objective measures and see what you get. I wouldn't say that. I want to be careful. I wouldn't say that for a lot of the things that we do because there's real risks with a lot of the medications that we provide a lot of the procedures we do. Not only that, there's big costs that come with them. Where is this? I'm going to make a plug here. I have no relationship to, but we get our stuff out of ballmarr pharmacy in Colorado. Why? They're compounding pharmacy. They've got all the certifications. Oh, the reason is you can't go to Safeway or Costco and get this. You can't get a low dose of milk racks on there. You mean you have to, it doesn't be compounded at 4.5, you're saying? You're right. Good. And so we go through this pharmacy because they've got good customer service. They take patients' credit cards over the phone and they will ship it to you immediately and they're very responsive. You can probably find it in your local area at other compounding pharmacies. It usually runs about $30 a month. So it's basically a free drug. It's an insurance. It doesn't often cover up because they consider it experimental, but it's basically a free drug. It's a bucket day. Yeah. So it's one that I use more and more and more because of its safety profile and it's potential for getting me a home run.

There's been a lot of discussion this week about the announcement of former President Joe Biden's diagnosis with Metacetic prostate cancer. And while I have no interest or desire to comment on anything political or conspiratorial, I think there is a lot to talk about here, and this is in a illustrative case, in my mind at least, of how medicine to Poeno has gone awry, and why we should use this as an opportunity to talk about maybe a different way to practice medicine. So what appears to be the case, at least as of this moment when I'm sitting here making this recording, is that the last time that President Biden had a PSA level check was at about the age of 72. Now to be clear, that is within the guidelines. The guidelines say that once a man hits 70, the decision to do a PSA for screening is somewhat optional and really largely based on a discussion that the patient can have with his doctor. Now, I've never really understood the arguments against it other than the misinterpretation of data and the failure to look at PSA data more closely. So it is true, I think, that if you look at PSA and PSA alone, it can be a very misleading protein or biomarker that can lead to false positives and false negatives, which of course are the main problem we care about when trying to screen for cancer. So we can't lose sight of the fact that cancer is the second leading cause of death. Procedure cancer is the second leading cause of cancer death among men. And unlike many other forms of cancer, this one is actually really preventable because of the pace at which it develops and the newer and newer tools that we have to predict which of those prostate cancers are non-lethal, which means they're going to stay in the prostate they're not going to leave versus which ones are going to be lethal, which means they have the ability to leave and spread and they almost always spread to the bone, which is unfortunately exactly what has happened to President Biden. Okay, so what would you do? Well, you would look at not just the PSA every year, which is what I would recommend, but you would also look at something called the PSA velocity, which measures as its name suggests the rate of change of PSA. And the higher the PSA velocity, which I think makes sense, the faster the rate of change or increase of PSA, the more likely that you might be dealing with a cancer, even absent a very high absolute PSA. The second thing we want to consider is what's called PSA density. This is where you take the PSA and you divide it by the prostate volume. So, if the PSA part of me if the PSA is measured in an anagram's predestilator, which it typically is, you divide that by the prostate volume in milliliters and you will get a number. If that number is large, typically over 0.15, we start to get a little bit concerned. So the more dense the PSA is, the meaning PSA divided by volume, the more we are concerned. The final thing that you can get from this remarkable $5 test, that's right, $5 a year is what is going to cost you to get a PSA, is your free PSA. And the percentage of the free PSA also tells you your likelihood as to whether or not this is a potentially dangerous PSA that's arising from a dangerous set of prostate cells or not. So you have these three things that you're getting for free, right? You have from the PSA, you're getting the absolute number, you're getting the PSA, velocity, the PSA density, and the free PSA. And if all of that is pointing you in a direction that is leading you to be inconclusive or causing concern, you can do additional tests like a P.A. try or a 4K, which admittedly are more expensive blood tests, but they do even more to further elucidate the risk. Of course, this can be all followed up with a multiparametric MRI, which might be the gold standard before you would progress to a biopsy. Why didn't they do any of these things? Well, I think one reason comes down to, again, the failure of medicine to point out, which tends to rely on actuarial data of life expectancy. That's it. And it says, look, if you're 72-year-old man, which is apparently the age at which President Biden was last tested, it says, look, your life expectancy is X number of years. It's less than 15 actuarially. And this is relatively slow moving cancer, all things considered. So we should do nothing about it. But yet here we are, it's 11 years later, and he has a very aggressive form of prostate cancer. And so two things turned out to be incorrect. One, we didn't actually know what his life expectancy was, but more importantly, we placed an emphasis on lifespan over health span. And this is the part that really grinds my gears about medicine to point out, is it says nothing about the quality of life. Now obviously, I can't speak from personal experience, but metastatic bone cancer, having spoken to many patients who have had this and doctors who have treated this, is debilitating. Men experience this with prostate cancer, women experience this with breast cancer. Why would we say, well, this is an acceptable outcome when it could have been completely prevented? So again, I want to point out that, unfortunately, we are in my mind a transition period between a more rapid adoption of medicine 3.0 principles. And what that means is that each one of you has to be your own advocate here. Each one of you has to be the one to say, you know what? I understand that there are risks of screening. I understand that there are risks of false positives, but I am confident enough, at least in the case of this particular test and the derivative tests that we can derive and salary to it, that I want to take a more aggressive posture in making sure that I don't succumb to what I believe is truly an unforesterer. I can't say this for all forms of cancer, in fact, I can't say this for most forms of cancer. But for prostate cancer, for colorectal cancer, we can absolutely say that screening will undoubtedly save lives if done correctly.

What do women need to be aware of? So not every woman can come and see you, right? Not every woman has access to a doctor who has the breadth of knowledge that has select few due in this space. So A, how can women find practitioners near them? And what do they need to be aware of? What are the exploitative practices out there that they need to be mindful of? And not get duped into sort of, you know, either dangerous therapies or, you know, just, you know, overly extractive therapies. There's danger on both sides. There's danger going to the doctor for 10 minutes and saying, oh, that's not safe. You don't want to do this, right? And there's dangers of going to the very expensive pellet clinic that is going to overdose you and charge you lots and lots of money. So you need, I like being somewhere in the middle and getting a few opinions here, right? So this is where opinions can be following the a bunch of people on Instagram. Don't just follow one people, follow a bunch of people. If you like books, there's tons of books now on menopause, right? There are some of your favorites. So I mean, you've got Mary Claire Haver as the most popular book called The New Manopause. Heather Hirsch has a great book called Pick Your Menopause Type. There's been a hot and bothered journalist wrote a great book on Perry Menopause. Jansie Dunn, Tim's in Phadal just wrote a book about menopause who's also a reporter. So you're getting a estrogen matters. There's a great book, right? Really great book. So this is, there's a lot of books now, thank goodness. You know, there's one called The Menopause, Manopause. There's great books on menopause. There's also podcasts now. There's great podcasts out there. There's great Oprah just did a special on, you know, there's documentaries on PBS now. So menopause is having a movement. So you can't have this excuse anymore of, oh, my doctor doesn't do this. Go find a different doctor. They're telemedicine companies. And what's the website? So menopause.org is the Menopause Society website. That doesn't guarantee you have someone who knows everything. But menopause.org means somebody took a test and put some effort into saying, I care about menopause. I'm on that website, but it's swishiswsh.org is the women sexual health society. So people who we care about menopause and sexual health. So that's a great place to find a provider. So those are two websites that can help you find someone. Again, you have to advocate for yourself because no one will do that other than you. And so I think the more you educate yourself, the more you can find the right people in your pit crew who are going to fill that gas tank and get you where you want to go. Do you feel that there are too many women that are still getting their hormone therapy in the sort of dark alley with sort of highly sus individuals. And if so, what would be a clue that you're in that camp? Because there's nobody that's in that camp that knows it, right? So what are the, I want a woman who's watching this who's not getting great medical care. But thinks she is to maybe get a bit of a hint as to what that might look like. I think this is a problem. When your doctor only has one type of men, when your doctor says no, you can't have anything. That's suspect. If your doctor says you can only have this really expensive product that has to be inserted into your butt for times a year and you have to pay me thousands of dollars. That's extremely suspect compounded by me. If you say you have to pay lots of money for this special compounded product that's safer and more effective, I call red flag on that situation. If you have to give very expensive saliva testing labs and they're making you pay a lot of money. Very suspect again. That doesn't mean you can't do it. If it's working for you and you're happy, you have body autonomy. You do what you want. But know that there's red flags there. I think the pellet industry, I have a big problem. We have an FDA proof pellet for men. Okay? It can be FDA approved. I don't not upset with a pellet as a concept. If the pellet companies care about women, do the studies. Go through the FDA, show me it's safe. If you believe it's billion dollar industry, if you believe that it's the greatest thing in the world, show me. So that I have that so that I can start using it because I'm going because the FDA is a pretty good compounding pharmacy. So do the work go, I have my beef with the FDA. Hello, you need to take that box labeling off estrogen products, especially vaginal estrogen. But if the pellet companies deeply care about women, which they say they do, do the work. That everyone takes advantage of women, all the supplement companies, all of these, they take advantage by promising these things to women. But they don't do the work of science. So that's what I ask is, is just do the work. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

So, anything else you want to say about systemic therapy before we go and talk about local therapy in the context of genital urinary symptoms of menopause? Yeah, I think we haven't spent a lot of time really talking about the symptoms of menopause. Right? What are we treating? Why do people have, why do people need systemic therapy? And I think, you know, I'm often saying that menopause has the worst PR campaign in the history of the universe. Why? Because we think it's for old people and we think it's just hot flashes. And we think hot flashes go away. There's actually not enough education. Like we can argue about E1, E2, and E3, but the reality is doctors don't even know the symptoms of menopause. Patients don't even know the symptoms of menopause, right? The person who was doing my makeup this morning, she's like, I just feel awful. I feel like an old person. I'm not sleeping. I'm not fun anymore. I can't drink. I can't, you know, I might join Sir Aki and as it welcomed you need hormone therapy, right? Like I'm always teaching no matter who I'm, whether there's a cab driver, a hair stylist, I'm always teaching. But this idea of of you have hormone receptors throughout your whole body. It is a whole body experience. So yes, there's hot flashes and night sweats. And by the way, hot flashes are not just a nuisance. That is a neurologic, vascular, genic, probably event, right? The worst, your hot flashes, the worst, your risk of cardiovascular issues and things like that. Joint pain is a huge one. I never thought as a neurologist. I would treat so much joint pain. Never in a million years did I think I cared about joint pain and yet patients come in all the time and say, oh my God, I don't get out of bed feeling old. I don't feel creaky. My joints recover again after I exercise and think again, am digastank inflammation. When you, I think hormones are natures, a joint fluid, if you will. So, so almost like, break fluid, right? Go back to the car analogy. And we are going to work the heck out of this right? So it's really cool. So your eyes need lubrication. Your ears need wax, your vagina needs lubrication. Your joints actually need lubrication. And so think of horny teenager. You've got oils, oily skin. So, so hormones create these oils, vaginal lubrication, oil for your skin. There are androgen receptors in your eyeballs, right? And these myobian glands. So, so I think of hormones like fluid. So, as you lose the hormones or the hormones go too high or too low, it dries everything out. And so you get joint pain, you get frozen shoulder, you get plantar fasciitis. And now it was recently published on by my colleague Vonda Wright, the musculoskeletal syndrome of menopause. Right? This idea that so many women in their 40s and 50s, everything starts to break down. It's because the gas tank is empty and that inflammation increases. It's such a simple analogy. So, what are the symptoms? You've get muscular skeletal symptoms, sleep issues, mood issues, bleeding changes. Obviously, low libido or gas on problems or rousal problems, pain with sex increases like crazy. I sent you a list here. What am I missing? You've got a list there. Irritability, very common one. I think the one that I was going to ask you about is brain fog and depression. This is one where I think this is a, I think this is a very unique one because it's one that gets easily dismissed as something unrelated. Same more about those. It's it's one of the most common symptoms and all women start going to doctors in their 40s. Like, like, doctors, you know, I know you're listening and you get so many people and every day, you say, oh, it's probably hormonal, but you're not giving them the solution. You're just telling them it's not cancer. So, the neurologists are seeing all these patients to rule out a cognitive decline or all these other issues, but really, it's that brain fog because your brain is filled with estrogen receptors. This is crazy research. Okay, I don't know if you've had Lisa Musconi on, but here's this researcher from Cornell, neuroscience researcher, who says, hey, I want to study Alzheimer's. I want to do this. This is just in the last couple years and she goes to her lab manager and says, okay, what's the assay for estradiol and the brain? I need to look at estradiol receptors in the brain and the people at Cornell was like, that doesn't exist. She's like, what do you mean that doesn't exist? She's like, how can we not look at estrogen receptors in the brain? So, she gets Maria Shriver to give her a giant amount of money who gives her a huge amount of money. So, she now develops this assay. This is only within the last couple of years. She just published in nature very early findings that what would you expect right? Your body is efficient. It's not going to do things it doesn't need to do. So, the hypothesis was that as menopause gets later and later, the estrogen receptors in your brain are going to down regulate. Why have receptors around when there's no estrogen to feed the brain? What did she find? Yeah, exactly. That's the exact opposite, right? That actually, even up to 65, she stopped looking past 65 because she's like, there's no way that's going to matter. The increase in receptor density, the older you get and it correlates to brain fog and irritability, you know, sort of correlates to all these symptoms. My reading of that was estrogen is so important in the brain that it has to upregulate the receptors as the estrogen level goes down and down and down and down and has to do any more so. In other words, it's a lot like the way the brain is treated for glucose. The body will, if you, if you are fasting, the muscles will within days become completely insulin resistant. It's their way of saying every molecule of glucose that that liver spits out better not go into the muscle, it better go to the brain. And so you look like you have diabetes in an effort to save glucose for the brain and I think that's what's happening with estrogen. And could you argue that weight gain in menopause is evolutionary so that you make more estroener what that right? That goes to the brain because it wants every more so that it can get, right? So this idea of hormones matter for the brain deeply, right? This is very important. So it's fascinating research, but you're going to see a lot of again think of a receptor as perimenopause is happening. The receptors are full. Now they're empty. Then they're full. Now they're empty. Now they're have full. Now they're empty. It is, this is why we see ADHD pop up in perimenopause. All these women are saying I have now new diagnosed ADHD. It's real. Why? Because your brain is, is having a panic attack because it's just trying to figure out some stability here, which is why actually in empty gas tank. So in menopause, when you are totally empty, the brain fog gets better, right? Because there's stability of hormones. Yes, it's a volatile anymore. But if we just all am saying, it's just adds some estrogen, right, to just keep the receptors happy. The other one that we didn't talk about was the urinary symptoms. So both urinary and continents, and then the higher prevalence of UTIs, you've alluded to it a little bit, but just maybe finish the swing on that. Okay, so this is my favorite topic in the history of topics. Because we used to call this problem initially it was called Cinald vagina. That was the initial, yes, there was a paper's written on the Cinald vagina. Then it got up to it. I don't even understand what that means. An old vagina, I suppose, but then it got changed to Volvo vaginal atrophy or a trophic vaginalitis. That was the terminology that was used to. I'm familiar with that. I've been told 24 before that. I was seen a Cinald vagina. Check the history books. Very fascinating. So Volvo vaginal atrophy was sort of the common name of this. Okay, as you get older, the vagina atrophy. It travels up. It shrinks up. Again, if a penis tripled up at age 52, we'd probably have a vaccine sponsored by Pfizer. They created biagra. They would create this vaccine. No one even tells you. I love that analogy. So you're saying, if by the time a man became 50, his penis became a shriveled up useless organ, you're saying that the medical system would have probably done something about this. What do you think, right? You tell me what you think. You might be on to something Rachel. I know what I'm talking about. So this is the thing. We just told the Volvo vaginal atrophy. We said, well, if you have pain with sex or a little vaginal dryness, here's some moisturizer. Here's some lubricants. Here you go. If you're really bothered, really bothered. You got to be really bothered. Then there's the thing called vaginal estrogen that we could give you. Now, here's the crazy part of this. It's not just a little vaginal dryness. The vagina and the bladder need hormones, right? Baby's don't have hormones. And that's why you see it's red. It's irritated. They're these small little labium menora. Dipper cream was invented, right? Because it looks so painful. Then hormones, they pee their diapers all the time. The genitals morph and change with hormones. Right? Puberty happens and you have a change of the genital and urinary system. And so what happens is as you lose hormones, it goes in reverse. And so it changes the microbiome. The hormones keep the tissue acidic. It grows the healthy lactobacillitis. The vagina is supposed to be acidic. It's supposed to be able to fight infection. And without proper hormones, you lose that ability to fight infection. So you see urinary frequency, urinary urgency, vaginal dryness, increase in leakage, increase in urgent continents, and recurrent urinary tract infections, which can and do kill people. Okay? We've known this since the 90s in the New England Journal of Medicine, actually this was on Astrid all. You could reduce the risk of urinary tract infections by well over 50%. We have known this all along. And yet. And that was with topical Astrid all. Interesting. Yeah? I wasn't out of where. And yet there is no FDA approved Astrid all formulation despite that fact. Yeah. Correct. I think it's available in Europe. So the name got changed in 2014. Okay? 2014 a bunch of people got in a room and they said, you know what? This bulb of vaginal atrophy thing. That's kind of a bad name because it doesn't describe what's really happening to people. So they changed the name to genital urinary syndrome of menopause, GSM. Now there was one urologist, my mentor was in the room. And they almost didn't put the word urinary in it. And he fought and he yelled and he said, this is the power of one person to be able to change the whole world. And they said, okay, well listen to you. We'll put the word urinary in it. And I'm so glad they did because the urinary problems are the things that kill people. Right? People are dying of urinary tract infection. In fact, a large amount of money goes to Medicare expenditures when it comes to urinary tract infections. And we published last year that if Medicare patients used vaginal estrogen, which is safe for everybody and $13 a tube, we would save Medicare between $6 and $22 billion a year. Billion. Just say that again, please, because I know there are people that are in the Medicare system who are going to be interested to understand that. Okay. So when you when you do a low dose local vaginal estrogen or DHA product, you can reduce your risk of urinary tract infections by more than half. They're safe to use if you've had a history of blood clots, breast cancer, whatever medical problem you can come at me, I can tell you that it's safe. Okay. It will not only help with lubrication, help with pain with sex, help with urinary frequency urgency leakage, but it will reduce your risk of urinary tract infections by more than half. It's also inexpensive and covered by your insurance. If everybody in Medicare eligibility used vaginal estrogen, we would save Medicare between $6 and $22 billion a year. And in my opinion, that is a conservative estimate because of how many patients are getting urinary tract infections. They're going to their doctor for cultures. They're in the ICU with sepsis. This is a huge economic, a more big, a more tallity problem that we're dealing with and no one cares. I mean, again, I always try to come up with this steel man and say, is it that they don't care or is it that they're unaware or is it that they feel that it just needs to fall on the shoulders of somebody other than themselves? So I think we have a marketing problem. I truly believe this is a marketing problem because let me tell you. But how? Okay, let me push back. Not because I don't agree with you, but I'm just going to put my hat on that says the opposite, right? So maybe I am too attuned to this. But I feel like there is nothing more talked about right now. I mean, look at what Hallie Barry's doing, look what Oprah's doing, look what Gueneth is doing. I mean, there are so many very powerful, very influential women that are talking about this. Why is this not in the zeitgeist right now? It's getting better. But again, they don't know how to write the prescriptions. Okay, so let me tell you, so you're saying there's not enough physicians talking about this. Then if it really comes down to prescriptions, if it can't get them, it's not over the counter. If you can't get the prescription, or if you don't go to your doctor saying that you need it, we had an Instagram reel just yesterday that the patient said, I sent my friend went to her doctor, said she was having pain with sex, asked for vaginal estrogen and her gynaecologist said, and I quote, you need to think of other ways to change your relationship from now on. It's not in the cards for you. What does that mean? Meaning you can't have sex anymore, right? And the fact is, is that about sex is about your inner tract infections. Wait a minute, this is impossible for me to fathom. A woman went to her gynaecologist and said, I'm having pain within her course. Yeah. This woman, any idea how this woman is? Okay. And the gynecologist said, didn't you think this gynecologist doesn't know about estrogen? Honestly, I don't know any more. It's incredible, right? So, okay. So we could argue via agro. 1998, via agro comes out. Via agro changed the world. Billions of dollars. What is via agro? It is a PD-5 inhibitor. It relaxes smooth muscles of the penis. Increase blood flow gives you a rigid erection. So it helps with a rousal ferment. Okay? If you take it, microdose, low doses, it can also help with BPH or urinary problems. Right? We love via agro. We love Cialis. Wish it was in the water. We should study it in women. This is the problem, though, because I didn't met a cool school. Oh, I'm going to talk about that. But I will argue, we have had via agro for women long before. We've had via agro for men. And we've known about it since the 1970s and via agro for women is vaginal hormones. What do vaginal hormones do? They relax the tissue. They increase arousal. They increase lubrication. They increase orgasm. They help with urinary symptoms. So they do everything via agro does. And they prevent urinary tract infections. Via agro doesn't do that. So you're talking about better than via agro. It's inexpensive. Now, it didn't use to be. So when I got out of my training, a tube of estrace was $500. Wow, because of people like Mark Cuban and good Rx. And I've talked to Mark Cuban on my DMs in Twitter. And he knows more about vaginal estrogen than 90% of doctors. But this idea of it's not expensive. A tube of estrace is $13. And you're saying that the reason that this price has come down is I know Mark is a very hard liner against the PBMs. Did Mark basically take a sledgehammer to that? Yeah, they changed. They changed the game. And so it's incredible. Oh, my gosh. It's incredible. He understands it. He literally understands the nuances of why vaginal estrogen is so important. That's right. I can't get doctors to do that. I think he's using credible. And so, so we've a marketing problem. We have a product that is better than via agro for women. It's been around longer than via agro. It's inexpensive. It's inexpensive. What are we missing? What is it? It's marketing. We're not telling the patients. We're not telling the doctors. And we have a box labeling that says this product causes stroke heart attacks blood clots probable dementia, breast cancer, and needs to be taken with progesterone, not one of those statements is true. Not one. Okay. So we went to the FDA and says you got to remove the box. This is not your killing people. And the FDA said, we're going to leave the box on. This is a nightmare. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcasts, summaries, where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today. A Peter Atia MD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

lots of discussion around microplastics. Right. So tell me what your impression is of the effect of any or all of the above on fertility. So all those sperm are made constantly and are susceptible to that. We know the testicles are a pretty good place to me and insulated from exposures. I, I'm also, I also think there's a lot of smoke there and there needs to be sorted out, but such you, but the 80, 60, 80,000 chemicals that are being used that aren't really tested at all. I think the only way to know is to do do, you know, stem cell and vitro testing as much as you can before you put it on at the ID, investigation drug stage, not at the final stages for clinical trials, but early on do it. So you're screening away in advance of getting it to clinical trials and where the money gets big. But I think that men, there are windows of susceptibility and men, unlike maybe with women whose eggs are constantly exposed to toxins, men have windows and one of those windows is birth and early development, the first 12 weeks of life. So there's a good idea. But when, when all organ systems are developing, including testicles, I mean, Sean is fond of this one with maternal beef consumption, estrogenized beef consumption, their sons had lover sperm counts when they were 20 years later or something. So so I think that's a window of susceptibility also think, you know, puberty is a window of susceptibility when things turn on. So I think if exposures in those moments are probably going to matter the most to men, I don't know, I don't know about other times. And what is your advice to a guy when you're giving him counsel on everything he can do? We're going to talk about everything. But on this particular domain, if he says, hey, should I stop drinking Starbucks, coffees in those plastic cups with the plastic lids? And should I get a reverse osmosis filter in the house like where are you telling him to draw that line? I'm not great at that because the stress level goes up so much and I think the stress counterback balances any amount of microplastics you say. You double the stress in a man and just toss a level fall. And then just from production falls for a whole different reason. So my, my, my testosterone level when I left residency, oh, I bet. So how old was I 33? Should I had a pretty good? Yeah, total T, 220 nanograms per deciliter. Did you measure LH? It's probably low. Yeah, I'm sure FSH and LH were totally low. I don't remember that. That's secondary. Free testosterone of light. So think of me to four. Yeah. Well, the sleep deprivation, the stress, the so what to stress to stress is the sympathetic nervous system. It's fight or flight. You're running from a woolly mammoth. It doesn't know what you're running from. It doesn't know whether it's sleep or travel or financial or emotional. It's just the body. We are cats and dogs. We have the same binary nervous system either you're on or you're off. And when you're on, do you want testosterone? No, you want cortisol. You're running for your life. And do you want fertility when you're running for your life? And any species? No, you're trying to save your life. So cortisol goes on testosterone is nowhere to be found for tillings. No, you turn off all that stuff. Then when you outrun the woolly mammoth, then you're behind a rock and you grab the berries and you catch a nap, boom, testosterone shoots up because it's rest in restore and you have to rebuild for the next run. And how quickly will you think that it turns in humans? How quickly? How quickly can that? Dates. Easily. We can reverse. Is it? It's not. We love acute stress. All species love acute stress, right? We love that starvation, intermittent fasting. It's really healthy. But not low-level chronic stress, not connected to your computer, not your emails, not the workday that never ends terrible for us. And the best manifestation is erections because the erections will fall if you're stressed to penis out of the mind of its own according to the Vinci. I had a guy come in, you know, he came in and he was like 25 and San Francisco, who started up kind, he comes in and says, I got to see him. I said, why? I said, I lost my erection yesterday. He's 25. He said, first time. He said, yes. I said, all right, come on in. Sweet couple. And he's got his act to get it looks good. And I said, what happened? He said, you know, I just thought, I just lost my erection. I could never happen to me before. I think something's wrong. I said, okay, tell me about yourself. He's just getting his a round of funding. He's traveling half a million miles a year. He sleeps like three or four hours a night if any. And he's constantly running. And I said, congratulations. We're walking to the human race. This is amazing at the first time. I know. It's like, we're talking about it. You're not in a purvious stress. Stress has a tough fix. So clearly, the fertility women who are sort of marathon run, how the great study was a moderate exercise, moderate exercise men. A real blog on this called, can you be too fit to be fertile? Moderate exercise went to extreme exercise measured as two hours a day of viotu 80% maximum capacity. So pretty heavy workouts for 12 week periods. So moderate to extreme and then back to moderate. Spurme counts fell by 40% when it moderate to extreme and constant sperm, testosterone flow by 50% and then went back up. So that's a kind of a, and there's also military studies of men under acute stress during you know, hell weeks and training where they were taking their testosterone and elage, it's when they were dropping by about 50% with severe stress. And that's okay for a day or two or a week. But when you're doing it chronically, we're not built for that. Peter, we're not built for chronic stress. That's a long-termity issue. I'm Peter Rateeer. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. From a premium member today, a Peter Rateeer MD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

Now very few people today, competitive runners or otherwise will run in a minimalist shoe like that. It's a very, you know, very infrequent occurrence. Do you recommend people do that? And if so, how long does it take to strengthen the foot enough to be able to run an shoe like that? I know I keep saying this, but it is very patient specific. You look at their history of trauma as you look at their history of injuries. I will always implement some type of functional footwear regardless. It's just a matter of what we're going to be doing with it. So for example, if I'm working with, you know, just someone who wants to walk for example, we'll put them into a ultra for example, wide toe buck shoe, zero drop, and moat us have them start like five or ten minutes. See how they feel. And then we can start to transition the stack height. So if they're used to wearing this big bulky cushion shoe, you don't want to take them into something like this too soon. They'll be like this sucks and I don't want to do it. And then you lose them right out of the gates. For a person to run in a shoe like that, must they give up a heel strike and running? Um, oh, these good questions. When you change your footwear, you start to change how your body feels the ground. So with runners for example, everybody gets all up in arms about heel strike. Right? Heel strikeings bad. Heel strikeings bad. It's not that it's bad. It's just where the load is going. When I'm running, it's not necessarily how my foot is striking, but where my foot is striking. So overstriving is the enemy. I don't want to have my foot well in front of my body when I'm running. There's too much ground reaction force happening there. We want the foot to strike as close to the center of mass as possible. There have been runners who have one marathons with a heel strike that's at their center of mass. They just have more knee flexion for example. The further the foot is away. That would almost feel like they're running forward. Wouldn't it? Almost. Yeah. Wow. So when I'm striking with a heel strike that's in front of my center of mass. Okay. When I heel strike, I have a lot of ground reaction force going through my knee through my hip and through my low back. When I switch and run to a mid foot or four foot strike, all I'm doing is taking the load out of the knee hip and back and putting that into the foot into the calf. And theoretically isn't, I mean, that just seems like given the structure. It seems like that's how it should be. I don't want to, I mean, I have no dog in this fight as a non-runner. So, but what do most elite runners do? You will see all across the board, different strike patterns. You truly will. When you are running though, efficiently, when you look at cadence and you look at you know, I call them running fairies. It just looks like they can run forever. Their foot will be close to their center of mass. And it is more likely that they will be at a mid foot and four foot strike. When their foot is underneath them. Yeah. It seems like exactly. Just anatomically, if you can bring the strike towards the center of your body, you're much more likely to be not heel strike. Correct. Because it would be very awkward to heel strike at that angle. And you take out, you know, when you're running, so if I have heel strike, then I have to go to my four foot and then I have to drop that heel down again. Yeah. Versus just running mid foot, four foot, which yes, I think that is a more ideal position to run in from an efficiency perspective. With that being said, if you have a history of heel pain, a kill is tendonopathy, and you tell your runners, hey, we're going to take you out of this heel strike and we're going to get you to run on your four foot. You better prepare them for it. You may better have good capacity at their foot and at their calf, or else what you're going to give them is more foot and calf problems. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles, packed with actionable insights, you'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

Well, I'm going to start with a story, Stuart, because it's a story that some of the listeners might know, but you probably don't know in this level of detail. And it sets the stage for why this is a topic that is of great interest in me personally. And of course, by extension, I suspect that there are very few people who are going to listen to us today who can't relate to the subject and hand. So the very abridged version of the story is, I grew up doing all sorts of really aggressive things and really took to powerlifting when I was probably 14. And found myself reasonably strong for a little scrawny kid. And between about the ages of 14 and 19, I really, really pushed. It couldn't bench press to save my life, but seemed pretty strong in a squat and deadlift. And kind of ignored any claims my parents made that maybe I was doing a little too much. And truthfully and sadly had no formal instruction. There was no, you know, I was just watching the other grown men in the gym who were insanely powerful and sort of just trying to replicate what they were doing. But truthfully had no sense of what I was doing. Anyway, fast forward, I am 21 years old. I'm rowing at the time. So rowing crew. And for the first time in my life, I experienced lower back pain. And this really rocked my world because I always thought that people who got lower back pain were people who did nothing. I never really thought someone who is as active as I was could get it. And for about two weeks, Stewart, it completely disabled me. You know, I could sort of get around, but barely. And being a college student, I didn't really have any resources. I didn't know what to do. I was able to get that this was actually, I think I'd occurred during the summer. So I didn't have classes, but you know, I had to stop rowing. I remember that. And otherwise, I was able to work. It went away. And I thought everything was fine. And I never thought about it. Again, until the summer three years later, when I was 24 years old. And I remember exactly where I was. I was in San Diego, riding my bike up the steepest hill in San San Diego, which is a certain patch of a mountain called Mount Soledad. And there's a section of this thing where you make a sharp right turn. And at that moment, it's about a 25 degree pitch. And I experienced this very sudden pain in my lower back. And like a typical idiot just kept on pushing and climbing to the top and finished my ride. But then went on to experience the exact same thing, Stewart. For two weeks, I was debilitated. Couldn't do a thing other than sort of lay around and walk. But then it got better. And I kind of just forgot all about it. And then fast forward to the big one. It's doing a good mission here. Yeah. Yeah. So the big, the big one occurred in my third year of medical school. And now 27 years old. And the remarkable consistency of this is not lost on me. It is every three years by the summer, the summer of 94, 97 and 2000. And I'm riding my bike from class to the gym. And I get to the gym, hop off my bike to lock it up. And all of a sudden, I feel that same familiar, just horrible pain in my back. But this time, it's a little worse than the previous two bouts. And it was so bad that I did something I'd never done before, Stewart. I decided not to go into the gym. And so I just slowly got back on the bike and limp my way back to my apartment. And wasn't able to do anything other than just sort of lay in bed. I assumed I'd be fine the next morning. And I woke up the next morning. And actually couldn't get out of bed. Luckily my roommate and I each had separate phone lines. So I was able to call him from my room. And so began the a really painful journey over the next couple of weeks where the only place I could find relief was bent at 90 degrees forward where I would basically stand and bend over the nurse's station. By this point, I was doing my clinical rotations. And as every good gunning medical student knows, there was no way I was going to miss a day of this. So I would drag myself into the hospital each day. And somehow managed to get through this. The nurses took pity on me and so did the residents and they were injecting me full of tort all. And this went on for a month. And it got so bad that eventually the pain progressed from just being debilitating in my lower back to a nerve pain that felt like my foot was being skinned. And it was interesting in that the pain in my lower back started to subside as it was replaced by the feeling of my left foot being skinned from the bottom. I'm not going to go into the more details of the story because it gets worse and worse before getting better. But needless to say, I have a graduate degree in back pain. There's a happy ending to this story, Stuart, which is after this particular, the particular when I was 27, which took a year to resolve. I made it kind of a mission to figure out what was going on. And I'm not suggesting that I have, but I know so much more now than I did then. And fortunately, anytime I've had back pain since then, it has been a very, very short lived experience. I'll plant one last seed before we jump into this just for both you and the listener so that we can come back to it. If you are to look at an MRI of my spine today, you would ask yourself, maybe not you because you're so well versed. But a reasonable person would look at an MRI of my spine today at the age of 50 and say, how does he walk? Like, this person must be in so much pain. He doesn't know his name. And yet I can tell you for the most part, I'm not occasionally I get a little tight in my, you know, my lower back musculature, but you know, I don't have ridiculous pain. I'm not, I'm not limited in anything I do. Again, suggesting that the correlation between the image of my back on an MRI and my symptoms is pretty light. Okay, so with all that is a backdrop, the fact that you're smiling so much as I tell you this story tells me not that you're taking pleasure in my pain, but rather the familiarity of my story. Exactly. I've been doing pattern recognition. There's only one thing that would account for the repeated acute episodes in the interim between each one you are quite fine. Then it's shifted to a ridiculous pain. And now you're at the stage of your life. It's more an occasional grumpyness when you cross what we call the tipping point. So I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

I was talking to a patient today on a call and he was talking about how over the past several months his sweet tooth has really been kind of evolving and he's sort of been feeding it and that's been making it a little bit worse. And so I shared with him kind of my three tricks for managing a sweet tooth in myself and he seemed to find it helpful so I thought I would share this here. So this is by no means like a scientifically validated approach just to be clear it's really empirical but it's it's helped me a lot when I'm trying to cut back on sweets and by extension the number of my patients. Okay. Step one don't drink sweet things. That means obviously don't drink sugary drinks but it even means don't drink diet drinks. So in the short term your brain doesn't really know the difference between a coconut diet coke. It does in the long run we can get into all the neurobiology of that but it's not really relevant. Your body will actually chase the calories more following a diet coke but point being in the short run it doesn't and more importantly when you switch from a coke to a diet coke you're not really helping your body recalibrate away from sweet. So so rule number one it's just don't drink sweet things and that includes anything even if you're having an alcoholic beverage you know if you're going to have an alcoholic beverage don't have it be some sweet sugary margarita. Rule number two is lean into berries as your fruit. My guess is that if we went back in time 10,000 years fruit would look totally different. The way they are today the way they've been bred I think they've deviated sufficiently from that but there's something about berries that is still kind of the right level of sweetness. So I think what you want to do is target a place where a raspberry is sweet. And so if you have a real sweet tooth and you go in the fridge and need some raspberries they're going to actually taste a little bit tart and that's kind of a sign that you're probably over calibrated on sweet and so I would say you know continue to consume berries as your sources sweetness mix berries in with plain yogurt throw in some almonds or something like that it's kind of a great dessert and rather than eating you know kind of sugary things or even higher sugar fruits. Again I'm not saying there's anything wrong with higher sugar fruits what I'm saying is if you're trying to dial down your cravings for sweet this is a step. The third thing is leaning into dark chocolate. So again this is another litmus test right if you eat a piece of 70% dark chocolate and you don't think it's sweet that might be the test that says you're you're over doing it on on sweet. During periods of my life when I've been incredibly strict which I'm certainly not at the moment even 85 is too sweet I would say for me right now 85 is the sweet spot. I would define as you want to have a couple of pieces but you don't need to eat the whole bar. If you want to eat the whole bar at least if I want to eat the whole bar it's generally going to be a lower concentration of chocolate and therefore a higher concentration of sugar. So basically those are kind of my simple tricks besides the obvious right like by definition you're not leaning in eating junk food all day but what are you substituting it for? It's moving your way up to call it an 85% chocolate it's titrating down into berries and just not drinking sweet things and I tell you you do this for a couple of months and all of a sudden you're going to recalibrate and by the way if you go back and eat something incredibly sweet you're going to notice it. Again am I suggesting everybody do this? Absolutely not. I'm suggesting this as a tool to help if you feel that your sweet cravings are out of control and it's leading you to eat an unnecessary amount of junk food.

If you look at a group of people who are 65 years old or older, who fracture their hip falling, 25% of those people will be dead in six months. But the time you're 75, the risk of death from a fall is enormous. This has a greater mortality than smoking. What we're going to talk about today is all things bone health, bone mineral density, what should people be aware of if they're thinking about if they're maybe at risk? Family history matters, genetics accounted for up to 50% of bone health. Having either parent that's had a history of a hip fracture, that's a huge red flag. Any advice you would have for people who have kids on what they can do so they can really optimize the bone health. You know, I think the most important thing probably comes down to being adequately nourished and being very active and in particular, being very active in things that load bones. I think what we're going to go next is starting to look at what people can do to improve their bone health. Hey everyone, welcome to the Drive podcast. I'm your host Peter Atia. Alright, here, welcome to another AMA. How you doing? Doing well, man. The final, final seven episodes of Ozark Drop Tonight. We're recording this on April 29th. So, interesting date for two reasons. By the way, the other thing that occurred to me this morning is that the days and dates in this year 2022 were the same as they were in 1994. So, I was like, oh my god, today is Friday, April 29th, which is the same as it was in 94. So, on Friday, April 29th, in 1994, was the practice day at Imola. And that's when Ruben's Baricela had that horrible, horrible accident. We can link to the accident where he basically hit the Chican and launched into a barrier and amazingly, only escape with a concussion and a broken nose. The following day, which is the same day, is tomorrow will be, which was Saturday, April 30th, was when Roland Ratzinberger was killed, which made it the first fatality in Formula One in 12 years. The last one being Jill Villanova in 1982. And then, of course, Sunday may first, which will be the same this year, was when Senaday. So, all in 1994? Yeah, it was at the same race. I mean, you had these three horrible accidents resulting in two fatalities in one weekend. But again, just to think that it's the exact same days this year as it was, 28 years ago. Just, I don't know why, just sort of, I didn't, I never, I didn't, I didn't notice that until today. It's kind of important information, right? Like your brain can only count so much. And what, I mean, this is really off topic, but do you still have the skill that you had back in the day where you can, like, remember what day, like day of the week a date was? Uh, only if I can peg it to something, but not as profound as it used to be. I mean, it used to be, I remember in meetings we used to just throw out random, random dates, and then we would fact check it. I feel like we wasted a lot of time doing that. Right, someone would tell me either birthday and I would tell them what day of the week they were born on. Yeah, love it, love it. Oh, on the complete opposite end of that. Um, what we're going to talk about today is, is really a question that, I mean, it's the topic that we get asked about a lot, and we've gotten a lot of questions that have come in, but we've never really dove really deep into it, which is what we're going to do today. And it's kind of all things bone health, bone mineral density, osteopeenia, osteoporosis, kind of all things of that nature. And I know this is something that you work a lot within your patients, and I know it's something that's of really big interest for people. And so our hope is that we can kind of go through this episode and focus on, you know, why is this important? So why should people care about this? You know, people listening right now, there'll be a subsection of them that are going to be super interested, and that will be probably another subsection who are maybe younger. They've never really thought about their bone health, and they might not think it really applies to them, but our hope is in the beginning, at least, we'll kind of walk through why they should care about this, and why they should focus on it early on in life. And then from there, we'll talk about, you know, how bone health changes as people age, the differences between sexism and men and women, and then we'll also focus on things on how people can improve or kind of help their bone health become better from physical activity to nutrition, supplements, drugs, and more. And then if all that goes well, and we still have time, which is always 50, 50 on how these AMAs go, well, also, focus a little bit on, you know, people dealing with acute injuries, and how they need to think about this, which I know is something that you're interested in, given your recent shoulders or dream now, you're kind of not as active in one side of your upper body as you used to be. So all that said, I think before we start going through those questions, it's going to be helpful to set the stage a little bit, just so everyone is on the same page and the definitions and what we're talking about. So maybe when we start with, you know, what are some of the types of bones we'll be referring to, because at least for myself coming into this, I just kind of think of bone as a bone, and I don't really think much more beyond that. So why don't you dive into that a little bit? Yeah, I mean, bone is, it's a living tissue, and that's obvious, but I think it's also easy for a person to kind of forget that and think of bone as somewhat inert. But in fact, bone is heavily vascularized. Bone is an organ that plays a very important role in a lot of things. I'm actually not going to go super deep into the anatomy and physiology of bones. I'll point out just a couple things, right? So first of all, kind of think of a couple types of sections of bones. So we think about the cortical or compact bone, and that's what forms like the shaft and the exterior of long bones. So if you think of your femur, your humorists, things like that, you know, they have kind of like the long shaft and then the nobons at the end. So the shaft of that is the cortical or compact bone. And then at the end, you have the trabecular bone, sometimes called the spongy bone. So those are kind of at the end of the bone. And there are some differences amongst those in terms of their vascularization and things like that. But again, I think for the purpose of this discussion, just you know, whenever I talk about compact or cortical bone, I'm talking about the shaft, and whenever I speak about the spongy or trabecular part, I'm talking about the end. Again, I think marrow, people probably intuitively understand that marrow is important. But again, it's very important, right? Marrow is what's producing our white cells and our red blood cells. So in this era where we were thinking about, you know, a post-COVID world, you know, it's important to understand that the memory, B cells and memory T cells that are going to provide lasting immunity against this virus and other viruses reside in the bone marrow. And so the whole purpose of being infected and then having a subsequent infection that's less devastating, purpose of being vaccinated for the same reason, is to have memory B cells and T cells that are sitting there in the bone marrow that can respond immediately and quickly upon reintroduction of the same antigen. You know, when you mention nubbins, it kind of many think about your banana nubbins. And you recently posted on Twitter, you might be looking for a new profession. Do you want to let people know kind of what your new interest is in the term and the world of longevity? Well, yeah, I mean, as you point out, I've been very interested in human longevity for yes, probably about, you know, a little over 10 years. And I'm sure I will remain. So, but but I, I, I, I, I, I, at least considered moving into banana longevity because I think the opportunity for impact is huge, right? I mean, it's one thing if you can figure out how to take the average person from being 80 to 90. And that, you know, that'll have a huge impact on the world. But if you could take the average banana and go from like two days before it turns mushy and brown to 10 days, I mean, I, I think it's revolutionary. And I just noticed I was on the USDA's most wanted list because of how many bananas I waste. So, I got to do something about this. Yeah, I mean, if you solve the banana crisis and you move to avocado, so probably give you a Nobel Peace Prize as well. So, the upside is very high in this new world. The thing is, I mean, avocado's last so much longer. I mean, you just have a window of opportunity to like, I can actually buy avocado. I can buy like seven avocados and eat them in a week. I can't buy seven bananas and eat them in a week, like at one a day. It just doesn't work. So, I think that entire fruit space is just a racket. I think the whole banana infrastructure, I think bananas are a pyramid scheme. Like I think it's just the whole things just total scam. Yeah, maybe one of our upcoming AMAs will just do a conspiracies with Peter Atia and we'll just go into the world of bananas. So, Peter, you mentioned earlier go, be sales and T-cells. Can you kind of walk people through what cells make bones? Yeah. And again, this can be made as complicated or as simple as you want. I mean, I kind of just try to thread the needle a little bit and say, just think about osteoblasts and osteoclasts. And I kind of remember from medical school the way I used to remember this. So, osteoblasts be a responsible for building bone by producing collagen bone matrix and mineralizing it. osteoclasts remove bone by reabsorbing calcified bone and the matrix. So, osteoblasts contribute to increasing bone mineral density osteoclasts the opposite. It's also important to understand this exists in an equilibrium. Right? So, we're constantly remodeling bone. So, we're sort of adding to and subtracting from this and basically turning over calcium. So, bone is like 50 to 70 percent mineral and obviously what's the predominant mineral? Let's calcium. We'll talk about that in a second. It's about 20 to 40 percent organic matrix. Right? So, again, what is organic? Inorganic is carbon hydrogen oxygen, sulfur, is that all of that? And then the rest of it is a bit of water and lipid. And again, you'll see that primarily in the marrow. So, in an adult, like the entire human skeletal system can be remodeled in a really long cycle. Right? It might take 10 years to turn over all of the mineral and organic content within the bone over and over again. But at the micro level, calcium balance is happening quite frequently. I don't remember the exact number. I want to say it's like 99 percent, but virtually all of the body's calcium is contained within bone. And therefore, bone plays a very important role in calcium, homeostasis. And if anybody's taking a physiology class, they probably remember how important calcium signaling is to everything within a cell. So, again, we think of these bones as structural entities, which of course, first and foremost, they are. But remember, they're also a very important reservoir for calcium, which is another very important ion in the activity of every cell. And you talked a lot about calcium. What about vitamin D? What role does vitamin D apply in the bones? So, they're both very important. And again, there's sort of two forms of vitamin D, vitamin D, 2 and D3, but really, when I talk about vitamin D, I'm going to mostly talk about D3, which is the active form. So, what's the problem with being deficient in vitamin D? Well, again, people might recall a disease called rickets. And you see this often in developing parts of the world where people are really malnourished and they have really, really soft sort of spongy bones. And it's actually just yesterday, I had a friend over who does a bunch of mission work in Rwanda. And she was showing me a child at their camp whose legs, you know, the child was probably five years old. He was sitting down and they were doing something with his legs that you would think would be impossible to do with a human being. Basically, while he was sitting on the ground, they were able to move his foot back and forth back and forth. And he was in no pain, but it's because he didn't have bones that were anything other than basically rubber bands. So he couldn't stand. And within, I want to say six months of correcting his nutrition, totally normal. So, you know, amazing opportunity when you think about what's what happens in that part of the world and how you can fix that. But what is it about vitamin D? Well, vitamin D increases the guts absorption of calcium. So, if you're wofully deficient in vitamin D, you're going to have trouble absorbing calcium through the gut. And we're going to talk in this podcast later about the importance of dietary calcium and or supplementary calcium. And so you can see why that becomes part of the issue. Yeah. So the other thing to kind of keep in mind here is the role of another hormone. And again, I'm trying to only introduce concepts now that are going to become relevant later, either through treatments or nutrition or supplementation. So I'm, you know, being a little bit simplistic. But the other thing that you can't avoid here is understanding the role of calcium and parathyroid hormone. So I think most people are probably familiar with their thyroid gland sits here in the neck. It's kind of got this shape to it that where it's got like kind of two main lobes and then each lobe has two poles. Well, at each of those poles is a little tiny gland called the parathyroid gland. So you have four of those. And the parathyroid gland is really the master gland for regulating calcium levels. So low levels of calcium in the blood stimulate parathyroid hormone secretion. As parathyroid hormone level goes up, assimilates the release of calcium from the bone into the blood. Now it also induces enzymes in the kidney which then convert vitamin D into its active form to then aid and speed up in the process of reabsorbing more calcium from the diet. So all of this parathyroid hormone calcium vitamin D, very important to maintaining bone health. And anytime you have of things that disrupt that system, you're going to see disruptions potentially in the bones. Yeah, I think that was a good and kind of quick overview of what will be important for what we cover next. And I think the natural fall up to it is, you know, what is the consequence of poor bone health? What is the consequence of low bone density? I think, you know, some people are who will be listening this will have already known issues of bone density and some people have never thought about this before in their life. And so, you know, what would you say to those people on why they should care about this and why they should think about it? This is one of those things that I would say five years ago, I was not paying nearly as much attention to as I am today. And I think the easiest way to show this is I put a couple of figures here so can you pull up figure one neck? Okay, so this is a figure that we made it's an internal analysis, but it's a very straightforward analysis. All we've done is taken data from the CDC database from 2019. The reason we used 2019 is by the time you had the 2020, you started to get some COVID data mixed in there, although the accidental stuff only changes and that you see a higher rate of overdose. So you're looking at the absolute number of deaths by decade for people age 25 to 35, although we up to 85 and up. And we basically break accidental deaths into four categories. So overdoses, transportation accidents, which are mostly car accidents, falls and everything else. As you can see, those first three accidental overdose transport deaths and falls represent virtually all accidental deaths. So you can almost ignore everything else. This is the absolute numbers, these are total numbers. And I think kind of two things stand out here. Really clearly the first is that four people younger than 60 overdoses are the predominant cause of accidental death. And for people over 65 falling is. But if you go to the next figure, it tells I think a more important story, which is when you adjust for the population. Because remember, in figure one, what I'm showing you is total number of deaths. But what you don't realize is that as you move left to right, the denominator, the population is getting smaller and smaller and smaller. There are fewer and fewer people in each bucket as you go to the right. So to correct for that, we would ask the question, which is, how many of these deaths per 100,000 people occur in each group? And if you look at that figure, I think the story is readily apparent. Which is that, but the time you're 75, the risk of death from a fall is enormous. Now, it's not as high as Alzheimer's disease, it's not as high as cancer, and it's not as high as heart disease. But it comes in pretty much just after that. So this is what sets the stage. Because on the one hand, I think you can look at these data and say, wow, this is really problematic. But the other point is, you can't wait until you're in that bucket to decide you're going to do something about it. So just as for atherosclerosis, we don't want to wait until we've had our first heart attack to say, oh, and I really need to worry about my APOB and maybe I should stop smoking and make sure my blood pressure is okay. You don't want to wait until you have osteopeenia or osteoporosis in your 60 years old to say, it's time to do something about this. Now, if you're there, there's lots to do about it. But it's just as important if you're 25 years old and frankly, it's just as important as a parent if you're thinking about what your five year old and 10 year old and 15 year old should be doing to make sure that they're setting themselves up for the best outcomes possible as they age, of course. Okay. So Nick, let's let's look at figure three now. Because so what you're looking at here is the excess mortality for women, which is shown in the top, men, which is shown in the bottom, following a hip fracture. And this is going to come up over and over again. We're going to get into some data about what are the fractures that really end lives. And you're going to see it's primarily hip fractures. A pelvic fracture, I think is probably second. And again, in part this results from the immobility that comes after it. But I think there are some other reasons that play there. But so what we're looking at here in the top graph is women following a hip fracture, men following a hip fracture, and you're looking at mortality as a function of age. Now, this is kind of staggering. I mean, when I first saw this, I couldn't believe it. And I apologize for people who are only listening to this podcast. Again, this is one of those podcasts where I think it really helps to be able to see the figures. I'll do my best to kind of explain what the figures show. But for those who are looking at it, I don't think you need me to say anything. So you can just plug your ears and go, la, la, la, la, la, as I explain this because there's nothing I need to say if you can read this graph. So if you're 90 years old or above and you're a man and you have a hip fracture in this data set and we're going to talk about other data sets in a moment. 40% actually more than 40% of you will be dead within a year. Now, that mortality comes down. That's generally the case. The mortality tends to come down because there's kind of a survival benefit or there's fewer people in that group, right? So, you know, what's the mortality of people who are 90 over the next 10 years that numbers going down because most of them have already died? You can see for the younger demographics, the numbers go up. So, you know, the good news is in this cohort at least if you're 70 years old and you break your 10% of those people are going to be dead in three years but that number just keeps going up and up and up. So I think the the important thing here from this data set because we're going to look at another one in a second. I think is more stark in this data set what you realize is that for older people, people over the age of 85, people over the age of 80, which I would argue is not really that old. I mean, I think most of us, you know, listening to this podcast, if we're not that age, certainly have aspirations to be that age, your mortality is in the neighborhood of a third within a year after a hip fracture. So, you know, Nick, we're going to have Michael Easter on the podcast coming up soon, aren't we? Like I think we're having Michael, I mean, I know we do the interview next month so that'll, that'll, that'll come out soon, right? Yeah, that will come out, mid-Summer probably. Yeah, so for those who aren't familiar with Michael's work, he wrote a book called The Comfort Crisis, which I'm going to say is probably, you know, one of the 10 books that I'll sort of force down most people's throats if given the chance. I think it's a really important book. And it'll, a topic from that book will actually come up later in this episode, Nick, when we start to talk about exercise and what we can do to reduce the loss of bone mineral density as we age. But in the book, he makes some references to a few studies that I went back and looked at that talk about some of the unbelievable high mortalities in other fractions. So, if you look at another study, study had like about 200 people in it. It looked at the six month mortality in people who were 65 or older who fractured their hip. And the mortality was 25%. Again, I want to repeat what the implication of that is. So, if you look at a group of people who are 65 years old or older who fractured their hip falling, 25% of those people will be dead in six months. Now, obviously, when you include younger people, that mortality goes way down. So, if they lowered the threshold in that study to people 50 in older, that mortality came down to just under 14%. Another study, which was a finished study that looked at a little over 400 concept consecutive hip fractures in patients found that the one year post operative mortality was just over 27%. So, again, totally different patient population, but identified and, by the way, different country, very similar trend. And I think perhaps the most rigorous of these studies was a large study that looked at about 120 to 1000 participants who were at least 60 years old from various cohorts. So, Europe, the US, etc. Followed them for 12 or 13 years on average. And during that time, found 4200 hip fractures. This study was able to then compare total mortality and look at the hazard ratio in the first year following the hip fracture. So, now, this is asking the question, what is the probability or what is the increased risk of death one year following the hip fracture in this patient population? Again, these are people enrolled at the age of 60 or beyond. And the hazard ratio is 2.78. So, again, what does that mean? 2.78 means a 178% increase in the risk of mortality within one year following a hip fracture. There are lots of studies like this. I don't think we need to spend the rest of the AMA on it. I think regardless of how you slice and dice these data, a hip fracture is a devastating outcome. And it's something that we really want to avoid at any age, but especially when we're into our seventh decade and beyond. Just for reference, what's the hazard ratio for smoking again? The hazard ratio for smoking on all cause mortality is less than 2.78 for sure, because the hazard ratio for end stage renal disease is about 2.76 for all cause mortality. Smoking is probably just below 2. So, great, great point Nick. This has a greater mortality than smoking. Yeah, not that really interesting thing when you look at that. Those two graphs is I would love to do a study on the people who are over 90 when they fractured their hip and survived at 10 years, who are those people in their hundreds just like kicking it around, still going strong. It'd be really interesting to see. Do we know where fractures occur on the body? Yeah, so if you pull up this figure, Nick, I think this is a really elegant way to look at this. So you're you're looking at all the sites of fractures. And in the first column, it's showing you how many fractures occurred in this study. But it's ranking it by median age. So I've just highlighted the first one, which is proximal femur, which is hip fractures. So not only are those highly frequent 4,000 fractures, but look at the median age. 81.1. Pelvis right there, 73.2 behind it. Necod the femur, 70, distal femur, 70, acetabulum, which is the cup that holds the femoral head 68. So you know, and then down to say proximal humorous. So the top of the hemorrhol bone 66. So those are the big fractures for people over the age of 65. And again, you can see that the frequency of proximal humorous and proximal femur are very high. You can go through this list and it's really telling about how people fall, you know, what's a distal radius fracture? Like the fracture at the end of your hand. So the radius bone runs right here just so you can see and how to someone break that, right? Like, you know, they break that by falling, right? So you sort of get a sense of how balance strength impact a lot of these things. Yeah, I want to curiosity what's the talus? What's the the last thing on the list? That's what you got it. So the next kind of terminology that I think would be important for people to know because we do get a lot of questions on it. We're going to talk a lot about it is, you know, the terms osteopeenia osteoporosis. Like just for people who don't know myself included, are they the same? Do they mean the same? How do we think about them different? You know, why isn't important a differentiated between them? Yeah. So just think of this as a continuum, uh, neck and in fact, if you pull up figure for, um, this is kind of just a not entirely helpful, but at least schematically helpful figure. osteopeenia and osteoporosis just exist on a continuum relative to healthy bone. Now this is going to get a little complicated and I like explaining it in the right, you know, the the amount of rigor that's necessary in a moment, but let's just start with the concept. When you go from healthy bone to osteopeenia, that represents about a 10% reduction in bone mineral density relative to a young healthy adult, and then osteoporosis is a further degradation where you hit about 25% reduction. Now there are two things that I have to add to this to to make it sort of rigorous. The first is the diagnosis of osteopeenia and osteoporosis is based on two locations, technically three, but two of them are symmetric. The hips and the lumbar spine. So for anybody who's gone and had a dexis scan before, you may notice that they report the z score and t score, which I'll explain in a second, of the lumbar spine, of the left hip, the right hip, and usually of the entire body. And the reason for that is we use left hip, right hip, lumbar spine, L1 to L5, to make this diagnosis. Those are the areas we look at. I assume the reason for that is that's where the fractures are. Right, so we, you know, we see people that have a traumatic fractures, compression fractures in the lumbar spine, as you're going to see in a moment, the majority of fractures in older people are in the hip. And as I just shared a moment ago, the mortality for those fractures is very high. So that's where the diagnosis is made. So again, osteopeenia 10% reduction in bmd, osteoprosis 25% reduction in bmd. And again, these are made to healthy individuals. Again, healthy bone to osteopeenia to osteoporosis, it's just a continuum. But osteoprosis and osteopeenia are distinct in the degrees to which bmd has been reduced. And Peter, you mentioned Dexa there a little bit ago, and anyone who's listening this podcast will be familiar with the Dexa scan because we talk about it a lot and looking at, you know, fat and like the benefits that you can get from that. Is that the best way for listeners to figure out what their bmd is? Is that how you're doing it in patients? Yes. So Dexa is a super, super low radiation scan. Nothing like a CT scan. It, you know, takes 10 minutes. You lay on a table, a little scanner moves over your body. And it's using two very low dose x-rays that are absorbed differently by bones and soft tissues. And so it's able to differentiate between out-uposed tissue, bone, and lean tissue, or non-out-uposed tissue. I will say this, not all Dexa's scanners are created equal. So if you want to know your bone make sure before you go and get the Dexa scan, you confirm with the entity doing this that they are giving you segmental bone analysis for left hip, right hip, lung bar spine. A lot of Dexa places can only give you whole body bmd. So they'll just spit out the z-score for that one metric, but they won't give it to you segmentally. And that's sometimes okay. If a person's bmd is very high, you don't need the segmental analysis. But if you're doing this to screen for bmd, you have to make sure of course that the Dexa's capable of doing that. Yeah. And just a reminder for people, we talked about this in another episode, but we were always surprised at how easy it is to get a Dexa scan, right? You don't need a doctor to do it. So if you just Google the city you're in and then Dexa, you should be able to find different providers that do it for relatively cheap, I think, and most cities that's around $150. So it has a lot of benefits. And just maybe remind people again, if they are calling different places, what are the three things they want to look for? Yeah, you want to make sure when you're doing a Dexa again, if you care about knowing the full bmd, and you're going to pay more for that segmental analysis. So when you talk about those scans that are like in the hundred, 125, even up to 150, a lot of times they aren't showing everything, they're just giving you body composition. And usually visceral fat now, you'll say up to $400 typically if you want to see everything. But again, it's all like, and you're going to pay more in New York in San Francisco than you're going to pay an Austin Texas, for example. I, I, I, I probably pay like 125 for mine. But I'm not getting the full bmd analysis because I've already had it done and my bmd is high. So I don't need to screen that frequently. That's not at the rate that I screen everything. The other things you want to look at, you obviously want to make sure you're getting full segmental lean tissue analysis. So you can look at appendix and lean mass index that you can calculate for yourself. Obviously, fat free mass index, you can calculate for yourself, fat mass index, you can calculate, you need them to be able to give you that. And so those are those are kind of the things I want to see along with bmd. And let's say you have like you and a friend are going and getting your bmd done through a nexus scan. Is there going to be variability that exists in bone density between different people? Like let's say even if someone didn't have osteoporosis, can there just be natural variability between different types of people? Yeah. And it's also important to understand the number you're going to get. So they don't at least to my knowledge. I don't recall seeing them typically report in grams per centimeter cubed, your bmd. Because what would you do with that information? Like it's not that helpful. What you really need to know is statistically where do you rank? And this is done via a T score and a Z score. And this is done to compare you to a young healthy adult and to an adult that is your age. So if you go back to statistics 101, I think many people may recall the idea of a normal distribution, which is a bell curve function. And a Z score is basically telling you where you lie on that distribution. So a Z score of zero means you are right in the middle of the distribution. And if you're in the middle of that distribution, it means you are, you have a higher bone mineral density than 50% of people and a lower bone density than 50% of people. If your Z score is plus one, it means you are one standard deviation above the mean, which means you are, you have a higher bone density than 82.5% of the population. And a lower bone density than 17 and a half percent of the population. If your Z score is plus 0.2, it means you are two standard deviations above the mean, which means you're 97.5% higher than 97.5% of the population. Of course, this works in reverse. A Z score of minus two means you have a lower bone density than 97.5% of the population. So that's what Z scores do. I'm sorry, I'm a misspoke. The Z score is comparing you to your age when I say the population. The T score is comparing you to the young healthy individual. So in other words, for someone who's older, the Z score is always going to be more favorable than the T score. Does that make sense? Yeah, because you're comparing to a 30, if you're 60, you want to compare yourself to not only a 30 year old, but also other 60 year olds. That's correct. And is it when you look at for yourself and even with your patients, their scores? Is it kind of like how you do VO2 max where you always want to be in the elite of the elite categories for like, you know, VO2 max you want to be elite in a decade younger for like BMD, do you if someone is at that zero, that 50th percentile, does that worry you? Or is it a little different? How you look at this? Other things factor into this, Nick, I mean family history factors into it. History of smoking factors into this current lifestyle. I hate the word lifestyle, but I think you know what I mean? You know, how active is that person? How much weight bearing activity are they doing? So being male versus female also factors into it a lot. So if I see a woman prior to menopause, let's say I'm talking about, you know, I got a 42 year old female patient who's, you know, I might guess 3 to 5 years out from menopause and she already has a low Z score. That worries me a lot because of what we'll talk about shortly, vis-a-vis the effective estrogen here and why women are disproportionately affected by estrogen withdrawal. But you know, you've heard me make this my glib stupid joke, right? Never in the history of civilization has a 90 year old person ever been heard uttering. I wish I was less strong. I wish I had less muscle. I wish my bone density wasn't so high. Impossible. Yeah, you know how Tim Ferris always asked people on the podcast, you know, what, Boba, they put on a bill barn. Yeah, I think we've, we've come to the conclusion of what you had 100% put on your billboard. That's right. The Peter T. billboard would just say, find me one example in the history of our species where a 90 year old said, I wish I had less strength. I wish I had less muscle. I wish I had weaker bones. Love it. All right, Nick. So pull up figure five. All right. God figure five pulled up. Okay. So you can see on this graph we're looking at males versus females top to bottom. And then we're looking at Mexican American non-Hispanic white, non-Hispanic black. So three races, two sexes, six lines. But I just want to make one thing to the listener a little bit clear, which is on the y axis here, you're seeing units of grams per centimeter squared. Earlier I said grams per centimeter cubed. Why the difference? Well, the difference is even though density in real life is measured in grams per centimeter cubed because you need mass per unit volume. With bone density, it's actually done as grams per centimeter squared because it's a planar measurement. So the dexus scan is compressing everything to 2D. Does it make sense? Because the scanner is kind of looking at the area of the bone and imputing the density by what electron beam doesn't go through it. So I've always found this a bit confusing personally and I've always thought, I've always wondered why they just can't do this in grams per centimeter cubed. But I'll just point that out for the astute observer. Okay. I think there are two observations that one would pretty quickly take away from this. The first is that up until the 20s men and women are kind of similar, right? You go through a profound increase in BMD from the time you're eight years old until you're about 20 years old. Difference one is that while women maintain a reasonable plateau, they tend to fall quite precipitously in midlife. And that's obviously due to menopause we'll talk about why in a moment. The second thing that jumps out here is the racial difference. So non-Hispanic black has a higher BMD for both men and women than non-Hispanic white, which has a higher BMD than Mexican, or Hispanic in this case, Mexican American. So again, slight differences in race. Truthfully, I don't know why that is, but it is what it is. So to your earlier question, are there differences? Yeah, there are differences on average. I've never to be honest with you, factored this into my risk assessment except for the male female one. So in other words, if I look at a patient whose black versus white versus Hispanic, I kind of have never assumed one is at more or less risk. I've just said, let's do the kitchen sink on everybody. But I think in females I'm more worried for the reasons that we are obviously talking about. Yeah. And in looking at this too and one of the questions we received is, you know, when when should people do their first bone mineral density scan? You know, when do you want to know that baseline? Because what's interesting when you look at this and you talked about it is, you know, from eight to about 20, 22, you see that huge jump and then it kind of levels off. So what was your recommendation be for when people should get their first one done? Going to get into a lot of hot water here, Nick. So, but I'm used to it, right? I've got very unusual recommendations for a lot of things and this is no different. So, I think in the spirit of fairness, I'm going to communicate the standard recommendations first. So when you look at the American Association of Family Physicians, the American College of obstetricians and gynecologists, the American College of Preventative Medicine, the International Society of Clinical, Densiometry, the National Osteoparosis Foundation, and more. The typical recommendation is for high-risk people to be 50, but typically 65 is sort of when they want to start screening people. And that's for women and for men it's typically 70. It's a lot of credentials you just light out there. You sure you want to get in hot water with all of those different people? No, I'm just simply stating what they're recommending and if I've misrepresented that, I feel free to correct us. But, you know, it's typically recommended as I said, women at 65, men at 70 follow-up scans no more than every two years. Now, for someone who is at serious risk of osteoporosis, which includes men and women over the age of 50, you know, we can adjust those and come down a little bit. Now, the WHO, I think, is a little bit more aggressive and recommends screening women by the age of 40 if I'm not mistaken. As you can guess, I tend to be closer in my thinking to the WHO. And I certainly believe women in their 30s, where we're doing DXS scans for many reasons. I'm just as interested in their bone mineral density. In fact, when I'm reporting the DXS results to patients, we have a template that we've made that I really like that lays all of the DXS information out. So, segmental BMD, that FMI, ALMI, FMI, all of these things body fat for what it's worth. I always tell them out of the gate. The one number you care about is your body fat. That's the one I care least about. And yeah, so when we're looking at a 35-year-old patient and their Z score is already minus one. I mean, that's just as concerning to me as if their OGTT shows, you know, very elevated post-prandial glucose and insulin levels. And I'm really happy that I'm seeing that at the age of 35 and not 65. I think a natural follow-up there is, you know, because one of the questions we got from a subscriber was, you know, how does bone mineral density change throughout the life of the man and woman? And we kind of saw a little bit there, but is anything you want to double-click on or dive deeper on as it relates to that? Yeah, this is, this is an area where men and women do differ quite a bit. So, let's just kind of go back to the beginning, right? So, so you've got most of the growth in the length of a bone and the size of the bone is happening during childhood and adolescence. And that's also when you're really accumulating the bulk, the bulk of this, the BMD. So if you remember the graph we showed a moment ago, figure 5, we don't have to pull it up again, but remember how I said between about the ages of like 8 and 20, like BMD was doubling, right? Yeah. So that doesn't just mean that the size of the bones are increasing, which of course it is, as you go from being 8 years old to 20, you're all getting taller, your bones are getting bigger. But that graph was showing you BMD. So that means the density of those bones is also increasing dramatically. So BMD will actually potentially improve up to about the age of 30, but it really peaks in the early 20s. It can stay quite flat. Certainly in both sexes, tell you about 40 or 50. And then bone loss effectively sinks in. But for women, it is much more pronounced. So for women, about 7 to 10 years around the onset of menopause, bone loss can be 3 to 7 percent annually. And by the time they reach 65, it starts to slow down a bit. So it might be you know, half a percent to 2 percent per year. Whereas in men over 65, it's actually a higher rate of bone loss, but they're starting at a much higher point because they didn't suffer that precipitous loss the way women did after menopause. So for men, at the ages 65, it's usually more typically about 1 to 2 percent per year. So pull up figure 6 because when I came across this figure, one of our analysts pulled this up, I was really surprised. So this is for women, this is showing bone mass by age. So what stands out? So again, two things really stand out to me. We've already discussed one, which is you have this pretty significant rise in bone density between birth and age 20. It then remains relatively plateaued. In this case, menopause kicks in around 50 and then you really start to see the fall. That's the first thing that stands out and we've talked about that. But look at the other thing, Nick. Look at the dotted line. The dotted line tells you that there's really a totally separate trajectory for this woman, which is if she didn't reach her full genetic potential by the age of 20, she's missed an enormous opportunity later in life. And remember at the outset, I said, this is a podcast you should care about even if you're a parent of a 10 year old child. This is why, right? You want to make sure that your kids doing the right things when they're 10 to 20, so that they reach their full genetic potential. Now the good news is that let's say you're on that dotted line and you're 30 years old and I see these patients. So I see the 30 year old woman who's got the Z score of minus two and she's 15 years away from menopause. Well, the good news is we can get her closer to that solid line by working really, really hard. Now I don't know if we can get her all the way to that line. But we have this window in time before menopause when we can go through all this stuff we're going to talk about later on minus the pharmacology and try to ratchet up that bone mass so that you get to the highest point when menopause kicks in and you see that reduction of estrogen. And of course, we'll talk about the opportunities there as far as estrogen is wrong. If you're the next slide, Nick, I want to just kind of talk about one other thing and it really shows where the bone loss is occurring. So in slide seven here, you're seeing for both male and female the difference between cortical and trabecular bone. Again remember cortical is the long shaft part of the bone, the trabecular eye are the end. And you're seeing the the cline for men and women in both of these segments. And I guess what stands out here is where females are losing this BMD. They're losing it primarily in the trabecular or spongy part of the bone. So interestingly women are no different than men when it comes to the cortical section of bone. But obviously a significant reduction at the spongy part of the bone. So yeah, I'm super interested in the look at those graphs and I think you pointed it out but it's another one of those things. Yeah, where it's like no matter what age you are, why you should think about this because especially with people who have children and I know you and I have kids around that age where you think about okay, like that 8 to 20 window and what you can do because if you look at that original graph and the full genetic potential where they fell off was still higher than the inadequate line of where they plateaued, which is pretty crazy to see is you know, four people with kids. It's the biggest thing they can do is in that younger age. And you've mentioned this a few different times and why don't we double click on it here which is and we did get a lot of questions about this too which is you know what is it about menopause that creates issues in bone health, why can it lower bone mineral density. So what do you want to say about that? Yeah, so bone cells are really interesting. They're what we call mechanocensory cells. So they actually can sense forces. So if you think of like what I get, I was going, I was about to explain what a strain gauge is but I realized that's like way more complicated than necessary. So forget strain gauges. I was going to say I think you'd have to also explain what that is. Yeah, we're going to have a detail. Yeah, okay, so so I'll say it more simply right. So think about how muscles act. Right? So a muscle by definition has to have attachments to bones. Right? That's how the system works. And a muscle's never attached to the same bone because then it wouldn't do anything contracting a muscle on the same bone doesn't do anything. So muscles have to go across joints. Right? So you're bicep actually crosses a couple of joints, right? So you have a bicep that is attached to the bones of the lower arm and then attached to the bones of the upper arm. And so then when it contracts, it actually closes that angle of the arm. Okay. So muscles are attached the attendons to bones. And think about like what we do with our muscles. Think about the load we put on those muscles. Well, the very simple laws of physics tell you that the bones have to feel that load. And we often don't think about that, right? We think about, you know, if you're doing a curl with 40 pounds, obviously your bicep muscle is exposed to that. But guess what? The tendon that is attaching the bicep above and below the joint of the elbow is also feeling that. And the bone cells actually sense that load. So if you're lifting something heavy, when you're climbing stairs, your bone senses that they need to support a greater force. And in response to that, it remodels by depositing more and more bone tissue. So bone mass increases in the presence of stress. So it turns out that that signaling process is regulated very heavily by estrogen. Now, I think this is just so fascinating. You know, when you think of like, the importance that estrogen plays in reproduction, it's, I don't, I don't have a great answer as to why it's estrogen that is the dominant hormone here as opposed to another hormone. But for what it's worth, that stress signal of stress that is basically being relayed by the strain gauge functionally within the muscle, to say, hey, it's time to deposit more bone here. That's modulated by estrogen. And so in the absence of estrogen, that signal gets reduced. And that's effectively why menopause, which is a sudden withdrawal of estrogen, is such a devastating thing for women who don't have their hormones replaced. And that's why BMD loss is significant in the post-menopausal women. Now, to be clear, men are also losing estrogen as they age because for men, estrogen comes primarily from testosterone conversion. Right? So testosterone is a romanticized into estrogen. And so, you know, a man with a testosterone of 800 nanograms per deciliter, all things equal is going to have a higher estrogen level than one with 300 nanograms per deciliter. And that's easily could be explained by an aging phenotype to go from 800 to 300. Now, there are other factors that go into that. Atoposity can give you more estrogen, et cetera. This might be one example by the way of where atoposity helps, because you have the additional weight and load that is a strain signal and you have more estrogen, all things equal. So, but men lose estrogen at a far more gradual rate than women. And that's why women experience this loss or significantly. And that's why women are at greater risk for osteopopinion osteoporosis. Yeah. And one of the questions we received, which I think is a really good follow-up here, is that, you know, someone asked, knowing estrogen's role in bone health for postmenopausal women should bone health be a factor to consider and women who are thinking about starting HRT. Well, I'm about to get into a whole bunch more trouble, Nick. I'll give you the consensus answer. The consensus answer, I believe is still no. I believe the consensus answer is HRT is not considered standard of care for postmenopausal bone loss. And I'll tell you why that's the case. The reason for that is not because HRT was not found to decrease fracture risk, which by the way is the gold standard. Like that is the single most important metric if you're trying to evaluate if HRT would be beneficial. So, the women's health initiative, which was, you know, published over 20 years ago, was a seven-year study or so looking at the administration of hormone replacement therapy on postmenopausal women worth noting these women were far outside of menopausal. A hundred problems with this study, which will be going into, and I already went into, actually, I think in the podcast with Ava Blooming and Carol Tavris. So, people who want to get a better sense of HRT really need to go back to listen to that episode. And I think we have an upcoming episode where we'll go into this in more detail. But in that study, there was no ambiguity that the fracture risk was decreased in the women taking HRT. However, that study came to what I believe is an erroneous conclusion. And I think what many people now believe is an erroneous conclusion. But the risk of breast cancer and cardiovascular disease went up. And those risks seem to outweigh the benefits of the reduced fracture risk. So, I think that the increase in the risk of breast cancer was virtually non-existent. It had an absolute risk, increase of 0.1%. And I think there are lots of reasons we discuss in that podcast as to why that's the case and why that I think today we can say with much more clarity that the risk of breast cancer from hormone replacement therapy is virtually non-existent. Secondly, the risk of cardiovascular disease has been completely ameliorated by the adoption of topical forms of estradiol as opposed to oral forms of estradiol. So, in that trial, they use oral estrogen, which actually does slightly increase the viscosity of blood. And in a susceptible woman, that would indeed increase the risk of cardiovascular disease. But again, we don't use oral estrogen anymore. And so, that also becomes a moot point. And I think today, we actually know that hormone replacement therapy reduces the risk of cardiovascular disease in women and does not increase it. So, again, take an all together. These suggest to me that bone health should, in fact, be a consideration for women as they consider whether or not HRT makes sense for them. So, be to another follow-up is, you know, earlier you mentioned that there might be some risk factors for why someone might get screened for bone health earlier. So, kind of what should people be aware of if they're thinking about if there may be at risk and what are some of those red flags they should look out for. So, you know, it sounds cliche, but family history matters. And this is actually not something I appreciated until we were getting ready to do this podcast. I didn't realize genetics accounted for up to 50% of bone health. So, having either parent that's had a history of a hip fracture, that's a huge red flag. There are other things we want to care about, right? So, we want to look at fractures related to mild or moderate trauma. So, you look at somebody who's had a fall from standing height or less. That's, you know, someone who's fallen from such a low height and still had a fracture, that's a huge problem. Another thing we look at is in female athletes. This is really common actually in female endurance athletes, especially runners, where weight is such an important part of the sport, right? You know, it's, you're, you're punished a lot in terms of performance for extra weight, the same as true in cycling, not as true in swimming. So, when you look at high end female endurance athletes, we care a lot about, you know, poor nutritional state, which can lead to a very low BMI, low body fat percent, and eventually estrogen deficiency. So, these interrelated conditions of the sort of low bone health hormone dysfunction and low BMI are kind of collectively known as the female athlete triad. So, that's another big risk factor, low BMI in general. So, anything below about 18 or 19. And then the other thing we look at is people who have had high exposure to drugs that affect bone metabolism. And I think the most common of these that we see is corticosteroids. Now, that's not always systemic corticosteroids, you know, it's not always people that have had to take lots of steroids for nois. It can also be inhaled corticosteroids. And we see this actually in a number of patients who had significant asthma as children and used a lot of inhaled corticosteroids. So, those are, that's not an exhaustive list, but that's a pretty good list to sort of get you thinking about who is at high risk here. Yeah. And you mentioned it a little bit at the end there and we did receive a lot of questions on it, which are around the various drugs that may impair bone deposition. So, anything more you want to say. I know you mentioned a few of them there, but anything you want to double click on. I think the last big risk factor we look for and we just saw a patient recently who didn't have any other risk factors except for the fact that they have a 20 pack your smokestory that is more than 15 years old. So, you barely think of this person as a former smoker because they've been so long without smoking, but you know, they did smoke for 20 years prior to quitting. And that is an independent risk factor for low BMD, which in this case, this patient had very low BMD, and we had to actually refer them to an endocrinologist. Do you see anything with patients? Because you know, we know that BMD, the 8 to 20 is such a big age range. And if you have someone who is smoking kind of in that age range, while BMD or density is really going up, do you see it become kind of even worse? Yeah, that's a great question Nick. So, I didn't know this until again, we got thinking about this study, but they're actually data looking at never smokers, early smokers and late smokers. Early smokers were defined as people who started smoking before the age of 16 and late smokers well, it's hard to believe late is considered after 16. But the early smokers were far more impacted. So when you look at these people later in life, the never smokers, not surprisingly, had the best bone density. The early smokers had the worst and the late smokers were in the middle. I don't know the stats about teenage smoking today. I kind of assumed it was on the decline, but this would certainly be yet another reason to avoid smoking at a young age. Even if that person goes on to stop at the age of 20. And even if their risk of lung cancer becomes relatively moot by the time they're 50, they may still pay a price for that with bone mineral density throughout their entire life. On the topic of what you talked about the second ago, we also did receive a lot of questions around various drugs that could impair bone deposition. You mentioned a few of them earlier, but is there anything you want to double click on there? So again, cortical steroids, I think have to be considered the first and most important one of these drugs you want to be considered about. And they do a couple of things, right? So they kind of impair the mineralization of bone by favoring bone reabsorption during the early phase. And then they kind of inhibit calcium absorption in the gut. This area comes up over and over again. Anything that impairs calcium absorption is going to be problematic. And it really doesn't need to be mega doses of steroids. People who are familiar with long-term use of steroids might recognize that a dose of prednisone of 5 milligrams a day is not enormous. A prednisone dose of 5 milligrams a day is, I think it's actually still up kind of big dose, because it's about the aphysiologic equivalent of how much cortisol a person makes. But nevertheless, that amount is associated with significant reductions in bone mineral density and increased risk fracture within as little as 3 to 6 months of initiation. Again, just as we saw in the figure that showed how women are primarily losing a tribacular bone, it's the same here with cortisol. So that doesn't mean you should never take corticosteroids. There are lots of conditions where corticosteroids are going to save your life. It means you have to be aware of these things and you're going to have to work a lot harder to counter their effects. And we'll talk about some of those things. Another class of drugs that I get asked about a lot is proton pump inhibitors, PPIs. And I would say the data here are less clear. So there are studies that have assessed the relationship between PPIs and they do show an increase in osteoporotic fracture. The most likely mechanism suggested is again intestinal calcium absorption. So anything that interrupts that, which then goes on to interrupt osteoclast formation and bone remodeling. But I want to be clear that this is not nearly as well understood as the case is for corticosteroids. So there are a number of observational studies that show an increase in the risk of fracture. But then we look at large meta analyses that don't find a statistically significant decline in BMD with PPIs. So again, I think you just have to be smart about this. There are lots of reasons we're going to put patients on PPIs. If a patient has significant reflux that is not amenable to other treatments, we're going to put them on a PPIs. If a patient has barracks a suffigus, we're putting them on a PPIs. It's non-negotiable. So it just means that we have to be thoughtful about is the drug really indicated? And if it is, what else can we do to reduce the risk down the line? I think the final class of drugs that tend to have a similar association, although probably from a different mechanism are some of the anti-epileptic drugs. And one in particular, which is phenatone. So a super common anti-seizure drug. Here, I think the mechanism might have more to do with the liver inducing an enzyme called cytokrome P450 that leads to increased catabolism of vitamin D. And that, of course, you'll may recall, will lead to decreased absorption of calcium in the gut. I don't know if anybody's done a study, but it seems to me that a no-brainer study would be taking patients on phenatone and supplementing them with lots of vitamin D to see if you can overcome that. But again, you know, phenatone is a common drug within the world of anti-seizure meds, but in the big picture, nowhere near as common as corticosterids and proton pump inhibitors. So I think what we're going to go next is starting to look at what people can do to improve their bone health. I think we made a lot of the ground work that we need to do. And this next section will get into kind of everything people can do to improve it individually. But before we get to kind of like how you the person can do it, we did have some questions from subscribers who said, you know, they have kids and they want to improve their bone health. And we've talked about how important it is. So before we get to the individual, is there anything in particular any advice you would have for people who have kids on those very important ages, you know, that eight to 20 on what they can do so they can really optimize the bone health? Yeah, I think this is very important. You know, when I stop to think about all of the things that, you know, a parents got on their plate to try to help their kids with during this relatively narrow window that your kids are in your house and and therefore somewhat amenable to your influence. You know, I think the most important thing probably comes down to being adequately nourished and being very active and in particular being very active in things that load bones. So one of the things that was a bit surprising to me was that running didn't have a greater impact on BMD. So in a moment we'll pull up that figure neck that I think is pretty interesting that shows all of the different sports and how they impact BMD. Now I'm going to posit that running one has a confounder in there because if you think about it running puts a lot of force on muscles, right? I mean, especially when you think about the hips which are two of the three bones that are attached to muscles that feel experienced that experience great force during running. So why is it that running where you're potentially at least at the knees experiencing eight times your body weight with each impact? Why wouldn't that do more? And I've been thinking about this for some time and maybe somebody knows the answer but my suspicion is that the confounder here is body weight and BMI, right? And that when you talk about elite runners and usually these are studied in elite runners, they're very weight conscious, right? Running is running in cycling or the ultimate strength to weight ratio sports. And I do wonder if we're seeing basically mal-nourished runners. And what do I mean by that? Basically people that are BMI is too low, it might be perfect for being a runner but it's too low for optimizing bone mineral density. So I guess this is a long-winded way of saying running might not be enough. So obviously running is a great thing to do and it happens with a lot of benefit but you probably want to make sure that your kids, both boys and girls are doing other sports that involve more power. So probably things that involve jumping and actually lifting heavy things. This is kind of a great plug for rocking. You know, I've talked mentioned Michael Easter briefly at the outset. I mean one of the things that Michael writes about in his book the comfort crisis is the importance of just walking with heavy stuff. So either doing a farmer's carry doing a rock which I love, you know, I try to rock five days a week. So it's, you know, backpack with heavy weight in it and just walking around and always trying to find a hill to walk up and down, kind of loading myself without the knee joints being susceptible to that. So going back to the kids, I think we just want to make sure BMI is not too low. Cornbone dysfunction is not there. Energy availability is there. Body fats not too low. All of those things that tend to occur. Obviously smoking, you know, we obviously want to make sure nobody's smoking but as we just talked about, kids beneath the age of 16 are uniquely susceptible to this. So again, it's pretty straightforward. Lots of nutrition, lots of physical activity and specifically physical activity that builds muscular strength. And because I think that's going to apply the greatest force to the bone and the bones as we talked about our mechanical sensory entities that are going to remodel in proportion to how much mechanical stress they're under. So again, lifting heavy stuff matters and that doesn't mean that 12 year olds need to be deadlifting three times their body weight, but we also don't want to shy away from kids lifting things. Yeah, when you were talking there about the running, I don't think it came up on the Ryan Hall podcast but it would have been really fascinating if he ever had a dexis scan when he was in peak running shape to compare to his current body type just with all the muscle he put on just to see the difference in his BMD. You know, that's such a good question. I'm going to email Ryan as soon as we're done and ask him because you got to think at his level being one of the best runners in the in the world that they had a dexis scan of him at the time and yeah, I'd love to know what his, what his BMD was, you know, when he was 28 versus what it is today. That's a great question. Thanks for bringing that up. Yeah. So the next set of questions fit perfectly with where we're going which is, you know, a lot of questions on what is physical activity have to do with bone health. You know, you kind of hinted at it. We got a lot of questions on other certain types of physical activities that is better for bone health and not. We talked a little bit about it just now with kids but as people who are adults are also thinking about this, what would you say to them? Well, again, I just want to go back to what it is about muscles that have such an impact on bones and this is, this is not always clear, right? So the more force that a muscle is applying to a bone which is directly related to how much force you're trying to put on the muscle, you know, picking something up, contracting a muscle under an enormous external load. And by the way, I think that can be isometric. I don't think that has to be isotonic. In other words, I don't even think the muscle has to change in length necessarily for that force to be experienced. So there are lots of safe ways to do this. You're applying force to the receptors there. Those receptors are translating that tension into signals that say lay down more bone. Okay. So, you know, we look through some of the literature on this and I kind of tell you, this is one of those things where I was kind of surprised. I saw some things that I just didn't expect to see. I already mentioned one of them, right? I kind of thought running was going to be really great. It turned out that studies looking at resistance training found them to be significantly better at retaining BMD when compared to anything erobic, you know, running swimming cycling and even impact things like pure jumping. So power lifting turned out to be more effective than just regular strength training in maintaining BMD in postmenopausal women. So think about that for a second. When we talk about power lifting as a sport, we're talking about and I've seen women do this at all ages. We're talking about someone doing a squat, a deadlift, and a bench press. In the squat, and the deadlift, that is lumbar spine, that is hip. I mean, that is really stressing the lower body. More than just going into the gym and lifting. Okay. And then we talk about high force impacts sports such as football and MMA, we're associated with the highest BMD values. Now, again, I know you do MMA at least vis-a-vis jujitsu. So you can probably speak to this more about why it's exhausting. I was having dinner with Joe Rogan the other day and we actually talked about this because you know, such a big part of his life and I know nothing about it because he made a comment that nothing exhausts him more than his jujitsu workouts. And you know, Joe does so many things. I was kind of surprised that he said that that is the single most exhausting thing he does. But I'm guessing you can relate to this. Yeah. I mean, there's there is nothing more tiring than that, especially on hard rolls. And I don't mean, I don't know the physiology behind it, but it's you just have to go so hard. Your muscles are pushing pulling. Like, there's some like your mind is also going. So it's not like you can zone out. But there'll be days where you have really, really hard rolls and you just finish and you just kind of lay there and heep a sweat for about five minutes before you can do it. You know, I do get questions people who know you and know me there that I was like, I'm a surprise Peter doesn't do jujitsu because it seems like something you would love. I think if it wasn't for the injury aspect of it, because there is that is the huge concern. It's not really the most longevity friendly activity you can do. But I think a younger you would have been a killer out there. You would have loved it. Yeah, it's so funny. I think I just can't count the number of friends I have that are so obsessed with jujitsu and have been doing it for years. It's not like, I mean, even in high school, one of my closest friends who was a really good wrestler when I was a boxer. He was the first person I ever knew who did this. This was back when you were just starting to hear about the graces. We're talking early 90s. At least that was the first time I ever heard of the gracy brothers from him. It's probably like two jujitsu gyms in Toronto and he used to train in this stuff. But yeah, I've had so many friends that have done this and it looks incredible, but it doesn't appeal to me on any way, shape or form. But that's another story. So on the flip side of that, these low weight bearing, low impact things like walking swimming cycling don't really seem to do a lot to improve BMD. Again, I don't know the studies, it hasn't been done, but my suspicion is that when you make those things a little bit harder, especially with walking with a rucksack and walking uphill, you're going to apply more strain, also walking downhill. So again, when I'm rocking, I'm always trying to find the maximum elevation change. And I actually, you know, the walking uphill is harder cardio, but the walking downhill puts more strain on the muscle. And again, the take home point here is the more this strains your muscles, the better this is for your bones. Yeah, I'm going to pull up that figure as well that you mentioned metrics and colors and graphs for people to see this too. Yeah, this is this is an interesting figure. So on the on the left here, you're just looking at the absolute BMDs. You may also recall just where these units sit, right? So all of these athletes have very high BMDs compared to, you know, what we were looking at is the average man in the average woman. We don't have to flip back to that, but I just unfamiliar with the numbers. 1.2 grams per centimeter squared was considered a really good BMD for a middle-aged man or woman. Do you remember how we've seen that that number 1.2 is pretty common, right? Yeah. Okay. So when you're looking at this, just to put in perspective, even the swimmers, or, you know, the resistance training females and females are tend to be a little bit lower than men, they still have excellent BMDs. So I, you know, we do not want to be suggesting that some sports are bad for BMD. That's not the take home message here. The take home message here is if you really have to juice it, what do you want to be doing? Again, even the distance runners here, all of them. So you're in the brown one, in the black one, you know, you have to look at which one's separate men versus women, right? So for example, like red versus green is showing you the difference between male and female resistance training, whereas all the swimmers, all the distance runners, all the track and field athletes are in the same bucket. Now again, compare distance the track and field, what's the difference? Track and field, more power, right? A sprinter has more force being applied than a distance runner. What I find amazing is the MMA and the football, like, just staggering, right? Now, I'm going to say something else that's kind of unpopular. Not really sure playing college football is a great strategy for increasing your BMD when it comes with so many other injuries, not to mention all the head trauma. So the purpose of this analysis is not to say, you got to go be a college football player. No, it's to just give you a sense of what types of forces are involved in generating higher BMD. And I think most people who have even watched a football game can appreciate the kind of forces that those athletes are experiencing. And as you talked about with MMA, you know, incredibly strong forces apply to cross muscles transmitted to bones. Yeah. No, yeah. Good for the bones, bad for the brain. Right. So what's the sweet spot here? To me, the sweet spot is resistance training, right? All of these things come with risk if you don't do them correctly. I mean, hell, if you don't swim correctly, you're going to tear your shoulders apart. So we just have to think about this through a risk reward lens. MMA, I don't know anything about it, but I'm guessing it can be done safely. I'm guessing there were ways to do it and not be, you know, not put yourself at risk to tear your meniscus or tear your shoulder or, you know, have a lumbar spine disc blow up because you get folded into a, you know, half like a pretzel. You can hurt yourself resistance training, but also you cannot. So if you're going to take one thing away from this, just notice that walking isn't on here. And gardening is not on here. And golf is not on here. So I just want people to understand that if they're in the business of trying to increase their BMD, they have to get wicked forces on their muscles. I feel like you didn't have to do golf like that. I feel like, I don't know. I just, I'm making enemies like non, I'm just, I'm just killing myself today here. I know, I feel like that has a potential to be the most thing that we get feedback for. It's like, you can insult the different organizations. But once you talk about golf like that, I'm not saying don't play golf. Look, race car driving is not on here. Okay. Our true reason not on here. My favorite things in the world aren't on here. Let's do that. All right. Is that, is that an appropriate, you know, me, a culpa? Like the things I love doing are not on here. So I just don't want to be diluted into thinking that all that time I'm in a race car, I'm increasing my BMD. It's not enough. You know? Yeah. That's a BMD gym. Got to be hitting it. That's a fair try. I'll be talking a little bit about early on the danger of low BMI or extremely low BMI for bumming or density. And then everything we just talked about on lifting weights, that's going to, you know, the more muscle you put on, you're potentially going to go up and wait. What about people who are overweight and they lose body weight? Does that have an impact on their BMD? It does. And this is actually super interesting stuff. So we know, for example, that when people lose significant amounts of weight, they're usually losing lean tissue as well. It's one of the trade-offs. And in some people, it's a totally reasonable trade-off. You know, you see somebody who's already got an appendicular lean mass index at the 90th percentile and their fat mass index at the you know, 99th percentile, you know, you're going to have them lift like crazy during weight loss, because you want to keep that lean mass up. Maybe it falls to 70th or 80th percentile. Well, you try to get fat mass index down to 60th or 70th percentile. So what about the impact on BMD? Well, there's no question that the correlation between weight loss and a decrease in BMD, exactly what we don't want to see in the obese and in particular in the elderly is very strong. But it turns out that there are two different strategies for how you can go about losing weight and the strategy may impact the outcome. Now, we know that any time you lose weight, there has to be a caloric deficit. You can't lose weight without a change in an stored energy. Losing weight is changing stored energy, stored energy requires caloric imbalance. But when you look at data for people who have lost weight purely through nutritional manipulations, IE purely through manners of reducing caloric intake. And you can do this a lot of ways, right? You can just directly and generally reduce calories. You can do it through time restricted feeding. You can do it through dietary restriction, meaning restricting various elements within the diet. Those people tend to lose bone mineral density. When you look at people who are doing it in combination with significant exercise, they actually tend to gain bone mineral density. So in other words, you can have people losing this same amount of weight. Some of them are losing BMD. Some of them are slightly gaining it. So what could be going on there? It's been suggested that the BMD reduction due to weight loss may be caused less by the mechanical loading of bones and more by a change in some of the adiposteryve factors like leptin and adipinectin and other hormones that move around when weight loss changes. So leptin goes down, adipinectin goes down. Obviously, we talked about the fact that especially in men when they lose weight, but potentially in women too, we see estrogen going down. So it could be that when you're loading the muscles and therefore transmitting that load to bones, you're offsetting some of that. Now again, the study that I'm citing is relatively small and the group that was using exercise as their primary tool to lose weight didn't lose quite as much weight. So even when that's corrected for, it could be a little bit of a confounder. But I would just say intuitively this makes sense and more importantly, from a longevity standpoint, it makes sense. I mean exercise, you've heard me say this a hundred times, it's the single most important tool we have anyway. So why wouldn't we employ it as an important part of a weight loss strategy? If this is just one of the other bonuses that comes with it, which is an ability to minimize the BMD loss that is almost inevitable with weight loss. Yeah, super interesting. And kind of on that, realm moving from exercise to nutrition and supplements, we do get a lot of questions on how nutrition supplements can impact BMD. One of the first kind of questions we got was what are some essential nutrients that are important for optimizing bone deposition that people should think about? Yeah, so if you don't mind, pull up figure 12 because I think one of our analysts put this together and I think it's a great way to lay all of this out. I think there were the big three you want to think about. So there were other things that matter, protein matters, total calories matter, all of those things other matter, but when we think about kind of the micronutrients side, the big three are calcium, vitamin D, and when I say vitamin D, I mean D3 and magnesium. So in the first column here, you can see the required daily amounts. And I consider this a minimum, right? So this is, you know, this would be like a letter grade C, right? So you might want to think about having a B or an A. So calcium, about a thousand to 1200 milligrams daily, vitamin D, 800 to 1000 IU daily, and magnesium 300 to 500 milligrams daily. Now these can be supplemented. So if you can't get this in food, if you're not sufficiently getting this, either through sunlight in the case of vitamin D in food, calcium carbonate, calcium, citrate, or reasonable options in the magnesium school, you know, it really depends on what your gut can tolerate, right? So magnesium citrate, glycinate, and oxide are fantastic if you're looking for a little speed up of the vowel. If you aren't, you want magnesium carbonate. It's also worth noting magnesium carbonate more fully absorbed than mag oxide citrate or glycinate, which is actually why those three help with vowel regularity. So personally, I like to mix them up. I'm sort of using three forms of magnesium. So I'm supplementing with mag carbonate in the mornings. I use mag oxide at night, and I also use a bit of mag glycinate with L3 and 8 as well. So, you know, I'm routinely hitting about a gram of magnesium supplemental. And then the final column here is you can sort of see the foods where these things reside. And you can see why I believe most people are magnesium deficient. You know, it's pretty hard. I think to get 500 grams predictably of absorbed magnesium every single day. And by the way, I think that's a real minimum, right? I mean, I think a gram is really where you want to be. It's you've got to, you've got to do a little bit of work to make sure you're getting that from your nutrition. The same, I think calcium's a bit easier to get if you consume dairy, but you know, look, a lot of plant-based people aren't going to eat dairy. They have to sort of look to other things. And some of those other things, I don't think you really want to be eating a bunch of, like look at how high figs are, dried figs. A cup of those is 300 milligrams of calcium. So that's, you know, a quarter of your daily minimum amount. But, you know, I don't know that I want to be in a cup of dried figs every day for other reasons. I love tofu, so, you know, but I'm not eating it every day. So, again, I think this is something we need to be paying reasonable attention to. Both from a dietary standpoint, and then for a number of us also from a supplementary standpoint. So Peter, we kind of talked about supplements there along with nutrition, but what about farm or drugs? We did receive questions on one of the options, one of the benefits, one of the trade-offs, which people be thinking about there as they explore their options. Yes, so drugs are typically last line of defense, and just to give you a sense of how last line of defense that is, we personally in our practice do not prescribe these drugs. And the reason for that is we're just not expert enough to do it. Like I don't, you know, I like to send people to experts when something is out of our hands. So, you know, for example, we're, we completely run the gamut of all lipid lowering drugs because we have great expertise in that. When it comes to this class of drugs, we refer patients out who need them to endocrinologists. But, you know, basically, I think there's sort of three big classes, but the lion's share is one class, which are the best phosphonates. So, this is a class of drug that's strengthened bones by basically slowing the rate at which the osteoclasts remove bone. Remember osteoblast be for build, class being the opposite, that's why I don't, they just remove it, right? So, these kind of exist into subtypes, nitrogen containing versus non-nitrogen containing, but, you know, the lion's share of these, you know, there's kind of three big brands, or three big versions of these. So, the nitrogen containing ones are the much more common one. I would say people are probably familiar with some of these. So, Boniva, you know, Phosimax, Actanel, those are the big ones. And the studies are pretty clear, like these things work, right? They increase BMD by about 4 to 6% in the critical areas that matter, the femoral neck, the hip, the lumbar spine, and they reduce the risk of fractures. So, the drawback here is, you know, they're typically not used for, you know, in definite periods of time, so they're kind of discontinued after about five years. And the evidence suggests that that that might not increase the risk of fracture going forward. So, you know, there may be some might be that you, you, you, you, you get the value during that five-year window, you rebuild the bone and then you maintain some of that value. The other two classes of drugs here, personally, I don't have a lot of experience with. I haven't even seen my patients be prescribed these, but one of them are monoclonal antibodies in the other is just synthetic, a parathyroid hormone. So, I don't know a lot about those too, to be honest with you, but we do have some data, I think here. We have a pretty good meta-analysis that sort of shows the efficacy. I think it's wide-nine, Nick. Perfect. Got it. Yeah, so you're looking at the classes of drugs. Okay, so let me just, you know, help people read this a little bit. And it sort of first one, the first drug there on each of the list, that's synthetic, p-t-h. Anytime you see an a-b on something, at the end of it, that's the monoclonal antibody, the other drugs that end in a-t-e, those are all the best phosphonates and then the rest are pretty straightforward. Kelsey and vitamin D, et cetera. So, if you go over to the right, you're looking at odds ratios. Remember, anything that crosses that is on or crossing the unity line of one means it's not significant. And then anything that's to the left of that line if the confidence interval doesn't cross, the one is significant. So, what you can see here is nothing that's on this list is increasing the risk of fractures, about two thirds of these things, in their various formats are reducing the risk of fracture for either hip fractures, for tea-brill fractures or non-vertibial fractures. And for people who are looking at this and aren't familiar with this type of graph, when you say to the left of one, it's not the whole black bar, you're looking at the little white box, right? No, so the whole black line has to be to the left of one for it to be significant. The black line is your confidence interval. So, for example, let's look at the very first one. And you'll notice that the little white line is way to the left, right? In fact, it's like, you know, probably 0.4 or something. In fact, if you go and look, you can see it tells you it's 0.42. So, that's huge, right? That's like a 58% risk reduction. So, you think that's got to be great. But I can tell you right now, it doesn't matter, because the confidence interval is so wide that it crosses one. That tells me without looking at anything that the p-value is greater than 0.05 and the confidence interval crosses unity. So, when you look over, sure enough, lower limit 0.1, upper limit 1.82 p-value 0.24. Yeah, got it. Okay. Let's pick a winner. Let's go to down from there. Actually, these p-values are so small. They're less than 0.001. But again, so the one beneath that has a very similar little white dot. It's 0.45. So, it's not quite as low, but it's a 55% reduction. But I know it's going to be significant because the confidence interval doesn't cross one. And sure enough, it doesn't. It's 0.27 to 0.68. And the p-value is probably 0.00. It's less than 0.004. They only just show them to two significant figures here. Yeah. And I mean, again, for people interested in diving deeper into that, that AMA, UN Bob did on understanding studies and studying studies, dives way more into that. So, Peter, one of the things we haven't really talked about yet is what happens in like something like space or low gravity environments? What happens to your bones if you truly aren't using them? This is obviously not a subject that is relevant to a lot of people directly, but I think indirectly, it's relevant to a lot of people. So, this is space is just the most extreme version of what we would call disuse osteopeenia. So, as the name suggests, disuse osteopeenia occurs when bones are chronically unloaded, leaving to a very unfavorable combination of high-bone resourption and low-bone formation. So, it's the same thing that's happening with the osteopeenia from aging. It's just much more accelerated and much more extreme. So, again, the most extreme version of this is astronauts. And I don't know much about what they do in space, but I suspect that they go out of their way to figure out ways to load astronauts in space. So, you know, they don't have to deal with this in its highest form. But I think for most people where this is relevant is bed rest. So, lots of people have to undergo bed rest for all sorts of reasons. Right? Pregnant women often are placed on bed rest if they are experiencing fetal retardation. And I mean that not cognitively but grow three-tardation. Right? So, if in a third trimester, the fetus is in growing at the rate that is expected, not uncommon that the OB will ask the mother to gradually reduce her impact until more and more energy can be reserved for the fetus. You can also see, you know, bed rest being necessary for various types of injuries. Of course, we know today that we don't want to rest people nearly as much as we used to. I mean, there was a day 50 years ago when if somebody hurt their back, they were put on two weeks of strict bed rest. Today, we know that that's absolutely the last thing you want to do. So, bone law student, you know, disuse osteopeenia is incremental and it's progressive with time and it occurs more rapidly as you would guess in the trabecular bone than in the cortical bones. This is the, this is the, the trend we've seen over and over again. And frankly, it can be about 2% per month in microgravity partial paralysis, which I should have mentioned as well, right? So, paralysis based injuries or immobilization with injury. And in the most extreme setting with complete paralysis, it can be up to 7% per month. So, Peter, for people who are experiencing, like that type of immobility, is there anything in particular that they should be thinking about or they can do to kind of help with the BMD concern? Yeah, the first would be any form of PT that can actively load muscles. So, I don't know if there's, I actually don't know how much data exists on this, but that's one of the things that I think is interesting about cyclic BFR. And that's why the minute I was out of surgery, I got permission from my surgeon to put my, you know, catsucuffs on my arm and just start cycling the BFR. I wanted to put little bits of stress on that bicep just to have it moving. And again, keeping mine, I was very fortunate. I did not have a bicep tendon repair. And if I did, I would not have been allowed to do that. But, you know, I had to keep my arm completely immobilized, but I was still able to get sort of compression on the bicep. And, you know, basically, if you, let's say you're bedridden with a certain injury, there are still other muscles in your body that don't pertain to that injury that can still be moved and put under load. And even if you're doing these things isometrically, right? So a person is holding you and you're resisting against them without actually moving in the bed that's important. Now, there was a super interesting mouse study that we found that used a bicep phosphinate to inhibit the osteoclastic bone resorption in a mouse model where the mice were given bachelotoxin to basically prevent them from moving. I think one part of their leg. So if you, I think, I think we have this figure here as well. Yeah, it's figure 10. Yeah. So what you're looking at here is in the, the first bar on the left is just sort of the baseline and then you have control mice in black and then in white, you have what happens to the animal that we're just given bachelotoxin. So these were the animals that were basically immobilized because the, you know, bachelotoxin, of course, paralyzes their legs. And then the bachelotoxin plus the bicep phosphinate on the right. And I think there's a pretty profound result, right? You're looking at this in the femoral neck and in the middle of the upper part of the femoral bone. Below the neck and you can see that the bicep phosphinate plus the immobility really looks no different from the control. And it's a, you know, clear contrast to how the untreated animal looks. So, you know, look, these are 16 week old female mice. You know, is that's going to be true in humans? I have no idea, but I find this type of research very interesting and frankly, I hope more people are doing this type of research because I think immobility is a huge problem with everybody. But once you start to deal with an aging population, it becomes more significant. How many times have we talked about that study where, you know, a group of 65 year olds, I believe were immobilized for two weeks and lost. If I'm not mistaken, something of the neighborhood of about four pounds of lean mass in two weeks. And that, you know, we talked about that through the lens of how much you lose lean mass. But think about what that's doing to be MD and think about how long people are immobilized beyond two weeks, especially as the older. I can't remember off hand, but I know you and in you go in the second podcast also talk about lactate as a relates to immobility for people on bed rest or in the ICU as well. We'll link to it in the show notes, but you also had a conversation about the importance of, you know, people in the hospital just moving for the lactate level. So we've seen it over and over across a lot of podcasts. Well, I mean, that was a pretty exhaustive tour of all things bone. But I don't know, I think this is super important stuff. I know it's not that sexy. I know that, you know, you're not going to see, you're not going to see too many Twitter wars about BMD. Although I did probably provide enough substrate for someone to get upset about something I said today, whether it be my position on golf, not being the perfect BMD boosting sport or my recommendations for earlier screening on BMD. And I think there was something else I said that will draw the eye or with critics. But yeah, we just better hope that one of those organizations doesn't sponsor and add in golf digest because then we'll just get it from all fronts. But no, I mean, I think it was good. And I think hopefully it answered a lot of questions. Again, we compiled these questions. We've gotten them a lot and we've never kind of tackled it at this level and kind of like what we did with muscle and looking at the importance of muscle strength, muscle mass and kind of what improves there and then looking on the other side of the bones too. So hopefully people enjoyed it until the next AMA will say it's good. Hopefully you don't stay up too late watching Ozark new season tonight. I don't get to even start it tonight. How do you have that soft control? No, Jill and Olivia are out of town for a volleyball tournament. So I'm so low with the boys this weekend and Jill would kill me if I started it without her. So yeah, something tells me you won't have a lot of solo time solo with two boys either. So you'll probably have your hands busy. All right. We'll get luck with that. Thanks, man. All right. Let's see. Thank you for listening to this week's episode of The Drive. It's extremely important to me to provide all of this content without relying on paid ads. To do this, our work is made entirely possible by our members. And in return, we offer exclusive member-only content and benefits above and beyond what is available for free. So if you want to take your knowledge of this space to the next level, it's our goal to ensure members get back much more than the price of this subscription. Premium membership includes several benefits. First, comprehensive podcast show notes that detail every topic, paper, person and thing that we discuss in each episode. And the word of the street is, nobody's show notes rival hours. Second, monthly ask me anything or AMA episodes. These episodes are comprised of detailed responses to subscribe or questions typically focused on a single topic and are designed to offer a great deal of clarity and detail on topics of special interest to our members. They'll also get access to the show notes for these episodes of course. Third, delivery of our premium newsletter, which is put together by our dedicated team of research analysts. This newsletter covers a wide range of topics related to longevity and provides much more detail than our free weekly newsletter. Fourth, access to our private podcast feed that provides you with access to every episode including AMA's songs, the spiel you're listening to now and in your regular podcast feed. Fifth, the qualities, an additional member only podcast we put together that serves as a highlight reel featuring the best excerpts from previous episodes of the drive. This is a great way to catch up on previous episodes without having to go back and listen to each one of them. And finally, other benefits that are added along the way. If you want to learn more and access these member-only benefits, you can head over to PeteratiaMD.com forward slash subscribe. You can also find me on YouTube, Instagram, and Twitter all with the handle PeteratiaMD. You can also leave us review on Apple podcasts or whatever podcast player you use. This podcast is for general informational purposes only and does not constitute the practice of medicine nursing or other professional healthcare services including the giving of medical advice. No doctor-patient relationship is formed. The use of this information and the materials linked to this podcast is that the user's own risk. The content on this podcast is not intended to be a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. Users should not disregard or delay and obtaining medical advice from any medical condition they have and they should seek the assistance of their healthcare professionals for any such conditions. Finally, I take all conflicts of interest very seriously. For all of my disclosures in the companies I invest in or advise, please visit PeteratiaMD.com forward slash about where I keep an up-to-date and active list of all disclosures.

Is there a sense of, I don't know what the right word is, it's not gratitude, that's a bit glib. Is there a sense of awe in that or is there a sense of, do you believe there's meaning in that or do you believe that there's no meaning in that and that it's just as fortunate, it's just as much luck as the world is full of bad luck, right? If I think of all the, you know, I'm much more familiar as I'm sure you and many people listening are, we're much more familiar with the opposite, right? It's like the person who did everything right and they just happened to get hit by some drunk idiot who ran a red light and there was, you know, virtually nothing they could have done to prevent it. It's purely a lightning strike. And how often does bad luck take a life just as remarkable luck saved a life? Do you process it like that at all? Yeah, I do, I mean, we all are sort of looking for meaning in the universe and, you know, nothing, you know, there are no coincidences and everything happens for a reason and all those sort of like narratives that we put on, I think a fairly random universe and, I mean, random but for the laws of physics, but in terms of the events of our life, like so, I was in an American outpost and Afghanistan and I was shocked to feel some sand flick into the side of my face, you know, bullets travel faster than sound, right? And the outpost would get attacked from about 500 meters out, which is quite a long shot for an AK-47 or a PKM and, and by the time those bullets arrived, the bullets arrived way before the sound does, right? So some sand flick into the side of my face, I just had time to think, what was that? I was standing against some sandbags. What was that? And then I heard, and I was, so that was the first verse of an hour-long firefight and the bullets had to have hit with me and an inch or two from my forehead, right? In my opinion, utterly random, right? I was blown up by an IED, it went off under the engine block instead of under us, the guy with the Clay, the Taliban guy with the clacker and the ravine, misted by a second, a second, right? But the whole rest of my life unfolded because of that, it's contained in that second, right, in some ways, and because we were spared. And so at one point I was at a reading early early on, you know, like, we were right when the book came out and a guy raised his hand at the end, he was quite agitated and he said, he said, I'm Christian, and you, you were alive because of God's grace and you have to come to Jesus and understand that it was only God's grace that saved you. And I said to him, you know, one of my best friends, my brother, my colleague, Tim Hutherington was killed in combat in Libya on an assignment I was supposed to be on. His death was what got me out of war reporting and then had a family, et cetera. And, you know, he, he bled out also, right? And then from a moon in his groin and but he was in a war zone and they couldn't save him. And so I said to the guy, I say, you know, my problem with that way of thinking that there's some purpose here, some meaning here, is why me, right? Like why me and not Tim? For that matter, why me and not some nine-year-old cancer? I'm sorry. Like, and if God is running a random lottery for his grace, I don't want any part of it, right? I think that the universe is run and, you know, it unfolds in random ways and I just got super, super lucky. But that, the fact that I got that lucky makes me profoundly grateful and is also incredibly depressing to me. And for some reason, for reasons that I can't quite understand, but I just sort of think about what was statistically supposed to happen by a factor of maybe 10 to 1 or something and or more. Probably more. Probably more. Right. And have you spoken with others? I'm just very curious about that Sebastian. I think the gratitude makes a lot of sense to me and I don't know how I would feel in your situation. So this is curiosity and not certainly not judgment. I'm curious though, if you've spoken with others who have survived, you know, similar experiences. I think in my friend Rick Elias, I should introduce you guys. So Rick was on that US airways flight that had to emergency land in the Hudson. Right. So again, you've got this guy, you know, Captain Salonberger who, like, you know, he's the one out of, you know, the dumprosky of, right? That's exactly right. He's the one out of 50 guys that could have actually make the right decision with enough time to spare and then carried it out. And again, I, that's, he wasn't supposed to live, right? And I'm just, I've never asked him this question. And I, but I'm, you know, this would be an interesting topic is how many other people on this planet who are alive only because of monumental luck. What is the balance between the gratitude and the heaviness of that that that that tips into sort of disthymia? You know, if I didn't have children, I think it would be a psychologically a little easier. But what it would have left them with with such a legacy of pain and absence and my poor wife that that made it sort of harder. And so every, the things that console, what would have consoled me like holding my daughter, like I survived and here I'm holding my daughter and my lap. But I immediately think, oh, but this wasn't supposed to happen. Right? She's supposed to be grieving right now. By odds of 101, she should, you know, like, and it's a miracle and then I would just spin out into what could have happened. And I eventually talked to her shrink, right? I mean, my wife was like, honey, you're getting a little hard to live with. Can you seek help? And it was a great thing to do and it really, really helped me. And my, my therapist was basically she was like, listen, if you keep telling yourself this narrative, they almost died. You're never going to escape this incredible anxiety and panic disorder and depression that you work yourself into. You have to stop telling yourself this story. She was absolutely right. And apparently this sort of negative storytelling is very, very common in people who almost died. And, and, and, and the, the sequence on really, really profound anxiety and fear, paramedical paranoia. It's going to happen again, any moment I'm going to bleed out again. You know, like that sort of paranoia. And then that finally eased off and I wound up in this like unbelievable depression. And I've never depressed it by life, right? And I'm not a particularly anxious person. And I was amazed at how debilitating depression was. And I finally got it because I've had friends who have struggled with depression. I lost a friend to suicide. And suddenly I was like, oh, this is what it's, what they're talking about. Like, why bother going through the rest of your life? Like that kind of thought, like, I had no idea. Like, it was a really open to door to like, oh, I had no idea. That's what when people say depression, this is what they're talking about. And, um, you know, it was quite it was quite frightening. One of the problems, so I had trouble, I know we have to get back to the nurse, who just, which is part of this problem, right? This reality problem that I had. I was having trouble understanding being confident about what reality was and what it wasn't. And part of that stem from this, um, somewhat clairvoyant dream that I had. So, um, I, and I just have to reiterate, I'm really not a spiritual mystical or bewooker person. I'm really not, right? Which is why this stuff unsettling me so much, much more your father than your mother, much more, right?

I would say that clearly the biggest risk of pure nicotine, and now I'm just talking about it through the lens of synthetically acquired nicotine, so you're getting rid of all the tobacco related processing, is in its addictive nature. And Magnumus take about it, nicotine is highly addictive. There are some other areas where depending on the dose, there may actually be a harm. Again, I think this is very important to understand. There are some mechanistic insights that suggest a negative impact on the endothelium, and it's certainly plausible that anything that negatively impacts the endothelium could increase the risk of cardiovascular disease. But these are not studies that have been, these are not large studies, these are not studies that have been done in humans, and these are extrapolations typically from other animal models. So I guess we should probably just maybe spend a minute talking about nicotine again. And again, I go into, if people want more detail on this, I think it's covered four years ago. But nicotine activates, so nicotine is a molecule, and it activates something called the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor. Now, these receptors are not just in the brain, where we most frequently talk about them, but they can actually exist throughout the body. And if you look at certain mouse models and rodent models, such as other rodents like rats, it's been demonstrated that high doses of nicotine can actually increase tumor growth and even foster metastases, in addition to increasing atheroscerotic plaques. Now, that sounds pretty devastating. I just want to always point out, whenever we're talking about these rodent models, there's lots of daylight typically between what happens in that model, and what happens in humans. And I think it's important to kind of look at other ways to triangulate upon the answer. So we'll link to those studies in the show notes. But the closest thing that we could find in humans was 2024 Mendelian randomization. I know we talk about these a lot, but I always think it's worth explaining what an MR is. So a Mendelian randomization says, let's look at genes in the population, which we can assume are randomly assorted. That's the randomization part. And let's ask the question, will these genes be a proxy for a behavior that I want to study? Or something that I want to study, where I can now use effectively observational tools to see if there's a difference? So again, one example is Mendelian randomization consistently shows that LDL cholesterol is causally associated with heart disease. Why? Because LDL cholesterol is highly genetic, and you can look across a population and see different levels of LDL, even in people who are, you know, otherwise healthy, and you can examine the cardiovascular outcomes of these people, which would be the dependent variable, and that's how you could infer causality. By extension, by the way, HDL cholesterol turns out to be not causally related in the inverse. Nevertheless, so if you look at this Mendelian randomization, they wanted to look at the relationship of nicotine by itself on compromised lung function, lung cancer, COPD, CH, AACBD, et cetera. Okay. So the only, so I want to be clear, I don't think this was the world's best MR. I think it was clever, though. So what did they look at? Because what genes would you try to parse out to understand how much tobacco someone is consuming, which is what you actually want to be able to do? So what they looked at was they looked at genes that spoke to nicotine metabolism. And so just as caffeine, we've talked about this on the past, caffeine, metabolism is highly genetic, right? So people like me are wickedly fast at metabolizing caffeine, and therefore I seem to be able to drink it later in the day without a negative impact. Someone who's a very slow metabolizer is going to feel it more. Well, similarly with nicotine, you have high and low levels of nicotine, metabolism. And what the authors of this study postulated was people who are faster nicotine metabolizers are going to have lower levels of circulating nicotine and therefore less nicotine exposure. Now, that's possible. Technically, you could also argue that maybe someone who's a faster nicotine metabolizer would smoke more or consume more nicotine. So again, put that aside for the moment. But nevertheless, the authors used these genetic variants associated with nicotine metabolism to adjust for basically smoking heaviness. And again, we're not interested in the role of smoking. We're interested in the role of nicotine. Okay. So disease risk was increased with slower nicotine metabolism. But the added risk was abolished when adjusted for smoking heaviness. Because of course, if you do this, you have to adjust for smoking, indicating that the main drivers of the outcomes are the non-nicotinic components of cigarette smoke. Let me state that again. This is a complicated MR, but it is the closest thing I think we have to looking at humans. And it's looking at how much people smoked, how quickly they metabolize nicotine, trying to do an overlay of that to appreciate the nicotine exposure. And it came away basically saying that the harm of smoking is due to the tobacco and tobacco related products not due to the nicotine. I want to be clear, this is way, way far away from what you would want to be able to say as level one evidence. Right. If you wanted to do this in a level one fashion, you would actually have to randomize people to a whole bunch of different tobacco-free nicotine products and study the outcomes of interest. Now, of course, nobody is going to do that for hard outcomes like mortality, but I certainly think people could do that for softer outcomes. And my hope is that somewhere along there, people do that.

The safest things when it comes to anything other than nicotine are going to be the FDA approved products in the form of patches and gums. Right beneath that is what we just talked about. The nicotine pouches where they are not tobacco derived, I think I would take a big step down and then talk about e-sigarettes. What do we know about how a addictive nicotine itself can be? Boiler plate answer here is that nicotine is highly addictive and the discontinuation of nicotine will lead to withdrawal symptoms. The most prominent of these being irritability, anxiety, even anger, difficulty concentrating, sleep disturbances. What do we know about other chemicals that can be present in these products and the health implications of those so people can understand why they would want to avoid them? Most of the things that are added to nicotine replacement therapies, which have been approved by the are there to basically add flavor, texture, stabilization, and an adjust absorption. If your nicotine is tobacco derived as opposed to synthetic, you are still probably assuming risk. So let's kind of now go from risk down sides to potential benefits. A lot of people will talk about how, hey, when I use this stuff, I feel better. I feel sharper. Yes, but as you're increasing your dependency, you may actually end up losing that when you're deprived of nicotine. Hey everyone, welcome to the drive podcast. I'm your host Peter Atia. Peter, welcome to another AMA. How you doing? I'm doing really well. Thank you for having me back. I mean, we're always happy to have you. Whenever you would like, and again, it'd be very awkward if you weren't here, I think we do need to follow up based on one of our recent AMA's. Do you still have a liquid of some form in front of you? I do. What kind of cup is that in? You know, I'm actually drinking it in a glass. Did you listen to our micro plastics AMA? And that's why you made that change? Nick, I have made several changes following the AMA on micro plastics. I believe that they are all in the spirit of 8020, right? So I'm really kind of low on the sigmoidal curve of cost and energy with one exception. And yeah, I think I'm just taking what I think are the relatively easy steps to hopefully mitigate 80% of my exposure. And I'm going to spend no more time worrying about the last 20% which A, I have no idea if it matters. And even if it does, I don't think I could live my life and be concerned with it. That's great to hear it two things. First is, by the time this comes out, we'll most likely have a short video on what those changes were. So we'll link to that. If we don't have that video, something terribly went wrong. So we should have it. The second is, are you just so happy that you continue to join us for these AMA's? Otherwise, you would still be living so foolishly in your micro plastic life? I am looking forward to the day when someone else hosts an AMA for me. Maybe an avatar. That would be awesome. We could just have an AI Peter and it's just an ongoing AMA that never ends. All right, well, today's AMA is not going to be that. It will be you live. And it is on a single topic. We get asked a lot about there's so much more use of it. We initially did an AMA on it. I think like four years ago and at the time, you didn't see as much use as you do now. And that's nicotine. So we're going to talk all things nicotine today. This is going to look at benefits short-term, long-term around everything from cognition, exercise, whatever it may be. Risk of nicotine and things that people need to be aware of. We're going to look at different ways and vehicles that people can use nicotine and what are the pros and cons. And then we're also going to end this with something that we've get asked a lot about every now and then when it comes to smoking cessation. And I think we often say a lot of people on our audience, most likely are not smoking because if you are, you're probably not opting into this deep content, but some people are. But also we hear from people where it's, hey, my parents, significant other like children, friends, whatever it may be, are still doing this. How can I talk to them about quitting? So we'll cover that as well. So all that said, anything you want to say before we get rolling. Nope. The great insight that you had a grat there. So thank you for that. All right, start out. Can you explain just where the field of nicotine research currently stands? And kind of like even what's new and distinct from when we talked about this four years ago. Yeah, so I think one of the things that we appreciated, meaning that the team and I as we were kind of preparing for this was, you know, trying to appreciate how much of the research on nicotine is based on tobacco. And it's first application through obviously cigarettes. But then also the idea of using tobacco to extract nicotine for non smoke, but tobacco derived nicotine versus synthetic nicotine, which is honestly what a lot of people are thinking about in that context. And so I think that's just sort of important to understand that it is not always easy to tease out the impact of nicotine. And I'll foreshadow one example that we're going to talk about, which is infertility. You would think we would have legions of data that would explain the effective nicotine on fertility, both for males and females. It turns out that if you want to talk about it through the lens of smoking, that's true. But if you want to talk about it through the lens of vaping or nicotine pouches, that's not true. And so I think that's that's just kind of one of the issues that I think makes this difficult to talk about with complete clarity. So anyway, I guess that's the first thing I would say. I think the second thing I would say is, and you alluded to this four years ago, we did an AMA on nicotine. Don't worry, those of you that listen to that, there's very little overlap. I spent way more time talking about how nicotine worked, mechanisms of action. Today we're probably going to, I think, answer a lot more of the practical questions that people have. And I will also say that four years later, there's frankly more research on some of the benefits of nicotine. And again, to be sure, we're going to talk about both the risks and benefits of nicotine today. So anyway, I would say that's, you know, that's probably a good place to start. And I think it'd be really helpful for people double clicking on kind of one thing you hinted at there, which is for a lot of people when they hear nicotine, there's just a negative connotation, right? And usually it's because they associate it with tobacco cigarettes. And so their mind initially goes to nicotine is maybe a negative harmful thing. So do you want to maybe quickly kind of disentangle for people the health risks of tobacco from the effects of nicotine specifically? Yeah, this is something I think I didn't, maybe I didn't do a good job of this four years ago or maybe I did and at the end of the day, people just don't appreciate nuance. But I remember being very surprised at how a people thought that the takeaway from the podcast four years ago was we should all be using nicotine and be people were like, how can you advocate for this as a doctor? So my hope is to sort of untangle all of that for people. So nicotine is one of many compounds found within the leaves of the tobacco plant as such. It is in nicotine, pardon me, tobacco based products. But the major health concerns that are associated with tobacco, which are primarily cancer and cardiovascular disease, for reasons we can talk about another time and we're not going to talk about today are not caused by nicotine per se. But instead they are caused by several other components of tobacco itself and tobacco smoke such as, you know, everything from toxic metals from maldehyde, things called polycyclic aromac hydrocarbons, these are actually the things that are causing the harm. Now there are byproducts of nicotine that are produced in processing tobacco and they can be carcinogenic. So that means and this is a very important point. I want to make sure if you're trying to pay attention to the key points, this is one of them. This means that any tobacco derived nicotine product may contain carcinogens. This was actually something I did not appreciate prior. Okay, I thought that you could extract nicotine from tobacco and be completely free and clear of carcinogens. That is not the case. Now I want to be clear. It might be that and it likely is, in fact, it almost undoubtedly is that smoking tobacco is a much higher level of risk. But I want to make sure people understand that if your nicotine is tobacco derived as opposed to synthetic, you are still probably assuming risk. So the level of these compounds depends on the processing technique and the tobacco variety of course, right? So they're found in the highest concentrations in products that actually still look like tobacco. So I think that's kind of a nice way to think about it, right? So if you everybody can imagine what a cigarette looks like, well, if you take tobacco chewing leaves, right? People chew tobacco, that's going to have a lot of the negative properties. So the more closely you are to tobacco, the worse things are. So obviously, if you're sticking it in a cigarette or a cigar pipe, yep, you're getting plenty of it there. If you're chewing it or taking it in snooze, also a big problem. So this is why, and again, I don't think I fully appreciated this four years ago when you take a tobacco, when you take nicotine out of tobacco directly, you're still assuming that risk that risk that comes in curing and fermentation of the tobacco itself. And before we move on, we should just address something because I forget sometimes people get confused by it. And even earlier this week, we got an email to the website, which is Peter, for someone who cares so much about their health. Why did I see an Instagrammer YouTube video of you where on your hat or your t-shirt? There was the Marbaro logo. Do you support cigarette smoking? So while we have people, do you just want to explain why sometimes you're clothing has that and how you're not sponsored by Big Tobacco? And that is not a, you should be going and smoking marble rats on the regular. Yeah, boy, that's okay. So there's a philosophical issue, but as people, some people, listen to this podcast, no, I am an enormous fan of Formula One. And that goes way back for a long period of time. And up until 2005, Tobacco was a major sponsor of Formula One. In fact, the largest sponsor would have been Marbaro. And they were in the early 2000s all over the Ferraris and in the era that is my favorite era of Formula One in the 1980s and the early 90s, they were all over the McLaren car. And so you are correct from time to time, you will see me wearing something or memorabilia that I have that is a throwback to that era of Formula One. And I believe in the original delivery of those vehicles. In other words, I believe in era appropriate nods to things that we pay attention to. And so yes, if you're looking at a hat or a shirt or a car that is is a replica or pays homage to to something of that era, you're going to see the delivery of the sponsors of the time. And that would have been Hugo Boss, National Marbro. And so again, you know, I'm not, you know, anyway, there's nothing else I can say about it other than it has nothing to do with with a tacit or otherwise approval of these products. I want to be unambiguously clear. I think smoking is an absolute error. The arguably the single biggest unforced error you can make with respect to your health. And fortunately, big tobacco does not sponsor motorsport anymore. And you know, that's I think, I think they're better for it. Perfect. Back to the regular schedule program. Nicotine. Are there any harms associated with nicotine itself kind of based on what we just talked about them? Well, we're going to go into this in some detail. But I would say that clearly the biggest risk of pure nicotine. And now I'm just talking about it through the lens of synthetically acquired nicotine. So you're getting rid of all the tobacco related processing is in its addictive nature. And make no mistake about it. Nicotine is highly addictive. There are some other areas where depending on the dose, there may actually be a harm. Again, I think this is very important to understand. There are some mechanistic insights that suggest a negative impact on the endothelium. And it's certainly plausible that anything that negatively impacts the endothelium could increase the risk of cardiovascular disease. But these are not studies that have been, you know, these are not large studies. These are not studies that have been done in humans. And these are extrapolations typically from other animal models. So, so, but I guess we should probably just maybe spend a minute kind of talking about nicotine again. And again, I go into, if people want more detail on this, I think it's covered four years ago. But nicotine activates. So nicotine is a molecule and it activates something called the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor. Now, these receptors are not just in the brain where we most frequently talk about them. But they can actually exist throughout the body. And if you look at certain mouse models and rodent models, such as other rodents like rip-like rats, it's been demonstrated that high doses of nicotine can actually increase tumor growth and even foster metastases in addition to increasing atheroscerotic plaques. Now, that sounds, you know, pretty devastating. I just want to always point out when it whenever we're talking about these rodent models, there are, you know, there's lots of daylight typically between what happens in that model and what happens in humans. And I think it's important to kind of look at other ways to triangulate upon the answer. So we're linked to those studies in the show notes. But the closest thing that we could find in humans was 2024 Mendelian randomization. I know we talk about these a lot, but I always think it's worth explaining what an MR is. So a Mendelian randomization says, let's look at genes in the population, which we can assume are randomly assorted. That's the randomization part. And let's ask the question, will these genes be a proxy for a behavior that I want to study or something that I want to study where I can now use effectively observational tools to see if there's a difference. So again, you know, one example is Mendelian randomization consistently shows that LDL cholesterol is causally associated with heart disease. Why? Because LDL cholesterol is highly genetic and you can look across a population and see different levels of LDL, even in people who are, you know, otherwise healthy. And you can examine the cardiovascular outcomes of these people, which would be the dependent variable. And that's how you could infer causality. By extension, by the way, HDL cholesterol turns out to be not causally related in the inverse. Nevertheless, so if you look at this Mendelian randomization, they wanted to look at the relationship of nicotine by itself on compromised lung function, lung cancer, COPD, CH, AACBD, et cetera. Okay. So the only, so I want to be clear, I don't think this was the world's best MR. I think it was clever, though. So what did they look at? Because like what genes would you try to parse out to understand how much tobacco someone is consuming, which is what you actually want to be able to do? So what they looked at was they looked at genes that spoke to nicotine metabolism. And so just as caffeine, we've talked about this on the past, caffeine, metabolism is highly genetic, right? So people like me are wickedly fast at metabolizing caffeine. And therefore I seem to be able to drink it later in the day without a negative impact. Someone who's a very slow metabolizer is going to feel it more. Well, similarly with nicotine, you have high and low levels of nicotine metabolism. And what the authors of this study postulated was people who are faster nicotine metabolizers are going to have lower levels of circulating nicotine and therefore less nicotine exposure. Now that's possible. Technically, you could also argue that maybe someone who's a faster nicotine metabolizer would smoke more or consume more nicotine. So again, I put that aside for the moment. But nevertheless, the authors used these genetic variants associated with nicotine metabolism to adjust for basically smoking heaviness. And again, we're not interested in the role of smoking. We're interested in the role of nicotine. So disease risk was increased with slower nicotine metabolism. But the added risk was abolished when adjusted for smoking heaviness. Because of course, if you do this, you have to adjust for smoking, indicating that the main drivers of the outcomes are the non-nicotinic components of cigarette smoke. Let me state that again. This is a complicated MR, but it is the closest thing I think we have to looking at humans. And it's looking at how much people smoked, how quickly they metabolize nicotine, trying to do an overlay of that to appreciate the nicotine exposure. And it came away, basically saying that the harm of smoking is due to the tobacco and tobacco related products, not due to the nicotine. I want to be clear. This is way, way far away from what you would want to be able to say as level one evidence. If you wanted to do this in a level one fashion, you would actually have to randomize people to a whole bunch of different tobacco-free nicotine products and study the outcomes of interest. Now, of course, nobody's going to do that for hard outcomes like mortality. But I certainly think people could do that for softer outcomes. And my hope is that somewhere along there, people do that. And what do we know about potential side effects of nicotine? Thank you for listening to today's sneak peek AMA episode of The Drive. If you're interested, in hearing the complete version of this AMA, you'll want to become a premium member. It's extremely important to me to provide all of this content without relying on paid ads. To do this, our work is made entirely possible by our members. And in return, we offer exclusive member-only content and benefits above and beyond what is available for free. So, if you want to take your knowledge of this space to the next level, it's our goal to ensure members get back much more than the price of this subscription. Premium membership includes several benefits. First, comprehensive podcast show notes that detail every topic, paper, person, and thing that we discuss in each episode. And the word of the street is, nobody's show notes rival ours. Second, monthly ask me anything or AMA episodes. These episodes are comprised of detailed responses to subscribe or questions, typically focused on a single topic and are designed to offer a great deal of clarity and detail on topics or special interest to our members. You'll also get access to the show notes for these episodes of course. Third, delivery of our premium newsletter, which is put together by our dedicated team of research analysts. This newsletter covers a wide range of topics related to longevity and provides much more detail than our free weekly newsletter. Fourth, access to our private podcast feed that provides you with access to every episode including AMA's, songs, this feel you're listening to now, and in your regular podcast feed. Fifth, the quality's an additional member-only podcast we put together that serves as a highlight real, featuring the best excerpts from previous episodes of the drive. This is a great way to catch up on previous episodes without having to go back and listen to each one of them. And finally, other benefits that are added along the way. If you want to learn more and access these member-only benefits, you can head over to PeterOTiaMD.com forward slash subscribe. You can also find me on YouTube, Instagram, and Twitter all with the handle PeterOTiaMD. You can also leave us review on Apple podcasts or whatever podcast player you use. This podcast is for general informational purposes only and does not constitute the practice of medicine, nursing, or other professional health care services including the giving of medical advice. No doctor-patient relationship is formed. The use of this information and the materials linked to this podcast is that the user's own risk. The content on this podcast is not intended to be a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. Users should not disregard or delay an obtaining medical advice from any medical condition they have, and they should seek the assistance of their health care professionals for any such conditions. Finally, I take all conflicts of interest very seriously. For all of my disclosures in the companies I invest in or advise, please visit PeterOTiaMD.com forward slash about where I keep an up-to-date and active list of all disclosures.

Peter, you mentioned Dex said there a little bit ago and anyone who's listening to this podcast will be familiar with the Dex's scan because we talk about it a lot and looking at, you know, fat and like the benefits that you can get from that. Is that the best way for listeners to figure out what their BMD is? Is that how you're doing it in patients? Yes. So Dex is a super, super low radiation scan, nothing like a CT scan. It, you know, takes 10 minutes, you lay on a table, a little scanner moves over your body and it's using two very low dose x-rays that are absorbed differently by bones and soft tissues. And so it's able to differentiate between out-upose tissue, bone, and lean tissue or non-out-upose tissue. I will say this, not all Dex's scanners are created equal. So if you want to know your bone health, make sure before you go and get the Dex's scan, you confirm with the entity doing this that they are giving you segmental bone analysis for left hip, right hip, lumbar spine. A lot of Dex's places can only give you whole body BMD. So they'll just spit out the Z score for that one metric, but they won't give it to you segmentally. So, and that's sometimes okay. Like if a person's BMD is very high, you don't need the segmental analysis, but if you're doing this to screen for BMD, you have to make sure of course that the Dex is capable of doing that. And just a reminder for people, we talked about this in another episode, but we're always surprised at how easy it is to get a Dex's scan, right? You don't need a doctor to do it. So if you just Google the city or in and then Dex, you should be able to find different providers that do it for relatively cheap, I think, in most cities, it's around $150. So it has a lot of benefits, and just maybe remind people, if they are calling different places, what are the three things they want to look for? Yeah, you want to make sure when you're doing a Dex, again, if you care about knowing the full BMD, and you're going to pay more for that segmental analysis. So when you talk about those scans that are like in the hundred, 125, even up to 150, a lot of times they aren't showing everything, they're just giving you body composition. And usually visceral fat now. You'll say up to $400 typically if you want to see everything, but again, it's all like, you're going to pay more in New York and San Francisco than you're going to pay in Austin, Texas, for example. I probably pay like 125 for mine, but I'm not getting the full BMD analysis because I've already had it done and my BMD is high, so I don't need to screen that frequently. Not at the rate that I screen everything. The other things you want to look at, you obviously want to make sure you're getting full segmental lean tissue analysis, so you can look at. Appendicular lean mass index that you can calculate for yourself, obviously fat free mass index, you can calculate for yourself fat mass index, you can calculate, you need them to be able to give you that. And so those are those are kind of the things I want to see along with BMD. And let's say you have like you and a friend are going and getting your BMD done through a Dexas scan, is there going to be variability that exist in bone density between different people? Like let's say even if someone didn't have osteoporosis, can there just be natural variability between different types of people? Yeah, and it's also important to understand the number you're going to get, so they don't, at least to my knowledge. I don't recall seeing them typically report in grams per centimeter cubed, your BMD. Because what would you do with that information? Like it's not that helpful. What you really need to know is statistically where do you rank? And this is done via a T score and a Z score. And this is done to compare you to a young healthy adult and to an adult that is your age. So if you go back to statistics 101, I think many people may recall the idea of a normal distribution, which is a bell curve function. And a Z score is basically telling you where you lie on that distribution. So as Z score of zero means you are right in the middle of the distribution. And if you're in the middle of that distribution, it means you are, you have a higher bone mineral density than 50% of people and a lower bone density than 50% of people. If your Z score is plus one, it means you are one standard deviation above the mean, which means you are, you have a higher bone density than 82.5% of the population. And a lower bone density than 17 and a half percent of the population. If your Z score is plus point two, it means you are two standard deviations above the mean, which means you're 97.5% your higher than 97.5% of the population. Of course this works in reverse. So that's what Z score is due. I'm sorry, I'm a misspoke. The Z score is comparing you to your age when I say the population. The T score is comparing you to the young, healthy, individual. So in other words, for someone who's older, the Z score is always going to be more favorable than the T score. Does that make sense? Yeah, yeah, because you're comparing to a 30, if you're 60, you want to compare yourself to not only a 30 year old, but also other 60 year olds. That's correct. And when you look at for yourself and even with your patients, their scores, is it kind of like how you do V02 Max, where you always want to be in the elite of the elite categories for like, you know, V02 Max, you want to be elite and a decade younger for like BMD, do you if someone is at that zero, that 50th percentile, does that worry you or is it a little different? How you look at this? Other things factor into this, Nick, I mean, family history factors into it, history of smoking factors into this current lifestyle. I hate the word lifestyle, but I think you know what I mean, you know, and sort of how active is that person, how much weight bearing activity or they doing. So being male versus female also factors into it a lot. So if I see a woman prior to menopause, let's say I'm talking about, you know, I got a 42 year old female patient who's, you know, I might guess three to five years out from menopause and she already has a low Z score. But worries me a lot because of what we'll talk about shortly, vis-a-vis the effect of estrogen here and why women are disproportionately affected by estrogen withdrawal. But, you know, you've heard me make this my glib stupid joke right, never in the history of civilization has a 90 year old person ever been heard uttering. I wish I was less strong. I wish I had less muscle. I wish my bone density wasn't so high. Impossible. Yeah, you know how Tim Ferris always asked people on the podcast, you know what, Boba, they put on a billboard. Yeah, I think we've, we've come to the conclusion of what you would 100% put on your billboard. That's right, the Peter T. A. Billboard would just say, find me one example in the history of our species where a 90 year old said, I wish I had less strength. I wish I had less muscle. I wish I had weaker bones. Love it. Love it. All right, Nick, so pull up figure five. All right, got figure five pulled up. Okay, so you can see on this graph we're looking at males versus females top to bottom and then we're looking at Mexican American non-Hispanic white non-Hispanic black. So three races two sexes, six lines. But I just want to make one thing to the listener a little bit clear, which is on the y axis here, you're seeing units of grams per centimeter squared earlier. I said, grams per centimeter cubed. Why the difference? Well, the difference is even though density in real life is measured in grams per centimeter cubed because you need mass per unit volume. With bone density, it's actually done as grams per centimeter squared because it's a planar measurement. So the dexus scan is compressing everything to 2D. Does it make sense? Because the scanner is kind of looking at the area of the bone and imputing the density by what electron beam doesn't go through it. So I've always found this a bit confusing personally and I've always thought, I've always wondered why they just can't do this in grams per centimeter cubed. But I'll just point that out for the astute observer. Okay. I think there are two observations that one would pretty quickly take away from this. The first is that up until, you know, the 20s men and women are kind of similar, right? You go through a profound increase in BMD from the time you're eight years old until you're about 20 years old. Difference one is that, well, women maintain a reasonable plateau. They tend to fall quite precipitously in midlife. And that's obviously due to menopause. We'll talk about why in a moment. The second thing that jumps out here is the racial difference. So non-Hispanic black has a higher BMD for both men and women than non-Hispanic white, which has a higher BMD than Mexican or Hispanic in this case Mexican American. So again, slight differences in race. Truthfully, I don't know why that is. But it is what it is. So to your earlier question, are there differences? Yeah, there are differences on average. I've never, to be honest with you, factored this into my risk assessment except for the male female one. So in other words, if I look at a patient whose black versus white versus his Hispanic, I kind of have never assumed one is at more or less risk. I've just said, let's do the kitchen sink on everybody. But I think in females, I'm more worried for the reasons that we are obviously talking about. Yeah, and in looking at this too and one of the questions we received is, you know, when, when should people do their first bone mineral density scan? You know, when do you want to know that baseline? Because what's interesting when you look at this and you talked about it is, you know, from eight to about 20, 22, you see that huge jump and then it kind of levels off. So what was your recommendation be for when people should get their first one done? Yeah, I'm not water here Nick. So what I'm used to it, right? I've got very unusual recommendations for a lot of things and this is no different. So I think in the spirit of fairness, I'm going to communicate the standard recommendations first. So when you look at the American Association of Family Physicians, the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, the American College of Preventative Medicine, the International Society of Clinical, Densiometry, the National Osteoporosis Foundation, and more. The typical recommendation is for high-risk people to be 50, but typically 65 is sort of when they want to start screening people. And that's for women and for men it's typically 70. It's a lot of credentials you just light out there. You sure you want to get in hot water with all of those different people. No, I'm just simply stating what they're recommending and if I've misrepresented that, I feel free to correct us, but you know, it's typically recommended as I said, women at 65, men at 70 follow up scans no more than every two years. Now, for someone who is at serious risk of osteoporosis, which includes men and women over the age of 50, you know, they can we can adjust those and come down a little bit. Now, the WHO, I think, is a little bit more aggressive and recommends screening women by the age of 40 if I'm not mistaken. As you can guess, I tend to be closer in my thinking to the WHO. And I certainly believe women in their 30s where we're doing dexas scans for many reasons. I'm just as interested in their bone mineral density. In fact, when I'm reporting the dexa results to patients, we have a template that we've made that I really like that lays all of the dexa information out, right? So, segmental BMD, you know, that FMI, ALMI, FMI, all of these things body fat for what it's worth. I always tell them out of the gate, like the one number you care about is your body fat. That's the one I care least about. And yeah, so when we, you know, when we're looking at a 35 year old patient and their Z score is already minus one. I mean, that's just as concerning to me as if their OGTT shows, you know, very elevated post-prandial glucose and insulin levels. And I'm really happy that I'm seeing that at the age of 35 and not 65. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

don't we as a society just tend to look more favorably at people that have a very high pain tolerance. So when you go through that experiment you just did with the medical students. If everybody's being brutally honest aren't they kind of looking at the people who score zero one two more favorably than those that score eight nine and ten? Absolutely. Why do you think that is? Because that's what I'm being truthful I do it. Yeah. That's what society values. That's that was my home life growing up. That's what my father expected. I can't even very working class. You know my father had 12 brothers and sisters fighting for whatever scraps of food and he brought that into my world our world as kids and you just suck it up and deal with it and my father had back pain later in life and he would never talk about it would never ask my opinion and when I offered my opinion he would never follow it. Had bad consequences in the end but we value that. That is just the way our society is. Is that a male thing exclusively? I think you need to get some women on the show and ask them. I think I think it crosses actually I do think there is a masculinity aspects of that and I think I could be wrong here. I think that that thing is also attractive for women. I think there's a certain attractiveness because that person may be more likely to be a good provider than somebody who is weak and sensitive but you know we're getting a little out of my wheelhouse on that but you're absolutely right. I just think it's like a compatibility thing like I know when I do that type of an exercise compared to others I tend to just feel less pain. I also know my wife does as well and so I almost wonder if that's a compatibility like we both just have a high threshold for that when we're exercising when we're doing anything even recreationally that doesn't matter. My partner might fiance we're now engaged. Is a professor at Stanford Beth Darnell and she's an ex-altramarathon runner. And I've always admired the fact that she can sit there in front of a computer or work on something untold hours and not move and I'd ask her and like and she's just like listen I was really good with running with a pebble in my shoe putting one foot after another and just work in my way through it. And I similarly grew up in an environment where you know you learn to be tough and you learn to power through life-set versities. So what is the consequence of this? So we're acknowledging that it is an attractive trait. Yeah. You have a high tolerance of pain. Yeah. Society rewards it. And yet by definition as a significant subset of the part of the population, call it a third, call it a quarter if it's a normally distributed function. Yeah. Are going to be a standard deviation on the other side? Right. They're going to be on the side where hey they're relative to people who have a high tolerance for pain. These are people who are going to really perceive pain. And if we just did this through the lens of the responsibility of the medical community, there's a pretty significant consequence to that, right? Indeed. Now as with all things it gets a little bit more nuance. We talked about cold for instance. It turns out that some of the sensitivities are modalities specific. So just because you have a high threshold for cold, you could completely flip it on hot or pressure or pin prick or whatever the other modality is. As somebody who runs a pain lab, I've had everything done to me, imaginable. I take heat really well. My son, Ian, takes heat really well. I've had, you know, these thermal devices on me where I've been there and ended up with second degree burns to find my seven out of ten. I hate the cold. I hate the cold. I'm a worse one. It comes to the cold. That's why I live in California. That's why I lived in Arizona. I think there are genetic aspects of this. So we have to be mindful modality specific on top of it. These experimental protocols probably have little bearing on somebody's experience of chronic pain. I was going to say, is there any way to put together a set of experimental lab versions of this to basically generate predictive models of how people will respond to real world pain. And I think where you're going with chronic pain is even more relevant. So for example, why do some people have a discerneation that leads to, you know, manageable pain whereas for others, the exact same injury by every metric available to us produces a totally different set of consequences and what do we do about that? And because this is now where we move out of that decartion model, we appreciate the role of the brain and it's modular Tory capacity. It's ability to turn the amplifier down. And so if you're thinking about a stereo amplifier, we talked about how some people to a certain stimulus might be a zero or one on the dial, some might be a ten. But what we didn't talk about are people's capacity to now manage their pain cope with their pain, their level of self-affecacy around their pain. Athletes learn how to manage their pain and suffering. Where they run into problems is when the sports are over, they're retired. That's when I see them. So there are many factors that predict how well somebody is going to do with chronic pain. They align with a lot of the stuff in your book. So, you know, there's the level of person's self-appacacy plays a role. There is the presence or absence of whether they've got underlying depression, anger, anxiety, something called catastrophizing, terrible word, very important concept, probably one of the most predictive of amplified pain. What about other things you talked about sleep deprivation, any other physical things, exercising, not exercising insulin resistance, not insulin resistance, type of like what are the other things that might factor in this? Yes, yes, one of the biggest predictors of diabetic neuropathic pain is glucose control. So, you know, one of the first things we do if we have a person with diabetic neuropathy, which the diabetes, the high blood sugar, as you know much better than I, causes injury to those no susceptive fibers. And also causes injury to the abata inhibitory fibers. And so, we, that correlates with glucose control by way of example, diet plays a role because if you're eating things that are causing inflammation, we didn't talk about all of this stuff that amplifies or winds up those peripheral nocice sectors. We treated those as a static thing when they're not, they're dynamic. So, in the face of inflammation, that causes something called peripheral sensitization. You've turned up the amplifier on that nocice sector in the periphery.

Let's just start with the VO2 Max training. So you're having people go through a little bit of a workout before they get going. Yeah, and I'll tell you this. I do most of my VO2 Max testing out doors now. I use that VO2 master device, which I love. I'm going to leave from my house. I'm going to ride 10 to 15 minutes to the place where I do my hill repeat. So that's a warm up in and of itself. And by the way, getting there, there are a couple of short little climbs where I'll do 30 seconds of relatively high power just to get up over a little pitch. I will do two to three full runs of the hill at escalating power before I'm truly going to hit my max. So I'll do a four to five minute up at a maybe 85% of what my maximum power would be for that climb. Come down for the same amount of rest period. Go up again at maybe 90% of what my maximum power would be come back down. And then maybe I would go and give it. Like the third one would be out there. So by the time I've done it, I've really warmed up. And so the other day I was talking to a patient who did his VO2 Max test at a facility. Who's at a university that he went to do it. It was just like a place where you can go and pay to do it. And it was kind of surprised at what his number was. It was lower than I expected, given his training. And I said, tell me about the protocol. And he's like, yeah, I just got on the treadmill. And they just started cranking it. And I was like, and how long after you started on the treadmill, did you hit VO2 Max? And he's like, I don't know, five minutes. And I was like, yeah, that's that's like garbage protocol. They, you were not warmed up and ready to do that. And you mentioned you have a VO2 Max coming up. When was the last time you tested prior to this? In the spring, it's about six, fish months. And the reason is like, because I like doing it outdoors, I have noticed because I live in Texas. How much of a performance hit I take in the summer like it's just, it's a, it's a, it's a noticeable difference in the summer. So I'm like, yeah, I just would rather do it in the spring, fall winter spring is when I prefer to test. And like, let's say the month leading up to it. So the past month, have you changed your training at all? Are you doing anything in particular for it? No, not at all. I'm just, this is just a data check. It's just like, you know, I had my blood drawn this week. I had my dexa scan a couple of weeks ago. I'm doing a VO2 Max in general. So if you haven't changed anything, this is a reminder for people, what is your, like, VO2 Max training look like in a typical week? Is that one day a week? Are you doing a multiple? Just one day a week. Yeah, it's three days a week of zone two and one day a week of, of, of interval training. But interval training at that specific sort of four, five upper limit eight minute intervals. And I always like when we talk VO2 Max training, I think back to one of the actually first video podcasts we have a day with Alex Hutchinson. And do you kind of want to walk people through? I think a lot of times when you think of VO2 Max training or to bother training or like going all out, a lot of times people kind of like lose sight at how hard that actually is. Like do you kind of want to walk through, if you're doing actual intervals, real VO2 Max training, like what that feels like once you're done. Well, VO2 Max training hurts less than a true tabada. I mean a true tabada is, again, that's where I think people have a hard time understanding what all out means. I mean, technically I don't think the human body is capable of going all out for more than 10 seconds. So even at the level of a tabada, which is a 20 second effort followed by a 10 second rest repeated eight times or done eight times. Even at 20 second, there's just a governor that is like self regulating how hard you go. The reverse tabada where you go 10 seconds all out, 20 seconds rest for eight rounds. That's about the closest thing that I think we're capable of doing as a truly all out. And you will increase your VO2 Max doing that type of an exercise but not nearly as much as if you're doing intervals in the three to eight minute range. And by definition, if you're doing something for three to eight minutes, you're not going all out. What you're trying to do is go as hard as you can for that distance and for that time. So, it's a different animal. Obviously I think it hurts more because it's just, it's a lower level of peak pain but it's spread out over a longer period of time. So the area under the pain curve is greater but it's far from all out and at any moment in time, the pain is not the same. And can you remind people, like let's say you're doing a four minute interval, you're not starting at four minutes going as hard as you can and then trying to sustain it? Can you walk through kind of how you think about like the energy you put out spread across four minutes? Yeah, well, now technically the power is constant throughout the four minutes. So I know in my mind what I, how many watts I want to produce and what I want my average wattage to be over the five minutes. So let's just say I want to do five minutes at 300 watts. Of course, you're outdoors, so you don't have complete control. It's always jumping around but I'm really watching that the three second power tracing and the average power to keep it there. Well, after the first minute, I barely know I'm on the bike. Like it should be really easy after a minute. If you're dying after the first minute, you've set your target too high. Two minutes in, or two and a half minutes in when I'm halfway done, I still feel pretty good. My heart rate is now going to be within about five beats of what its maximum is, but I still feel pretty good. It's really at about minute three, three and a half that the pain train starts to leave the station. And that's when it really starts to feel miserable. And that last minute is really, really difficult. And again, if you've done this right, when you finish this, you're really going to need that four or five minutes of very, very easy pedaling to let your heart rate come back down to then repeat it. But again, the goal is not to have killed yourself in that five minutes, such that you can't do it again. Because what I'm trying to do is actually preserve that power across all the intervals. Last follow up on this is you talked about the consumption and the increase in performance as a result of what they're able to consume when they're performing. How much of a difference do you think that makes? Or how can you explain it to like, a lot of late people probably aren't thinking about that consumption or their mixture? I know a lot of endurance athletes are, but how much of a game changer do you think it is to have that increase in what they're able to put in their body during events? Well, again, for people like me and probably most people listening to this podcast, this is not something that should be on our radar. Like, I don't think there's ever going to be a day when I'm doing a 10 hour endurance event again. And therefore, I don't really need to worry about it. Like, it's, you know, if I'm exercising for two hours, that's kind of a long time. So again, at two hours, I'm fine with just water. And I'm living off my own glycogen and whatever. But it's very difficult now to think about people competing at a world class level in cycling. And Iron Man, because what all of and many others have now argued is the problem of peak endurance is effectively an energetic problem. It's basically a question of how much chemical energy in the form of food can you convert into electrical energy via the metabolism of food back into chemical energy in the form of ATP back into mechanical energy. Like, there's just an energy transfer problem. And more energy input means more energy output. The more in the more logs you can put into the fire, the hotter the fire burns, the more steam it makes, the faster the wheel turns. That's basically what it comes down to. And what we've seen over the past decade is quite literally a more than doubling of the feet stock that goes into the furnace.

I think it'll be helpful to start talking about the actual word longevity because it can mean different things to different people. So when you talk about longevity, are you talking about living forever or how are you defining it? Definitely not living forever, although understandably that's probably what some people think of when they think of longevity. I'm talking about it in terms of two things. One of them is called lifespan and the other is called health span. And lifespan is the part that I think most people think of. It's the how long you live part. But then there's health span which is the how well you live part. And both of these things are important. I would argue that they're of equal importance and an extreme of one without the other is not ideal. In other words, I don't think there's anybody sitting here who says, I'd love to live to a hundred, but I want to spend the last 20 of those years unable to move. I mean, that wouldn't be ideal. And similarly, I think the idea of living an amazing healthy life, but that life being cut short prematurely at 50, nobody would think that that's ideal. So when I think of longevity, what I'm really thinking about is maximizing both the length of life and the quality of life. And again, quality could be further broken down into sort of a physical piece. So, you know, am I free of pain most of the time? Am I able to physically do the things I enjoy doing? And that could range from just the activities of daily living and self care to recreational activities. If you like to garden, how long do you want to be able to do that? If you play golf, if you like to go for walks and hikes or swim. And then there's a cognitive piece. So I don't think anybody would fully expect even at my age that my brain is kind of as sharp as hers is, but I still want to believe that my mind is pretty sharp. And I think we all sort of want that for as long as possible. And then the final piece is sort of an emotional piece that deals with happiness, sense of purpose, connection to others. And again, you can imagine a scenario where somebody has perfect physical health span, meaning they can do anything they want to do physically. Their brain is sharp, but they have no friends and no relationships. And I think we would all agree that that's also, that's not really an ideal life and I don't think anybody would aspire to that. So that's a lot there, but when you put all those things together to me, that's what lung jeopardy is. And if some people here are wondering, is it too late to start caring about longevity and living longer, what would you say to them? I would say that that's not the case. I would say that on the one hand, sure, the earlier a person begins to take steps to increase their longevity, the more opportunity they have. It's sort of like investing, right? One is the best time to start saving for retirement. Probably the minute you start earning your first paycheck and your teens or 20s. But does that mean you shouldn't save money when your older, no, it doesn't? There's also a lot of data that we have from clinical trials that are done with seniors that demonstrate that, for example, people who have never lifted weights in their life before who start lifting weights for the first time when they're in their 60s and 70s have a remarkable benefit. This is not just true of weight training. It's true of any sort of exercise. So the short answer, I guess, is that no, it's never too late to really start thinking about this. But obviously, the best time to plant the tree is yesterday, if not today. Why do they have a benefit if they haven't done it before? Well, there's an effective training, right? So specifically thinking of exercise, the body is really a user that are losing it, organ or collection of organs and the muscles are a great example of that. So it's actually true of young people and old people. The greatest effective exercise is generally seen in the person who goes from being completely sedentary to even a mild amount of training. So if you look at somebody like me who exercises all the time or someone like you who exercises all the time, if we added three hours a week to your training or to my training, it actually wouldn't have an enormous impact. If you took an individual who did zero exercise and you took them to three hours a week, which let's be honest, guys, 30 minutes a day, six days a week is not a huge ask. The impact is enormous. That's strange. That's not what you'd think. Can you talk about the importance of adding life to years rather than just years to life and what that means to you? Yeah, it means a lot to me and I think it will mean a lot to people here because, again, the metric that most people think of is life expectancy, right? How many times have you heard at life expectancy is increasing? Life expectancy is decreasing. And I think the reason for that is frankly, it's just the easiest thing to measure because it's objective, it's quantitative and it's a single number, right? It's a number that shows up and it can be measured from a death certificate. We know exactly how many years to the day that a person lived and if we keep track of that, we certainly know something about them. But my argument would be that it is not the most important thing. And again, I would challenge us to find an individual who would, if given the choice, and I don't think one ever has to make this choice, but for the purpose of the thought experiment, if you said, look, you could live to 80 in remarkable and perfect health. And then when your life is over, it ends very quickly and suddenly, versus you could live to 100, but you spend that last 20 years in a painful state of decline. I think very few people would choose the latter, even though they're living longer. And I think what most people want is quality of life over quantity, outside of these extreme examples, which are common and tragic where people die in their young. But I think when you really start to think about pushing those things, most people in my experience are more interested in quality of life.

Hey everyone, welcome to the Drive Podcast. I'm your host Peter Atia. Peter, Atia, Doctor, Podcaster, Author, Speaker, Bad Chest Player. How are you doing today? Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, you could say Shepherd in there. You don't have to, you don't have to keep shots. Yeah, Shepherd of diabetic sheep, raised car driver, anything else missing. Oh, that's good. That's good. All right. You're just didn't, I didn't want to forget the diabetic sheep out there. That's true. That's true. How's the day going today? Started out good. Then took a little little, little dip with the follow-up chest match. But just the end of the time. I'm just wondering if you're here. I know you just love picking this scab. Well, I just, you know, sometimes you think about the feet like Tom Brady, right? Like what he did three days to all time. Right. Yeah, um, people who come back from injuries, right? Tomorrow, Hamlin, like almost died, came back and played. I mean, like you getting second in a four person in house chest tournament with two children has to be up there, right? Listen, like all started. I got you the same time. I got you our just won the tour again. That's right. Right. Went through. Tune it around. Grueling, not as mentally tough as what you went through, though, a month ago. Right. I would argue what I go through on the daily trying to just make sure I don't get beat by an eight year old in chess is at least on par mentally with some of the feats you're talking about. We need to have Tom on the podcast. You should ask them about it, which one was harder? All those harder to be down 28 to three, having thrown a pick six in the Super Bowl, or succumbing to an eight year old's gambit, which is tougher to be, do me fair. There is a real chance that eight year old might have talked more trash than what was going on in the Super Bowl, which that's something. Yep. All right. So today's AMA, not about chess. Gonna be a little different. So what we're going to do is cover a variety of topics, looking at it through a certain lens, which is we are going to take concepts and things that we've talked about before, some new things that we haven't talked about before that we can ask about a lot. And instead of going to Super Deepen them, we're going to kind of summarize them into how you think about them. And we're going to do it into five different buckets. And those buckets are proven promising fuzzy noise, not sense. People who have listened for a bit will remember this. We did this in