 All right, so today we're gonna go through a meat wrap-up for my recent competition. I did the Cow Town Showdown here in Calgary to get my national qualifying total so that I can compete equipped at Nationals in March. Now, going in, training wasn't good. My shoulders have been a mess since February this year. Both squat and bench were pretty not good on the shoulders. I struggled a lot in most of my squat training trying to find a comfortable position for the bar that didn't hurt both from the stretch and from it sitting on top of whatever piece of my rotator cuff is torn to shreds on that side. So definitely didn't know how squat was gonna go. Bench, raw bench training, heading in was pretty much non-existent. I think by the time I hit my taper sessions, I was down to maybe 120 kilos for some raw bench sessions, just in terms of what I could tolerate pain-wise. And deadlift was kind of the one thing that seemed like it was in a really good spot. So going in, I needed 802.5 as a total to tick the box for going to Nationals. Now, I've done more than that raw, but the way the qualifications work here in Canada is you need to actually do the meet equipped to get the total. So despite having totaled more, I hadn't competed equipped in five years. So my last equip competition was 2020. It's now 2025, right? Fast forward and, you know, heading into the meet. I think my second last equip session, I dumped 345 over my head. It was not obviously very encouraging. In terms of expectations for the meet, I switched in that session from my regular stance, taken in and almost fitting squat suit to the same squat suit that I hit 400 kilos in back in 2020 at 120 as a full 120 kilo lifter. So that suit was loose as hell. I also wore the same bench shirt from when I benched as a 120. I had taken in the sleeves very slightly. And one of the deadlift suits, I had gotten two back in the day when we went out to tighten. They give me one custom suit where I could almost barely get into it, couldn't reach the bar. And then one suit that I ended up using. And the suit that ended up being way too tight kind of fits pretty perfect right now. So that was the suit I deadlifted in. Now, meet day. I weighed in 107.3, which for me is very light. I made the cut down from 120 and expected to be around 108.5. That's kind of been where I've maintained since for a couple of months now. I made that cut between June and December here from 118, 117, somewhere in there, down to this 108. And 108.5 has been my morning weight very consistently, eerily consistently. And despite waking up, eating like normal, eating my lunch before like 10 minutes before stepping on the weigh in scale, 107.3. So pretty light. Squats felt really good. And one of the things that I kind of fell into and that helped me engage with the meet a little bit was some really good people. Right? Good buddy of mine, Zade, was there wrapping my knees. Another good buddy of mine, Brian, was there and was doing his first raw meat in a long time. And he's a plus 120 plus lifter. And he was squatting around the same. I was squatting in equipment. So we kind of were, we had a little back and forth where I was like, well, I can't be out squatted by a raw lifter. I will not allow this to happen. So he and I had a little, little duel in the squats, which was quite fun. Because I was in such a loose ass suit, I actually opened at 307.5. I think my last session in the very loose suit, I hit 310. Felt like that was about opener. And on the day was like, you know what? I can probably get to depth with like 280. So I'm just going to go 307. That gives me some room and we'll see, we'll see from there. Like I said, this was the first time in a long time I've felt like I could get the bar somewhere in my back that felt sturdy. I wasn't pitching forwards in the bottom. Now, yes, it's light, right? Like these lifts are, I mean, not much more than what I was doing raw at a heavier body weight. Now granted, training's been, like I said, not great. So I am not at my strongest. I have a long ways to go to get to somewhere where I'm like proud of my performance. But from 307, we jumped to 327. And again, felt really solid, felt really good. You know, again, was confident depth, I think was good, maybe not quite as deep as the first, but I think it was enough. When it came to 3010, my buddy Brian put in 337.5. And so I had to go 340. You know, I had to do it. And yeah, I mean, I think we had a little more there on the day, maybe could have gone 345, 347. But, you know, the plan and the only really important thing was just hit the total, right? And to be fair, I was over the total by I think about 40 or 50 kilos on my openers. So mostly the plan was just don't bomb, right? As long as I didn't bomb out, we're good. But hit a 340 again, felt really good. I was doing this weird thing on the day where I was setting up kind of crooked to the rack, just because I didn't want to take more steps, right? I would pick, step back with my right foot and then step back with my left foot, which often left me like offset to the rack. And then I would just set my width there and squat, right? Like I know I was crooked, but at the same time, it didn't matter. I wasn't crooked enough to hit the rack and it saved me an extra step, which in kit was worth it. Now bench, oh man bench. So opposite experience to squats. This was probably one of the most painful, most irritated days I've had for my shoulders in quite a while. Ran through all my bench warmups and stuff, which shout out to Seth for that, Dr. Seth Albersworth. He's been helping me out with my shoulders and now post-meet. I think things are really starting to come together as the load comes down a little bit. And you know bench 70 raw, bench 120 raw for a single and was like, holy shit, that hurt. That felt so bad. I was really on the fence about how bench was going to go that day after that. I wasn't sure that the shirt was going to help enough for me to be able to do much of anything. So I put on the shirt after 120, right? I benched 150 I think, my first wrap in the shirt, which you know, because the shirt's so loose, moved a little. But generally speaking, you know, my first wrap in the shirt is usually around 190. So yeah, not a great day for the shoulders. Last warmup I think was somewhere around 190, 195 and opener was set at 2107, 210, sorry, 210. And yeah, took my last warmup and was, you know, looked at Zaden was like, yeah, I think we bring opener down a little bit. I'm just not sure how the shoulders are going to handle it, how the shoulders are going to hold up today. And Zade looks at me and goes, like, no, it's too late. You're opening at 210, to which I was like, oh, shoot. Okay. Fast forward to the opener and I had a little bit of trouble touching it actually. It got down to, you know, maybe half board or so where the shirt starts to bind up pretty good and just kind of dumped it a little. And after a quick pause, I just pressed it and I was right on the line with the head ref signal to the point where I got whites on the side and a red from the head, head ref. And sometimes, sometimes that's what you got to do, right? If you're down there and you're holding it and you're like, I either press this now or it's not going, you press it. And hopefully you can make the command, you know, you anticipate it a little bit, which I don't think is ideal, but it can work out. And in this case, luckily it did. Second attempt jumped to 17.5. And it just, yeah, just died. Right. Again, it was an easier touch. So that was nice. But just didn't have a whole lot of pop off the chest. Didn't have a whole lot of shirt going on at all. Third attempt, Zade says, no man, you're fine. You got this. And just like, reefs my shirt down from, you know, here to like here. So like, I'm almost nips out under my singlet. Really had to fight it on the way down, but ended up getting a really good, clean, smooth press for 217 on my side, on my third. Again, you know, 217 in the shirt is rough, man. That's rough. You know, even going back to the beginning of training equipped here, you know, I was benched in to 25, 230, thinking, you know, 240 somewhere in there would be reasonable for this meat. But that last little bit of weight loss, the changes of fit in the shirt, the loss of strength from not being able to train my bench and my shoulders being all banged up. It just kind of stinks, but you know, it is what it is. Right. We got, we got a bench in, we got two benches in actually, and we didn't get out benched by any raw lifters. We just about did. I think we tied a raw lifter at 217 and a half, or maybe maybe John hit 215. I can't remember. But again, that was another thing where I was looking at one of the other 105s, very strong bencher here in Calgary, just aged into open. And he was benching in the same range as me in my shirt. So I was just like, okay, I gotta try to chip. Get to dead lifts and man, I was frigging tired. I just, I really started to get tired and was feeling drained. And some of the same stuff I felt at Worlds, right. And it was like, it was kind of starting to creep in in the back of my head. Like, oh no, like, you know, you remember how bad Worlds was? This feels kind of like that. And luckily I was able to kind of stave that off. Last warmup again, through warmups in the suit, it felt a little off. Like it didn't feel as snappy as it should feel. You know, it didn't feel quite as locked in as it should feel. I think again, just my work capacity has been absolute trash since cutting and, you know, with everything. Life stress has been high, right? So I think that had a huge part to do with how dead lifts went, but ended up opening at 340 and it moved well, but I felt myself lose some position, right? Like I had to, I had to like pull my back through a little bit at the top, which is not something that usually happens at 340, right? That's usually starting to creep in and like the 365 and up. We're starting to get that little bit of like, okay, we got to push for a tiny bit more extension. So based on that, I was like, okay, well, we'll see how this goes, right? We took the plan jump, 340, 365. I had hit a pretty solid 370 in training, was hoping for 375 on the day. Um, but yeah, 365 was on the line lockout. I think we got it there, but just barely, barely, barely. And, you know, another two to one lift. Um, and just, I could feel myself lose a bunch of position off the floor, got up to the top, really had to pull that back through to get to lockout. And at that point I was like, I'm not going to do another one, right? At that point it was like, that was, that was the top and the end of my capacity for the day. There's no point in me putting two and a half on there to what like, that doesn't do anything for me at that point. And any more than two and a half, I think I'm just going to miss at this point. So we took the 365, we scratched the third, we called it a day. Now, yeah, we needed 802 and a half. We ended with 922 and a half. I mean, it feels, it feels not great that that's only 10 kilos more than, you know, my best raw total at 120. But I think at the end of the day for how I headed in and the condition shape I was in, the expectations I had for the meat, you know, I walked away thinking that was a pretty good day. Right. It definitely could have gone worse. You know, uh, I put up numbers that were, you know, consistent with some of the, you know, consistent with some of my 105 equipped numbers back in the day. I think that total is like a little bit better than maybe my first 105 equipped meat. So, yeah, I mean, I can take some solace in that, right? And I think the big thing for me now is, you know, I'm excited and I'm hungry to build some work capacity back. That's something that I think has really been missing in a lot of my training. And I've talked about this, anybody's followed the channel and vlogs and stuff. Like almost all of my lower body stuff is like one set kind of thing. So one of the big plans moving forward is trying to build some work capacity. Get to the point where I can do a number of sets on a number of movements throughout the week. I am sore as hell right now from doing a two by eight on my squats on Monday, you know, with like 205 and 200 kilos. I benched 105, you know, feet up on Monday and it didn't hurt, right? And I did four sets and, you know, it's these kinds of things. I think there are encouraging signs for moving forwards. I'll have this block and then I'll get back into equipment next block. I think that leaves me two blocks of equipped training. I'll probably take my squats suit in a little bit more, probably switch to the 46 bench shirts. If my shoulders, you know, are cooperating and at least pain free by the time we get back into the shirt or close to. So yeah, I'm excited to have that as like a baseline, right? And in some ways, it's probably good that it's really low because then I can beat that. I can do better. I can, I can, you know, gain and grow from that. So yeah, we're qualified. We're getting back at it this week. And yeah, expect the like road to Nats series. I think the quest to not suck. That's, that's the conclusion of it for me. I didn't suck, right? It wasn't great. I wasn't, I wasn't like one of my most proudest performances, but it was a lot of fun. I think I had a good day and I don't think I sucked. So yeah, we'll button it up there and move into the next thing. But anyways, stay tuned for that. We're going to get back to some blogs. We got all kinds of educational stuff coming on the channel. And yeah, we'll see everybody in the next one. Bye.