 All right, welcome back to Calgary Barbell. Today, we are gonna talk about the IPF rulebook changes. Now, these were implemented on January 1st, via, as far as I know, a communication on Kimberly-Walford's personal Instagram page. There's a lot here to unpack. So what I'm gonna try to do in this video is break down each of the rules, go through a sort of, an interpretation of some of them, the best I can. We're gonna give a breakdown and demonstration of what I think the rules are attempting to prohibit or disallow, as well as, I'm gonna give a little bit of my commentary, my thought on things. And throughout this, hopefully, people watching, if you are members of the IPF or a national federation of the IPF, I really hope that this is a sort of call to action. And encourages people to contribute and make a little bit of noise and speak up in the appropriate ways. Because I think a lot of people tend to see some of these rules and, you know, it's just, it's meme fodder, as opposed to being like, oh, actually, maybe we should take a more serious look at things, draft up a letter, give some serious feedback to the head of your national federation and ensure that they get back, it's passed along to the IPF. Now, since these rules came out and caused quite a stir, the IPF has actually walked it back and said that these rules will not be in effect until March 1st of 2026. So up until that point, they've said they're open to taking feedback and will be, you know, reading it, paying attention to it, maybe, I don't know. But with all that being said, let's get into it. We're gonna go rule by rule, and I'm gonna try to make this as simple and straightforward as I possibly can for you. Rule number one is that final nominations need to be in 30 days in advance of international championships. Now, this is up from the previous 21 days. Probably a good change, probably not massively impactful on many of you, but in the case of international competitors, meet directors, anyone who's involved with the logistics of an international competition, I think more time with the final nomination list is a good thing, more time for people to book, accommodations, travel, all that kind of stuff. Rule change number two, the participation medal change. Now, a lot of international competitions already did this. I have a few little medals, a couple of like ribboned medals, some that are like commemorative coins and stuff. This is the thing that's been happening for a long time. It's just now in writing. I don't really care about participation medals. I think that's fine. I am not super for it, I'm not super against it. I think a lot of people probably put a ton of time into preparation for an international competition and travel halfway across the world. And there are a lot more people who come in fourth and down than there are who come in third and up. And maybe those people should have a little coin to remember the time that they traveled across the world and did this cool ass thing in their sport. Fine. Rule change number three is in the technical infractions on the bench press. So you can now get a blue light if you fail to lock your arms before the start command. Now this was already a thing. You needed to lock your arms before the start command. However, if there's a disagreement among the three referees, in some cases the start command will still be given out. And now there's an infraction that if you're a side ref or head ref who doesn't agree with giving a start command then you can toss a blue light and you have a sort of defined way to do that. All good. All right, bench rule change number four. This highlights I think one of the first errors that we'll see recurring in a lot of these rule changes and updates. And that is that the technical writing is such that it leaves a great deal of room for interpretation. In my opinion, that is one of the issues that remains with the bench depth rule and is a reason that there is a lot of inconsistency with refing. Now this rule is in my opinion, as best I can tell, an attempt to stop people from getting around bench depth. The rule is that it's now an infraction to utilize an upper body thrust to initiate upward movement of the bar from the chest. So we're gonna take a pretty generous interpretation of that and go from there. My interpretation is that what it's meant to stop is someone setting up with a really big arch, bringing the bar down during the pause or before the pause, lowering their arch a great deal. And then after the press command, bringing their arch back up to where they no longer meet the requirements for elbow depth and pressing. So technically people had elbow depth for a second. They fulfilled the rules and then they pressed it. But my concern is that there are a lot of lifters, a great many lifters even, who utilize a small amount of that technique in their bench press. I would say probably half, if not more, of competitive benchers in a lot of weight classes now because of the bench depth rule. Utilize some degree of sinking the bar in because there's a need for that elbow to go down lower and also for a lot of bigger lifters because it allows them to get better leg drive. Now this doesn't always mean that their chest is actually falling and then coming back up, but there are varying degrees to which that can happen. So we'll cut to a demonstration, we'll go talk about it with the bar. All right, so I'm gonna give my best estimation of this rule in a demonstration. Now, I believe what the rule is trying to prohibit is lifters who can get into a much better arch than me, being able to create a huge arch, bring the bar down, collapse the arch, and then resume the arch as part of the press, right? So I don't think this little bit, if you're a heavy touch bencher and you use a little bit of leg drive, I don't think that's gonna be prohibited. What I think is we're gonna see lifters who flatten right out be more impacted. And I think the difference being the actual collapse of the arch, not just the bar sinking in, right? Again, this is a generous interpretation. This is me with years of lifting experience, years of refereeing experience, years of coaching at an international level, et cetera, being able to take in, interpret these in the context of the sport as I know it. I don't think that's gonna be everyone's experience. And also I might be way off base, but in the example shown in some of the clarification, that tends to align with what I'm showing here. So it's a full loss of arch and then rebuilding the arch as your upper body thrust. Now, if everybody interprets this rule the same and enforces this rule the same, then that's great, right? I guess I can kind of understand where they're coming from and why they want this to patch up some of the many holes in the whole bench depth theory and bench depth rules. But I think, again, we're just now layering problematic rules on top of problematic rules to try to fix things that people are having to do to get around, in my opinion, initially problematic rules. And that's not to say that I think it's insane or unethical to incorporate any kind of bench depth rule. I just think the one we ended up with is not sufficient and does not do the job of enforcing the things that it should and prohibiting the things that it should in spirit of its introduction. I think this will lead to further inconsistencies and further undue red lights. I think that this disproportionately affects smaller lifters or thicker lifters or lifters with shorter arms. And in a lot of cases, women lifters. If we look at the sort of biggest examples of people utilizing this real change in torso position, it's two female lifters who are very, very strong benchers. And we'll show some video to illustrate that. Rule change number five, it's now in the rulebook that you can wear knee sleeves over top of your long legged singlet and you don't need to wear deadlift socks over your long legged singlet. This is a pretty standard rule. Some of this has already been implemented in terms of the knee sleeves. And I think with the growing popularity of people wearing long legged singlets, great, wonderful. All good, next. Rule change number six, shoes must be properly fastened, right? Velcro or tied. Again, that's fine. I don't think that's an unreasonable thing to ask. People can trip over shoelaces. I don't know that I've seen it in powerlifting, but I don't think that's an unreasonable ask for athletes. Rule change number seven, athletes are permitted to have personal assistance in putting their knee sleeves on and applying their knee sleeves. They may have worded it. And now this was initially a real, again, pile of rules that came out of the implementation and invention of knee sleeves in the first place. As knee sleeve technology advanced, people got tighter and tighter knee sleeves and there were three or four people stuffing a lifter into their knee sleeves. The IPF saw this and said, hey, that's not in the, I don't know, spirit of competition or whatever. So since then, there has been a rule saying that you can't get anyone to help you. You can put your knee sleeves on using, I think slippers or deadlift socks or whatever, but you can't get help with it. Now, when they implemented this rule that you can't have assistance with it, that led to just a whole bunch more questions about what constitutes assistance. Can we use baby powder? Can we use suits slippers? I'm honestly not sure if you could, but I think this rule is a good thing and it's in line with my own personal sort of outlook on how I think the rules in the sport should go. And that is that it's fine. Instead of making an addendum, 25 items long about what constitutes assistance, like just let people put their knee sleeves on, whatever. If somebody really wants to use suit slippers, stuff themselves in and have to cut a pair of knee sleeves off after every attempt or every meet, like whatever. I personally don't think it's that big of a deal, but if you're one of these people who really loves to stuff yourself into crazy tight knee sleeves to get a bit of an advantage, let me tell you about this thing called equip lifting. You should come on over, shoot me a message or something. It's wonderful, it's lovely. A lot of people are really enjoying it and you could come do that if you have a penchant for hurting yourself a little bit to lift more. Very good. Rule change seven B just says essentially the same thing elsewhere, right? It's, I think it's in the TC or like attire section because TC's technical controller is a person who stands there and says like, okay, you're ready to go into the platform. They used to be able to say, you put those knee sleeves on with assistance at that point. They're not allowed on the platform, but now they just addended that so that it matches up with the other thing. Rule change number eight is the Russ Swoll rule. Now this rule reads, necklaces and similar accessories must be properly secured underneath the T-shirt and should not be placed in the mouth at any time when the lifter is approaching or on the platform. This is a bit of a choice. There's, for anybody who maybe doesn't know, and I'm guessing if you're watching this, you obviously know who Russ is, but there's a lifter who's very prolific, very successful lifter with a huge social media following. His name is Russell Orhe and he kind of brought this style of like stuffing your necklace in your mouth while you lifted and a lot of other people adopted it because they thought it looked cool and they wanted to do it as well. I don't know why this is a big issue or why we're concerned about this or making rules to prohibit it. I think even if it was really a concern, which I think you could make a really fringe kind of safety, maybe somebody chips a tooth or chokes on it or it catches on something somehow, like maybe there's an argument there somewhere, you could also just say like it has to be tucked in the shirt. If it's long enough to dangle below your collar, it has to be tucked in your shirt. I don't know that we needed to go the extra mile and be like, and especially you, the guy who one specific person who puts it in their mouth, you can't do that. It seems really pointed and just kind of like, kind of weird, I'm not sure why we're dying on this hill, but anyways, that's a rule now. Rule change number nine is to do with the setup of the squat, what's deemed acceptable before you get your squat command and it reads that the lifter shall face the front of the platform with the barbell placed horizontally across the shoulders. That's all old news. At a height, this is new. No lower than the posterior deltoid level. Hands, thumbs and fingers must completely grip the bar positioned in the rack stands and starting position. So there's a whole bunch here and we'll go break it down on a bar in the rack stands. Okay, so the first thing we've got is posterior deltoid level. Now, this is my posterior deltoid. If I had to try and feel it, it would be somewhere between this bony process at the top here and I don't know, maybe about there, right? That's a solid like, I don't know, three and a half, four inches. If I were to take Dylan and demonstrate on him, because he's a very long human, it might be four and a half or five inches. So not only is this concept of posterior deltoid wildly varying from athlete to athlete, but also we as referees are expected to see this, identify it, measure it, and then know what posterior deltoid level means. When we say posterior deltoid level, do we mean that the bar has to be no lower than the top of the posterior deltoid? Is that the level? Or do we mean the dead center of the posterior deltoid? Or do we mean the very bottom of the posterior deltoid? Again, this is gonna feel like a semantics, like, oh, you're just being overly, overly picky. But we have to define these things. Like they have to be strictly defined. Otherwise, what's the point of the rule, right? Now, again, if we wanna take a very generous interpretation of this rule, what they're trying to get away from is the quote, unquote, French low bar. For however many years now, French power lifters have been kind of pushing the envelope with how low they can get the bar down their backs. Other lifters as well, but I think the French kind of popularized it. Now, this has led to actually a number of issues with already not getting start commands and in one case, Panna bombing out of euros as a result of start position and a lot of stuff along with that. So they're trying to clarify where you can put the bar as a means of informing how upright or bent forward a lifter can be. When it comes to putting the bar lower, what they cited was they don't want lifters to be as bent forward and this will encourage less injuries and better technique. I don't know that that is accurate at all. I don't know that there's any data that would suggest that being more bent over or putting the bar lower causes more injuries. And the other thing they cite in the EPF clarification is that it's a safety concern, which maybe, yeah, maybe if the bar is so low, there's a decent chance it falls and slides off the back if the lifter misses. Sure. So in any case, they've decided that this is something they want to really get rid of and I probably won't be able to get there, honestly, but let's try to take a look at how low we think we can reasonably go with the posterior deltoid rule or in the absence of it. So again, I'm gonna break all of the rules here because I can't really get the bar on my back without spending 20 minutes warming up my shoulders, but pretend my hands are up there. So I would say somewhere around there is probably the lowest point of my posterior deltoid by how it feels. So again, you know, interpret that how you will from the front or the side. And I would say that once we get down here, we're getting into like lower than territory, right? But that's almost like, that's almost in my armpits. I understand the intent here. I know what they're trying to do. I don't necessarily think that what they're trying to get rid of is something that needs to be done away with, but I digress on that. However, I think again, we really need to work on the language and the phrasing of how we're telling people where they can and can't put the bar because especially when our referees are center, front to the lifter and generally kind of biased towards the front as well on the sides. So, and again, almost direct quote from Arian's video, but does this mean we're gonna see referees need to rotate to a more sort of like rear side position? And if so, the consideration there is that looking at a squat from that position makes depth look universally worse. It will make people see squats as higher. Try it out sometime. Like from here, squat looks good. If we just film the same squat from back there, it's gonna look higher. It's gonna look different, right? So that is another consideration. And then the final part of the squat setup rules is in regards to the grip, right? They want the full hand, fingers, and thumbs gripping the bar. Now, what is gripping the bar? My question there is, does this count as gripping the bar? Obviously this is gonna be good, but there are a lot of lifters who squat with their thumb over the bar. I believe what they're trying to get away from is me, my first couple of warm-up squats before I can actually get my hands all the way on the bar. If the lifter has maybe two fingers kind of on the bar, the thumbs just floating around. Okay, so again, I don't necessarily have a huge gripe with that one. I think that the whole what is gripping maybe needs to be defined. Real change number 10, this one's also about the squat in particular. It is the first of a series of rules that I've dubbed the no-sellies rule. This rule states that after the lifter completes the lift, they may not exit the rack through the front. Again, I just, I really don't know why this is a thing. This was actually accidentally included in the 2025 rule book and then amended because they were like, oh, that's not a rule. Don't worry, that's not a rule. We don't actually care about that. We're taking it out of the rule book and now it's been put back in. I don't, I don't know why they don't want the lifter to come to the front of the platform and I'm not saying every lift and maybe that's the issue. Maybe that's the issue is that lifters are running around all over the platform celebrating every single lift. If it is the problem, I've not seen it. I've seen maybe a couple people from each flight come out the front of the rack after a big third squat or world record to celebrate and that usually makes for some pretty good moments with the crowd going crazy. It makes for often some really good photos and videos that people can remember these monumentous occasions in their lives with. It makes for wonderful promotional material that makes the sport look cool and exciting and brings the character of the lifters to the forefront. So I'm just not sure what we're worried about coming out the front of the rack. Maybe again, I have to, I am not doing a very good job but I am trying to be objective here or like vaguely objective. Maybe there's a fringe case that somebody trips over the rack coming out the front, right? Cause there is a cross member, you have to step over. But again, if you're turning around and going out the back, you have, depending on the way you're lifting, five spotters who are adjusting the rack height, stripping the bar, putting more plates on, going back and forth with the collars and trying to get ready for the next lifter. I would argue that maybe going out the front is even better in terms of getting out of the way of the spotters and loaders so we can keep a timely competition going. But like I said, this is the first in a series of rules that I think is being interpreted as kind of like fun police kind of rules. Rules that a lot of people, I think fairly, are feeling like will strip some of the uniqueness and character from the expression of a lot of lifters who are the reason people like powerlifting, right? People like powerlifting as fans of a sport because of the athletes, because of, in some cases, their wild celebrations after doing these crazy inhuman feats. Rule change number 11, this has to do with the bench setup prior to, you know, unracking, getting your hand off. It says the lifter is not allowed to enter the rack from the head side of the bench press rack. Now, let me show you really quick what that means. All right, so according to the new bench rules, you can no longer get into the bench or get onto the bench like this. Let's see if I can even pull this off. I'm grace. Okay, yeah. So you can't get onto the bench like that. You can't come in from this way. You have to come around and lay down on the bench. What I would consider normally. I have very rarely seen this before. I guess technically it was allowed. It was a thing you could do. Again, I don't really care. I don't think this rule proportionally like affects a massive amount of the athlete population. I don't think the people that it does affect really need to be that bothered by it. It's a personal preference thing, but also, I don't know, maybe there's spotters and loaders and handoff people in the way. And it just, I don't know. I don't think it's that big of a deal. I wouldn't really care if somebody did that. And I don't have strong feelings about it being disallowed personally. Rule change number 12, this one has to do with the bench setup. And it states that the hands, thumbs and fingers must completely grip the bar positioned in the rack stands with a thumb around grip. Now, I think there are instances where this clarification is useful. I've seen people kind of grip the bar just with their fingertips. I've seen people really get away with not wrapping their thumb around but having their thumb just on the bar. And in this instance, not having a thumb on the bar I do actually think is a legitimate safety concern. I think there are instances of lifters being severely injured. One very popularized instance of a lifter death. I don't know if they were competing or in the IPF or whatever, but it doesn't matter. This is just something that does happen. The bar does sometimes slip. I've seen a lot of instances also of people being able to just say, oh, just put the safeties at two, it doesn't matter. Which, yeah, I don't think this is a bad thing. I've had very specific instances in my mind where I'm a head referee and I see somebody's laying their thumb across the bar and gripping with their fingertips. And this was before I was a national level referee and I approached my jury, the people who were national referees around me, and they said, oh, no, that's by the rule book. They can do that. Which, I was like, I feel like that shouldn't be allowed. But again, slight clarification, and credit where credit is due, I think this does help. I think that allows me to enforce the rules the way I saw them interpreted them. And I think this does help lift their safety. Rule change number 13, this one is about the deadlift lockout and clarifying what acceptable shoulder position is. Now, again, I think I really agree with the intention here. I just don't quite think we got there with the wording. And you might be sitting there being like, man, this guy's so specific. Like, just understand the spirit or the intention of the rule and judge based on that. But I've been doing this competitively for 12 years now. And I referee at a national level. And these kinds of little discrepancies come up a lot. Right? There is, in my opinion, far too much room for interpretation. I've seen it again and again at international competitions. And there are, I'm gonna break it to you. There are a lot of really high level referees out there who maybe don't have Instagram and maybe can't or won't go on the EPF page to go look at a clarification video, so they're gonna read the rule and interpret it the way they interpret it. And then they're gonna go and they're gonna referee at IPF Worlds in the way they see fit. It's just gonna happen. So in some way and on some level, we have to be incredibly specific in the way that we're wording and writing these rules. So yes, I have some very picky semantic gripes. But if we're talking about technical writing and a rule book for a sport, semantics matter. Specific language matters. So there's one thing I've learned from playing countless hours of magic gathering. It's it, reading the card explains the card and reading the rule book should explain the rule book. Or the rules, at least. Anyway, I digress. On completion of the lift, the knees shall be locked in a straight position. Again, I don't think that's anything new. But this next part, the front bundle of the deltoid muscle should be placed behind the imaginary projection of the bar. Like I said, I understand what we're trying to get away from. And I think I actually agree with that. But I don't know that this imaginary line thing hits the mark. And I'll show you why. Okay, so I think I can demonstrate here what they're trying to get away from. But I think I can almost also demonstrate that within the letter of what they've written, you can still do kind of exactly that. So let's say I'm doing a deadlift, right? And I think what they're trying to get away from is allowing lifters to have their shoulders really far forward. However, if I just have my shoulders really far forward and lean back like this, now that imaginary line coming up from the side is definitely in front of my delts. But as you can see from the front, my delts are super far forward. And I'm not sure that, you know, in the spirit of the rules, as I've come to understood them over the years that that would be...  and then you can still be incredibly protracted, you just lean back, extend your back, and boom. You're hyper-extended in the low back, but your shoulders are still in from the front, based on the projection of the imaginary line, but looks like crap from the front, and in my opinion, wouldn't look locked out. So, all that to say, I understand the spirit of the rule, but I think the language needs to change. Okay, rule number, change number, what, 14? 14. And this is another no-cellies rule, or at least that is the way this is gonna be interpreted, because again, I really don't think there is a solid and sound logical argument against this. Once the bar has been lowered again on the platform, the lifter is not allowed to step away over the bar toward the front of the platform. So, in a lot of cases, after lifter's third deadlift, they will go over the bar, they will go shake the referee's hands, they will go thank the referees who, by and large, are volunteers who are there to facilitate the competition. Maybe they step forward and they have a moment, again, with the crowd, a moment expressing themselves, expressing joy, or maybe, well, you shouldn't be going forwards and getting your frustration out there, but there is also a rule about discarding your belt, which I think was part of this. Again, discarding your belt is one thing, right? Because I don't think you should be throwing your belt. I think if you throw your belt, that's probably, yeah. What is that? Is the next question that all of this leads to, right? If somebody steps over the bar, what happens? There's no clarification as to, okay, we're changing that, we're overturning that, to now it was a failed lift because they did that, or is it going to be some sort of verbal warning that if you do it again, then you're ejected from the competition, like dropping the bar off your back in the squad, if you feel. There's not a lot of precedent for these or even other more established rules as to what you should do or how you should approach it in the case of somebody performing one of these infractions. So if somebody steps out the front of the platform after their squat, what do we do as referees? Are we meant to, like I said, overturn the lift immediately and be like, nope, you came out the front, you do not get that squat. Do we think that's a fair and reasonable punishment for that? Is that the extent that we're going to with these rules? I don't know. Again, that is something that just absolutely begs clarification. But getting back to the deadlift and stepping over the bar, the idea of stepping over the bar being somehow disrespectful, I think is an incredibly antiquated gym culture thing from like the 70s. And a lot of, like, I think Shaco, Boris Shaco, when an old Russian coach from way back in the day, used to have a rule about not stepping over the bars because he felt it was disrespectful. I don't know where that belief came from or why in the world we would be trying to proliferate that as if that's some, I don't know, maybe this is a disrespect thing, maybe it's a tripping hazard thing. In either case, I don't know that this is something we need to be really cracking down on, you know? Rule change number 15, I think is a good one. You can now weigh in in your singlet and t-shirt should you choose to. No shoes, but singlet and t-shirt. And I think that's fine. I think if you're not anywhere close to the weight class cap, top or bottom, then there's no reason you need to be in your underwear. Maybe you're not super comfortable getting into your underwear in front of a stranger. That's fine, cool. Good rule next. Rule change number 16, the Euro sport rule. Now this rule states that essentially for any televised session, which would be some of the group A sessions at IPF Worlds and perhaps some other international meets, they're being televised live on Euro sport. Now, a television network is gonna have a very strict broadcast schedule and in order to fit within that, the IPF has made this concession in the rule book that they can alter the time allotment between disciplines, right? So normally in any competition between squat and bench, there's a 10 minute break. That is in the rule book, it's a 10 minute break. Actually kind of a new rule. It used to be just an ambiguous amount of time that was made up of every meet. So I think that was forward progress. I think this is fine. It is perhaps a little harder on the athletes, perhaps we don't get the best performances in some cases out of those sessions that are very condensed and shortened. And actually Arian's video, who shout out to Arian, if you want another sort of deep dive in these videos, go check out Arian Kamesi. He did a wonderful video going through all these rule changes in a much more objective fashion than I've been able to. But he talks about some of the potential issues with not knowing what those breaks are early enough. If you're coaching one of those sessions and you're warming up and then all of a sudden they're like, oh, by the way, this is gonna be a four minute break. Or we're gonna go straight into bench, whatever, right? It should be something that you know maybe a week or two weeks out or whenever the final schedule and timetable is finalized. You should have a good idea of what you're doing that day for the athletes and the coaches' sakes. Rule change number 17 has to do with your hair. And the rule reads, the lifter's hair should be fixed, brackets braided or tied back, in such a way that it does not interfere with the referee's ability to judge the lift. Now this has been a thing on the bench press for a while. If you have longer than shoulder length hair, you must tie it back. That's to ideally give the referee's a better or more clear view of whether or not your head is on the bench during the performance of the lift because that's one of the rules. It's now been expanded to, I guess if you're squatting and you have like pigtails or something and your hair's super long and it covers your hip crease, I guess. So I don't know that this one's a huge big deal. I think it's gonna take a lot of interpretation or foresight on the part of the TC. Again, technical controller, person who lets people out onto the platform to be able to identify, oh, the way your hair is may obstruct X, Y, or Z thing. So yeah, I mean, it's probably a fine rule. And really the only other thing I'd say about that is if you are somebody with pretty long hair, you might be best suited just to, for the day you're competing, find a way to just like, tie it all up, I don't know, put it in some kind of bob or something. I clearly don't know much about long hair, but yeah, probably just better to get out ahead of that so somebody doesn't try to stop you from going onto the platform and make you go find a hair tie or somebody to braid your hair really quickly. Rule change number 18. Now this is the discarding your belt rule. This is the respectful goodness image of the sport kind of rule that I think will lead to hopefully not, but I have very little faith in a lot of people. I think this is gonna lead to a lot of problems. Now the rule reads, lifters are expected to enter and exit the lifting area or platform in a respectful manner, refraining from discarding their belt on the floor or engaging in any conduct that may be harmful to the integrity of the sport. So playing devil's advocate for a second because I feel like most of my opinions have been pretty one sided so far, but there were at least one, if not a few, lifters of junior worlds who were doing back flips after their lifts, one of whom I think almost hurt themselves and or others in this kind of display and celebration. Now to be gracious to this rule, I think that it's probably productive to disallow that. Right, this lifter, if I remember right, I think almost landed on the deadlift jack because they were certain to change the weight out for the next lifter and it could have been disastrous. I also think that there should be something hard and fast in the rule book. If somebody decides to throw their heart out, Elon Musk style, we should absolutely have things to prohibit that kind of thing from happening on the platform. So does this rule catch those things? Yes. Does this rule however, also leave a lot up to interpretation to the point where again lifters are, I think somewhat rightfully concerned as to whether or not them celebrating a lift is going to count as being respectful, as having some sort of negative impact on the image of the sport. This language is just very, very vague. It's very, it doesn't really go on to describe what they feel that image of the sport is. And I think not that this rule should not be implemented, but that if we're going to keep alluding to this kind of vague notion of the image and public perception of powerlifting, we should strictly define what we feel that is. What actions do we feel are going to detract from that? Does it go as far as a lifter screaming and jumping up into the air and saying, let's go and being really happy and outwardly celebrating? Are those kinds of things going to count? I'm going to say probably not. I don't necessarily think that this rule is, and again, I'm going to try to be generous here. I don't necessarily think this rule is no fun allowed, no outward expression of joy. We're cutting all of that. But I think it does leave a lot up to interpretation. And I don't know, people are people and there's going to be people who try to take advantage of a rule if it's not clearly defined. What I mean by that is you're going to have somebody in a chair who sees a celebration from a lifter who just beat their home nation or whatever, beat their lifter that they coach and there's going to be some sort of conflict of interest. They're going to be able to interpret the rule in a way that maybe favors them and offer a war. You see where I'm going here? Sure, is that a far fetched thing to happen? Maybe, maybe not. But I think if we're going to implement these rules and consistently refer to this idea of image and values and stuff like that, we need to more clearly define them and they need to be able to be quickly referenced in all of these rules, right? See section whatever for these values that we keep kind of alluding to, right? And rule change number 19. This one is kind of just reiterating what already happens with a lot of the jury processes. This is saying that the juries may utilize an instant replay function and essentially that they're privy to, you know, camera angles and things like that to help make their decisions in potentially overturning the referees' calls on the platform. I think that there are again pros and cons to a lot of this. I think generally speaking, it's a good thing to have the jury have access to instant replays and utilize the technology that we have, right? If you watch an international championship, there is a camera angle dedicated to essentially that bench butt cam, right? There's a really bright light on the other side of it. And the camera's pointed in such a way that if the lifter's butt comes up at all, you can see that light. And I think especially with all these new bench rules and bench depth and are they using their upper body to bench too much? You know, all these kinds of things that now referees have to watch that in some cases, there have been examples where referees on the platform don't catch a butt coming up off the bench and the jury does. And I think in that case, good work. However, I also think that there has been since this kind of additional power has been given to the jury, I think there has been a real shift in how the audience, how the lifter's experience calls at the highest level. Because it does seem like it doesn't really matter what the referees say on the platform, what you're waiting for to know whether or not you've made a lift or the lifter you're watching has made a lift is whether or not the jury intervenes. And I think there have been a number of instances where the amount the jury has intervened has been more than it needed to be, more than it should have been. Not to say that sometimes they weren't the right calls. Absolutely, I think the jury exists for a reason. But I also think that the jury's function should be to intervene when calls are egregious, when mistakes have been made or things haven't been caught and they're there as kind of a fail safe. However, I feel like the way the jury has evolved in the past couple of years has been to essentially, I don't know, give a passing or failing grade to the referees in real time. And I don't think, again, if we wanna be very concerned about the image and the optics and the professionalism of the sport, I don't think that consistently undermining your IPF level referees at a world championships is the best way to do that. So, while I think, you know, I've gone off the rails here on my feelings about the jury in general, but this rule simply states that they're able to use the technology available. Beyond that, there are a few more rules that have changed, a few more things in red text. If you're reading along, but unless you're a national or above level referee, in which case, you're reading this anyways, these things probably are not going to affect you. So, I'm not gonna bother covering them and we're gonna wrap this thing up. Now, my final summary on all of this is, number one, the IPF can and should do a better job communicating with their membership when it comes to large scale changes such as this one. I believe that the IPF owes it to their membership to communicate clearly and probably in advance of these rules being implemented. The chosen method of communication being a personal post on an IPF committee members Instagram page is not an acceptable method for communicating with the membership at large. Number two, I think that we need to have a serious look at the rule book potentially as a whole from a technical linguistics standpoint. We need to use better technical language to describe the body, to describe movement, to describe position. We need to clarify these things and we need to be semantic down to the smallest level because one of the reasons I fell in love with powerlifting was its lack of subjectivity. I came to a point where it was a choice between, you know, maybe bodybuilding and powerlifting and powerlifting was number go up, I lift more than this other person, I do better, I score more, nice, right? And I think that is some of the beauty of powerlifting. And that is unfortunately lost on some level, not necessarily on a huge level, but on some level due to the wording of things in the rule book. And I think especially if we're gonna implement new rules and additional rules and attempt to make clarifications on rules that we should be really fine tuning the language we're using to do so. And number three, I think if you're still watching this, thank you, I've said a lot. Hopefully some of it has been, I don't know, illuminating or you've agreed with or disagreed with, which is fine, leave that in the comments, let's have a civil discussion. If you're watching this, please, please involve yourself. This is, and I almost wanna just play Rory's video on our video because it is that good. And I think Rory does a wonderful job of explaining the process of making these rules, having your voice heard, et cetera. But we're gonna put a link to Rory's video at least in the description. Rory the Lynchpin, he's one of the head coaches for New Zealand, has been for years, great guy, good coach, smart dude. He had a lot to say about, not necessarily the rules themselves, but the process. And did a better job than I have of being objective and basically just said, get involved, reach out, don't pick fights with things and give like an ungracious interpretation of the rule. Don't look at all these things and just make memes about how the IPF hates fun, because that's not productive. That's not gonna steer executives and real people with power to make change to do things that favor and favor the membership and fix things. Instead, collect your thoughts in a thoughtful way and get them to the right people. Send them to your federation head, send them to the executive of your national federation and ensure that that feedback gets passed on. That is how as a membership, as lifters, referees, as coaches, we have our voices heard and we have a say in this thing that is powerlifting in the IPF. Rory made a really good point of saying, this isn't some shadowy, Illuminati kind of shadow society. This is just people making decisions. And as people, we can communicate, we can influence those decisions, or at least we have to believe so. And we should, we should try to have our voices heard, we should try to say something, speak out. Maybe it shouldn't be me, because I will say far too much and it will take far too long. Thank you for watching this video. Like and subscribe, all that good stuff. And we'll see you in the next one. Bye.