 satisfactory Lubiana, satisfactory Lubiana, satisfactory Lubiana, satisfactory Lubiana, satisfactory Lubiana, This is going to be a six-week block, so it's one week shorter than my usual block. I usually peak for seven weeks, but just with the sort of timing leading into Worlds in November, that's the way this worked out. So with my squat, we talked about that last week. I got a single up 275 or 605, 606 pounds, which I was really happy with. And the following day, I went in to do my comp deadlifts, my comp deadlift top single. I planned to go 340, but my last warm-up just felt a little sluggish, felt a little off, so I decided on a 5-kilo jump as opposed to the 10-kilo jump from the previous week's 330. I ended up pulling 335 as opposed to 340, and looking back at it, I wish I would have just gone with the 340. It moved very quickly. It was very comfortable. Again, still getting no pain on the deadlifts, which is really good considering that first day. Just was not going my way. And then did some back down work, I think in the realm of like 290, 295 maybe? Maybe 285. Anyways, six triples there. After that, I did my pin presses for eights. Now, this was an interesting day in terms of sort of the development of my shoulder and its sort of return to normalcy. I'm not really sure exactly what I did different or what happened that day, but it seemed like I hit this sort of critical point of having strengthened it enough and having a low enough load and a manageable enough amount of volume to where I actually came out of that session with my shoulder feeling impeccable. There were, I'd say, 80% of the reps that day. I had zero sensation at all in terms of sort of even just feeling a little bit of something where the sort of pain sensation, pain experience has been happening. And that was really cool. That seems to have continued from that point. And the rest of the week, benching felt really, really good. So I'm not sure if something happened that day or if I was able to make a shift in my mentality regarding my shoulder and its health. But in any case, it seems to be moving forward quite well. So I'm planning to take some bigger jumps on the bench these next few weeks and kind of get back into the range of where I would normally be training raw. My third day did some pins or sorry, some squats versus chains. Worked up to a top set of 205 for eight, which works out to 255 at the top, which is a pretty fantastic place to be, I think, in terms of my squat strength. I'm feeling very strong and controlled in my squat right now. Feeling very fluid, consistent in my technique. So a lot of things are going really well with that. Did some five count pause bench, which are what they are. And I think even some dumbbell bench. Got a couple of pumps in over the weeks. As I gain a little bit of weight here in the offseason, trying to make sure that I do enough arm and shoulder work that I don't just get fat and a bigger back and bigger legs. My upper body's kind of always been something that's lacking a little bit. So trying to make sure that we put some muscle on there as well. My fourth day this week was actually pretty cool. I saw Bryce Lewis block pulled 370 for a set of three. My plan was actually to go in and pull a single at 395. But having seen that, I felt a little bit inspired to kind of go a little harder and loaded 400 on the bar. I was up all night the night. Not all night, but I was up later than usual, kind of lying in bed, thinking about this. I was, you know, focused a lot on it that morning. Got really psyched up. Got the ammonia. And, you know, got sort of emotionally ready to deal with this big weight that has been kind of haunting me since, I don't know, it's been a couple of years now. I've been looking at hitting that 400 mark. So went in, pulled it, absolutely smashed it. Probably about an 8 RP. And it was almost anticlimactic. I almost was like, oh, is that it? Like, it was one of those things where there was all this buildup. And then I did it and it was not, like, it didn't feel that impressive. So I'm probably going to load up 410 this coming week. Block pull over 900 pounds, which would be pretty cool. And if that goes well, maybe we'll go 420.5 in the final week of the block here. The world record in the 120s being 420. I wouldn't mind taking a shot at that, even if it's from blocks. So, yeah, the week went pretty well. Finished up with some reverse band bench. And that's about it. Some rows, maybe. Some dumbbell rows from Myo Reps, which I really like. They got me walking around like I got ILS afterwards. In terms of album recommendations, actually just today, as of this recording, the band Intervals put out a new album. I had it pulled up here. Let me dig up the album name for you. The Space Between. It's an EP. Now, Intervals, I believe, were not an instrumental originally. But they re-released an album of theirs as an instrumental. And people liked it so much that they ended up becoming an instrumental band. And I'm not sure if that's because the singer left or they gave him the boot because their instrumental stuff. People enjoyed it so much. But I really, really like their music. It's pretty gent-y. It's pretty groovy, pretty choppy, riffy kind of stuff. It's got really good flow to it. And I find it's really good music to kind of get in the zone lifting to. So, yeah, definitely check that out. I think I haven't listened to the album extensively yet. I just kind of perused a few of the selections this morning. And feel confident enough in how much I enjoyed their previous stuff that I can recommend it. I'd probably give it a 4 out of 5 Screaming Bryce Heads. So, go ahead and check that one out. Do some lifting to it. Maybe hit some PRs. And one last thing of note before I sign off for today. We are going to be trying out Twitch for our live streaming. We're going to be continuing with our form check stuff. You know, if the Twitch thing goes off and goes well, maybe Dylan and I will do some gaming on there. But that's not necessarily exactly what we're planning on right now. We're going to do two live streams this week. When's this video coming out, Dylan? Okay. Yeah, we're going to be doing two live streams this week on Thursday and Friday. We've got our Twitch channel somewhat set up. I did a bunch of design work to try to get all the little panels and buttons and screens and all that kind of stuff ready to go. So, we're pretty excited about the prospect of that. So, if you are on Twitch, go ahead and head over to Calgary Barbell. Just look us up in the search engine. And we'll be live streaming on there Thursday and Friday. Now, this isn't necessarily a definitive switch to Twitch and an abandoning of our YouTube live streaming. But there are a lot more tools for us to help build the community and to provide a little bit more value. I think through Twitch. So, we're looking forward to trying that out and seeing how it goes with everybody. So, check us out on there Thursday and Friday this week. And that's about it. We'll see you guys in the next one. We'll see you guys in the next one.