Hello out there. Bryce back at Calgary Barbells, the Strength Edge in Calgary, Alberta. Uh we're doing a quick recap the ends week training. Uh all my raw stuff. So, got a massive massive 220 kilo squat single. Um, no, but seriously, I'm uh I dialed my squat back probably 100 kilos to try and regroup my movement pattern, figure out what the hell's bugging my hip every single time I squat and uh fix the problem before it gets any worse. So, squats went really well, have been going really well raw, albeit pretty light. So, uh that's that's coming along. Uh, bench seems to be moving really good. I found that benching in equipment teaches me or has taught me a little bit about how to properly get tight and stay tight under heavier weights. I'm routinely using 200 plus kilos on my bench shirt. So, using 165 kilos raw seems not quite as not quite as crazy to me. Um, so that's been really good. Bench has been going well. Both competition, two count pause, everything like that has been going really really well. Um, today we did uh some singles on my deadlift. Worked up to 315 kilos, which is just shy of 700 lb. 694 I think. Uh, and then six sets of four at 272. So, 601. Um, banged out a bunch of volume there. Again, trying to figure out what's going on with my hips. I do get a little bit of an impingement in the front of my right hip pulling sumo. Um, so trying to figure out exactly what's setting my hips off in each movement pattern. Hence why my raw stuff is so light right now. The equipment tends to give me a little bit of leeway. Uh, I think the compression at the bottom helps keep me centered. Uh, and that helps a lot. So, trying to figure things out with my raw stuff. Uh, had a bit of a breakthrough squatting yesterday and doing my Buffalo Bar Good mornings today. Uh, I think I found some correlation, not necessarily causation, but correlation between the function of my left shoulder and the pain in my right hip. So, shirted benching the last couple weeks, I've kind of messed up my left shoulder. It feels a little uh a little banged up. My rotator cuff's been taking a bit of a beating from tucking so hard to touch and getting out of position. But I found today if I lock my left shoulder down better, uh, which is something that that Seth has noticed a couple times on my bench is my left shoulder doesn't sit quite as low. There you go. So, I'm working with the function of my left shoulder, making sure it's tied into my torso a little bit better. And that seems to like that alleviate the pain in my hip and allow me to to be a little more a little more symmetrical with the lockout. So the the Buffalo Bar Good mornings today I find really closely mimic the lock out of my squat and my deadlift. And if I think I think if I can dial those in a little better, get my torso locked in a little tighter, I'm going to be able to ideally beat the mechanic that's going wrong with my squat and deadlift and causing my hip pain. Um, I think a lot of people get really wrapped up in like, "Okay, well, what corrective exercises do I need to do? I'm going to get chiropractic treatment. I'm going to get art. I'm going to scrape this muscle and roll it out." Blah, blah, blah. But the thing is, if you don't fix the movement that's that's causing the issue, you're kind of just putting a band-aid on it. Um, so this is why I've dialed back my raw work so much and why I'm working very meticulously with how I'm moving, trying to be very, very conscious of how my hips are firing. and that seems to be lending itself to fixing some of the issues. That's about it for the raw section of this week. Uh if you like the video, like, subscribe, comment, and we'll see you next week after Equipped.