What's going on, guys? We are here in Winnipeg in some unnamed hotel and uh we just finished up I finished up the week's training. We had our seminar here yesterday. So, I'm going to run you guys through the week real quick. Monday went into the gym, did my equipped squat and bench press. Um squat went relatively well. First set at 315 was a little bit slower and heavier than I would have liked, but I was fairly misgrooverood on that rep. Next set was a single at 320 320 rather. Uh it went decently well again slower than I would have liked. And for my third rep, third set, whatever you want to call it, at 330. Uh I went over the top um turning my hat backwards. And if you don't get that Sly Stallone reference, I recommend you re you watch the movie Over the Top with Sylvester Stallone because it's a worthwhile investment of your time without a doubt. What I do is I I just try to take my hat and I turn it around and it's like a switch that goes on. So anyways, I went over the top, took 330 for a ride on my third single, and it moved really well actually. Uh again, not quite as speedy as I was in my suit last time, but uh still getting used to the self wrap and some stuff like that. So, squats went pretty well that day. Came in uh next and benched in my low cut super katana and it sucked. Uh I don't know what the deal was. I couldn't get the sleeves um seated right in my pits and I think I'm getting to the point where I'm I'm not going to be using that shirt for much longer. I may again come back to it at some point in time if I want to try to get more out of my shirt. But for now, I've downgraded from uh it was a 46 low cut Super Katana that I was using that day for the first couple sets or first couple singles rather. And then I put on I have A-50 super katana regular cut collar uh that I'm going to be using today. Uh and I got the sleeves taken in on that. But in the video it's with the loose sleeves. Uh, and it's it's pretty pretty loose and pretty crappy. Uh, I can touch probably 170 in that shirt, but I'm not getting a whole lot out of it. Uh, so I did a single there at I think 200 that went decent and then 205 I missed and then I did a set of five at 190. Uh, anyways, came in the next day. Uh, after ordering a brand new bench shirt, I'm going to go with a 48 regular katana. For anybody who doesn't follow equip lifting or know anything about it, just disregard all that. But if you do know what bench shirts are, um I'm going to go with a katana. It's got a little bit stretchier material and hopefully it allows me to bench more like I do raw and maintain that kind of groove so I can stay strong throughout the movement cuz the biggest issue with the bench shirt for me is in order to get a touch, I have to dodge and go outside of my regular groove and that really throws me off. So day two was raw deadlift. I don't remember what I worked up to there. I think it was about 315 315 or 320 uh for a single and then five sets five triples at 300 kilos uh which was a big PR for me. I've never done uh volume over 300 kilos so that was pretty cool to do. Day three, super boring day uh was some close grip, same as last week and some rows. Those were up a little bit. Day four was my raw squat, raw comp bench. Now, my raw squat was up a little bit more. My top triple at 250 felt pretty good. Uh I'm feeling like I need to play with my upper back and my uh my bar placement and my grip width a little bit more because what's happening is I'm feeling like out of the bottom. As I hit the hole, I'm getting kind of tossed forward a little bit. So, I'm not super happy about that. I'd like to clean that up a little bit. So, I'm going to play with some of that stuff next week on Thursday. did my rock homp bench afterwards. That felt quite good. Uh my single was an eight last week whereas 160 was an 8 and a half last week and I went up a little bit on my volume. So I was 147 and 1/2 for I think five triples there which we felt quite good. So that pretty much brings us to the trip out here. Um, yesterday morning Dylan and I were up at like 2:30 or 2:45. All right, so we're on our way to the airport right now. It's like 3:15 3:20 a.m. Uh, Gary Vaynerchuk would be super proud that we're we're up and grinding. so we don't get old and worry that we never got up before 3:00 a.m. to go to work cuz that's what [\h__\h] drives the [\h__\h] out of him. I don't know if you guys know that, but that [\h__\h] drives the [\h__\h] out of him. Um, so yeah, we're hopping on a plane to Winnipeg. We're going to go present at a seminar, do some equipped stuff this weekend. Uh hopefully film some cool stuff. And uh yeah, even though I don't wear joggers or a dad hat, I'm going to try out this whole vlogging thing. Uh or we are rather. Maybe you'll even see Dylan in it. So that's that probably. Okay. All right, dude. How's it going tonight? Good. How come you guys got here at this point in time? Uh, so that's our gym. There's a security guy that just came to harass me right now. Oh, yeah. I believe it. How long have you done that? Um, about 5 years now. Just you developed interest in motor. Yeah, like I used to play in bands and just felt really unhealthy. So, I started lifting weights to get get healthy and get bigger cuz I was a really skinny guy. And uh yeah, it turned into a a pretty intense passion. Look at this. Are you kidding me? Oh my god. You did not put that on there very well. Are you still filming this? Yeah. All right, let me out. Uh Dylan, nice to meet you. Nice to meet you. You got enough leg room now? Yeah, better than the planes. Damn it. Woo. How's it going, man? Good. I uh [\h__\h] slept horriically though. I was like, "Oh, I got to make sure I'm at the airport." Oh, yeah. And you're like waking up every 20 minutes or so. I miss my alarm. I miss my Exactly. Are you rolling? Okay, cool. So, we're here with Paul from Brick House Gyms. This is the second location just opened up here in Winnipeg and we're here for the seminar. So, I'm going to let Paul take us on a little tour of the facility. Hey, how you doing? Come with me. This is where we poop. Bathrooms in the front. It works, too. And there's TP. It it there's a limited amount of toilet paper. All right. So, if anyone's coming for the seminar today, I hope they brought their own. Two squares for poop. Two squares for poop. And it is not double ply. Uh in the front here is our dumbbell area. Off over here, we have our platform. So, four platforms all lined up nicely. Uh along the center, we've got our benches, cages down here. Here's our chain rooms. Take a look at those. Those are some uh original Brick House originals. Brick House original. There you got Superman. Here we have Super Brick House Manark. So, this is a 24-hour facility. So, we've got people clanging and banging 24/7, 365. That's the best way to do it. That's why I never sleep. uh cages along here. So, we've got seven seven racks/ cages if you want a squat or bicep curl. We're set up for the curls. This one's set up to do both right now. One set up for curls, uh forearm curls. And uh well, we'll do curls with that one, too. And then back here in the open area today, we're going to be hosting a seminar with Bryce. You know him, right? Never heard of him. And uh and that's the gym, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for coming. So squat squat wise, what are your numbers like? Uh 440 training. Okay. 425 competition. Sweet. And you've competed before? Yeah. Awesome. There we go. Good. Good. So, what I think you might be able to get away with is a little bit more knee travel to stay a little bit more upright. Cuz I think if we're pushing back too far, we might be coming up and then the quads or our knees are too far back and we're ending up doing this kind of thing. Whereas, I think if you if you allow the knees forward a little bit, we might be able to stay a little bit more upright out of the bottom. So, let those knees forward as you said. There you go. Now, drive up. Yeah, that's it. Use those quads. Good. for. All right, let's go. No pause now. Good. All right, rock it up. Sweet. Yeah. Like it's The biggest thing you're noticing is as you start your pull, the hips kind of shoot up, right? Okay. So, what I want you to do is I want you to think about keeping your knees forward and making it more of a push. It might need it might mean slowing down a little bit off the floor, but really try and think about keeping your torso where you set it, pushing it up off the floor as opposed to pulling so fast and having it shoot back. So, let's try just like one or two more reps. I want you to slow it down a little bit off the floor and think think about like a leg press like you're pushing the floor away more so than pulling up on the bar. Push. Patience there. Good. Keep that bar nice and close. Knees out a little. Good. Little rush. There you go. The first one was really good. Let's try one more. Let's see if we can get this down. So, just don't rush it. Think about pulling the tension out. Use that tension to initiate the pull. Try not to like rush into it. Yeah. There you go. Much better. You should probably update everyone what's going on. So, we just finished the seminar. It went exceptionally well. Everybody here was [\h__\h] fantastic. Uh, Brick House gym was great. And I'm going to pull some student deadlifts now. Baby, I can feel it. Baby, I can feel it. Baby, I can feel it. I can feel it. I can feel it. Baby, I can feel it. I can feel it. I can feel it. I can feel it. I can feel it. I like Chihuahua. A few moments later. So, there's been some bastardization of your last name recently. Oh, yeah. I'm super interested in that always. Just say Just say it again for me. Say it again. You say it. No, I You have to. I got to read it. I got to read it. The easiest way to say it is just crotchic. Crotchic. Yeah. Ah, I was trying to be like or like trying to get some [\h__\h] the like the the proper Ukrainian pronunciation. Krabchik. Krabchik. Krachic. Did I get it? Are we filming? Oh, good. Oh, good. I've uh I've given up with it. I just say crawchuk. Yeah. Crach is just fine. I I have a a strict rule where I do like a once a week [\h__\h] just cheat day, just gratuitous. That's been the last 3 months for me. Oh yeah, I try to keep it to one day otherwise I'd be quite fat and uh I do it on Sundays. So like all these all you can eat ribb days, they're always on [\h__\h] weekday. So I can never get to do the all you can eat ribs. Yeah, it's infuriating cuz I want to have a heart attack and I want it to be I want it to be cuz of ribs. I want a ribbon dish. Like if I'm going to [\h__\h] die, you know, there's only so many glorious ways to die. You could die [\h__\h] fighting, eating ribs. Eating ribs. Those are your three options. Those are the ways. [\h__\h] peacefully in my bed. [\h__\h] that. Can't go gently into the night. Just pull a big deadlift and have a massive aneur. That would be a good way to go, too. Just like lock it out. Bof and then fall to the ground with your hands still on the bar so it counts. Yes, I like it. Who would have thought? What floor? It's too make an edit out of that. So, we just got back to our hotel here in Winnipeg and it turns out that Dylan and I are going to be spending the night in that together. It's very romantic. Dylan also snores really, really badly. Uh, I got AI've gotten a CPAP specifically for that reason because I snore really badly, too. But like an adult, I fix the problem by getting something that prevents me from snoring. Dylan refuses to do so. So, I'm not expecting to get any sleep tonight. And it's about4 after 9 our time back home. And we've been up since 2:30 or 2:45 this morning. So, it's been a long day.