What's going on, YouTube? Back here at Calgary Barbell. Just wrapping up first training portion of the week. So, to take a step back for a second, I lost a couple pounds. Uh, and then the last two weeks of training in my shirt. Everything was touching and pressing nice and smoothly. I gained some of that weight back now. And my shirt's fitting super tight. I'm having a hard time touching my chest without being out of the group. So Monday was a bit of a mixed bag. I missed 195 a couple times. Then I hit 195 a couple times, but any rep I touched I couldn't press. And any rep I pressed I couldn't touch. So uh came down to a set of 175 for five after that. Some of those were cut a little bit higher than I would have liked. I didn't quite get it to where the shirt bound up um just because I thought I would miss it if that was the case. Tuesday did competition deadlifts, six sets of five at 232 1/2 kilos. And this is probably the best my deadlifts have felt in a long, long time. Even when I was training for worlds and my numbers were up there, my pulls didn't feel as good. Uh a lot of times my deadlifts, I would feel more fatigue in my joints almost than in my muscles. Whereas now my deadlift's starting to feel like my muscles are doing more of the work, which is probably a more ideal situation. Today did some close grip bench uh for higher reps and that was PR as well. Uh 142 1/2 kilos, which is 319 for a set of six uh with a good solid rep left in the tank. So bench is progressing. My shoulders feeling a lot better. Uh, I had Dylan do some art and, uh, grassman work on my shoulders, my hips yesterday, and then I went back to see my Cairo, Brad Kane, at the Calgary Center for Health. Check it out. Um, and got some more work done today. So, I'm really staying on top of trying to keep myself healthy, keep myself moving, adjusted, all that kind of good stuff. And it seems to be paying off. I'm hoping hoping hoping Rory, if you're watching this, I want to squat next week. Uh, so I'm hoping my physio and Mike will put some squats back in my program next week and we can get rolling on that, feeling that out, seeing how that's going to go. So with that, we're going to get to questions of the day today. We had a whole bunch of awesome questions on the last video. Uh, and I feel like if we if we just move on from that, some of them are going to get forgotten. So, what I want to do is I want to actually go through and answer maybe three or four of these questions from last video cuz you guys asked a bunch of really great questions. Uh, and I want to answer a bunch of them here. So, so I got a question here from Joseph Olmita and it's, "Are there any staples to your pre-training warm-up mobility scheme or do you vary them depending on the day's movement?" So, obviously before I bench, I'm going to do something a little bit different than before I do a lower body workout. But every single time I train, I have a very strict mobility protocol that I go through. Uh, and it involves a lot of hip stretching, rolling my quads, IT bands, hip flexors, lots of hip flexor stretching, lots of glute stretching, uh, and some rotational work. I really like a movement that's called, it's like a trunk rotation. So, you lay on your side with your knees out to one side, and you open up across like that. I'll do those for sets of 10 on either side. Uh, and that one for me feels really good cuz I tend to get pretty stuck in my SI, S1, L5 kind of low back area. And that one I can usually get a little bit of an adjustment out of and it helps me sort of get everything moving really well for the day. Um, on top of that, I like to do a lot of glute activation work. And if I'm going to bench, uh, I like banded dislocations and probably some YTWLs. If you guys don't know what those are, uh, just look them up. There's tons of videos out there on them. This next one's from Isa Brown Bear. I have a tattoo lifting question. When the bar drags across your knees, doesn't the bar tear up your skin and ruin the tattoos? Yes, a little bit it does. Um, I don't know if Dylan's going to pan down or not here, but I have some uh some very visible sort of white bits on my tattoo. You can kind of see it's a little bit lighter in some spots uh there. And then as well on this shin, there's a couple of spots where there's been some divots taken out. Um, it's really not that bad. There are some bits, like I said, that are a little bit lighter in color, but I haven't lost the color completely. Um, so yeah, I mean, sometimes I do ding up my shins and it does ding up the tattoos, but I don't know. You kind of can't have your cake and eat it too. If you want to lift and have tattoos, you might ding your tattoos up on your shins. This one's from Adam Debert. Do you have any advice on how to get back into heavy training after a low back injury? what kind of frequency, volume, intensity to use. So, the biggest thing I would say is work with a qualified practitioner. Find somebody who knows what they're talking about with back injuries and work with them. Ideally, find somebody who knows about back injuries and also understands lifting and uh treats athletes, not just your general population, cuz your approaches are going to be different there. So, I'm going to go on my own personal uh experience. So, what I would do is I would do very low intensity. I would do relatively high frequency and I would do sort of a moderate volume. Um I'm working with a client right now online who has some shoulder injuries and we've really had to dial back his benching. So he benches still 3 days a week but we varied his intensity from about 25 to 35% waving through the 4E cycle and uh higher reps but very very low intensity only doing what he can do painfree. So, in the case of your back, obviously you want to still try and squat and deadlift if you've been cleared by a medical professional, but low intensities, do what you can do without pain and don't exacerbate the injury. So, this next one's from Skyler Bon. Hopefully, I'm pronouncing your name right there. When it comes to programming in the offseason, should you stay at submaximal high reps or should you do some weeks of high percentages and low reps? The answer is it depends. You're going to hear that a lot from me probably. Um, it depends on the athlete. It depends on your purpose for the training program. Are you programming in the offseason to try and uh specifically allow the athlete to recover? Or is the athlete super beat up? How how many times has the athlete competed this season or last season? How long do you have until your next season? The further away from competition you are, the further you can stay away from submaximal weights. But at the same time, you're not going to make as many strength gains if you're too far from sub or from maximal weights. So the lighter you go, uh, the less strength gains you're going to make, obviously, but it can have a purpose. So you need to you need to think critically about why you're doing submaximal weights for higher reps. So I got another question here from Mazarion. This one's way better than his other one in terms of me being able to understand it. Um, so he's asking, "How do you deal with staying away from maximum weights and then getting back into maximum weights in terms of the CNS and psychological aspect of things?" uh wondering sort of how to deal with it feeling heavy when you first get back into heavier weights. What I would say is make sure you have a period in your programming where you're reaclimating to those heavy weights where you're doing heavier singles, doubles, triples, even heavier sets of five. Um always try to bridge between your your sort of lower intensity phases and your higher intensity phases. Uh, and if you don't necessarily bridge in a nice uh, sort of linear progression, then what I would do is just allow yourself a little bit longer to acclimate. So, let's say uh, you're working with uh, 550 lb, you got a 700 lb squat. Most of your work is 540, 550, whatever. Before your meet, you probably want to take 6 or 8 weeks and get back to, you know, 600, 650 lb squats, uh, and start doing some work in the higher intensities gradually. You always want to gradually acclimate to things. So, just don't rush it essentially would be the the long story short answer to that question. Another one here from Garrett Coure and he's struggling with some knee vGus on his squat. Best thing I've found for that is a make sure that your weight is staying midfoot and you're not rocking back onto your heels. A lot of the times in your squat, if your hips push back and your weight goes too far back on your heels, your knees are going to crash in at the same time. That can be a quad weakness. Now, the best way to address a quad weakness in a squat is to squat better with your quads. Not necessarily do a bunch of knee extensions, but just squat better with your quads. One thing you can do there, lower the intensity, add in some pauses on the eccentric and concentric phases, and really work on patterning your squat. Practice those lighter weights. Make sure everything moves better with lighter weights and you'll be able to increase your threshold of what you can lift before your knees crash in. You may always have that at heavier weights, but try to increase what you can do before things go wrong. Last question here. We have one from Paul Kho and he asks, "How often do you incorporate hypertrophy training in your program?" And the answer to that is, "Every time that I eat more than I burn." There's been some really interesting studies to show the hypertrophy is not necessarily a product of lower weights and higher reps more so than higher weights with lower reps. That the two are basically comparable as long as the overall volume is the same. So, anytime you're training with high volume, whether it's heavy or not, you're kind of doing hypertrophy training anyways. If you want to gain muscle mass, just eat more. Your diet's going to be the biggest thing to dictate whether or not you're going to see increases in lean body mass. So, uh I incorporate hypertrophy training always. Anyways, that's it for this episode, guys. So, keep asking those questions. I really enjoy answering them, fielding them. It helps us give you guys good content. Uh, hit that like button if you like the video and subscribe to keep tuned with everything else as we head into power surge. Hopefully, I'll be squatting soon. See you next week.