Hey guys, welcome back to Calgary Barbell once more. Uh, just finished my equipped deadlift session today and a little bit of 2count pause bands. Today did not go so well. I worked up to 355. felt pretty heavy, but uh looked at the video, moved pretty quick, so I felt comfortable moving up to 365. 365 is what I hit last week. So, I was hoping to go 375 this week, but uh it just wasn't there. So, what I learned from that is that a probably feeling it from last night's squats a little bit, b still trying to figure out where my recoverable intensity is in the suit, and c I need to set my ego aside, reset my deadlift a little bit, and stop trying to be a hero every session. Finding better intensity, I think, is going to be a big thing for me. Um, I've noticed that in the equipment, everything moves a little bit faster. So, my eight in equipment is going to be way faster than a raw eight. So, that's something for me to be conscious of in the future. On the plus side though, my raw bench is going exceptionally well. I've been able to add 2 1/2 kilos to virtually everything every week. Uh my twocount pause bench this week worked up to 167 12 for a single and then a PR triple at 155 followed by some work at 147. All triples but uh yeah the bench is going really really well. Learning really well how to get tight, how to properly brace and pull in from the the equipped bench. It's making a big difference. One thing that I picked up last night in my shirt that really carried over today specifically was taking big air before you unrackck and then not letting it out until you're finished your at least first rep. So, especially in the shirt, if you breathe before you unrackck, you're going to be able to get a bigger chest through the shirt. If you unrackck, let your breath out, you're not going to be able to get as big a breath, as big an air. You're not going to be able to get your chest up as well. Uh, and that carried over again onto my raw bench today. So, I think the equip bench is having a pretty profound impact on my raw bench. And that's super super exciting as somebody who's always sort of struggled with the bench press. It is pretty funny considering I was talking about, oh yeah, I can recover from this, no issues, blah, blah, blah, last night and then I come in today and miss a bunch of deadlifts. But, uh, I blame that more on trying to figure it out and some technical difficulties than I do on necessarily my CNS being fatigued or my burnout or whatever because as I saw today, my bench is still going up. So, it was a deadlift specific problem. Um, I think my back was a little bit fatigued from last night maybe, but I'm still trying to figure out exactly where I need to be for training my heavy singles in the equipment. So, that's it for the equip training this week. If you like the video, like, subscribe, comment, and we'll be at you this weekend with some raw stuff.