What's up, YouTube. We're back here at Calgary Barbell. Just finished today's lift. This Tuesday, Sunday, we were in here with Adam Ramsey. Go check out the video we put up uh where he talks about how he wraps his own knees all the time. Uh there's a some really, really good information in there if you're even curious about it. Um but had the pleasure of doing some shredded bench with him. Uh I think he worked up to 245 or so, which is a huge bench for a guy who competes in the 83 kilo category. Um, I myself worked up to I think 190, missed it, uh, and then realized that I'm just not strong enough or good enough in my shirt to jack it at all. So, what I needed to do was to take the collar from here where you see most guys wear, put it way up here, and I was able to get some really smooth uh, really clean reps out with I think 180, 185, 187, somewhere in that range. So, I think I'll probably open up around 175 in a couple weeks here. Uh, and then who knows, maybe take a shot at that 200. Uh that's uh something that's been on my mind for a little while now. So uh also did some squats that day. Worked up to 125 kilos for three sets of five. Still no pain. Uh everything's feeling good, looking good. And I'm really really stoked to see how the progress is slowly happening on my squat. Today I was back in my deadlift suit. Uh I can't even describe how good that felt to be back in that and to have things moving well uh and to have things not hurting, etc. So, what I did today was I worked up to a single at 332 1/2 kilos, which I believe is 730 something. Uh, pulled that at about an 8 RP. I'm trying to have my training on track to hopefully pull 800 at power surge here. I have no idea if that's going to be doable or whether that's going to be there on the day, but that is the goal. That's the number that I have in my head. Uh, so yeah, I'm really looking forward to the upcoming competition. I believe I'm going to be training pretty much straight through as the long-term goal is nationals and rehabbing my hip uh more so than it is putting up anything huge at power surge. All right, guys. So, I have a very relevant question of the day. Um this is from Kyle 33094. Uh and he asked if I could talk a little bit about SI joint pain while squatting and deadlifting. Any advice on fixing it? uh while I'm not qualified necessarily to diagnose or to treat injury, I will tell you a little bit about what happened to me, how I'm going about trying to fix it. And if we find that what I'm doing is working, then we'll definitely go into more detail about the process and the thought behind that. SI joint pain in my experience a lot of times comes from imbalances from left to right side. So when you have uneven pulling, it tends to shift that SI joint a little bit. Uh it can cause some pain or some nerve impingement or or things like that in there. One thing that I've found very helpful in my own treatment of my uh what I believe is my SI dysfunction anyways has been single leg work. So I've been doing a lot of lunges. I've been doing a lot of split squats. Uh, and also I've been doing a lot of core work to try and work on on bracing properly through my core so that my hips don't shift uh in the bottom of my squat or in my deadlift etc. Uh the other thing I find uh like I said is imbalance. So glute work uh glute specific work making sure my glutes are warm and they're firing and they're symmetrically firing. So I also wanted to give a huge huge thank you to Brandon Campbell for hosting our video on his channel. Uh, I think we've jumped up over a thousand subscribers since yesterday. Uh, and that's been awesome. Like, we can't uh we can't thank you enough, Brandon. Thank you very very much for putting us out there and, uh, you know, recognizing that, you know, we're trying to make some some good quality content here, and thank you for helping us get that out to more people. Definitely hit that like button, subscribe, and uh, comment below. Ask us some more questions. We're always looking for for good questions to answer in each video.