Let it. Hey guys, welcome back to Calgary Barbell. We are here in a monolith that I don't use. Uh to recap the week's training, came in Monday, squatted up to 227 and a half kilos, which is 501 lbs. And that went pretty mediocre. Uh there was a little bit more pain than I would have liked. Uh I was uh I was slacking on some of the cues that I've been using. I didn't have my left shoulder pulled into place until my very last set, which was actually really good and felt felt mostly painfree. So, I'm going to come in on Thursday and repeat that weight as opposed to continuing my progression to make sure that I can do that weight painfree before I uh before I move up. Also got into the shirt on Monday. Did 215 kilos to about a one one and a half board, which is probably one of the best reps I've had in my shirt. Also got 212 kilos to a touch, but uh had tucked too much and got too far out of position to really be able to do anything with it at that point. Uh, we also had Dylan in a shirt, which was equal parts hilarious and awesome. Uh, the only thing that sucks is now how much he whines about the shirt hurt his little armpits. So, um, today came in and did some deadlifts, worked up to 350 kilos for single. That's about 771 lbs, I think. Uh, and it moved pretty well. I'd call it maybe an 8 and 1/2. I don't think it was necessarily a full or a true eight, if you will. Uh, and then I moved on to do eight sets of five or rather six sets of five cuz I was a wuss and cut a little bit of volume today. Six sets of five at 22 sorry 277 kilos. So those felt really good by the end. I'm just I guess part of me is getting a little bit beat up by the incredible amount of volume on Tuesdays and the other part of me is trying to preserve a little bit for third or sorry Friday for pulling against chains. Did some pin press today. had a really really good single on that at 162 and it moved like an actual real eight, although a lot of people were saying that it was much less than an 8. That's what I want my eights to look like. So, also Dylan and I um we've been talking and uh talking mostly and we've decided we're going to compete in what we call an arms race. So, you can see what happened here. All right, guys. So Dylan and I have been having a couple of heated discussions as of the last week and we've decided we really need to settle this once and for all. So what we're going to do is we're going to do competition between Dylan and myself to see whose arms can grow more in the next 11 weeks. So we're going to get Sandra to measure here today and then in 11 weeks, the week before we take off for nationals, we're going to get Sandra to measure again and we're going to see how badly I kick Dylan's ass at this. Now, anybody who knows me knows that I'm self-conscious about my arms cuz they're small. Now, Dylan's arms aren't that small. So, I feel like I have an advantage in that I'm starting from a more like noob gains point with my arms. So, I really think I'm going to kick his ass. And he doesn't think so, but I will. All right. So, we're going to do two measurements. We're going to do flexed and we're going to do uh flaccid arm arm measurements and then we're going to record them today, December 20th. And then again on March, I believe 11th. On March 11th, we're going to measure again or at least end of that week. Maybe the 9th, 10th or 11th, somewhere in there. Okay. For posterity, are we doing inches? Yeah. Okay. So, we got to make sure we're measuring from the same spot each time. Or like maybe you want to measure down here today and then up here in March. Okay. Inches wise, you're sitting at 14 and 12. 14 1/2. That is fully laughable. 14 and 1/2. Let's We got to write this down. And I'm going to I'm going to be the record keeper for this cuz Dylan's a cheater and he will cheat. He'll edit the entries. He'll do whatever he has to to try and win. Uh, okay. So, my name's Bryce. 14.5 soft. Now, now with the flexing, which is really what I think is more important. Let's see. 16 and 3/4. That's a big difference. Flexed unflexed. I don't know if that's normal. Maybe. Maybe just a shower or a grower. I'm just a grower, not a shower, man. Okay. Give me the camera. Which arm are we doing? Right arm. I did my right arm. So, you two should do your right arm, man. I think my left arm is bigger. So, your right arm has more potential for gains is what you're saying. Which side you going to do? Right arm. Okay. I'll hold that side though. So then you can Okay, you're starting at 15 and 15 and a quarter. Already winning. Feeling pretty good about that. Are you Dylan? All right. Flex. Flex. Holy Look at the peak on that bad boy. Do you want me to cheat? Uh, so he pushed up to 17. Oh, greasy. What was yours? 16.75. What? You start at 14 and you go to Yeah, I told you I'm a grower, not a shower. So, we're close. We're close. Flexed. Anyways, we'll see who comes out on top. Obviously me. So, as you can see, we're going to compete to see who can grow more in their arms over the next 11 weeks or so. So, moving on to the question of the day today. We have a question from Emil Kielson. I think that's how you pronounce that. Uh, and he's wondering if I ever do any strong man movements or if I have thought about doing a strong man competition. Now, I'm super fortunate to work or to work and lift at a gym that has a lot of strongman athletes and almost every strongman implement you would ever want. I'm good friends with a lot of the strongman competitors, but for me, I think that I would lose a little bit of carryover, and I think that I need a certain level of specificity in my training. I have too many goals in powerlifting still, and especially now doing both raw and equipped, uh I think that pretty much takes up my entire training uh training week, every week. So, for me, there's not really a whole lot of room to start adding stuff in. But I think for a more novice trainee uh or somebody who wanted to be maybe a multisport athlete uh or who wanted to add some strongman stuff into an extended offseason, I think those would be great options. Um you certainly learn a lot more. Uh you become a little bit more uh physically literate. So you're going to learn to do more uh you know round back deadlifts or round back picks with the stones. Uh you're going to increase your grip strength more than likely doing a lot of the grip events like the farmer's carry and axle deadlifts. doing some overhead work would definitely not hurt most powerlifters. Most powerlifterss I know have pretty laughable overhead strength unless they train it. So something like that could help to to beef up your shoulders. Might carry over to pressing strength in the long run. But for me, I think that uh I'm going to stick with powerlifting at least for the foreseeable future. Uh and maybe maybe sometime down the road somebody will twist my rubber leg into doing a strongman show. I think it'd be really cool. It's just not in the cards for now. Another thing we're going to be doing with the channel that I'm super stoked about is we're going to be keeping form check Fridays on Fridays as a separate video. We're really, really happy with the number of submissions we've gotten from everybody. Please keep sending those in. Calgary barbell2@gmail.com. Send your lifting videos in. I've tried to get back to everybody who sent them so far. But what we're going to be doing in the future is we're going to be actually reviewing a number of those videos per our video every Friday as form check Friday. So, continue to send those in. Look out for form check Friday videos on Fridays and our usual vlog will be coming out on the Saturday. That's it for today, guys. We're going to wrap the video up there. Thank you so much for tuning in. Leave a like if you like the video. Make sure to hit that subscribe button and ask more questions. We're uh we're we're continuing to look for questions of the day. Please ask more questions. Give us some good topics to work with for the videos and we will continue to give you the content that you ask for. See you next time. Heat. Heat.