 amsor. All right, we're getting back to vlogging post-qualifying meat, and the name of the game is Build and Work Capacity. I have, over the last few years, become like a one-set of lower body movement kind of guy, and, you know, on some level, I attributed that to, okay, well, you know, I'm pretty strong, so I gotta use a lot of weight, and, you know, that creates this, like, additional fatigue and blah blah blah, I did all these things to kind of rationalize it, and the big part of rationalizing it was it worked, right? Like, I had some of my best raw training ever leading into Worlds. I was, indeed, at my strongest heading into that competition. Now, having cut and getting back into equipped, you know, there are a lot of places I'm kind of pressing this, like, reset button, and one of my goals is to build some work capacity, to get to a point where, you know, I can do what it feels like work, because I think that's probably necessary for me to actually push my strength from this point, you know. I've got some big goals I'd like to get back to Worlds equipped for 2027. In intrusive thoughts, maybe 2026? I don't know. I've said over and over again that I probably won't do a big international in 2026, but I don't know. I'm an impulsive creature. Right now, we're training for Nationals. That'll be in March. It is December 17th right now. So we got, I think, one block raw, and then we'll get back into the equipment. But for now, build some work capacity, try to get the shoulders back on track. That is a big, big priority. So you're going to see me benching very, very light. I benched like 105, I think, on Monday for feet up, for four by seven or something. Again, really trying to push a number of sets. Trying to push for more work. And I think a part of that is going to be just lifting super light for now. Like really giving myself the freedom to build that work capacity as a sort of baseline to progress from. And I think that's one thing that I have been struggling with a little bit mentally is trying to find that middle ground. Because I don't want to just sandbag like crazy and not feel anything and not push at all. I had planned, I think, to do like 210, 215 for my eights on Monday. And I got to 200 and was like, this feels heavy. I'll do 205 for a set. And that was like, I mean, it was at the RP, right? Like it was at seven. But yeah, I generally have lower RPs, more reps per set, more sets, a little bit more like hypertrophy bodybuilding work. I'm going to be putting a lot of time and effort into warming up my shoulders, maybe benching as light as I need to. And yeah, this is like I said, a bit of a new beginning of sorts. So I don't know, come along for the ride and see how far I can progress, right? I think that'll be something that will be interesting to measure and to be aware of, to follow along, to maybe be a bit invested in. Because I think seeing these numbers at the beginning of this process will, it'd be pretty cool to compare those to where I end up in, you know, three months here. So, all right. That being said, let's, let's go do some lifting. Why don't we? And there you have it. Decently extensive session, although the current point in time, they're not taking up all that much time. A couple sets, eight on the deadlifts, little, little three sets on the bench, bunch of accessories. Most of the accessories were kind of like one set and done kind of things, but I think that's fine as we sort of shift more work onto the main lift. And yeah, attempt to bring that work capacity up a little bit. Bench still not 100% comfortable. It does still, like it's a fine line of being able to do the movement and put any like pressure, effort, push into it. And I think like in this 100 to 110 range is kind of where I'll have to play for at least a bit, which doesn't feel great, but at least I'm not like losing sleep because I can't find a position that my shoulders don't just ache endlessly in, which is about where I was getting to, you know, a couple of weeks out from the meet. And again, you know, that's one of those like negative feedback loops where you don't get enough sleep because your shoulders hurt and then your shoulders hurt more because you don't get enough sleep, you're not recovering. And it just like, yeah, does that thing. But I think we're on the road to recovery. Maybe you saw the crazy janky stuff I do to warm up for my bench. I got a whole bunch of crap like that I'm doing every day and before squats and like two, three times a week when I'm at the gym here, just like extra rotational kind of stuff, just keeping the shoulders moving. Right. I think that's, that's a big part of it because I do have a pretty sedentary life outside of training, which also is something that, you know, we're trying to try to push in the right direction, get a little more, a little more steps in, you know, do a little more stuff, be a little more active in general, which all kind of coincides with the reasoning and the rationale behind the cut and yad, yad, yad. Anyways, this will be an ongoing process. This will be hopefully a whole lot of progress. I know for certain, looking at where I'm at right now, there's a whole lot of disparity between where I am and where I'd like to be. So I don't know. Let's see if we can't close that gap. Right. And we'll see you in the next one. Bye.