 ascidentic unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown unknown I'm trying to find a way to get to the bottom of it. I'm trying to find a way to get to the bottom of it. I'm trying to find a way to get to the bottom of it. I'm trying to find a way to get to the bottom of it. I'm trying to change the heat. Cause I've been waiting on you. I've been waiting on you. Cause I've been waiting on you. I've been waiting on you. Cause I've been waiting on you. Cause I've been waiting on you. Alright, so that was the final heavy deadlift of the block here. Went exceptionally well. I don't know if I anticipated getting up to 370 by the end of the block, but we did and it moved damn well. I think one of the things that happens with my equipped deadlift, maybe I shouldn't even say this here in case any of my referees are watching, my lockout gets like just so slightly a few degrees less than fully locked out, and I think that was about, like that was perfect. That I would say I fully completely locked out, but I think like five more kilos and I would have ended up a few degrees less locked out, which is when things started to get a little questionable. So that was probably towards the top end of my current capability, but I don't know, last week, 360s, 2.5 went really well, so I kind of wanted to just see where we were at. So yeah, Frick. Frickman 370, pretty happy with that. Pretty darn happy with that. Decided to continue trying to try on the back-offs and pull the 320 triple, which again, also starting to get in line with like some of my, maybe not some of my best equipped training, but some of my good equipped training in the past, even being at like a full 120. So very excited by that. Especially considering yesterday, drumroll please, I ran for the first time in like probably, I don't know, four years plus. With my knee being the way it is and just being heavier, anytime I had to like jog across the street or something, it always just hurt like crazy. Like it did not feel good. Like it could take any kind of impact. But for the last maybe two months-ish, I've been doing cardio like three times a week-ish. Just to help supplement the level of activity I'm doing right now in the cut. And most of that's been just walking on a treadmill uphill. So yesterday, you know, I've been kind of like flirting with like, okay, how high can I push this and still be like doing a speed walk? And then yesterday I bumped it right up and was like, let's try it. Let's throw down, let's take some jog slash run steps and did maybe three intervals in like 30 to 45 seconds. And just knowing full well that that is really easing into it, because the goal obviously is to use that to just supplement the weight loss, supplement the cut, as opposed to trying to get really good at running or anything right now. But it was interesting. It was good to do my one hamstring and my back were kind of like a little feeling it this morning from that, which I assumed, you know, I haven't run in years, so it was probably going to be some pushback from the body. I didn't want it to be too extreme today because dead lifts. But I think we struck a good balance. And I honestly think that since starting to do more cardio and my cardio is usually, like I said, just walking uphill and then I'll do a number of shoulder exercises and stuff I got from Seth. And, you know, maybe some goblet squats and single leg RDLs or something. Right, just trying to like keep the body moving, keep the knee bending on days that I'm not training. A lot of my job is just sitting around. So I think pushing that cardio capacity along with those other non-powerlifting movements has been incredibly, incredibly beneficial for my ability to feel good from session to session to session. Right, like after my, what did I squat, 360? 355, 360, whatever this week. My knee like kind of felt it a little bit. I got like a little bit of a reaction from it. But that's the first thing I've done in many weeks where I've gotten any kind of soreness and it was gone like the next day when I went in and did all my, you know, grease the groove, rehab, rehab, kind of, you know, little cardio workout or whatever. So I don't know if the like cardio kills your gains camp of people still exist out there. I hope not. And I would imagine most people are kind of off of that. But I really, I really do think and support and like encourage anybody who is powerlifting to also do some cardio. I think anybody with like any amount of common sense or knowledge of training adaptations and the value of having cardiovascular health on every level, even if your sole purpose is to be a powerlifting athlete, I still think having that cardiovascular health is a benefit. It is a boon to that person. And I looking back, I regret quite a bit not having done like really any of that. Right, like as I got heavier, you know, hiking kind of went off the table a little bit. And I just like didn't really do much. And looking back, like it's kind of no wonder I felt like crap doing anything that wasn't powerlifting because I never did anything that wasn't powerlifting. Right, so yeah, I don't know the cuts been kind of eye opening in that sense. I've been enjoying, you know, getting a little lighter down to 112, 113 now and still, you know, steadily dropping. I made the swap to the XL shirts. I got to open up pretty much a new wardrobe from underneath my bed and pack all the other two XLs up because on my way up, I had bought a bunch of shirts right around the time when I went from XL to 2XL and I had worn them for like a few months. And then it was like, this is way too tight. But now I have them all to wear. Speaking of shirts, we just launched some new merch. If you like this bad boy, I don't know how well you can see it from this angle, but we got a bunch of really cool heavy metal art designs done by a local artist here, Alberta, who kicks ass, who whips ass, dare I say, and has done our last couple launches that we're continuing to work with for future launches. Anyways, dudes awesome. Dylan made a really cool like metal design with much spider webs and shit all over it. We did another camo hat. So if you're in any of that, check it out. Other than that, let's get on to some friggin bench. I've been jabbering for long enough. Cheap shipping worldwide. Yeah, okay. I guess I'm not done jabbering. We changed our shipping so that you can get cheaper, much, much cheaper shipping if you are elsewhere, right? Like previously, shipping in Canada was pretty reasonable. Shipping to the States used to be reasonable. But a lot of our international shipping, like I know it was expensive. We had not much we could do about it at that point because we were warehousing everything here and shipping it ourselves. But we've changed things. We have distribution internationally and we should be able to ship, are able to ship very cheaply to like everywhere. So if you've ever, you know, tried to pick up some of our stuff and been like, uh, shipping's a little bit too much. Check it out now. I guarantee you it is much, much better. Anyways, that's it. Now I'm done. Frick. Perfectly controlled. I'm on empty. And my blood shot high. A follow in the light. So stay with me. I don't even like your company. I just wanted you to come for me while I keep my eyes on the world. So take my pictures, my picture picture. You told me I'm the one you wanted. You really wanted, but you don't love me like I love you. I don't believe you. I take the key then I'm gone. And when I'm driving, I'm really driving. I'm driving best because I mean it. I really mean it. I think I've done with all the speeches. But from the bleaches, I want to hear it no more. From the backseat. From the backseat. From the backseat. From the backseat. All right. That's the day. Hope you enjoyed it. We'll see you in the next one. Bye. Good.