 FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP FDP kind of readjust. And then the most recent week, which would be about a week from yesterday, or sorry, a week from tomorrow, was probably some of the best deadlifting I've done raw in a long time. So it seems like things are definitely trending in the right direction. To start off with, comp squat has been going quite well. I hit singles, I think, at about 260, 267, 270, and most recently, 275 today, which was fantastic. So the heavier weights are moving really well. I'm getting very little hip pain. My volume sets today were up at 240 for six triples, which is definitely the heaviest weight that I've handled for that much volume in a long time. So needless to say, squats are going well. The bench is creeping along. Today worked up to a single at 140. Forgot to press the record button for that one, but a bunch of triples at 120 after that. And just been kind of chipping away, adding five kilos here, 10 kilos there. Coming back from originally starting my pressing work around 40 kilos, just to get whatever I needed on the bar that was pain-free. So my shoulder discomfort is returning to some level, but it seems very manageable at this point. So I'm going to see kind of how far I can push that before it pushes back, and then dial back again and try to continue the sort of upward trend of strength versus, you know, pain and discomfort. So it's one of those things that's not necessarily a very linear path, but it is what needs to be done so that when I get back into a shirt, I'm able to just kind of go for it and not have to worry too much about shoulder discomfort. Deadlifts, we already touched on. Um, and honestly, like I said, last week, it pulled, I think 330. Now in terms of what I have deadlifted raw in the past, that's not necessarily my best pull, but it moved really well. Felt really locked in. It felt like a repeatable, comfortable technique. Um, and there was zero pain. So follow that up with a bunch of volume in the 285, 290 range. And again, no pain, no issue. So very, very happy to be able to, um, kind of just, you know, lay into the bar a little bit and, uh, and work hard. That's been probably the biggest thing in this block that I've been happy with has been being able to work hard and not being held back by pain. Um, you know, and I think that's something that a lot of power lifters fight with and deal with. And it's that constant struggle of, you know, trying to stay injury free, trying to push hard enough to make progress and, uh, you know, making that balance work out without getting, you know, mentally burnt out from sort of slogging through the tough parts of training. So right now I'm feeling very thankful, very grateful to have a good block going basically, uh, in terms of accessory movements and supplemental stuff. Um, some things of note, I would say are doing some block pulls, which are pretty novel for me, not something I've done a lot of before. My most recent single there was 385 kilos. Now I didn't set my hook grip quite right on that rep and actually it was one of the first times I felt my hook grip start to slip, but knowing full well from the time I picked it up that I just didn't put my thumb or my fingers in the right place on my thumb. I'm not too worried about it. Um, so 385 single followed that up with three sets of three at 360. So those are heavy and they feel really good. It's good to have that kind of weight in my hands. Um, and it's, uh, you know, I think the big thing with my recent equipped deadlifts has been top end balance and, you know, lockout more technique, I think than strength. Um, the 400 kilos, I lost it right at lockout. We've done a ton of paused work. I've worked a lot on positioning. And I think that at this point we need to hammer the top end so that, you know, if I get out of position, I can pull myself back through that. My, my legs and are sorry, my back and my hips are strong enough to finish those reps if they get out of position. Uh, squat accessory. This block is squatting against chains for sets of eight. So again, very kind of interesting hypertrophy work, I think, um, changes the strength curve a little bit. So especially in the later reps, when you're getting into higher RPEs, they're hard all the way through, um, you know, which is a lot of mechanical tension, mechanical stress, uh, and hopefully a good driver of hypertrophy. So yeah, uh, that's, that's more or less kind of the block, uh, in a nutshell and a, and a bit of a run through of what I've been up to these last few weeks. And now for our album recommendation of the week, uh, this morning I ended up putting on an old album and sometimes when I go through my music and listen to stuff I haven't listened to in a while, I'm really blown away by just how old some of the music is. Uh, but I was listening to Clayman, the re-release, uh, by In Flames, who actually recently just put out a new album. Um, not as big a fan of that one, but it kind of popped In Flames back into my head and listened through Clayman this morning. Uh, and that was released in 2004. The re-release was 2004. So dating myself here, but, uh, that's been a favorite album of mine for a long time. And it's always good when you go back and you put something on and it still holds up. I was still very much grooving and vibing to it this morning. It felt good. Um, and it still, still listens real well. So, uh, if you haven't go back through In Flames' older stuff, check out the album Clayman. Um, in terms of reviewing the Screaming Bryce Head review thing still, uh, so in terms of the, the review of the album, the rating of the album, I'd say I give it four Screaming Bryce Heads out of five. Um, it's definitely up there. It holds up and it's a, it's a pretty classic album if you ask me. So go check it out. And that is it for today guys. So thanks for tuning in. Um, thanks for following along with the training. I'm going to be heading into a washout in about three weeks here. So maybe we'll wrap this block up at the end and kind of show everybody where we've got to. And, uh, yeah, probably a couple more blocks still before I get into my equipment, get started getting ready for Worlds in November. Uh, but things are looking good. So stay tuned for more content like this. Um, make sure to check out our live streams on Friday. I believe we're going to be starting on Twitch pretty soon. So stay tuned for news as to whether we're going to continue streaming on YouTube or switch to Twitch. We'll make a community posts on here, but that is it for today. So take care and we'll see y'all next time.