My name is Jake Rosses. I'm a powerlifter from Ottawa, Ontario. Be moving to Calgary soon, later this year. competing in 66 kilos or 144 lbs and then I'm sub junior so I'm 18 years old 18 and under as category in a meet. Uh, squats 197.5 for kilos, bench was 112.5, and my best deadlift was 235. I got into powerlifting just through uh through wrestling. I wrestled a little bit before uh got a really bad hip injury and then uh I started going to the gym just for like physio and stuff like that. Then I found that I liked lifting weights more than I like lifting weights for like wrestling. So I had a lot more fun. Uh I found myself like just like happier and healthier. So I stuck with it. on me. My world Uh, general today I feel like I feel pretty happy. Uh the body's been pretty beat up the past few like the past like month and a bit just from all the training. So uh to be able to come in and PR my total I was super stoked about and then uh to hit a deadlift PR. I went for an unofficial world record missed it like pretty narrowly. I know it's there and I'll be good for more later. So uh I'm very excited uh for the next meet for sure. Heat. Heat. Yes, bless. Bless, bless, bless. My world is still around me. Yeah. Heat. And what is the next meet? Next meet is going to be Worlds in Minsk Rouge, which is like kind of crazy to say still still sinking in a bit, but uh yeah, I'm going to go to Worlds in in Barus in the middle of nowhere almost. pretty far from pretty far from home, but I'm super stoked about that. If I could hit some records there, that'd be like super awesome. And I just want gold. I don't care if I don't PR my total. I don't care. I'm like 30 kilos under my like PR total. As long as I get gold, I'd be like over the moon happy. Um, besides that, the world record squat and deadlift are pretty close. And uh I would I'd really like to get those two just to get the Canadian record back, so those would be it. Uh long-term goals, I do want to go up weight classes. I want to be end up being 83 and stop being a skeleton. I'd be super happy with that. And then I want to go to worlds as an open lifter. Yeah.