 All right, everybody, welcome back to another episode of FormCheck Friday. Now, this is the first time maybe clicking on one of these videos. We do these once a month and we have you all email us your lifts and give us a little bit of context. And then we pull them up on the screen and I give you my best coaching advice. We talk a little about programming, a little about technique, a little about this, a little about that. We try to help the community become better lifters, give a little bit of coaching, a little bit of community interaction, all that good stuff. So if you're interested, I don't know, subscribe, like it, comment, whatever, help push it out into the algorithm atmosphere. And if you're interested in submitting your own lifts, you can do so at Calgarybarbell.com. Now, what we're going to do is we're going to get started with last week's final lift from Jesse. Okay, so Jesse here is doing some dead lifts. We talked about this a little bit at the end of the last episode. Jesse competed for a while, I actually coached him. He's here in Calgary and took a bit of a break, did some bodybuilding and is back to doing some dead lifts. Now, not necessarily training for competition here, but wants to work on his hips rising in the dead lift. This is 595, 220 kilos, 225 kilos, depending on the conversion or whatever. I don't know if there's a, how much that clip or collar weighs, but what we did is last week, we left this up to our audience to give some comments and give a little bit of advice about how they think that Jesse could improve on his hips rising. Now, the first thing I'm going to say here to give my own critique of things is that I honestly don't really think his hips are rising too much. I think there is going to be a slight little bit of hip rise. And as long as you're catching it at the right point, I don't think hip rise in and of itself is indicative of us actually making any large scale technical issue. So first off, I think the hip rise is a very, very minimal thing. I don't think it's necessarily something that's going to be costing Jesse a whole bunch of kilos. Now, some of the comments we had in on our last video were that Jesse should lock his glutes better. He should start with his knees more back. Do more of a proper reset in the bottom. Focus on patients off the floor, maybe widen stance. So firstly, I think his lockout is totally sufficient. I think he's getting his hips through. I think it's a tough angle to see maybe, but it looks like he's getting a good full lockout. I'm fine with that. More of a proper reset. I'm really not sure how much more of a proper reset you can get, right? Like he's, he's letting the bar free fall to the floor. There's no slack pulled out of the bar. That's a full reset to me. I don't have any issue with his reset. Widening the stance is kind of an interesting one. I think there might be some value there. Just in terms of like he's bigger. He's way more jacked than the last time, you know, the bodybuilding way more jacked than the last time I, you know, coached him or worked with him. So I think widening the stance as you move up in body weight and weight class, I think is is often a pretty good thing to try to investigate, see if that offers you a bit better start position. So that's an interesting tip. But the one I want to focus on is, I think just starting with the knees more back, right? Now the knees more back, maybe hips a little higher, but you can see as we pull the slack out, we kind of end up in this higher hip position. And part of me thinks if we can just pull into this position to start with, we're going to be a little more consistent in how we're starting off the floor. And we're not going to really see that hip rise because one of the things that happens when we get that shift, right? From like, okay, we're starting to apply pressure here and we get that shift of like knees going back, hips going up, right? Whenever we get that shift at the start of our lift, it can lead to a little bit of inconsistency, right? So we end up, you know, if we were to look at this from the side, like one rep, we start the hips here. The next rep maybe we're there, the next rep maybe we're there, right? The hips aren't always in a super consistent position. Now, within a certain degree of variance, that probably doesn't, again, really matter that much. And I think we are kind of splitting hairs on Jesse's technique here. But if I were to address this and say, okay, this is how we get rid of the hip rise, I would say probably starting a little less. And you can see it reflected on the sort of like foot pressure as well, right? We're starting a little more forward in the foot pressure, and we're ending up a little more balance between front and back of foot. So I would work on even foot pressure between the ball of the foot and the heel, and I would probably be pulling yourself down into a position where your knees are slightly further back. And looking at where you start applying pressure here and where the bar starts coming up off the floor, just trying to like narrow the gap between those two positions. Simple as that. Honestly, yeah, kind of splitting hairs there, but that's what we do here sometimes. Okay, so now we're going to look at a deadlift from a guy named Ptolemy. Hopefully I'm saying that right. Ptolemy is pulling his first 400 pound PR deadlift. And so you notice some backgrounding. He said he got some feedback that he needed to keep his shoulders over the bar. I'm going to tell him not to drop the bar because that's a really bad habit. And if you ever end up competing, which it says here, you are training for a competition. That is three red lights, my man. You just got your your PR deadlift overturned. Don't do it in the gym. You won't do it on the platform, right? It's just one of those things that's like, it's easy enough to avoid. I understand piped, right? You know, you even kind of apologized in your email, like, sorry about the hype before the lift, because yeah, you're like jerking it around and stuff, which that's fair, right? Like be hyped. It's PR attempt. You should be excited for that. That's okay. But when it comes to getting it locked out and then dropping it, it's like, no, no, no, no, no, no, we do not want to be doing that. So how can we work on making this deadlift better? Right? So we end up like from here down, pretty, pretty good, pretty happy with this position. Actually, it is a little tough to tell from this angle, like I would love a more straight on side angle. Anybody watching this for standing in deadlift, straight on side angle. Very good. Allows me to, you know, get a pretty good analysis of things. But the first thing I'm looking at here is this, right? By, by pulling the neck and the head back so much, that tells me that we're trying to force a whole lot of extension through the spine, right? And when we force a bunch of extension, right? And when we force a bunch of extension through the spine, instead of packing the trunk as a whole, kind of down, right? Like we're trying to create pressure into the belt here. Right? That's why we talk about pulling the ribs down, filling out into the belt, you know, trying to create this, this really tight piston, like kind of pressure in, in the midsection, when instead we kind of just like pull into extension and arch the back really hard. A lot of the times what happens is the first thing that goes is this, right? Because this is the part I was talking about bracing. And we didn't brace it. We just created a lot of anterior tension. We just, we just extended really hard. Right. So as we start pulling, we get a little bit in the extension and the hips rise, but instead of the trunk rising and the torso maintaining its, its rigidity and position throughout the lift, we end up seeing this, like this little bit of breakdown in the low back. Now, when we get to the top, it gets maybe not even that sticky. Like you're able to lock it out pretty, pretty easily, um, through that position. But however, on a heavier lift, the more we lose that low back, the tougher that lockout is going to get. Now, the other thing I'm noticing here as you're locking out, the belt is really tight and I think especially on deadlifts, I always, and I'm at one of those points right now where I'm kind of in between belt sizes, right? Especially in my deadlift suit. I'm on my way down from 120 kilo class to the 105 class. Uh, you know, anyways, I'm between belt loops. And when it comes to the deadlift, I will always opt for the looser of the two because not only do I think deadlift provides less of an advantage or sorry, a belt provides less of an advantage on the deadlift than it would on a squat. Um, but I also think that positioning and the extra tension you get from wearing a belt kind of vie for position, if I were to rank them in terms of how important they are to having a good lift, having a successful deadlift. I think a lot of the times if we're not able to get into as good a position because we're wearing the belt too tight, the added benefit of that tightness is going to be overstated by the loss of position, right? In a lot of cases you're better off being a bit looser in the belt and getting a bit less bracing support for the sake of number one, being able to feel where your position is better, having the proprioception. A lot of times we have a really tight belt. It can be hard to feel when we're in extension over extension, you know, neutral range, all that kind of stuff versus like, okay, we just crank the belt on. We also can't breathe into it, right? We can't fill out into it. We're not queued to because that tension already feels like it's there. We just crank the belt on, right? We're good. Whereas if the belt is like the tiniest, a little bit loose, you're like, oh, I got to create tightness. I got to push out into this belt and create that tension. And that's what I really want to encourage. So number one, we're a little overextended, right? Work more on trying to create a tight brace here and less on trying to think like, oh, I don't want my back to round. Therefore I have to extend it, right? The solution often almost feels like you're allowing some rounding because we're getting into like a neutral range position, right? We might see a little bit more rounding up here instead of being quite so extended. Um, and we may even still see some rounding the low back, rounding the low back, not that bad of a thing, right? Like that's not the, uh, the, the, the, the demon that a lot of people, you know, tend to think it is, right? You round your low back or deadlifting. Well, say goodbye to your spine. It's going to explode and you're going to die in a fire. Um, it just doesn't, it doesn't happen like that, right? There are lots of people who deadlift super rounded, um, and just adapt to it. Right. There are a lot of things. If we look at something like strongman where you have to do a hinge movement rounded, right? Get one of those, uh, you know, 340 pound gigantic men grabbing a giant stone and then be like, uh, extend your back while you do that. Let's nope, nope, no rounding. Right. Doesn't happen. They're super rounded over. They curl it up. Um, and they just build erectors like thick as steel cables. You can do that. Anyways, I digress. Um, in this instance though, right? I think that little bit of rounding might be a bit of a loss of position might lead to loss in, in performance, which is what we're getting at here. Right. We want you to be able to lift the most you can. There's a powerlifting channel. I'm a powerlifting, uh, coach. I'm a powerlifter. That's what I care about. That's my context for things. So work on the brace, loosen that belt a little bit and don't ever do this again. You're better than that. You're better than that. My friend, don't drop the bar. Um, and I think a lot of people might hear that and be like, hmm, is that like a respect thing? Right. I mean, it's loud. Um, no, it's just part of the sport. We can't drop the bar. We must return the bar to the platform in our hands and under control, which I think actually that rule is legit. Um, so just practice how you play, right? Practice how you play. All right. So if you like what you're seeing here, if you like this kind of feedback, if you like my coaching, um, you know, if your powerlifter trying to progress your powerlifting training, you can go to Calgarybarbell.com and I encourage you to check out the Calgarybarbell training app. We have, uh, just over 50 programs on there to choose from. You load them up into the calendar with this very nice little UI. You can upload all your videos to there, reference back to them, looking at your, you know, training history and then looking through all the metrics and all that kind of stuff. So you have all these cool tools and really good programs to use with these tools. However, I think the really big thing that sets our training app apart from a lot of the other options is that we coach you through it. Right. We have a app, an app users exclusive discord wherein each week myself and two of the other phenomenal Calgarybarbell coaches, Danny and Taylor, we rotate through and we do a weekly video check in. So we, we analyze your lifting exactly like how I do this. I just did the discord check in this morning right before I filmed this. Um, it's the same kind of thing. Right. We go through, we look at your lifts, we answer your questions, we try to help you adjust the programming where necessary. And we actually give you the tools to ensure that you're progressing to troubleshoot if you're not progressing. It's coaching, not just here's a program. Anyways, that's my pitch. If that's interesting to you, check it out. Calgarybarbell.com. We have the app and I need to take a sip of water because I have my voices going away. Now we're going to get right back at it. We're going to look at Rick's bench. To now, this is Rick. Rick is bench and 305 for a single and 265 for four. Now Rick's not currently training for a meet, but he said he would like to within maybe the first six months of this year. Now he said, one of the issues is as the bar gets to his chest, he tends to lift his head, um, and, and lose a little bit of position in, in the bottom. Right. Um, he says he's been stuck between 300 and 320 with what he calls sloppy technique. He's wondering if there's any obvious accessories. He's used pin presses and long pause bench, um, with some success. So let me take a quick look through this now that I'm not jabbering the whole time. I think honestly, you've got a lot of really good fundamentals here, Rick. Um, I don't necessarily think there's a whole lot that you're doing wrong. Unrack is decently solid. I think one thing to work on is, is probably maintaining a little more tightness out of the rack. Right. So I would maybe set up a tiny little bit further in, make sure you're getting everything here, just like super, super locked in. And then when you go to on rack, like just from the elbows, right? Pop it out with the triceps and away we go. The next thing I would do is make sure that once you get it to here and before you start the descent, you're very tight. Yeah. The touch and the press actually look quite good. Right. If we are in that habit of lifting the head, you know, this, this is why lifting the head I think is, is an issue sometimes. Right. So when we're thinking about benching, we get the bar move in here. We got our elbows and shoulders and stuff moving here. Let's, let's think about the torso and what we want the torso to be doing when we're benching, right? We want this chest nice and high, right? We want our shoulders down low. So what that means is we're using leg drive to push back this way to get this chest up and back. And then the friction between the upper back and the bench is going to help dig and drive those shoulder blades down. So we have this kind of a pressure tension kind of thing. Right. We've got chest and belly up. We've got the head back and shoulders down. And when we come down and we descend into the bottom and the head lifts up and the chest falls like that, right? We're doing the opposite of what we want to be doing. Right. We're, we're turning in this, uh, in this clockwise as opposed to counterclockwise based on the angle I'm viewing this from sort of like tension, right? So what happens is we end up losing height in the chest. We end up having to touch and go a little bit deeper each time. We end up pressing from a slightly different point. Now, as I say, all of that, you're actually doing a really good job of keeping your chest up into the bar. Right. There are some reps where the bar sinks in a little bit more, but I would, I would for sure work on keeping that head down, keeping the chest up more. I don't think I'd change your touch pressure. Right. Like I don't think the fact that when you touch, it sinks in a little bit is a bad thing. Right. I'm not like a huge stickler on, you know, it has to be a light touch or anything like that. Honestly, I would probably look at this from a programming standpoint. Right. I would, I would look at it in terms of, okay, how often are we going really heavy? How much overall volume are we doing? How many times per week? Like what's our frequency of bench press? And I would look at ramping those things up. Maybe not all of them, not all at the same time, but let's say you're benching once or two times a week, I would add another bench day. Now, when you do that, you don't want to go from, okay, so you're doing four sets on day one and four sets on day two. You don't want to go from eight to 12 sets of bench all of a sudden. Right. That might be fine, but that might also be a really big jump. And then you end up pissing off your shoulders or you get some elbow issues or whatever. So what I would do is I would take one of those sessions and, and split it out. Right. Right. So that you have three, three and two or something like that. Right. That way you still have those eight sets. Maybe let's go three, three and three or three, three and four. Go, go to like nine or 10 sets, right? Add a couple of sets when you increase frequency like that. Now, the other thing you could do is just add a couple of sets to what you're doing. If you're going four and four on two different days, go five and five. Right. But the only issue with that is that then, you know, you might end up getting into some longer workouts to get more acute fatigue in the session. Maybe those later reps and sets aren't really giving you, um, you know, as good as stimulus because strength is a skill when it comes down to it. Right. We need to be able to express skill. We need to be able to lift technically and well. And if we're super fatigued, you know, those sets and reps at the end might not be as useful training stimulus. Um, so yeah, that would be the first thing I would look at is what's your overall stimulus, right? Cause there aren't huge glaring technical issues that I can look at and be like, Oh, this is why your bench isn't progressing. It's not that easy. Right. Your technique overall is pretty sound. Right. And I think at some point, like, you know, good enough is good enough. There's a room for improvement. Sure. Will that come with more practice and just being mindful? Yes. Absolutely. So look at the programming, try to get a little bit more stimulus on the bench throughout the week. And you also asked specifically about accessory movements. I think long pause bench is really good. I would also probably use in your, in your case specifically some feet up bench. Right. Because we have a heavier touch because we're relying a decent bit on leg drive. Um, we've got that tendency to like lift the head up. I would, I would think that feet up bench would force you to use, you know, more just upper body. And I would also look at maybe, you know, hammer in some like fun body building stuff once or twice a week, some dumbbell bench, maybe some overhead press, if your shoulders are cool with it. Um, some like isolated front delt tricep and pack movements. Right. Some, some chest flies, you know, that kind of stuff I think is sometimes grossly underrated, uh, in terms of allowing us to, to develop our bench presses. So yeah, there's a whole bunch of stuff. I hope some of it helps. Okay. Our next lifter here is Miranda. Now Miranda is doing some bench as well. So let's take a look Miranda's bench. So what do we see in here? This is going to be 145 pounds for a triple RP eight to nine. Um, Miranda is training for competition says that meets her bench. Just doesn't ever really show up. Um, she says they're set up in the gym versus her setup on the platform. Uh, you know, she's never really feels right at meets. She is currently working on a slightly wider grip. Uh, it sounds like her wider grip is ring fingers on the rings. And she says she has really long arms and is focusing on longer pauses. Okay. So let me take one more look here. Now the first thing I want to address is it not feeling right on meat day. Now there's a few factors, I think probably come into play there. Number one is going to be taper strategy. Right. So when we're looking at tapering for a powerlifting meat, I think, I think a lot of the times people over taper, right? People do too much additional rest. Um, you know, people change the variables too much from this is what training looks like to here I am on the platform. Right. So if we think about this, like, okay, let's say you're doing three bench sessions a week, right? And in training, you know, on any given day, you're able to hit some really good work and you're feeling like, okay, we're strong. I'm definitely in, in strength range to be able to hit a PR here. So then you go to your taper and you hit one bench and you take like a week off. And then you compete. Right. So what you've done is you've essentially detrained, right? Because with all this training stress and all of this fatigue that you're carrying throughout this block of training, you're still able to perform exceptionally well. Right. So that tells me we probably don't need to alleviate all that much stress in our taper. We don't need to be thinking too hard about, you know, we have to rest extra. You know, if we get to the end of a block and like things are pretty beat up and lifts are struggling and stuff. Yeah, sure. You know, we have to taper harder. Obviously that adds a variable to tapering. But I think generally speaking, because I don't know your training, I don't know your taper protocol. I don't know any of that kind of stuff. So I'm making guesses. Generally speaking, you know, I would probably not change much from a week of training to the week of the meet. I would take like one extra day off. Let's say you're doing four days a week of training, meet week, do three days. And for your bench, just do normal bench training. Don't change anything. Do what you would normally do in a week of benching. Just for the first three days, take the fourth day off and then compete on the weekend. Right. That's, that's kind of my taper strategy. A lot of the times, um, especially for bench, especially for women's bench, like it tends to detrain fast. We have usually a pretty high frequency, which means when we, when we miss a day or two, we're missing, you know, a decent stimulus when it comes to the bench. Now the other thing in terms of the setup and why it might feel different at meets is going to be the equipment. Right. If we're going to a meet, we're benching on a very different rack. Now this is a competition rack. So there's no, no reason that it should feel that different than a competition rack. You know, uh, it should be pretty similar. Um, what else? So let's look at, let's look at some actual technical stuff here now. I think the first thing I noticed here is that I think once you on rack, I want you to like, I want you to pull the bar out and down further. I want you to like come out here and like, wow, I'm asymmetrical as hell. Um, a little bit of this, right? Pull that bar down, pull that chest up, get set into your lats, try to get yourself into like more of a decline position. Now it's not necessarily going to change your arch, but it is. It maybe changes your touch point. Right. Let's see where your touch point is right now. It didn't look bad. Yeah. Okay. So maybe your touch point moves, you know, the tiniest little bit down. If we're pulling things down further. Um, so I would say you can even look at that as an independent variable. Play around with your touch point, see if touching a little lower feels better. Cause your bar path, uh, touch weight, leg drive, all that kind of stuff looks quite good. You're really not losing any shoulder position as you press. There's a lot going really well here. Right. So I think probably the biggest thing based on what you're telling me is going to be getting that taper protocol, right? It's going to be making sure that you're coming in to the meat, carrying some fatigue, heck it, right? You go into a roundup. Bench day on a Tuesday, you hit a PR, you're carrying fatigue. So, you know, if you go into a meat, carrying fatigue doesn't mean that you can't perform. So, you know, kind of a, it's a bit of a weird thing to get out of the habit of thinking, uh, for a lot of people, but I think a lot of times you can, you can taper a lot less. Uh, and then the next thing is just going to be, yeah, you know, programming in general, uh, no, you don't, you didn't mention that you're, you know, you're worried about, you know, any kind of like long lasting plateau or anything like that. So I don't necessarily want to look at programming right away, but I think that taper strategy, probably the biggest thing. All right. Um, so what do we have now? We have Emily's bench. We have a lot of female lifters. We have a lot of bench presses today. That's great. I like that. Let's take a look. Uh, let's see. So Emily is training for competition. This is a hundred kilos for a set of six. She said this is 73%. She's been lifting about eight years competing for five. Her squat and bench press have gone up a lot, but bench has been stagnant. Now she wanted to give credit where credits do because she's also lost 50 pounds throughout this. Um, and it's been a long time since I've been able to do this. Throughout this, um, and, you know, her bench has not lost any ground. Uh, she's currently running CBB 16 to see if it progresses, uh, and isn't planning on doing any comps for the next like one to one and a half years. So this is the part of the show where we're going to toss it to all of you beautiful people out there watching. I want you to go down into the comments, give us your best constructive criticism for Emily here. Tell me and us what you think she might be able to do a little bit better. Given the context I've given you and next month, I guess, uh, I will be opening our video with Emily's bench and giving Emily some feedback and telling her what I think as well as agreeing, maybe disagreeing with some of the comments. So that's, that's that. That's the form check Friday for this month. So we've been getting a lot of positive comments. It seems like people are really happy. This is back. So if you're happy, we're happy. You know, this is a very community driven thing. This is something we wanted to do for all of y'all. And, um, yeah, we just want to do what we want to do. And what we want to do is, uh, is take good care of our community and, you know, help people lift better and get people stoked on powerlifting. So, uh, thank y'all for watching. If you made it this far, we appreciate you, uh, like, subscribe, all that kind of good stuff. We're doing lots of blogs and things right now. We get some more educational content coming soon, but that's it for now. Bye.