All right, what's going on everybody? Welcome back to another episode of Form Check Friday. If you've never seen this before, what we do here is we have all of y'all send your lifts in, and I, u,, an experienced powerlifter and powerlifting coach of a decade and a bit, will basically do some free coaching. So, we take your submissions, we answer your questions, and we try to give you some advice both on technique, um, programming when it's relevant, mindset, all that kind of stuff. We try to get into it. So, if you're interested in submitting and having your lifts looked at, you can head to calgary barbell.com. And there's a link there for the submission form. Check it out. What we're going to do is we're going to start off with the one that we left off with last time, which is Emily. And Emily's doing some bench. All right. So, looking at Emily's bench here. Um, Emily's been lifting for about eight years, competing for five. Uh, she says her deadlift has gone up quite a bit in that time, but her bench has been stagnant. Now, to be fair, she said to her coach, she's lost about 50 pounds of body weight and bench hasn't lost strength. Um, she's currently running the CBB16 program and not planning to compete for about 1.5 years. So, let's take a look at what we've got here. Now, the first rep there looks really good. I think if I had to identify a couple of things, one would be to stay a little more packed here at lockout. It looks like as we lock out, we're seeing the shoulder kind of follow through as opposed to staying back, thinking about locking out short arms, right? Trying to finish each rep here in the elbows and with the triceps as opposed to letting the shoulders follow. The other thing that might be useful is on the unrackck, and you can see on this rep it even drifts back this way, but on the unrackck I'm going to say maybe try pulling it out a little further. A lot of times once you get that bar out, [music] it can be really beneficial to just pull it down a bit, right? It it tends to also pull your chest up at the same time [music] when you pull that bar down like you're doing a straight arm pull down or something on a cable machine. You can even do that as part of your warm-up to kind of get that feeling, get that sensation. The other thing I'm noticing as we go is we get more and more of this internal rotation, right? We start to lose that little bit of tuck. And again, that coincides with the shoulders kind of coming up and elevating out of position. We start having to press from higher up the chest. Um, we're starting to fight a little more for the elbow position as the set goes on. So, a little more focus in the upper back, right? A little more focus on So, if we look at Let's go to one of these earlier reps. All right, we have elbow position there, right? We go to one of the later reps. Elbow positions back here, right? We can see how much we've drifted from this initial position to out there. And again, that's going to cause your reps quality to kind of deteriorate. And if you can work more on keeping that upper back tight and keeping yourself a little more locked in in the upper back. Sorry about that. We uh basically run a doggy daycare here at Calgary Barbell. So uh you can see the dogs doing some wrestling. Well, you can't see them. You can hear them though. Um so yeah, if you can keep that little bit more tuck, that little bit more intent in the upper back um and that little bit more focus on external rotation, right? Pulling those elbows and shoulders down. Now, we don't want to see the elbows come down further than they are necessarily. We just want them to stay where you set them on the earlier reps. That's going to allow you to be maybe a little bit more consistent with your touch point. And again, I think one of the biggest things, you know, usually when it comes to pro to to bench progress is going to be that programming. And for a lot of female lifters, you know, high frequency, high volume, uh, we tend to tolerate those things pretty well. So, I would lean into some of that. Um, if you're running the calorie barbell program, chances are, you know, that's going to be getting you where you need to be. So, I'd be interested to hear back from you, uh, whether or not that programming has helped. And hopefully the technique advice that I've laid out here gives you a little bit of a boost. All right. So now our next lift comes from Christian and he's doing some deadlifts. So Christian is not training for a competition. This is uh about 161 kilos. He said uh 73% or so. And he says his deadlifts are problematic. He finds this technique, he said, a little embarrassing. Uh feels like his hips shoot up too much and it looks too stiff-legged. Now, unbeknownst to Christian, I've chosen this for the good lift of the week. I think a lot of the times people just need a little bit of encouragement and reassurance that they are doing things right. I don't think there's anything looking at this that I would change. I think your positioning is actually phenomenal. Um the tension off the floor and your um your your shoulder position in particular over the bar is just great. I love it. The big thing um to continue to work on is just making sure that bar doesn't pull you forwards, right? Because we are that little bit more forward in our start position. What can happen is we can end up getting pulled forward further out of position. So really, really important to when you pull into position, you know, continue working on this tension here, right? locking those shoulder blades down, locking into the lats, trying to find that connection of the lats down into the rest of the trunk in order to solidify your brace and not get pulled forwards. Looking at it from the side, maybe one thing we can play with is a little bit of a wider stance. It looks like we're very narrow on these. And a little bit of a wider stance might allow you to kind of get your hips pulled in a little more, a little bit more upright. I don't necessarily think that, you know, that's going to be objectively and instantly better, but it might help you feel just a little bit more comfortable. Um, overall though, uh, I think there is literally nothing embarrassing about this technique. [music] Um, I don't think your hips are shooting up too much. I don't think it looks too stiff-legged. Uh, I think you're you're actually doing a pretty great job on deadlifts. So, um, you know, tip of the hat if I was wearing one to the good lift of the week, Christian. All right, moving on. We have Freddy. And Freddy also doing some deadlifts. Or should I say Fred lifts. All right, so Freddy doing some Fred lifts. Let's take a look. Now, he's not training for a competition. This is 120 kilos for four paused. Now, Freddy says that he can't feel his quads and he can't get more upright. So, and immediately when I look at this, I think torso positioning is probably one of the biggest things to work on. And I know you said you can't get more upright, but it's not necessarily about getting more upright. I think what it's about is probably uh and and one of the again, one of the really common things I see in the sumo deadlift is people really trying to push their knees out super far, [snorts] right? Uh which makes it really hard for us to get into a good position between the lumbar spine and the pelvis. we end up in this kind of uh I call it like a dumped position, right? We end up in um posterior pelvic tilt. Been a minute since my AMP classes, but um ideally I think what we'd want to see is a little more extension here versus being in this more flexed position. And this flex position often comes about as a result of forcing the knees out too far, trying to open up your hips beyond what they're comfortable doing and beyond what allows you to maintain a more neutral or even slightly extended brace position. So again, I don't think you need to be more upright. I think we just need a tiny little bit more extension there. And I think if you allow the knees in a little more straightforward, a little more over the toes, I think that's going to do exactly that. Now, I do have some other critiques and and the biggest one here is going to be the pauses. I think the pauses are kind of not very paused in some cases. And I also think, especially in the sumo deadlift, it's much more worthwhile to pause closer to the floor. So, if I'm doing pause deadlifts, I'm thinking pause here, right? Like we are just barely off the floor there as opposed to pausing higher. And definitely spend more time in those pauses, right? Really work on pulling yourself into position. Find that tension. If you're not feeling your quads, a lot of the times that means also we're probably too far back on the heels. We're not putting enough pressure through the front of the foot, through the ball of the foot to allow ourselves to get those quads going off the floor. So, looking at your toe position, uh, and foot position, I would probably bring your toes in a little more. And that's going to help to guide your knees back to that more neutral position where you're likely going to be able to get a better position in the low back prior to starting the pull. I hope that helps, man. Okay, now we've got Lucas, and Lucas is doing some squats. Bada boom. All right, now Lucas is training for CANPL Nationals. Me too, brother. We'll see you there. Um, and and Lucas is doing uh 425 lbs uh RP9 and he says he's having trouble staying balanced on his feet and not overarchching in his deadlift or sorry his squat rather. So I can definitely see what we're talking about here and I think a lot of it stems from how we're descending in the squat. Right. So unrackck walk out. Everything looks good and solid. Now let's watch how you descend in the squat. So we take our breath, we take our brace. Brace looks good, but our torso angle does not change at all. It's all knees forwards. So what's happening here is we kind of have this feeling that I think a lot of lifters get where we really don't want to be hinging, right? We want to try to be as upright as possible. And so we load the knees up, we push the knees forward, push the knees out a bunch, and then we get to the bottom. And, you know, we go into some extension. Uh, depth is is I think maybe good, maybe a little questionable, but again, I think that's a result of being in that little bit of extension. So, what I would practice doing is initiating your squat with a little more of a hinge, right? So instead of just trying to sit straight down, I would work on trying to brace a little more ribs down, right? Fill out in the obliques and really maybe uh maybe change your gaze a little bit. I can see there's probably a mirror in front of you. Mirrors are a trap. If we're watching our self lift, we're using that visual feedback to try to inform our technique. Can be a little bit of of an issue, right? because then, you know, we're not we're not as focused on how it feels. And then we get to the platform and, you know, obviously, you know, there's no mirrors. So, [snorts] um I also think that was probably a lot less than a nine. Looked more like a seven, but um yeah. So, a little more ribs down brace. Push back into those hips. Let yourself hinge earlier and as you sit, and you're going to find you're able to push back into your hips and have a little more control via tension in the posterior chain as you get to depth. Right? Right now, we get to about here and we kind of lose all tension, right? We're we're really relying on like that bounce and catching it in the bottom, which I mean, you're a strong dude. you're able to do it, but I think it's impacting your depth. We're seeing uh a little bit of like wobbliness in the knees in terms of the knees probably starting to kind of pull in a little more as we change directions. So, that's another thing that can go hand in hand with this, right? Is just let those knees go forward instead of pushing them out and having them buckle in every rep. Just push them forwards to start with. And then we'll have again more of that control as we descend. That way we can put ourselves where we want to be in the bottom position as opposed to trying to, you know, fall to depth and recover from there. Biggest thing though, like let's look at this torso angle in the bottom, right? Not bad. Totally good. Totally fine torso angle. Yes, we're a little extended. I would worry maybe less about that right now and worry more about trying to get into this torso angle earlier in the squat as opposed to trying to descend super straight up and down. Now, on the later reps, we do hinge a little better, but we still have that intent and intentionality from the earlier reps where we're really trying to stay super upright, right? It's going to be super hard to keep that bar over midfoot when it, you know, it's kind of behind because we're staying too upright. We got to let that trunk come forwards a little bit by pushing back somewhat more onto the heels and reaching those hips back, allowing ourselves to kind of tilt and embrace the lean, as I like to say. Like I said, that's going to help with depth. That's going to help with bracing and tightness, and it's certainly going to help with foot pressure and foot balance. And we can see, you know, as you descend, we start to see that that weight kind of slide more towards the front of the foot. And yeah, we see the heels pick up just slightly in the hole, right? Everything's kind of popping forwards. We're having to catch it at at maybe a little bit of an awkward position as opposed to being able to really guide ourselves through that full range of motion. So that is my advice. I hope that helps you. Probably don't change anything too much given we're about a week out from NATS at this point. Um but you know if you can implement those changes and it feels you know good and natural. Yeah, no reason not to uh kind of tidy it up a little bit premeat. And now our next submission is another deadlift. This one comes from Prosper. And Prosper is training for competition. This is about 80%. Uh he says he doesn't have the best equipment but works with what he's got. He says he has a hard time locking out the bar gets to around the knees and he struggles quite a bit. He also says he's quite uncomfortable getting down to the bar. So, he's wondering if there should be any changes to his technique. Now, this is our final submission of the day. So, what we're going to do is we're going to open this one up to our comment section to our audience. Now, I want if you're watching this and you want to give some feedback, we'd love to have it. We'd love to hear from you. So, please go down into the comments section below and let us know what you think Prosper can do to clean up his technique to get to the point where he's a little more comfortable with how things are moving with the bottom position. And um yeah, next week I will start or sorry, next uh form check, whenever that may be. I think we're doing one a month right now. Um, next form check. I will start by giving my two cents and my critique and advice for Prosper here. So, we're going to watch this through one more time while I thank everybody for watching the video. Hope you liked it. If you want to submit again, head to calgary barbell.com. And while you're there, if you like this kind of technique advice, if you want some of these critiques maybe on your own lifting on all three lifts every week, as well as you want maybe a library of of 50 plus wellcrafted artisal powerlifting programs displayed in a very nice little app. You can head to calgary barbell.com, check out the Calgary barbell training app. That is how we do um a decent amount of our coaching. It's got a more sort of approachable price tag than our one-on-one coaching. And if you're looking to dip your toes into powerlifting or try it out, that's a great place to start. So, if you like this, you'll like that, go check it out. Thanks again to everybody for tuning in and be sure to tune in next time for the gripping conclusion or continuation anyways of Form Check Friday. Thanks everybody. Like, subscribe, [music] and we'll see you in the next one. Bye.