As of today, I am 16 days from competing at the IPF Open World Championships in powerlifting. Today, we're going to go through and reflect on my very first powerlifting competition, 13 years ago, almost exactly 13 years ago to when I'll be competing at Worlds. As of today, my best lifts are a 327 kg squat, a 205 kilo bench, and a 385.5 kilo deadlift. And you'll see where I started. Now, to preface all of this a little bit, I found my old training log. So, I was able to dig into some of the training that I was doing heading into this first competition because yes, I have written training logs from 2010 2011 uh leading up to this meet in 2012. And a cool sticker here from the one time my band opened for Devon Townsen. So, heading into this meet, I actually was one of the first times I ran 531. You know, I picked up the the book again. It's the It's like this paper thing with the one hard side and then kind of a spine to it and a hard back. Um, you used to be able to get all kinds of them. So, I got the 531 book and that was my first exposure to real powerlifting training. Prior to that, I had a squat day where I would go in and squat high uh, and then just do a bunch of leg accessories. I'd bench, do a bunch of bench accessories. I'd deadlift, do a bunch of deadlift and back accessories. And then I have an overhead press day. And I did that for a number of years. Gained a little bit of weight. Um, you know, worked my way up from I think like 155 lbs when I started to then competing at this meet in the 83 kilo category. And again, for reference, I'll be competing as a full walk around like 119 to 120 kilos. So, I'll be competing in the 120 kilo category at worlds. The most interesting thing and probably the only real thing that I want to reflect on from my training was that AI used to do a lot more work than I do now. There were a lot more accessories. There were a lot more exercises overall and there were a hell of a lot more sets. I'm looking at a lot of different, you know, uh, 7x5, 8x4, 10x3, 6x6. That's not 531, you might be saying. And remembering now what I did was I took Small Love Jr. and ran it for my bench press on top of 531 cuz I ran 531 a couple times. Didn't really find my bench was going anywhere. So I took Small Love Jr. and just like just slammed it into 531. My lower body always responded really really well to 531. So we just kept going with that. Uh and then I just kind of like made up my own little taper here and away we went. So, let's get into some actual meat footage. And we've posted some footage from this meat before, and there's been some some disbelief that this is actually footage from 2012. Um, my dad, uh, you know, I have I have great parents. They're very supportive of powerlifting. They always have been. And my dad has always also been a pretty technology literate guy. when he was younger, him and his brothers owned an audiovisisual store and sold like car stereoss and TVs and video equipment and stuff like that. So, you know, fast forward to 2012, he had a really nice digital camcorder already. So, I'm, you know, pretty grateful to have this really good footage of my very first meet in Moose Jaw, Saskatchewan in the basement of a mall at the old inner strength. Um, the gym was called Unparalleled and this was the unparalleled open. There were, I think, like 20 lifters total and one female lifter. It was a very different sport back then. So, yeah, let's get into it here. Uh, starting with my opener. Another thing I think worth mentioning about the the training going in here was the majority of my training was off of a 350 lb max. So, as you can see, I'm opening at 380 and it's pretty easy. Presumably my max was way above 350, but I trained with a 350 max and I was able to get a pretty good squat in here. Um, I do also notice, you know, number one, I'm just so young and small. I was 83 kilos here. I think this is the only time I really had to cut. You can see I'm just, you know, like kind of stumbling back out of the rack with the bar, taking a bunch of stutter steps and like unsure of my footing, unsure of everything. There's no knee sleeves. I didn't have any and I didn't really know how wonderful and glorious they are. Uh, believe it or not, I my second meet ever. And and this is how I squatted. I got called for depth. Watch this. I I bombed on squat depth. My second meet. Do you think I'm Do you think I'm in? Yes, I'm still bitter about that. Um, yeah. So, I basically just put the bar on my back, walk out, fall down because again, I squatted high for a long time. And the first time I ever tested my maxes, I said, you know what? If I'm going to test my max, I really got to make sure that I'm going all the way, that I'm getting a good range of motion. And I went from squatting what I thought was like I thought I was squatting like 440 450 for reps for like four to six reps. Um and I think what I ended up with was like a 405 squat that nearly took my soul. Um real quick, not sure what you're going to be seeing on screen here, but this is the the conversion is wrong on the 197. It should be 435. Just give my younger self a little bit of credit here. Um, yeah. And again, just kind of like fall into the bottom and pray, screaming, um, you know, bars just bouncing around on my back as I rack it up, as I as I stand it back up. But again, the lower body lifts were always kind of my forte. You know, they always progressed easier for me. I, you know, was kind of maybe a little bit stronger than your average person at the time anyways, uh, in those lifts. And then we have what I would consider my Achilles shoulder. The bench press, right? So, in this meet, I'm pretty sure I only got one lift. I made a number of infractions. I showed up to the competition actively making three like type one errors in the warm-up room. And what I mean by type one errors is you make these errors, your lifts do not count regardless of whether you, you know, fulfill the requirements of touching your chest, locking it out, etc. So, I was benching with my thumbs around the bar, an illegal grip. I was up on my tiptoes. I had my feet pulled in way too far, just like toe picking. And the rules of the competition are that your feet need to be flat on the ground. And every rep, I would lift my head up as the bar came down. Uh, somebody told me in the back room as I was warming up for the competition like, "Oh, hey, bro. You you can't do any of those things." So, this is the uh after effects of me trying to change all of those things on the day. I did luckily get one lift in. Um, but yeah, you can see the obvious confusion on the first lift here. Uh, you'll notice as I go to grab onto the bar here. Number one, I have my thumb loops on. That is not allowed. Number two, I am still taking that false grip. Again, not allowed at all. The referees are are puzzled. Um, un unsure. I'm I'm I'm guessing the sides can't see my hands. And the head referee not only did not give me the start command there before I started trying to bring the bar back down, but was probably trying to tell me replace because bro, you're breaking a bunch of rules already. We need to fix this. Uh and then I just kind of went for it. Touched pressed. Pretty sure my head came up. Um I don't know if I got this opener or not. The the video cuts. My dad didn't know to like film the lights. But I'm guessing that uh based on the fact that I tried to start before I got the press command and you know I made a number of other infractions I probably didn't get that one. This one my second lift here I believe I did get. Um and yeah, bench just has always been not my thing. You can see also I guess I took a 7 and 12 kilo jump off a miss lift. Um so there's a a great piece of advice for anyone. Don't don't do that. That's That's pretty silly. However, you know, it worked out for me on the day. Touched. Pressed. Now, I think I can see Yeah, one of the referees, you can see in the background, lifting the yellow card cuz Ryan Fowler back there in the corner is going to give me a a red light for something. I'm not sure what. Probably my head came up because if you watch this third lift, my head comes a mile off the bench. Chuck Taylor's also notoriously bad for actually looking like your feet are flat. Uh, luckily they weren't quite as picky with those rules as they are now. Uh again, just like went up I don't even know 12 1/2 kilos on a on a second attempt bench that was like not that easy, right? 117 to 130. Probably I just kind of had 130 in my head and was like, I made my last lift. Let's load it. We got to do it. So again, you know, not good at attempt selection. Probably didn't help my my bench or confidence uh back then. I'm also mummifying like 3/4 of my arm with those wrist wraps. That is that is excessive. Then going into the deadlift. The deadlift has kind of always been my thing. I've always really enjoyed it. Uh I've always been pretty good at it. And even on this day, you can see Ryan Stin in the background there who, you know, this is this is Rya in the foreground. She was refereeing. Um I think Shantel Such was my head referee that day. Um, a lot of like if you're in Canadian powerlifting, you know these names. But you'll see Ryan on my third attempt just kind of shake his head like what what the hell's going on? Cuz I, you know, was my third attempt and it moved about as fast as every other attempt. Um, but yeah, I mean like first powerlifting me, you know, pulling pulling 500 was pretty good. Pretty good, especially for 2012 at 83, you know, stood out a little bit. Was pretty pretty good deadlift. But yeah, mostly just astounded at how scrawny I was uh and how little I knew about the sport going in. So this meat I think in a lot of ways, you know, the the the feeling I got after that third squat after like grinding really hard. And yeah, you can see it there, Ryan just cackling in the background. I think he yelled at me afterwards and said, "Put some weight on the bar." And I didn't know whether that was an insult or a compliment. I thought maybe he was making fun of me because my deadlift wasn't heavy enough. In truth, it was a compliment. He was like, "Yeah, you got way more." But after this third squat and having to grind and and kind of like gut it out, you know, screaming and, you know, doing this this thing very publicly that I had had just to myself for so long in, you know, powerlifting in front of people. The lights came up and people cheered. That was I think maybe one of the best feelings ever at the time. I I I remember saying this is better than drugs. Uh and you know I parttook in some of those things a little more back in the day. The the feeling of elation, the feeling of fulfillment, the feeling of of accomplishment, all those kinds of things immediately on this day just took hold. And from that point onwards, I became pretty pretty obsessed with powerlifting. Um, not long thereafter, you know, I think I lifted for another two or three years or so. And then in 2013, 2014, maybe about 2 years then, uh, was when I had my first like competitive experience. I had a real like head-to-head battle. It came down to the last deadlift and it was it was that kind of a thing. That was when I really kind of leveled up and was like, "Okay, I'm going to start taking this really seriously." Prior to that, I was like, "Man, this is the funnest thing ever. You know, I love it. I I feel great about it." And was obsessed with it in a way, but once I had that taste of competition, it just added a whole another reason that I needed to be committed to this stuff and track all my food and weigh myself and track all my training. Like I have I have training logs like this all the way up to maybe 2018 2019 when I switched to doing things all digitally cuz I really held on to this for quite a while even though my coach you know needed me to log everything digitally. I did but I also just wrote it down in here first. So, I have a lot of these old books and it was kind of fun going back and and reflecting on some of the stuff. But, yeah, getting the experience of actually going headtohead, actually, you know, doing this against somebody really drove me to kind of take it to the next level. And then at that point, you know, it became my career and my job and all of these things kind of snowballed into where we are today. And I think it also encouraged me to want to make this kind of stuff for new lifters, for beginner lifters, because yeah, I mean, other people might have bounced off powerlifting if their second meet they bombed out, right? I had a terrible, terrible experience at my second meet. I didn't understand it. I got what I still feel were some inappropriate depth calls, but I also made some really bad calls in response to those, right? Like I think I jumped up and wait and then eventually got to a point where I just missed because I not only had I jumped up in weight a little bit, but I was also trying to go deeper than you even saw in this video, which is really deep. And I I you know, I bombed out. Having those experiences made me want to make education, made me want to make stuff for lifters so that they went to their first meet and knew what they were getting into so that they could go in and enjoy it and have an idea of, you know, what was going to be expected of them and how the day was going to go. Cuz in 2012, there was not a lot of that stuff, right? There were some forum posts from some guys who were running Shico and there was Elite FDS and that was pretty much it. So, you know, fast forward to this day, I'm pretty happy to be able to provide this kind of stuff and we have the training app where we can, you know, quite quite cheaply guide people into their first powerlifting meet, help them do up a meat card, help prepare them, you know, go through their opening attempts the week before and their taper workouts and help them tweak things and, you know, all that kind of stuff. So, it's been a trip. It's been quite a quite a journey from this day um back in 20 12 to yeah now having competed at worlds multiple times, competed equipped, broken multiple world records in the deadlift. Um, you know, won I think nine or 10 national championships now. So yeah, I mean, did I come in with maybe a bit of a predisposition to these things? Sure. But I also think this is just a testament to kind of how far you can go if you are that obsessed with it. So anyways, hopefully people found some value in this and some interest in, you know, me kind of reflecting on my very first powerlifting meet. If you did enjoy it, you know, let us know down below and make sure to subscribe, leave a like if you liked it, and we'll see you in the next video. Bye. Uh, I wasn't recording, but that was a good warm up, so if you can do that. Okay, perfect. Let's get another take. focus a little bit more enthusiasm. Yeah.