 All right, here we are. Finished up another session, another week of training. This is the third week of the block. However, the last two were pretty disrupted. I was sick, kind of both weekends. I got a little bit better throughout the week following and then came back. So in the last two weeks, not counting this week, I did two sessions each week and basically came in, did my equip lift and left. So I managed to make my way all the way through all of the equip lifts, plus one session where I didn't do any equip lifting, but over two weeks. So not the greatest stimulus, but I think it's what I needed in order to finally get over whatever weird flu bug shit is going around. It was definitely one of those ones that just like, you just feel so like fatigued, you know what I mean? Like everything was just so damn tiring. And I basically rotted for like two weeks and just did nothing and it sucked. Like mentally it was not great. So I'm happy to be here today. We're filming some other content, you know, got to lift in doing the vlog back on my bullshit a little bit. So that feels good. Equipped that lift today felt maybe not as snappy as I would have liked. I think it moved okay. My plan was to go 252 and a half, but I was also thinking that was going to be more of an undershot. So we ended up at, sorry, 252, 352 and a half. We ended up at 350. Backoff doubles were where I wanted them. So that's good. But the biggest thing right now is just the shoulders. They seem to just kind of continue to get worse. Like it's keeping me up at night a bunch more. It's in a constant state of flux of just, you know, it felt pretty good and pretty reasonable when I was training twice a week and, you know, benching like once a week, but, you know, getting back at the normal routine this week, I did my equipment bench, got a new shirt, took the seams and the sleeves out. Cause I figured, oh, this is a chest plate size down. I don't want the sleeves taken in super tight as well. That's going to be way too much. And then I went to put it on and it was just like, and I was like, oh shit. So I put the seams back in the sleeves for that for next week. So hopefully we'll have a decent bench there. The thing is, I know I can touch with my other shirt. Like I know I can just load 220, 225, whatever, get a touch and press, that's fine. So if I need to revert to that for the meat, I can. That shirt is going to be there. But I want to get some experience in the new shirt and get some reps and kind of see where it's at. Cause I'm going to need to be in that shirt before long. Body weight is down quite a bit. You can probably tell by looking at me, but I was 108.5 ish this morning. So I'm pretty much in cutting distance of 105 already. Now I'm not going to for this qualifier that I've gotten about three weeks here. Cause I don't think there's any reason to, right? There's no need to. I'll probably start getting to more like maintenance calories pretty soon. Cause I think that's another thing that's adding to the just feeling super fatigued as the lack of food, right? Being in a deficit for quite a while now, right? Like I'm down 10 ish kilos at this point, 10 and a bit. But yeah, overall like strength, not bad. Hard to tell with the bench. Cause it's more of a discomfort thing that limits me. So yeah, I reached out, sent a message to Seth this morning. So hopefully we'll do it like a full consult and go through some stuff and try to try to get things on the track. Cause I've had definitely like moments where it's felt like it's making progress. I've had days where it's more comfortable than not. My Wednesday session, I did a bunch of additional upper body stuff that all felt quite good. Like did some close-grip incline and it went up to like 135, you know what I mean? Pounds, not even kilos. And it felt really good. Felt kind of like therapeutic, like the shoulders were moving well, but then my shoulders are just killing me afterwards. So gotta figure that out. It's, it's, you know, not ideal, obviously, but yeah, squat has been going okay. The biggest thing with my squat is trying to find a place to put the bar that doesn't feel just so terrible and also my shoulders. But since I've cut down, I've lost a lot of meat on my back and I just can't seem to find that spot where it sits comfortably right now. So I gotta put some more work in with that and just getting more equipped sessions in is gonna be the way to do it. But yeah, currently watching equipped worlds is going on this week. So I rockin' the Team Canada shirt. And my lifter, Oliver Dahlquist, just benched a world record. Congrats, Oliver, going into deadlifts soon-ish here. But yeah, it's a, like yesterday, I sewed the seams on my bench shirt watching my other lifter, Alex, from Iceland compete. So it's, yeah, it's been cool to like wash some equipped lifting and, you know, get in the spirit a little bit, my buddy's aides competing on the weekend. So yeah, yeah, it's been cool to get, you know, a bit of a view of that kind of stuff. Little intimidating looking at the 105s today, to be honest, you know, I got a lot of ground to make up, but we'll see how far Ian pushes the equipped world record today. And, you know, chase that down, I think, it will be the plan. But yeah, that's a little ways off still for me. So for now, just trying to get the shoulders healthy so that I can like push the bench a little bit. I think I've been really struggling with my bench for quite a while, like leading into worlds. I think I was just benching at a really high intensity, like a lot, and I'm not sure, I don't know how productive that was. Like obviously my bench was the biggest disappointment, I think for me at Worlds. Like I think I missed 197, which is sad, very sad, as a 120. But yeah, I'm hoping, because the equipped bench itself doesn't seem to bother my shoulders much. It seems to provide a little bit of support, so I'm hopeful that I can find a route back. Yeah, the cut's going well, hoping that it can get some more food back in me pretty quick. Overall, training's going well, strength is at a totally fine place for where I need it to be, right? My biggest goal is to find a good balance with training over the next little while, not necessarily to push things super hard or pile weight on or force anything, but to come in and hit sessions that feel like good training to get good, skilled, and comfortable in the equipment again, and to be at a good place with health in terms of pain, and be able to enjoy this summer, do some hiking and some stuff like that. So yeah, that's pretty much the big update we figured we'd do like a sit down and go through some stuff. Not sure if you can see, but we got the SBD Resolve stuff, brand new belt, was using the new straps today. Really big fan, actually, of all the stuff. I think the joggers were improved again. The training shorts are awesome. The new long sleeve training shirt is really good, and I'm an XL guy now, so there's that. Belt's a tube, but yeah, yeah, pretty stoked on all that stuff. And yeah, yeah, that's pretty much it, pretty much it. I think by the time this comes out, we're gonna be doing some promotion stuff for the app. We'll have some new programs, we'll have the app on a big sale, so keep your eyes peeled for that. We should post some stuff on Instagram, maybe on the community tab here on YouTube. We got some more educational infotainment type stuff coming out that we're filming today, and with that, I'm gonna let you go if you like this content, subscribe, and we'll see you in the next one. Bye.