 you said tell me what's been on your mind, do you really wanna know how I feel, everybody's losing their minds, busy tryna find myself, I just wanna be myself, I just wanna be myself. I just wanna be myself. You feel what I feel, You can hear what I hear, Stuck in a cage with everybody else, Let me in. You said tell me what's been on your mind, do you really wanna know how I feel, everybody's losing their minds, busy tryna find myself, I just wanna be myself, I just wanna be myself. So who got first, cause I'm all in, a little reckless, but I usually win, I got no plans, I do this as I go, Take a second, to shake it off, think twice, This ain't a song, run a lesson, pay your dues, Don't let anyone take it, what to do? What you should be, what to do, What you should be, what to do, Who you should be, what to do? I just wanna be myself, I just wanna be myself. I just wanna be myself. I just wanna be myself. I just wanna be myself. I just wanna be myself. All right, we're back for I don't know. I'm kinda hoping Dylan doesn't air that last blog. Maybe we can just skip that one, cause I was really pissy. But today with some bench redemption, bench redemption. Sure it's just getting looser and looser as I lose weight, but I think as I've headed into this block, my mindset around training in the short term has kind of changed a bit. I think my biggest goal right now is to get used to the equipment, get good in the equipment again. And then once the cut is done, and I've stabilized my body weight and I'm back on maintenance calories, I will worry about pushing super hard. Right, this meat that's coming up, I think I'm about six weeks out as of this week, something like that. I don't need to hit any specific total. I think the equipped qualifying total is like eight something or maybe even in the sevens, I don't know. But I do know it's gonna be very, very easily achievable. So my purpose in equipment currently is get back in the groove, learn the ropes, build the tolerance for it, come to understand the groove, especially with how much my squats changed, and go to this meat and just total whatever I total. The shirt's definitely loose. Like I'm getting out of it really quick now. So it's one of those things where I'm trying to line up equipment to get into after the meat. Cause I think around that time I should be down to like 109, 108, which I may maintain and try to do a bit of a cut into gnats, but we'll see what Derek has in mind for that. So yeah, overall feeling strong, can't complain. Shoulder still sometimes may be good, sometimes maybe shit, but it doesn't seem to affect me or impact me really on my equipped bench. Equipped bench seems fully resilient. And I don't know how the audio will be, but I can like hear and feel it just like clicking, cracking, popping, like all the way down and let it press. And after I get out of the shirt, my shoulders like, hmm, feels a little bit better than before. I actually woke up last night with my arms like way up over my head. And when I got up, my shoulder was like, like there was nothing. I felt nothing. So I don't know, there's probably some weird shit I'm doing in my sleep, probably my mattress or my pillow or something. I don't know, I've changed my pillow, I'm doing all kinds of shit trying to figure out the shoulder, but I don't know. Bench is slowly getting more and more comfortable. Raw bench bench against chains on Monday and it felt decent, like the best it has. I'm playing around with my technique on the raw bench because if I'm gonna get skinny again, my bench is gonna take a hit. And I wanna try to retain some of the ground that I made moving up a weight class. I think I've retained a decent bit of muscle on my upper body specifically. So that should help me in the long run to maintain a bit of a bigger bench than when I was last 105. But I also wanna really try to fine tune my technique and make sure that when we get down there, I'm gonna take advantage of everything I can to try to not have just an absolute dog ass, poo poo, kaka raw bench. So that will be part of the quest to not suck specifically in the bench. So yeah, that's where we're at now. I think, I don't know if I'm taking huge jumps in these next few weeks, I don't know if I'm gonna be hitting huge weights, but I'm gonna be focusing on getting really good training in to try to start that momentum going to train the strength curve of equipped lifting to get healthy and acclimated to workloads and really just try to focus on putting in that groundwork because I don't have any big international meets planned in 26, right? I'm not currently trying to go to Worlds for equipped in 26. There might be a different international that I tried to go to, but I think Worlds 27 is the big goal. So this next year is get to body weight, get healthy, regain some capacity and capability to hike and run and do some stuff with my body and then sort of reintegrate the push and super hard in powerlifting because there have been points before where I did it all really well, right? When I was doing some of my best equipped lifting, I was snowboarding for seven hours the day before and then going in and squatting like 370 plus in kit the next day. And I think I can get back to something like that. Obviously, I'm like seven or eight years older now. So things are different, but I definitely think that I can increase my body's capacity to do a wider range of things and also probably end up healthier for it, especially in the long run, right? I'm getting old, man. I have my 38th birthday on the weekend. And yeah, I don't know, whatever that means. Just I'm getting old, right? I got to start like, I'm trying to take care of my shit. And like I've said a million times before, that's never gonna mean I'm not lifting, but it might mean I take a year and just like try to be smart about stuff, stabilize my body weight, blah, blah, blah. So I don't know. I'm just jabbering at this point, but we got some squats. We got some shit. I don't know what else. We got a couple more movements, some squats and stuff. So let's do it. This is it. Don't care about the clothes you wear. Your fleshy denim, no fancy hair. Give me extra vision of first aid par. Don't care about nothing at all. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. Don't care about the movies. A person out with dirty magazines. I've been living nix since the night 6th tree. Don't care about the movies. I'm just jabbering at this point, but we got some shit. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. No pearl, no virgin. Just a version of someone else's life. Don't care about what else. So let's do the denim dress. alright That's the day. It was a good one. This is week one of the block so to come in and hit a nice little touch Feels pretty good Energy level is still good. Not feeling too run-down a lot of times the like Additional squat slot that I get on this day is probably the thing I dread the most throughout the week Because I've already got Let's just say my Tolerance for frequency over the last little while has not been the best so in order to bring that up I Have to do more frequency which isn't always a lot of fun but this slot is I think they're almost the exacts it's the same exercise maybe a really similar prescription for the 303 tempo squats and Yeah, I'm just slowly progressing. I'm not worrying too much about load treating them as like a An opportunity to get my shoulders under the bar again work on that bar position I think I'm starting to figure it out. I move my grip out wider again. I went thumbs around again It feels a little bit better I did that on my squats on Monday as well And I think my back offset on my squats is for the first time I felt good with like 300 plus on my back since I've been back in kit So to have that Coming together is good because that was definitely one of the most uncomfortable things when I first got back into equipment was Like unraxxed walkouts holding the bar on my back when it's that heavy. It just all felt like crap But it's coming together, which is good and exciting So, yeah, just trying to make sure we get it all in Eating lots of good food and shit doing cardio like three ish days a week three to four and Yeah, body weights down to like 111 currently So start looking into another shirt. I got a smaller suit for squats in there and The tighter deadlift suit I've been pulling and I think will do me Once I'm down at 105. I'll just have to alter it. I'll have to take it in a little bit But I think that'll be good. So I should have a good set of equipment for Nationals, I just need to grab that Ben shirt, which I think I've got a line on so Yeah, that is about it as you can tell my voice is a little shot from breathing heavy Doing a bunch of check-ins all that kind of stuff, but Yeah, yeah, we also have our apparel For sale right now. Don't throw me that shirt Okay says the guy who reminds me to plug the apparel every time this Long sleeve is I think maybe one of my favorite things we've made. I wish we could have done a bigger sleeve hit But I think the design and the color is is pretty badass and the fit on these long sleeves is really nice as well So that's it. Bye Well, you just cut when it covers