So, it's the night before your first powerlifting meet. What do you need to bring tomorrow? How can you best be ready so you don't get caught out on meet day? In today's video, we're going to talk about everything that you need to pack and prepare to have a successful first powerlifting meet. Welcome to episode 4 of the Path of Powerlifting series. The first things on any packing checklist should be those things that are essential for you to do the lifts. Anything you're using regularly in the gym during your training sessions, it's going to be essential here. So, let's go through a quick checklist. A belt, knee sleeves or knee wraps, wrist wraps, shoes, deadlift socks, a mouth guard if you use one, a t-shirt, headphones, ammonia if you use it, and a singlet. And on that note, the IPF and its affiliates will have rules about the brands and specifications of equipment that you can use, and this includes your t-shirt. We'll post a link in the description below where you can check if your favorite brand will be allowed on the platform. We recommend doing this pretty far in advance so that you can spend a good amount of time training on the equipment that you'll be using on the platform. Another piece of powerlifting equipment that you've maybe never worn before, but that is absolutely necessary when it comes to competition is a singlet. Now, these are worn in competition in order to standardize the lifter's appearance so the judges have an easier time making calls. There are a lot of things to know and research to do when it comes to approved equipment. What's the good stuff? What is approved? What isn't approved? It would be great if there was a one place that I could go to get not only answers to all these questions, but so that I don't have to scour the internet anytime I need to purchase or replace something. For example, if you need a belt or knee sleeves or knee wraps or wrist wraps or more wrist wraps or shoes or or a t-shirt or or singlets or or another shoe or even a mouthguard, Inner Strength Products frigin has it all. And their customer service is great. So, if you have any questions about stuff, you can hit them up and real people, nay, real lifters are going to answer your questions. So, get great deals, get good shipping, talk to lifters about lifting stuff, and go check out Inner Strength for equipment packing. That wraps it, but there's plenty more to consider in order to be ready for meat day. There are some other items in the form of white powders that you'll want to have on you as well. Any powerlifting meet should supply chalk for you, but if you're used to or you prefer a specific type or brand, make sure to bring that. Also, bring some baby powder. You can have your coach apply this to your thighs before the deadlift to make sure that the bar is going to slide up during the lockout. Another thing worth discussing here is ammonia or smelling salts. We use ammonia to get hyped up for a big lift in the case of lifters who benefit from being very excited and amped up. Definitely not for everyone though, and I would absolutely recommend trying it out in training to see if there's any benefit for you. But if you use it, bring it to the meet. You also need to ensure that you have the following things at weigh-in. a valid photo ID, valid proof of membership for your chosen federation, and in the case of the IPF, you'll need proof of completion of a drug testing education module. So, you're well equipped for the day. You've got a gym bag full and a bunch of screenshots of crap on your phone. But what's next? Well, powerlifting meet can be a pretty full and long day, so you're going to want to stay fueled. I get a lot of questions about what a person should eat at a powerlifting meet. And for the most part, I wouldn't recommend eating anything you wouldn't normally eat. I do, however, have some suggestions that are outside of just a normal day's worth of food. So, let's get into that. Focus on fast carbs, hydration, and maybe some caffeine if that's your thing. I've seen people sit down between lifts and hammer a meal of chicken and rice. And while that's not inherently wrong, I do think that having a bunch of stuff in your stomach can make it a heck of a lot more uncomfortable to lift, especially when it comes to the deadlift. You probably don't need that many fats or proteins during meat day. Now, I'm not saying to completely disregard normal and healthy eating, but I am saying within the window of performance. The most important things are going to be carbs that are easily and quickly digested. A good general rule of thumb is don't eat anything weird. Don't eat any food or take any supplement that you wouldn't normally eat or take in your normal life or a normal gym session. The last thing that you want is some kind of unexpected gastric distress when it comes time to squat or deadlift. Keep it simple and keep it safe. And lastly, stay hydrated. Now, it shouldn't really need to be that much discussion about why being hydrated is important for athletic performance, but basically when you're packing, just consider that you will need to drink lots of fluids. I like things like iced tea or a sport drink like a Gatorade so that I can get carbohydrates and hydration at the same time. All right. Now, have I forgotten anything? Um, wait. A coach. I forgot to tell people to pack their coach. What do you mean pack your coach? Well, obviously I mean pocket coach. Pocket coach. With Pocket Coach, it's like having the Calgary Barbell coaching staff in your pocket. Yeah, man. Calgary Barbell is running the app on a huge promo to celebrate the release of this new path powerlifting series. The app is on discount and it's got everything that you might expect like detailed tracking of all of your training as well as a huge program library, but you also get Pocket Coach. For example, you could have a conversation with Taylor or Danny and and go over a game day plan to make sure that you're ready to make all the adjustments to things. And then you could come to me and we could have a conversation and fine-tune your meat cart itself. Pocket Coach, what if somebody needs to modify their program because of an injury or equipment limitation? Does the app help with that? I don't know. Pocket Coach, could you get help with that on the app? Oh, yeah. Pocket Coach. Honestly, even if you just wanted to carry around a tiny version of a guy with a head tattoo who knows a lot about lifting to show off and impress your friends, you could do that, too. Pocket coach. And that's it. I've gotten a lot of questions about this topic over the years. What to bring, how to pack, how to best prepare for a meet. So, hopefully that helps to answer a lot of the questions. Our next video in this series is going to be all about how a meet runs. So, once you've packed and shown up, you know what to expect next. We'll see you there.