 HAPPY BIRTHAY BIRTHAY BIRTHAY BIRTHAY BIRTHAY BIRTHAY BIRTHAY BIRTHAY BIRTHAY BIRTHAY BIRTHAY BIRTHAY BIRTHAY BIRTHAY BIRTHAY BIRTHAY BIRTHAY BIRTHAY BIRTHAY BIRTHAY BIRTHAY BIRTHAY BIRTHAY BIRTHAY BIRTHAY BIRTHAY BIRTHAY BIRTHAY BIRTHAY BIRTHAY BIRTHAY BIRTHAY BIRTHAY BIRTHAY BIRTHAY BIRTHAY BIRTHAY BIRTHAY BIRTHAY BIRTHAY BIRTHAY BIRTHAY BIRTHAY BIRTHAY BIRTHAY BIRTHAY BIRTHAY BIRTHAY BIRTHAY BIRTHAY BIRTHAY BIRTHAY BIRTHAY BIRTHAY BIR We'll do the cardio, which has become a pretty nice part of the routine lately. Ate a lot yesterday, so body weight's not necessarily super low. But given what we got going today, I am okay with that. Today will be the first day in equipment. I'm getting into the squat suit for the first time since the day I squatted 400 kilos in 2020. So, not going to lie, a little bit nervous. It's definitely up at 5 this morning, just snapped awake. Like the whole brain with a Ferrari engine and bicycle brakes kind of idea. So yeah, I don't know. I'm pretty equal parts excited and nervous about today. I think that it's probably going to be really good. Probably going to have a bit of a blast, a bit of a fun time. But there's also a part of me that's like, man, like the nerves, you know? Like, what if just being a raw lifter for five years has made me so soft? You know, like I'm worried that I've gotten soft and I'm not going to be able to gut through how much it hurts and how uncomfortable it is and all that kind of stuff. So, I think we'll just be doing one equipped lift per day. I used to do like a squat and bench session that would end up taking like four-ish hours. But, you know, I had the conversation with Mike, like I can't do that anymore. I don't have that kind of time. So, one equipped lift, probably some more unequipped stuff. But again, like we'll see what that looks like. I haven't actually looked at my programming yet. So, yeah, that is about it. I don't want to go on too long here before we get into it. But hopefully it's really good and I don't just quit. We'll see you next time. We'll see you next time. We'll see you next time. We'll see you next time. Oh, that's going to take a good inch too. Well, I didn't die and I didn't quit. I was a little concerned about both of those things today. Yeah, it was basically more or less what I expected it to be. That the 330 top set felt about like it should, right? Given that I haven't been, this is my first time back in a suit since 2020. Last time I wore a suit was the day I squatted 400 and pulled 400. That was a long time ago by this point. So, definitely in some ways like riding a bike, except the bike crushes you the harder you ride it. But the harder you ride it, the more it crushes you, the faster it goes. That's kind of like a quick twist. Yeah, I don't know. It's exciting. I think I can, like I was saying to Dylan, I think I could learn to love it again. I don't know if immediately I'm like, oh my God, this is the best. But I see potential. I see potential. It's going to take some comfort, like some getting used to having the bar on my back. I feel like I can't, I don't know if I had the bar in like a comfortable and solid spot all day. I think the addition of the straps really kind of mucks with how I had been setting the bar. So, that'll take some work to try to figure out where I need to put the bar and how it should feel. So, but I think by the time I got to the end of the 285 triple there, it like, it's starting to feel like it should. You know what I mean? Like getting a lot more pop, a lot more spring. It's going to take, like my back is going to need to come up. You know, I think the force of having the suit like kind of crunch you and then having to extend back out of the bottom again is definitely a thing. It'll take some getting used to. But, yeah. First impressions are so far so good. I think at this point now I just need to see how bench goes. My shoulder is not 100% yet. So, we'll see how being in the shirt feels. Whether or not I think it's realistic to be able to put something together. And if the week goes well, I think we're probably registering for nationals at that point. Potentially 105 equipped? I don't know. That's a whole other thing. Thinking about the weight cut. Thinking about how my suits might need to change. Because I got about 10 more kilos to go still. So, I don't know. Might have to find new equipment like halfway through my training block. It's, yeah. So, it's a little all over the place with that stuff. But, we'll cross those bridges when we get there, I think. So, yeah. We're just going to do some relatively light-ish bench. Some accessory work. And call it a day. But, that was pretty fun. That was pretty fun. Also, there were a couple more things I wanted to say. Number one. After today, I think I will probably commit to making sure I have spotters and train around people. I think for today, honest to God, I was a little concerned I was going to get into the stuff and be like, Nope. No, no, no. I quit. I'm not doing this. So, I didn't want to like arrange a training crew and then get into my suit, do 220, and then be like, I'm done. Fuck this. So, now that I know like, it's okay. I'm good. I'll probably commit to trying to do this session around people somewhere. Or have people here or something. The other thing I was going to say is if you are trying a squat suit and wraps for the first time, so, this is the way I approach today because it's the same strategy I used the very first time I was in a suit ever. And it was basically to take what would be like a really good raw day. Like, peaked, crushing it raw day. Right? Now, the 285 triple was just based on the top single, but like, my best squat in comp is 332.5, so, 2.5 kilos more than I did today. And it moved pretty well. And, you know, I think on the day I probably had a little more. So, you know, to hit 330 in training would have been like a really good single. Hit 325 a couple times, I think. But that was how I kind of gauged today. I was like, what would be a great training single raw? 330? Cool. We'll go there. So, I think that works for me anyways. Equipped squat. I think equipped bench is a... Who knows, man? I'll probably need 220-ish on the bar to like get decent single in. And there's no shot I'm hitting that raw. So, it's very different for me on the bench. But anyways, yeah, that's it. Let's move forwards. Get this thing off. There we go. Nailed it. There we go. Nailed it. F touched on my back. The sword touched on my sword touched on my sword touched on my sword The I'm gonna shoot the same, I think I'm gonna do this, the teacher of the face, man, he's down to this, motherfuckin' town, I'm shooting the masses, kickin' swift and gassies, fall out and stroke, get it, and I'll be in the middle now. Oh, my God. I'm shooting the star, we can't do this, we can't do this, we can't do this, we can't do this, we can't do this, we can't do this, we can't do this, we can't do this, we can't do this, we can't do this, Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good sesh, vibey sesh. I don't know. It was good. It was a good starting point. Like I said, I'm interested to see how the next couple sessions go, see how it feels deadlifting the suit, especially benching in the suit, in the shirt. But yeah, I don't know. Shoulder felt okay on bench work today. Definitely didn't push it very hard, but I think that's probably wise right now. I've been just really trying to ease off of the bench because one of the things that followed me hurting it was like benching at nine, at 10, once or twice a week, every week. Um, so while that may have been productive for my strength, not entirely sure it was. Um, it certainly did not help me get my shoulder back on track. So I've been basically just kind of sandbagging bench work. Um, and I think that's kind of my plan for the foreseeable future while I continue to hopefully nudge it in the right direction of, you know, being healthy. So yeah, I mean, there's not really a whole lot else to go over. It was a good session. Felt good. Uh, had a lot of energy coming into today after the washout. Uh, Danny was in for a little bit. It's always fun to like have another person around. Um, I'm a bit of a training hermit these days. So I think equipped will force me again to kind of get out there a little more often. Uh, yeah, I'm just going to call it there. I don't have a whole lot else to say. It was a good session. I'm in a good mood. Um, happy with how today went. Happy with it as a starting point. And we'll see you in the next one. Bye.