If your deadlift is lagging, it might be because your hips are shooting up before the bar even leaves the floor. If this is happening to you, you're losing position and you're losing power. So, let's fix that. In today's video, I'm going to tell you exactly why this happens, give you cues to fix your setup and your position, and we'll talk through some accessory movements that can help you if you're suffering from this unfortunate affliction. The first reason that this might be happening is that you're setting up too far behind the bar. You got to set up more over the bar. I'll show you what I mean. So, the first reason that this happens to people is because they're trying to overcorrect in fixing this specific problem. And what I mean by that is people are going to overcorrect by sitting too far back on their heels and trying to get their hips too far down. What that ends up producing is this. Right? You can see my shoulders are very clearly behind the bar. And I've heard the cue to deadlift in a position where it almost feels like you're going to fall backwards. But this is going to be a position where you literally would fall backwards. The change, the correction here is instead of thinking about getting your shoulders as in your front delts in line with the bar like so, is you want to think about getting your shoulder blades over the bar. Boom. Right. We want to allow the knee forward slightly. We want to keep some even foot pressure. We'll talk about that in a sec. But basically, if you're setting up too far back, either it's going to be absolute hell to break the bar off the floor with any appreciable amount of weight on there, or you're just going to lose that position anyways when you start to pull and then the bar comes up. Right owned. Next princess we'll be talking about your feet. I can show me some toes. Now the second part of fixing your setup, as I kind of alluded to in part one, is foot pressure. A lot of times when people think about deadlifting, they think that any pressure on the forefoot is wrong. And by forefoot, I mean the ball of the foot, the front of the foot. A lot of lifters maybe get caught forwards and end up, you know, kind of squatting it up when they're learning the deadlift because the hinge is uncomfortable. So again, they overcorrect and they get way too far back on the heels. Again, if we're too far back on the heels, that's going to contribute to all of that body being behind the bar, just like I was illustrating there. So instead, what we want is a good balanced foot pressure. Thinking about making sure we have pressure driving down through the heel as well as the ball of the foot nice and evenly so that we can get a really good sturdy push position off the floor. If we're too far back on the heels or too far forward, we're going to be losing our start position. The next issue also goes along with the overcorrection of hip rise. A lot of people will try to set their hips far too low. Same kind of thing. They'll just try to sit down really far even if they're not behind the bar cuz you can you can have good foot balance and you can be well positioned in terms of your shoulders over the bar and you can still sit your hips down too far. Right? if you sit down to here thinking, "Okay, we really got to we got to keep those hips down." Again, they're either going to come up or you're just not going to be able to pull anything off the floor. So, instead of thinking about hip height, are my hips too high? Are my hips too low? Think about hip tension. It should be a feeling. It should be finding a place where you got your quads, you got your hips, you got your hamstrings, and everything is like tight, rigid, right? So, you're trying to pull yourself into position up here. We got a lot of hip and hamstring tension. So, keep that tension and then use your upper back tension to pull yourself down into the bar until Okay, now we got some quad tension. Chances are this is probably a pretty good starting position for the deadlift. Now, I have no idea what it looked like from the side, how high or low my hips were, but I found the tension, and that's the most important thing. Everybody's body is shaped a little differently. Everybody's limbs are differently proportioned. You might have one leg that's longer than the other. So maybe your hips are a little twisted. Whatever. Your anatomy is your anatomy. So you need to find your tension. I got a lot of eye contact. It's cuz I'm pretty blues. I'm pretty [\h__\h] hard. He's hard on the floor. Okay. The last cue and sort of technique advice I'm going to give you is maybe the most relevant if you already have a good start position cuz some people struggle with making a good start position. Other people struggle because they make this good position, they get into it and then they start pulling and they lose it. So if you're that person, one of the best cues I heard and I got to credit my client Dan for this. He because he had this issue for a long time said that it helped him and made more sense when he let it be hard off the floor which I think is a great way of putting it because a lot of the times when we get into that good hip position and for him it was going from hips high to hips low which is going to make it feel harder off the floor. When you get into that position and it's a bit of a grind to get off the floor, what's going to happen is your hips are slowly going to kind of creep up, right? You pull in and you're like, "Oh, this isn't going." And your body's like, "Well, let's find a position where it does." And then it goes to here and it's like, "Okay, we can stiff leg this." But if you let it be hard off the floor, if you commit to the position that you start in and just keep pushing, then you're going to maintain the position and be able to start the deadlift. Sort of final tip, don't be stressed if it feels a little harder off the floor using any of these cues or techniques or whatever I'm talking about here. If it feels a little bit harder off the floor, it's probably going to save you from missing at lockout because you're not losing your position, and that will pay off in the long run with being able to deadlift more. Okay, so we've talked about this from a technique and a queuing standpoint. We've talked about why this happens, but I also want to approach this from an exercise selection standpoint. So, I'm going to go through a few of the what I would consider like developmental exercises. So, exercises that'll train the movement and then we'll go through some supplemental exercises that will train the muscles. Both of these sort of packages of exercises being targeted at the fault of the hips rising in the initiation of the deadlift. So, first off, we're going to talk about the pause deadlift. So, pause deadlift for most probably something that they're familiar with, have heard of. If not, here's a quick little primer. You're going to pull yourself into position. You're going to pause the bar just barely off the floor, and then you're going to finish through to completion. You want the pause to be good enough that if you didn't write a caption for your Instagram post of it, nobody's going to question whether or not you paused it. That is the number one metric. Could you post this captionless and somebody would say, "Hm, that's a pause. Nicely done." Or would they be like, "Oh, I don't know why you were so slow off the floor. That was weird." So the second accessory movement in the developmental exercises is the snatch grip deadlift. Now I think this is probably infinitely more useful for a conventional puller but probably some utility for sumo. Now a snatch grip deadlift in order to get a true snatch grip at first you need to be locking out with the bar where your pants belt would sit. For me, that's right under my gut. So, for me, because I got pretty long arms, I had to go out pretty wide, like full thumbs width from the knurling. This is going to be terrible for like on your grip. It's going to be very hard to hold even with lighter weights. But if we get into a good position here, it's really going to challenge you in your grip, and it's really going to challenge you off the floor. Like this is an exercise where if your tendency is for your hips to come up behind you, this is going to happen to the nth degree on this movement. So if you can get to the point where you're decently good at these, and I would I would program them in like four to sixes, so relatively heavy as like a full secondary movement. If you can get good at those, you're going to get really good at using your quads off the floor, letting it be hard off the floor, all that stuff I was talking about. Now, the last one is probably a little more tailored for the conventional puller, and that is you're going to set up for your conventional like normal, and then you're going to stop and you're going to put one foot out probably in line with a knurling or so. Then you're going to put your other foot out in line with that knurling. Then you're going to take your grip inside and you're going to do a real deadlift instead of being a cheater. But no, in all seriousness, doing sumo deadlifts for a conventional puller can really teach you what it feels like to use your quads better off the floor, what it feels like to push and maintain a brace. Um, and I think even when I was a conventional puller, for anybody out there who's like, "This guy doesn't know what he's talking about. He pulls tubo." I I pulled my first world record conventional. So, that's got to count for something, right? Um, I did actually during that time when I was pulling conventional in competition, I did a training block of sumo and it went exceptionally well for my conventional despite the fact that my conventional was being trained very minimally just to maintain some skill. So, I think getting good at sumo can be a really good tool for a conventional puller. [\h__\h] this guy. All right. Next, we're going to talk about the muscles that you need. God damn it. All right. So, now let's talk about some less specific exercises. I'd categorize these as supplemental exercises because we're going to be targeting the muscles and not the movements. And the three that I would include here would be number one, the leg press. If we're losing position off the floor, if we're not able to, you know, stay in the quads and brace and incorporate all of these things, it might be that the legs are weak. It might be that the legs could use a little more mass packed onto them. Also, leg pressing is great and will probably just help you no matter what. If you're a powerlifter, it's a good accessory. Try it out. The next one I would recommend is going to be direct core work. If you're having any kind of problem that that relates to your bracing, and in some cases, this loss of position can be kind of compounded by rounding out a little bit more. If we're having problems losing the brace and we're not doing some kind of direct core work, whether it's it's hanging leg raises or front planks or side planks or rolling planks, I do like planks. Uh or some sort of sit-up variation like the spread eagle situp that I got from Dr. Seth Alersworth, who's very good. I've also been really liking the weighted crunches lately. Been doing a lot of those. So, direct core work, I think, can also help with this. As well as the final one is heavy back work. And I'm not talking about seated rows for sets of 12 to 15. I've recommended those for bench. Sure, they're not a bad exercise, but in this case, we want to build strength in the back. We want to be doing heavy barbell rows with like five or six reps to an eight or nine RP. We're probably using some body English here. We're talking stacking plates on the chest supported row and trying to impress everybody um by doing really good quality reps to an appropriate RP, but a high RP. training the back heavy again I think is going to help with all of this kind of being able to brace and using your legs properly. Uh just bringing up all of these areas I think can help a lot with this issue. And if you're looking for a program that puts all this together exceptionally well, intelligently designed and you get form checks each and every week, then you can check out the Calorie Barbell app. It's an app that myself and my team have made and it has over 50 programs. Did I mention weekly form checks? The reason the app is good is because we actually do coaching in it. It's not just here's your program, go ahead, have fun. We will have check-ins with you. If something goes wrong, we will together figure out why. So, you can check that out in the description box below. The Calgary barbell app. It's good. My voice is going. Oh, I started losing it halfway through, but I held it together, boys. I held it together. So, go check that out. calgarybarbell.com/training-app. Outro. Do you need an outro? Are you still here? Are you still watching this? If so, comment oogieoogie in the comments because you've watched this video for too long. And I just want to know if anybody watches past the point where we put an ad in the video and is just still watching. Maybe this is playing in the background on your phone. Maybe you can't stop this. Maybe your phone is out of reach and you're going to be forced to listen to this whole outro. If you are still here and listening, I hope you know that we value you as somebody who watches our content and lets it play all the way to the end. Because honestly, I don't even watch it all the way to the end. Bye.