The second movement that we're going to talk about is the pin squat. Now, the pin squat is going to expose any weaknesses you have out of your bottom position. It forces you to maintain some tension to the bar, but also forces you to delo some of that tension. It's it's about finding sort of a perfect balance between how much you're unloading onto the pins. The reason this is so good is that if you have any issues coming out of the bottom in terms of holding your torso position, if your quads or your hips are not strong enough for you to come up without compromising that position, your hips shooting up, your knees caving a whole bunch, those kinds of things, do pin squats. Because if you have those issues, you're going to be terrible at pin squats. And getting better at pin squats means getting better at those positions, which should then carry over to your comp squat and make you better. Okay. So, the the the Ps to a good pin squat, the key to good pin squats is going to be finding the right pin height. So, if you go a little bit high and your squat is a little bit high to pins, that's fine. Make sure that when you're going down to the pins, however, a lot of people will kind of keep their hips high and then fold down to meet with their trunk. We want to make sure we're getting all the same depth in the hips. Reach back. And then when we come off the pins, a lot of people are going to end up getting this. They're going to start losing position because it's going to be really hard to keep your quads engaged and to stay in the position we want out at the bottom. That's where we're really going to be tested. So, if we find the right height and we're able to drive the knees forward out of the bottom, we shouldn't see too much of that hips shooting up and then that's going to fix that in your comp squat. One last thing, don't go crashing onto the pins. It doesn't have to be light as a feather, but we don't want you to just get halfway down and then free fall to the pins and try to start from a dead stop. You want to maintain at least some control of the bar throughout the entirety of the movement. The bar should never completely unload on the pins.