Mistake number five, incorrect foot pressure. Now, incorrect foot pressure is a bit vague in general, but that's because it covers a few different faults. So, let's talk about some of the more common issues. Probably the most common issue with incorrect foot pressure is when lifters rock too far forwards on their feet in the bottom of the squat. A lot of these lifters are very self-aware. They know they have a tendency of falling forwards. And part of the issue is that they're trying to fix that before they start the squat by being way far back on their heels. When these lifters are so far back on the heels, they are inevitably going to have to shift their center of mass forwards when they hit depth. This is going to cause them to pop much more far forwards than they'd like. And the fix for these lifters is to actually start with a little more pressure on the fronts of their feet. If you have this issue and you can start with a more balanced foot pressure, thinking about finding pressure both on the ball of your feet and the heels before you start and then just work to maintain that throughout the squat. Tempo squats can be kind of helpful there just so you can feel out each of the positions as you move through. The next common issue with foot pressure is when lifters end up on the insides of their feet. Now, this one often coincides with sliding or popping forwards at the bottom, but it's also usually a symptom of being perhaps too wide in the stance and too towed outwards. If you're a lifter who falls onto the insides of their feet in the bottom of the squat, my first place that I recommend you look at making changes is going to be in your stance width and your toe angle. Generally speaking, these lifters should narrow their stance up, even if just slightly, and bring their toe angle a little more towards straight forwards. This can help just allow the knees to track where they want to based on your hip strength and anatomy instead of forcing yourself into a position where you then have to change it to produce force on the way