 tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan Two hearts racing, chasing the chills. How did you look? Remember those nights Dancing under streetlights felt so right. You blind my mind, yeah, you stole my soul. Nowhere to hide, nowhere to go. It's a jewel, jewel bug fish. Give me, give me, give me those jewel bug shapes. Hey! Five times under the dusty sky. Level on feet in the summer nights despite. We're confused, whispers in the fire. You can't see me. Let's go. Hey, June bug, your lap was reckless, right? Hey, June bug, your lap was reckless, right? Hey, June bug, down by the creek. Your love was wild, though it made me weak. Radio blaring infectious beats. Give me, give me, give me, this life's so sweet. Five times under the dusty sky. Yes! Rebel on feet in the summer nights despite. We're in curfews, whispers in the car. People are stormy. It's the tumor, tumor beat. Yeah, it's the tumor, tumor beat. That was tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan uh it felt good felt good i was able to get in and around where i had hoped right like my ideal day was like 220 230 240 i took my first one at 210 just because i misremembered and was like that's a good place to start the singles so we we clawed the plan back a little bit and honestly like took the 210 then 222 i think and the 222 was like hard to press like it it felt heavy so it's definitely gonna take some getting used to the strength curve in the shirt um my best equipped bench 262 and a half which i think i can blow past that um i'd like to get up into like 290 300 territory before long um but yeah and i i think the shirt fits super well i had it i've had it like way up into my armpits sitting way high on all this work today just trying to get like a decent range of motion um and like 210 almost touched right like 210 was maybe one board got closer and closer the 225 which i think was my top set was like almost there it was very close to touching so that feels good to be able to get that in um the set of five was hard very hard and i'm very ready to get out of this shirt so we're gonna do that we got some squats we got some back work we got some biceps some delts some jm press maybe i'll do the jm press here first but yeah we're gonna keep on keeping on okay so like i said this shirt is from when i was like 116 or so previously and i've gotten a fair bit bigger so my arm's like pretty stuck in there i got big forearms and i wanted to go over how to get out of equipment effectively if you start feeling like you're stuck in it because a lot of people will just hook it on something like reef on it what that's going to do is going to irritate all the skin here and it's just going to start to swell so what you actually want to be doing is pushing on the skin just above it and trying to pull the skin out from underneath the suit right so you push in and try to push up now this is going to hurt like hell if it's like a deadlift suit that's like way wedged up into your down below me bits but it's going to get the suit off of you without making your shit all swollen and having two coaches like just reefing on you like i saw this at world games right like i saw people struggling to get out of suits and coaches just like yanking on shit but if you just push and work the skin out from underneath it gradually bit by bit then pull a little then go back to the skin eventually you're going to hit that point where it just loosens up right and it might take a bit another important thing if you ever get stuck or feel stuck in equipment is like just don't panic right you're just massaging the meat out of the tube it's a gross analogy but it works especially if you push a little bit keep a little bit of pressure on there and then do the skin thing just push in on the arm and push the skin up this way before long bada boom and now you just have one more arm to do tan I'm sorry. I don't know what the hell I'm doing on that movement. I don't know what the hell I'm doing on that movement. I don't know what the hell I'm doing on that movement. I don't know what the hell I'm doing on that movement. I don't know what the hell I'm doing on that movement. I don't know what the hell I'm doing on that movement. I don't know what the hell I'm doing on that movement. I don't know what the hell I'm doing on that movement. I don't know what the hell I'm doing on that movement. That might be all we need there for today. And no, it's not that hard. It's just a 3-0-3 tempo. So I'm trying to go 3 seconds eccentric. No pause. 3 seconds concentric. 3 count at least. This is the release valve workout for the lower body. So definitely feeling a little from the equipped squats on day one. As reflected in my recovery metrics. My back mostly. Hitting the bottom in the suit just like... Kind of folds you a bit. You gotta get used to that. But my back is not thrilled about it. So we got some adaptation. And as with everything in this block. Time rests, baby. Now things get a little easier. Pull downs. Bodybuilding stuff. Some abs. That's the big stuff out of the way. And chill. How much is the equipped decision due to enjoyment versus competitiveness? How much is the equipped decision due to enjoyment versus competitiveness? Yes. It's very much both things. I think for me those things are like inextricably linked. I think I enjoy lifting and competing more when I'm competitive. And I think... Yeah. Both. Very much so. Right? Like looking at equipped totals. Looking at what I was able to achieve in like 2020. I think I can be in the mix again. That is super exciting to me. Right? And the other thing is like I need... I need a challenge that is the right level of difficulty in order to feel engaged and motivated. And I think with like pushing raw lifting, that was it for a while. Right? Coming out of equipment in 2020. I was like oh man. I had a lot of ground I can gain raw here. So pushing that was the new challenge that you know I saw the potential to rise to. And then it kind of got to a point where I was like you know what? Like this is really slowed down. This is you know stalling out. This is becoming tougher and tougher to make those incremental gains. And I'm not going to quit. So for me it's like okay if I can change how I'm approaching it. Push my equipped progression for a while. Ease off the raw stuff. Probably come back to the raw stuff later. Right? Like that for me has always been a really productive cycle. To kind of push one for a while. Until it feels like it's run its course. And then change gears a little bit. Keeps me engaged in lifting. Keeps me feeling fresher. You know physically and mentally. Keeps me more engaged with my training. Allows me to learn more frequently. See improvement more frequently. So yeah. I mean your question is spot on. It is very much both of those things. And both of those things are kind of linked for me. tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan well we got her the equip bench went quite well i would say felt good shoulder didn't flare up at all if anything it kind of felt pretty good on the shoulder like having to fight against that pressure is a really good sort of feedback to keep my shoulder exceptionally locked in position right and i'm sure there are times where once i start pushing the shirt stuff a little more that'll be a little more dicey but i feel like i'm going to be able to accumulate a lot of really good training before i get to that point where i'm pushing it and i think that my shoulder is continuing to adapt and get better and feel better as time goes on so yeah one more left we got equipped deadlifts on friday we'll see if we've logged those i don't know i'm gonna guess probably not but maybe we can con dylan into coming in just so we get all three for the first week i think that'd be kind of cool um but yeah yeah i mean as long as my back is feeling like five percent better by then i think we're good to go so um yeah yeah another win another step in the right direction still feeling pretty excited about uh about the whole prospect of equipped lifting i will need to do a qualifying meet so i think i'll have to do a local meet here in december in order to get a qualifying total to do nationals so uh the total i don't think is a concern right like i've hit more than that raw so not really worried about you know having to make it up to those weights or peak or anything like that but i still think i will probably try to use that meet as like decent practice right try to put together a decent total and like treat it like a meet so excited to get one you know kind of under the belt before we get on stage at nationals so yeah all things are good and we're full steam ahead so thanks for tuning in and we'll see in the next one you