Living fast so we set the pace. June darling couldn't be replaced underneath that moonless sky. Hey, we got lost in each other's eyes. June love nights, electric thrills. Two hearts racing, chasing the chills. Remember those nights dancing under street lights. Felt so right. You blew my mind, yet you stole my soul. Nowhere to hide, nowhere to go. Give me give me those shy sky whispers in Hey June, your life was reckless, right? Hey June Bug, down by the creek. Your love was wild. Made me weak. Radio blaring infectious beats. Give me, give me, give me this life. So under Tennessee lights the sky whispers in the My story is the Jew. Woo! That was fun. It's just like riding a bike. Right. Except the bike is like cutting into your skin and trying to pop your head with pressure on your chest. Uh, it felt good. Felt good. I was able to get in and around where I had hoped, right? Like my ideal day was like 220, 230, 240. I took my first one at 210 just cuz I misremembered and was like, "That's a good place to start the singles." So, we we we clawed the p plan back a little bit and honestly like took the 210 then 222 I think and the 222 was like hard to press. Like it it felt heavy. So, it's definitely going to take some getting used to the strength curve in the shirt. Um my best equip bench is 262 and 1/2 which I think I can blow past that. Um, I'd like to get up into like 290,300 territory before long. Um, but yeah, and I I think the shirt fits super well. I had it I've had it like way up into my armpits sitting way high on all this work today. Just trying to get like a decent range of motion. Um, and like 210 almost touched, right? Like 210 was maybe one board. Got closer and closer. The 225, which I think was my top set, was like almost there. It's very close to touching. So, that feels good to be able to get that in. Um, the set of five was hard. Very hard. And I'm very ready to get out of this shirt. So, we're going to do that. We got some squats. We got some back work. We got some biceps, some delts, some JM press. Maybe I'll do the jamm press here first. But yeah, we're going to keep on keeping on. Okay, so like I said, this shirt is from when I was like 116 or so previously, and I've gotten a fair bit bigger. So, my arms like pretty stuck in there. I got big forearms, and I wanted to go over how to get out of equipment effectively if you start feeling like you're stuck in it. because a lot of people will just hook it on something and like reef on it. What that's going to do is it's going to irritate all the skin here and it's just going to start to swell. So, what you actually want to be doing is pushing on the skin just above it and trying to pull the skin out from underneath the suit. Right? So, you push in and try to push up. Now, this is going to hurt like hell if it's like a deadlift suit that's like way wedged up into your down below me bits, but it's going to get the suit off of you without making your [\h__\h] all swollen and having two coaches like just reefing on you. Like I saw this at world games, right? Like I saw people struggling to get out of suits and coaches just like yanking on [\h__\h] But if you just push and work the skin out from underneath it gradually, bit by bit, then pull a little, then go back to the skin. Eventually, you're going to hit that point where it just loosens up, right? And it might take a bit. Another important thing if you ever get stuck or feel stuck in equipment is like just don't panic, right? You're just massaging the meat out of the tube. It's a gross analogy, but it works. Especially if you push a little bit, keep a little bit of pressure on there and then do the skin thing. Just push in on the arm and push the skin up this way before long. Bada boom. And now you just have one more arm to do. I don't know what the hell I'm doing on that movement. Last word. That might be all we need there for today. And no, it's not that hard. It's just a 303 tempo. So, I'm trying to go 3 seconds eentric, no pause, 3 seconds concentric, three count at least. This is the release valve workout for the lower body. So definitely feeling it a little from the equipped squats on day one. As reflected in my recovery metrics, my back mostly hitting the bottom in the suit just like kind of folds you a bit. You got to get used to that. My back is not not thrilled about it. So we get some adaptation. And as with everything this block, time rests, baby. Now things get a little easier. Pull downs, bodybuilding stuff, some abs. That's the big stuff out of the way and chill. How much is the equipped decision due to enjoyment versus competitiveness? >> How much is the equipped decision due to Yes, it's very much both things. I I think I think for me those things are like inextricably linked. I think I enjoy lifting and competing more when I'm competitive and I think that yeah both very much so right like looking at equip totals looking at what I was able to achieve in like 2020 I think I can be in the mix again that is super exciting to me um and the other thing is like I need I need a challenge that is the right level of difficulty in order to feel engaged and motivated. And I think with like pushing raw lifting, that was it for a while, right? Coming out of equipment in 2020, I was like, "Oh man, I got a lot of ground I can gain raw here." So pushing that was the new challenge that, you know, I saw the potential to rise to. And then it kind of got to a point where I was like, you know what, like this is really slowed down. This is, you know, stalling out. This is becoming tougher and tougher to make those incremental gains. And I'm not going to quit. So for me, it's like, okay, if I can change how I'm approaching it, push my equip progression for a while, ease off the raw stuff, probably come back to the raw stuff later, right? Like that for me has always been a really productive cycle to kind of push one for a while until it feels like it's run its course and then change gears a little bit. Keeps me engaged in lifting, keeps me feeling fresher, you know, physically and mentally. Keeps me more engaged with my training. Allows me to learn more frequently, see improvement more frequently. So yeah, I mean your your question is spot on. It is very much both of those things and both of those things are kind of linked for me. Well, we got her. The equip bench went quite well. I would say felt good. Shoulder didn't flare up at all. If anything, it kind of felt pretty good on the shoulder. like having to fight against that pressure is a really good sort of feedback to keep my shoulder exceptionally locked in position, right? And I'm sure there are times where once I start pushing the shirt stuff a little more, that'll be a little more dicey. But I feel like I'm going to be able to accumulate a lot of really good training before I get to that point where I'm pushing it. And I think that my shoulder is continuing to adapt and get better and feel better as time goes on. So yeah, one more left. We got equipped deadlifts on Friday. We'll see if we vlog those. I don't know. I'm going to guess probably not, but maybe we can con Dylan into coming in just so we get all three for the first week. I think that'd be kind of cool. Um, but yeah. Yeah. I mean, as long as my back is feeling like 5% better by then, I think we're good to go. So, um, yeah. Yeah. Another win, another step in the right direction. Still feeling pretty excited about uh about the whole prospect of equip lifting. I will need to do a qualifying meet. So, uh I think I'll have to do a local meet here in December in order to get a qualifying total to do nationals. So, uh the total I don't think is a concern, right? Like I've hit more than that raw. So, not really worried about, you know, having to make it up to those weights or peak or anything like that. But I still think I will probably try to use that meat as like decent practice, right? Try to put together a decent total and like treat it like a meet. So excited to get one, you know, kind of under the belt before we get on the stage at nationals. So yeah, all things are are good and uh we're full steam ahead. So thanks for tuning in and we'll see you in the next one.