 vststst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst vst v with deadlift grip is, is to keep the bar from rolling. Now, the first big tip is to take the bar lower in your hand. A lot of people think that if they put the bar really high up in their hand, kind of like how we talked about in the bench grip, sorry, that there's going to be more meat of the hand to wrap around it, that that's going to be sturdier. However, in my experience and in working with athletes, the big thing that I find is that bar is going to roll to the end of your grip as soon as you start deadlifting. Now, if that bar is really high up, that's going to tear calluses. It's going to create again, that momentum moving in the opposite direction. We're trying to pull the bar. So what my recommendation here is, is to take that bar lower along these knuckles here, almost in the fingertips so that when we start, that bar is already set and it's not going to roll any further. The next big thing that kind of piggybacks on that last idea is to pull the slack out of your grip. Now, we talked recently in a deadlift video about pulling the slack out of the bar to make sure that we had tension set into the bar. We want to make sure the same thing's happening with your grip so that again, even putting it lower in your hands, we want to make sure that we're pulled to the end of the grip before we initiate the lift and put everything into trying to break that bar off the floor. Again, if there's any roll, it's going to work against you. Very similarly in hook grip, we'll notice that a lot of people will set that hook grip very deep, which is fine. We can get a little bit more grip on the thumb, but we want to make sure that by the time we start that pull, we're down towards the end of where that bar is going to end up. Now, it might seem a little bit riskier, but again, we want to reduce that bar rolling. And lastly, just a little bit of a tip for those who choose to hook grip or who are having trouble learning the hook grip. Now, honestly, the first time I tried to hook grip, what I did was just wrap my thumb around the bar like I normally would and then try to jam my fingers on top of it. Now, that's not bad, but one thing that I actually learned from Clint Darden when I first started getting into using hook grip was to lay the thumb as parallel to the bar as possible so that you have more length of the thumb to grab onto. Now, the big thing here is that we want the middle finger to dig right into that dent just below the thumbnail and the first finger to just kind of grab on wherever you can. Now, you'll notice if you look at any of my heavy deadlifts that I've hook gripped, these two fingers, my ring finger, my pinky finger, are barely even on the bar. They don't really have much to do with it. They're almost under the bar at that point. So they're just kind of along for the ride. The big thing is going to be getting as much of these first two fingers wrapped around that thumb as you can. And by laying the thumb parallel to the bar, as opposed to perpendicular, we're going to get a lot more to grab onto. Hopefully, this video helps everybody to make more deadlifts, to drop less of them, and to keep that damn bar from rolling out of your hands. If you like this video and you found it helpful, make sure to share it with your friends and hit that subscribe button. If you have any questions about anything I mentioned in the video, leave a comment in the comment section below. Make sure to join us for our weekly Twitch streams. See y'all later.