In order to compete in powerlifting, your squat, bench press, and deadlift all need to be up to a certain standard. Your performance on the platform is going to be judged by three referees, and you have to convince at least two of those three that you've executed the lifts correctly according to the rules. In this video, we're going to take you through the specifics of lifting to competition standard in powerlifting. Welcome to episode three of the path of powerlifting series. When I did my first competition, I made a lot of mistakes. Let's take a look at my bench here. Now, in case you missed it, not only did I try to start bringing the bar down before I got the start command from the head referee, but I was also using a false grip, which is not allowed. Wait a second. Is that is that world champion and bench press world record holder Reyes Stin on my side referee there? And is that is that Ryan Stin giving me a handoff? Speaking of the Stins, they're the proprietors of Inner Strength Products and are the sponsors of this whole video series. I wanted to highlight the fact that they volunteered at and hosted my first ever powerlifting meet because I think that illustrates just how long they've been contributing to Canadian powerlifting. Yes, inner strength has great products and good prices and hella fast shipping, but the reason that we with them so hard is because they support powerlifting so hard. Inner Strength Products is for lifters and bylters and they're incredible people. I truly want to see them succeed and that's why we've decided to partner with them for the series. All those nice things being said, Rehea did still give me more than a few red lights that day. Let's get back to the video so that we can ensure that you are not going to be getting red lights at your first competition. For the sake of this video, we're going to refer to the competition standard for the lifts in the IPF. That's because the IPF is arguably the most strict of the federations. And therefore, if we use that as the reference, if your lifts pass in the IPF, then they should pass anywhere. With that being said, let's get into the rules and standards of the lifts, as well as the commands that you'll have to obey on the platform on meetday. First up, the squat. The main consideration when training your squat for competition is depth. Now, the rule book states that the crease of the hip must pass below the top of the knee joint. Squat depth is sometimes a contentious topic, but here's an illustration of the objective measure and a few camera angles showing appropriate versus missed depth. If you're training for a competition, you should ensure that you're filming yourself from various angles and make absolutely sure that you're hitting depth on every rep that you do. Beyond depth, there are still a few more considerations for the squat. You will need to receive a squat command from the head referee before beginning the descent of your squat. But bear in mind there is no up command and you do not need to pause the squat in competition. You can stand as wide or as narrow as is comfortable for you. But in order to get that squat command, there are two prerequisites. Number one, your knees need to be locked and not soft. And number two, you need to be standing erect. Now, erectness isn't strictly defined, but I've only ever seen a few people too hinged or bent forward to get a start command. As long as you don't look like this, you should be fine. The commands for the squat are squat when you're in position and you're ready to execute the rep and rack once you've stood the bar back up and locked out fully. I like to have lifters bear these things in mind when training for the squat. first taking a few seconds after unrackcking to just stand still and settle before beginning their set. And again, taking a few seconds, holding still, standing fully locked out before re-rackcking after completing the set. Up next, the bench press. Most people who train the bench press without competition in mind are just going to tap the bar to their chest and press it right back up. We call this touch and go. If you're going to start training for powerlifting, the first thing you need to do is ditch touch and go. The number one rule to transition into a powerlifting style bench press is to get comfortable pausing the bar on your chest. Now, the pause length, if I had to quantify it, is likely around.7 to 1.5 seconds long. The rule book states that the bar must be motionless on the chest, but depending on the judge or referee who's making the call, your pause may be slightly longer or shorter. When we pause, however, we have to make sure that we don't dip after the pause. If you pause the bar on your chest and then dip the bar before pressing, that's called heaving and is an infraction. You can sink the bar into your chest as much as you'd like before the pause, but you can't sink after the pause. Something else to consider is your bench grip. Now, you can grip the bar as narrow as you'd like or is as comfortable, but there is a limit to how wide you can grip on the bar. These rings in the nurling on a standard power bar are going to be 81 cm apart. The widest legal grip you can take is putting your index finger on that ring and covering it. Your head referee will be checking to ensure that even if you're max legal, you're covering the rings with your index finger. One more thing about the grip is that you must wrap your thumb around the bar. You can't use a false grip with your thumb behind the bar. Not only is this a major safety concern, but it's also necessary to fulfill the requirements in the rules of competition. There are a few more rules to consider, but luckily they're a little bit more straightforward. You must have your head down on the bench the whole time. Make sure that your head is in contact with the bench from the time you unrackck to the time that you re-rackck. The next thing to consider is your feet. When it comes to the setup and the press, the feet have to be as flat as the shoe allows and can't move from the position you set them in. The last setup rule is one that's generally agreed upon even for casual gym goers. If your butt lifts off the bench during the course of the press, that lift doesn't count. And lastly, the most contentious addition to powerlifting rules in quite some time, there is bench depth. To quote the IPF rule book, it says you must lower the underside of both elbow joints with or below the top surface of each respective shoulder joint. This rule is new and as a result the judging can be inconsistent, but what we're looking for is this part here being below this part here at the bottom of the movement. The bench press commands are the most numerous and unfortunately are also the ones I've seen the most people mess up. In the bench, once the lifter has unracked and has their elbows extended, we give a start command. And then once the bar is motionless on their chest, we have a press command. Once the bar is locked back out, much like in the squat, and the elbows are extended again, we have a rack command. Just like in the squat, when my lifters are training the bench, I always recommend they incorporate a slight pause after the unrackck and before starting the set, as well as a slight pause again after completing the set and before the re-rackck, so that we can simulate these pauses and be better prepared for midday. And finally, deadlift. When it comes to the deadlift, thankfully, things are a little bit simpler. The number one thing that I have to work with newer lifters on is ensuring that they're fully locked out and ensuring that they hold that lockout. The things that make a lockout locked out are the extension of the knees, the extension of the hips, and finally ensuring that the shoulders are in line with the rest of the torso. There's only one command in the deadlift and that command is down. This command is given only once the lifter is fully locked out. There's no start command in the deadlift and the lift is considered to have started once the lifter makes a deliberate attempt to lift the bar. That's why I always recommend a 1 to twoount hold on the lockout at the top of every deadlift in training. We also must never ever ever drop the bar in a powerlifting competition. We have to return the bar to the floor in our hands. This will have the added benefit of building more grip strength, which is certainly important in competition because there are no straps allowed in powerlifting. You'll also need to avoid ramping and hitching if you want your deadlift to pass in competition. Ramping is when you drive your knees forward under the bar to support the weight and then slowly ramp it up your thighs to lock it out. Hitching is when you jostle the bar up and down to get that little bit of momentum in order to get through a sticky lockout. One of the infractions on the deadlift is downward movement. So this up and down motion will cause your lift to be disqualified. These concepts, rules, and cues are things that we have to keep in mind at all times in powerlifting. Having a supportive and encouraging community to remind you about these things as well as worldclass coaches analyzing your technique in video reviews weekly in check-ins as well as a massive library of programs. That's what's on offer with the Calgary Barbell app. You can check it out. The link is in the description box below. If you can get these things locked in, you're going to be absolutely ready to lift come time for your first competition. In the next episode of our path of powerlifting series, we're going to cover anything you might need to pack to bring to a powerlifting meet. We'll see you there.