As you should know by now, RP East stands for rating of perceived exertion, additionally built upon the Borg scale, which was used to measure cardiovascular output and effort as it related to heart rate for cardiovascular exercises. >> Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. I'm not going to do that to you. We already did once. What we're going to do today instead is give you the quick and dirty of how to use RP without the history lesson. In simplest terms, RP is a tool for rating training intensity. Generally, it's a scale between 1 to 10, but we're not going to worry about anything below six because why worry about that? What we're getting at is how hard is it on a scale of 6 to 10? And the simplest way to get your number is to just ask yourself, how many more reps could I have done? Well, actually, if the only thing you're using to rate your RP is how many reps left in the tank, you're using RIIR or reps in reserve. My hot take here is that for 99.9999 99999% of people it doesn't matter. They are similar enough that for all of our intents and purposes reps left in the tank RP it's all the same. The formula is 10 minus how many reps more you could have done. All right. So I'm going to walk you through an example. If you do a set and you could have done two more reps, that's an RP8. If you do a set and you could have done one more rep, that's a nine. Now, this working definition should carry you through pretty much any strength training that you're doing and also help to give you a base understanding of what RP is. However, RP is also a skill and as such, you can be bad at it and you probably are if you've never used it before. So, how do we level it up? Let's talk real quick about developing that skill. >> You can't hide from me. >> No sign of them. >> First, the most obvious and surefire way to get good at using RP is just simply to do it. And what I mean by that is just just just practice it, right? It's a skill. It's going to get better when you use it. It's going to get better the more often you use it. Whether you use it to rate your bicep curls or your ab work or anything inconsequential, if you're worried about trying to use that to guide your squat progress, I get it. But just get started practicing it and doing it and you will acquire the skill from doing it. Like Skyrim, >> nothing is impossible. >> Another very clean way of getting some practice with RP is to use some AM wraps. If you think that set of five that you just did was an RP8, prove it. Do two more. By utilizing AM wraps, you can find out what it feels like to go all the way to a 10 or fail a rep. And that way, you'll calibrate yourself. Another important component of getting good with RP is to track your [\h__\h] Not like that, but use a log book or something like that to keep track of your RP. You know what? You could write it down in whatever you're using to track your program or maybe even in an app of some sort. You can zoom really hard in on the eyebrows there. What kind of app, you might ask? Well, maybe something like the Calgary Barbell Training app. Not only will you get access to our growing library of 50 plus programs, but also if you're struggling to rate RPS, well, hell, we got weekly check-ins in our Discord. It's for app users only and we will go in there and answer all your questions, help you modify your programs and help you stay correct and come correct when it comes to your RP ratings to make sure that you are evolving as a lifter and offer you actual coaching within the app. It's a pretty fantastic product. We back it hard. It's a great way to support us and support the channel. And you can check it out in the link in the description box below. >> Day correct and come correct. >> Mhm. >> What? >> Come correct. >> What are you talking What does that mean? Come correct. So now you got some skill with RP. >> Wait a sec. Why the hell do I want to use RP anyway? Sounds like some pencil neck weirdo is trying to quantify my getting jacked just making me put numbers on everything. That's a bunch of [\h__\h] I'm glad you asked head. Let's answer your questions. One of the more valuable things that you can do with RP and one of the ways I use it most as a coach is to use the number of reps and the RP to calculate what's called an estimated one rep max using a calculator. Now, that one's probably not going to be very good, but we're going to put a link down below for this website. This is RP calculator. You can find it at rpcal.com. This is going to help you take, like I said, a number of reps and an RP. And that's going to equate it to an estimated one rep max. This is a great way to gauge progress. The E1 RM goes up. Presumably, you're stronger. Can be hard to tell sometimes. If you hit three reps at a six at a certain weight and then three reps at an eight with more weight. Does the second set represent a stronger set? I don't know. But if you rate your RP, you might >> I couldn't see the screen cuz it's like too bright compared to everything else. But >> that's fine. you can just like MS Paint RB calculator on it. And finally, I want to take a second to debunk some of the myths and objections that people have about using RP. And to do so, we're going to go back to our good friend Ted. Hey, what uh kinds of interesting and intelligent things have you been commenting in people's YouTube comments lately? I think RP is too hard to use and no beginner lifter could possibly figure it out. It's for advanced lifters only. >> Well, that's dumb. Lifting is hard. Having a good squat is hard. Using RP, sure, can be hard. But should we not bother lifting because it's hard? Should we not just just not do things because they're hard? Or should we maybe realize that there's an entry point and room to get better and that using RP is a skill like anything else that we should work towards being good at just like I don't know a squat or any lifting. What else you got? >> RP is just there to let coaches be lazy. Write a number in like a man. This one couldn't be further from the truth. I'd argue that putting a percentage that your lifter has to hit no matter what into a spreadsheet is far more lazy. Using RP well as a coach means that you're taking the time to educate and contextualize the use of RP with your athlete. You're teaching them what an RP8 means to you, what you expect to see when an RP8 is written, and then they're having to do the work on their end to put the right weight on the bar and execute to a standard. All of this information is contained within me saying RP8 to an athlete, but all the subtext and the context and the nuance and circumstance of that RP8 are all things that need to be built up over the course of developing a relationship with the athlete. So RP is really a linguistic tool. It's a way of quantifying and communicating more effectively with your athlete while teaching them that they have to be more independent and they have to do a better job in order to meet your expectations. Or you could write 200 kilos because you think that's what they have to hit. I'm sure you got one more, don't you? RP lets lifters be lazy. Everybody uses RP just wants to go in gets being a big old wussy. This is another one I imagine coming from a guy who used to bench 405 in college but then basically quit lifting because his elbow hurt one day. I I've I've not seen this phenomenon of lifters just wanting to be lazy. Uh wanting to call everything an eight and not ever put any weight on the bar. I think most of the time when people misinterpret RP, they they tend to put too much weight on the bar. If you're going to go through all the trouble of of getting a coach and trying to understand RP and putting in all this work to be better at training for strength, you're not then going to go into the gym and think, hm, how do I do less and work less hard? Sure, people underestimate their RPS. It happens. But I really don't think it's this systemic or or integral problem with using RP that everyone is going to be a wuss. And now the crux of it all, the entire point of this whole thing, the entire point of RP, whether you buy in or whether you're sitting there fuming because I said RP and RIR are close enough to not warrant a discussion, is auto regulation. the ability to load a little bit more on the bar on the days where you're feeling good and maybe take a little bit off the bar if you were up all night at a rave or just stayed up a little too late getting stoned and playing Magic cards. Uh, I'll respond. I forgot what I was going to do. So whether or not RP is the way that you choose to autoregulate your training, the important part is that you build and develop a system to account for the fact that the human body is so godamn complex. You can't count on your performance being the exact same each and every day. Nailed it.