Hey guys, welcome back to Calgary Barbell. Just wanted to film a little quick video. Got a couple of tips, uh, some stuff that my buddy Seth helped me figure out on my bench press that has really helped my bench, both raw and equipped, especially equipped in terms of keeping my chest up to the bar. So, one of the biggest cues that I've been using lately, uh, and has helped me see a lot of progress on my bench is to take my air before I unrackck the bar and not let it go and then retake my air. Cuz I find with the weight pushing down on me, not able to get as big a chest or as much air as I can before I unrackck the bar. So, holding my breath a little bit longer has really allowed me to stay a lot tighter out of the rack and has also allowed me to be a lot more consistent with my bench press. So, what we're going to try and do today is we're going to try and film a comparison. One where I take my air before I unrackck and another where I unrackck, breathe out, and then take another breath and see if it actually changes the range of motion at all. So, we got 150 kilos loaded up on the bar. It's about 330 lbs. Uh, at one point, this is really heavy for me, but given recent progress, I figured this would be a good weight where it's starting to feel heavy, but uh I'm not going to necessarily inter interfere with the rest of my week's benching. So, we're just going to do a couple singles here. Uh, first one I'm going to do with my breath drawn before the unrackck and held throughout the rep. Second one I'm going to unrackck, breathe out, and then try to take a big big breath back in. And we'll see if there's a difference in the height of my chest and how far the bar has to move. I told you. Get on it. Take a look at the footage that we got there. Let us know what you think. Uh, does the bar bar speed look faster? Does it look like it's less range of motion? I would have Dylan do some editing magic and actually trace a line on the screen. We can tell a little bit of a difference because the camera was on a tripod at a steady point. But, uh, let us know what you think of the footage. Does it look better? I haven't been sleeping because of the newest addition to the family. My squad I worked up to 3:22 and A2.