All right, D. We are doing this damn thing again. still vlogging on Maine despite having a bit of a rough first go at it. So, last week was a not an amazing day, I think, in a number of ways. Um, yeah, it was just a bit of a struggle bus and I appreciate a lot of the people who, you know, reached out or left comments saying they were, you know, struggling in their own way. Um, I think, yeah, like I said, it definitely helps to know that you're not alone in that sometimes. Um, there was one comment and this person meant well and uh, you know, I think was just trying to give some advice, but you know, they said like just don't stop lifting, man. Like clearly you're not enjoying it right now. just go, you know, do your hikes, go play soccer with your brother, just like walk away for a bit. And I don't think that's necessarily bad advice, but that just ain't me. I will not be walking away from lifting. There are going to be times where I don't enjoy it. There are going to be times where it kind of kills me, you know, mentally, but there's like a deeper there's a deeper level to it. There's a deeper reasoning to it, you know? Um, and I think at some point it is it's like it's like I I'm married lifting, you know what I mean? Like for better, for worse. till death do us part. That is that's just it, right? Like there is no like walking away. There's only like figuring it out, you know? And I think because of my brain and the way that it works, there have been like there have been a million different things that I've picked up like as hobbies, you know, like fallen in love with and then walked away from. There have been a lot of those things that I've gotten like obsessively entranced with and then had no interest in three, four, six months later. But lifting is one of the few things that stuck that has stuck for 10. What have been 10 20 13 14 15 years some [\h__\h] like that? No, 13. Anyways, doesn't matter. A lot of years. And uh it's just like it's part of my genetic makeup almost to a point now. Like I'm gonna do it. There will be points where I, you know, like the last couple months where I step back because I need to for my mental and physical health, you know, and uh for the most part, it's just going to be part of the ongoing process of my life. It's going to be one of those things that I wrestle with and enjoy and, you know, have such phenomenal and incredible experiences traveling the world. Like time's over, meeting the best people I know in my life. Like lifting's just Yeah. I don't know. Powerlifting is just it for me. So, like I was saying in the last video, it changes in how it looks and how I approach it, but it's not going anywhere. So, um yeah, I don't really know what the hell we're doing today, honestly. Uh it's wash out week. I did some high bar. So, here's the other thing. I did high bar beltless eights with 220 I think on Monday and it was like easy like like probably could have gone 10 20 more kilos there easy. So, I think just missing a session kind of set my squat back a little bit and also watching the video back, I was like, "Oh my god, man." Like, that looked so easy. You know, that 260 that I cut at four reps, like it just it just felt terrible. And I think that's another, you know, huge huge indication that like that wasn't just a physical miss, right? Like that was that was mental struggle which happens man. It's real. You can't bootstrap your way out of it. Um you got to like you got to go through it, brother. Um, so yeah, today I think probably like some conventional or trap bar or something deadlifts. Shoulders a little pissy. Um, I've been pushing it pretty hard with like rehabby stuff and I think I think sometimes you're going to, you know, find the boundaries of what like how much you can push it for the sake of making it better. I did some incline dumbbell press on Monday and I haven't done that in probably two plus years. So that was interesting. Uh and it got pretty mad. Um and I I knew going in I was like, "Yeah, this is either going to be like pretty therapeutic or it's going to really piss it off or maybe even a little bit of both at the same time." And I think what we got was a little bit of both at the same time. So, doesn't feel amazing, but yeah, we're still we're still working at it. And generally speaking, like the the shoulder hasn't been hurting me benching at all, which is great. Uh it was really bugging me on Monday getting it like last week, Wednesday, I guess, but it was really bugging me getting into position, which is part of I think what made squats just feel so so bad. Um but yeah, I don't know. We're getting there. We're getting there. I've been going two or three extra mornings a week to go in just do some cardio, like 20, 30 minutes walking on a treadmill, and then just stretch, do some goblet squats, single leg RDL's, move my body around. I think one of the reasons that everything I every movementbased thing I do outside of powerlifting feels like [\h__\h] is because for so many years I haven't done anything outside of powerlifting, right? So I'm trying to ease my way back into that. Um cuts going well. Holding pretty steady around like 114 115 right now. So um yeah. Yeah. We and we got some exciting stuff. Uh, I have some exciting stuff lifting wise that uh I'm really looking forward to next week and maybe at the end of the video today. We'll do some digging and we'll see what we can find um to be prepared for that. So, anyways, I've probably jabbered on long enough here and um let's Go. Hey now. I want to find my own way out. Escape this bom and break down. There's nothing left for me. Stay loud. I'll bite the bullet and fake out so no one knows when I came down. There's nothing left for me. Ooh, I'm on holiday. Ooh. All right. Wash out things today. So, we got a bunch of these protocols that are like one real set and then four of these uh like he calls them oxidative sets. So, back off to like 30%. And just am wrap 40 seconds on, 60 seconds off, four times through, which in some ways is awesome because, you know, especially with my squat pattern, you know, pushing heavy felt so bad last week. So going in being able to push very differently, right? Like just trying to hammer reps while my legs are burning and trembling is awesome. Feels good. Um so yeah, we got that and couple of like less specific accessories. Uh but pretty much every pattern today has some of this like oxidative work. So we got to do the same thing on feet up bench. Um, yeah. Yeah. Should be pretty good, though. Also, I think that top top set there is probably the heaviest I've pushed belt squat in quite a while. One of the last times I pushed belt squat hardish. Uh, I got a lot of bad feedback from my knee, but today, especially once I got going, felt really good. And that oxidative stuff, I think just because it's so many reps, it's so light, seems to help with just getting some blood flow in there, making things feel pretty good. And motion is the lotion kind of lube, you know. So, yeah, we're going to do some back extensions and then, uh, get into some push pattern stuff. You speech So shoulders feeling pretty pinchy today. First time in a bit. Now, I think that has everything to do with the uh dumbbell incline and stretching and like messing with the shoulder a lot more. I also did dumbbell rows, which again, something I haven't done in quite a while. So, I'm just feeling a lot of stiffness in the upper back and around that shoulder blade. So today on the feet up bench, we're just going to take it really easy and treat it like a wash out. Imagine. Imagine this. You're feeling beat up. You're feeling a little burnt out. You get a dload week. You undershoot some stuff. This could be you. Feel like I cheated a little bit on feet up there cuz my right foot was bumping on my water bottle. kind of kind of hanging on to it there a little. So, call me a cheater. I can take it. We're loading her up now. Every day is exactly the same by 9 in nails, but it's every rep is exactly the same. [\h__\h] See if I still remember how to do this freaking janky ass movement. Come hither. Titherither thither. I've alluded to some things recently, some things I was excited about training wise, some new fun things, some changes. And I think maybe we can talk a little bit about what that means in a practical sense. I'm going to try equipped again. Starting Monday, we're going to get back into some equipment. I'm going to see what fits. We're going to be using the SPD knee wraps, which will be new to me. And we're going to find out if any of my old equipment from when I was a full 120 previously, albeit fatter and probably less muscular cuz that was like 2019. I don't know. We'll see if it fits. We're going to try some stuff out. Um, honestly, just being at World Games, like seeing people like Marta Elram, Elvver, Elram, sorry I'm mispronouncing your last name. Um, Ian Bell and other lifters like that are my biological age and training age. Actually, Ian's probably been competing for longer than me. Probably Marta has, too. Anyways, lifters who have been doing it a long time being very successful and equipped. Um, also just like I don't know it it it's exciting, you know. I think the way my brain works once I feel stalled out and stuck like I kind of got to change gears. And I've always said that was something that equipped gave me, right? I felt stuck. I felt injured. I felt burnt out in classic in like 2017ish and I got into equipment and I got three, four more years of like loving lifting, just being bad at it, learning, getting better, making improvements. And I think as I cut down to 105, I don't know. I guess we'll just throw it out there. I I am very seriously considering doing equipped nationals in March. Uh we'll see if I'm just a really light 120 or if I'm actually all the way down to 105. Uh we'll see if I make it that far, if I change my mind and decide I don't want to do equipped. But uh that's that's kind of what I've been rolling around in my head for three, four weeks at this point. It's been it's been a while. that I've been humming and hawing and thinking about this and thinking about this and having conversations with people. Um, you know, chatted with Mike, he's on board with it. Talked to Derek, you know, like I think I think it could be cool. I think it could be fun. Um, and I know not everybody is a super big fan of Equipped, but I think when it comes to like the vlogs and stuff, right, even from a content perspective, it just gives us a bit more of a fresh angle on things, you know? I think people enjoy the equip content even if they're not into equipped lifting. Um because obviously weights are big and you know that's cool. So anyways, I'm I'm really excited. I'm looking forward to giving it a shot, seeing how it all works, seeing how everything fits, um getting used to some new knee wraps, and just trying it out. So, you know, I talked a lot in the last video about trying to like find my place in lifting and where I feel like I want to be. Um, and kind of the whole time I've been thinking about equipped being maybe my next step here. So, if that excites you, cool. Uh, if you hate that, sorry, not sorry. I'm going to do what I want to do. Um, but I think yeah, most of the people who hang out and watch these vlogs and like these vlogs and like the training and stuff, you know, they're going to be into whatever we're doing. So, yeah, I guess that's exciting. Uh, I know I'm excited. I know Bronson's excited, right, buddy? Yeah, he's very excited. So, yeah, something to look forward to. Next vlog will be equipped, probably bench. Don't know, but we'll see. and we'll see you then. Um oh wait, also one more thing Dylan wanted me to mention um question of the day. Maybe not a formal question of the day because then it's just like we have to find one and if we don't find a good one then we're just doing a question I'm not excited about answering. But if you have questions let's just just ask them and if we feel like it's a good question or I want to answer it then we'll answer it in the vlogs. But I think an interactive component is good. So yeah, that's all now. Bye.