It's me. I'm an injury. I'm an injury. Let me in. Juru. All right. Seriously though, let me in, Dylan. Let me in, man. If you're pushing your body hard for strength, size, or performance, injuries are bound to happen. But what is an injury? What causes it? How do we work around it or through it? In this video, I'm going to attempt to answer those questions and give you the tools you need to overcome injuries. Disclaimer, I am not a doctor and this is not financial advice or medical advice. I'm not a physiootherapist. I'm a strength coach. So, this video is going to come through the lens and professional scope of a strength coach. If you're dealing with anything beyond the scope of this video, go get help. Go to a professional. This is advice from a powerlifting coach. I also think for the sake of this discussion and this video, it's relevant to give a quick lesson on pain, what it is, and how and why we feel it. In the past, it was thought that pain was simply the result of a mechanism, some sort of injury that caused the body to go, "Ow, that hurts." However, as the science of pain progressed, we've realized now that pain signals are actually filtered through and sent from the brain, not >> Come on, man. This stuff is so boring and dry. Nobody wants to listen to all this crap. Get to the point. >> All right. All right. Well, I I got to say if if you're this impatient and can't take the time to learn a thing or two or understand some of the fundamental information and education that's necessary for you to piece these things together, I don't think I have a lot of faith in your ability to actually deal with an injury or go through the the painstaking and sometimes arduous and long process of actually getting better. The athletes that I coach who understand these things, however dry some of this information may seem, are the ones who actually manage their pain, get past injuries, and go on to hit more PRs. Oh, I guess that that makes sense. This means that the brain acts as a filter for these pain signals from your body. inacting as a filter can either choose to not send pain signals as a response to mechanical trauma or can even send pain signals when there is no mechanical trauma or or mechanical injury. Now this has led to what we call the biocschosocial model of pain as opposed to the mechanistic or mechanical model of pain. Big word scary I know but let me break it down. Bio, biological, mechanical, stimulus, trauma, you've cut yourself, psychological, psycho, that means there is an effect of our our general psychology on the interpretation, sending or not sending of pain signal. If we're high anxiety, high stress, really angry, we're more likely to feel, oh, we need to protect ourselves. Psychological impact. Social means that if we're in a stressful or scary situation, if we're in a new place where we're not comfortable, the odds of us feeling pain are higher. Man, come on. I don't have time for all this stupid educational information. Just tell me what to do. What this means is you have agency in your pain. take an active role in your recovery by putting on some good tunes, trying to go into the gym in a positive mindset, feeling good vibes, getting around people you enjoy training with in a place where you enjoy training and feel safe and comfortable. If you take care of checking those boxes, you are at least slightly less likely to have painful experience. That's step number one. Let's get into some more practical stuff now. So, in order to walk through the process that I run through when either working with my own injury or with a lifter's injury, we're going to do a bit of a case study with Rick. And in order to do this case study, we're going to ask a couple of questions. Question number one that we're asking of Rick is where does it hurt? Now, in this case study, Rick's shoulder hurts. Notice I don't care if it's suppinatus, infraspanatus, or his pec minor. The shoulder is good enough. Now, question number two, and that question is, what movements hurt it? What's that, Rick? The bench press. And question number three, what part of the range of motion hurts? Oh god, it was the bottom of the range of motion, Rick. Okay, so now we have our three answers to three questions. Number one, it hurts his shoulder. Number two, it hurts in the bench press. And number three, it hurts at the bottom of the bench press. Using this information, we're going to develop what I call a two-pronged approach. A lot of this is adapted from my time when I worked with Dr. Seth Alersworth, and you can find a link to his channel in the description below. He's a great resource for all this kind of stuff. But here's what we're after. Two movements. One aimed at avoidance and one aimed at exposure therapy. All right. So, let's get to the nitty-gritty of writing Rick's rehab program. Sorry, Rick. Okay, so Rick's rehab program, like I said, we're going to take a two-pronged approach. One exercise firstly based on avoidance. And what are we avoiding? We're avoiding the painful spots. We're avoiding the bottom of the range of motion. So, this is going to be something like a pin press set at a medium height. We'll call that mid-range. This could be a board press. Or this could be a spoto press or a floor press. And what we're trying to prioritize in this movement is we're trying to get some load on the tissues. Still prioritizing loading. My writing is very neat. I'm sure everybody can follow along exceptionally well. Prioritizing loading in an attempt to maintain strength. Now, in terms of the prescription that I would use for this, I would say we are looking, like I said, to still use some intensity. So, moderate to high intensity. And we want to do slightly less volume than we would on our competition movement or if we were otherwise healthy. And number two, our second exercise is going to be exposure therapy. And what are we exposing you to? the painful parts of the range of motion, the movement that is problematic. And what are we prioritizing here? Probably the competition movement. However, we don't want to just keep doing the competition movement and slamming the work on you. So, what we have to do is likely limit the load. Low load. I'm talking like 10 to 30%. We're looking to achieve probably no more than a three out of 10 pain. are less than or equal to three out of 10 pain. We also want to record pain levels during, immediately post, and within a few days of training. Then we want to use those pain levels to help us set the amount of exposure we can get. If we notice the pain spike a little bit immediately after the exposure, probably okay. If we notice, however, that the pain goes up in the longer term, like we're talking the 2 to 3 day range, we're probably doing a little bit much and should pull back. But generally speaking, we'll be able to get a relatively higher frequency with this exposure uh exposure exposure the exposure exercise. So, I would say anywhere from like two to three times per week and anywhere from like one to four sets. And I would probably because we're using such low load, you can go anywhere in the range of like 15 to 25 reps. Now, ideally, this exposure movement will scale, but you have to be really smart about how you're doing it. You don't want to go up more than say five to 10% of bar load per week, which if you're using that sort of percentage to guide your progression in the loading, that's going to mean really small jumps when you first start and increasingly bigger jumps once you get back to something that looks more like normal training. This has been an odd attack. But what about what causes injuries? People commonly think that it's just technique and that technique is the leading cause of injuries. But I think if we're only looking at technique, then we're missing out on a lot of potential variables. Now, sure, if there's something obvious that you can pick out that a lifter or yourself can correct and you don't get the pain anymore, absolutely that should be investigated. But what about all the lifters who have what we would consider immaculate technique who still get hurt or lifters whose lifts look really precarious who don't get hurt? Surely there's got to be more to it. If we look at the science, however, the biggest correlation that we can find between training and injury rates is an overall training stimulus. Think back to the last time that you injured yourself. Was it maybe just a few weeks after you upped your bench frequency? Or perhaps you doubled your deadlift volume right before you got hurt? I think if you were to investigate that link, you might find some correlation. So, training load is correlated with injury rates. What do we do with that information? Obviously, at some point, we're going to need to increase training load to increase adaptation so that we get better and we get stronger. But when we do so, we have to take a measured approach. We have to be intentional about it. Try not to spike your volume all at once. If you're trying to add, let's say, two or three sets per week to your bench work, do so over a block or two, not necessarily just in one week. So, that was a lot. Admittedly, let's uh sum it all up in a nice, neat, tidy little recap here. Number one, pain isn't just the signal. It's your brain's interpretation of the signal. So, take the reigns. Try to keep yourself calm. Tell yourself that you're all right. You're strong, resilient, you will come back from this. Get around some people that you like, and try to enjoy your training. Number two, the two-pronged approach. Find one exercise that's going to avoid the painful parts of the range of motion and one that's going to expose you to them. Prescribe them accordingly, and profit. Number three, technique might have something to do with it. If you can adjust the way that you're moving easily and it feels better, it's lowhanging fruit. Do that first. Hopefully, it works. Number four, is it training load? Probably. If you noticed a big spike in your training load before you got hurt, chances are that's what caused it. Reduce your training load while you recover, and the next time you bring your training load up, maybe do so a little more gradually. And lastly, phone a friend. If you struggle with any part of this process, if these answers don't work for you, and those people exist, go find help from a professional. Like I said, there's two that we talked about earlier. They're going to be in the description below. Real talk for a moment. I have dealt with a lot of injuries myself. I have coached a lot of lifters who have dealt with injuries. It sucks. I'm not I'm not going to dance around that. I have to acknowledge that it's a bummer. It can be demoralizing and discouraging to be limited in doing the thing that you love. And that can then turn into a negative feedback cycle where you feel bad about being hurt and then you get hurt more because you're feeling bad. I think this can have a really pronounced impact on a lot of people's mental health and I think it's worth mentioning that here. If you're struggling with mental health as a result of being injured and stagnant in the sport that you love, know that you're not alone. Reach out to friends and family as much as you need to. Let people know what's going on. Maybe even reach out to someone professionally for help with your mental health. It's not a joke, even though most of this video was. Stay safe out there. Hopefully, you enjoyed the video. Like, comment, subscribe, all that kind of good stuff. Maybe let us know in the comments down below if you're currently dealing with an injury or if you've used some kind of weird intervention or maybe not so weird intervention to get past one. Let us know. And again, thanks for tuning in. We'll see you in the next one.