All right, next we're going to talk about the muscles that you need. God damn it. All right, so now let's talk about some less specific exercises. I'd categorize these as supplemental exercises because we're going to be targeting the muscles and not the movements. And the three that I would include here would be number one, the leg press. If we're losing position off the floor, if we're not able to, you know, stay in the quads and brace and incorporate all of these things, it might be that the legs are weak. It might be that the legs could use a little more mass packed onto them. Also, leg pressing is great and will probably just help you no matter what. If you're a powerlifter, it's a good accessory. Try it out. The next one I would recommend is going to be direct core work. If you're having any kind of problem that that relates to your bracing, and in some cases, this loss of position can be kind of compounded by rounding out a little bit more. If we're having problems losing the brace and we're not doing some kind of direct core work, whether it's it's hanging leg raises or front planks or side planks or rolling planks. I do like planks. Uh or some sort of sit-up variation like the spread eagle situp that I got from Dr. Seth Alersworth, who's very good. I've also been really liking the weighted crunches lately. Been doing a lot of those. So, direct core work, I think, can also help with this. As well as the final one is heavy back work. And I'm not talking about seated rows for sets of 12 to 15. I've recommended those for bench. Sure, they're not a bad exercise, but in this case, we want to build strength in the back. We want to be doing heavy barbell rows with like five or six reps to an eight or nine RP. We're probably using some body English here. We're talking stacking plates on the chest supported row and trying to impress everybody um by doing really good quality reps to an appropriate RP but a high RP. Training the back heavy again I think is going to help with all of this kind of being able to brace and using your legs properly. Uh just bringing up all of these areas I think can help a lot with this issue.