 What's going on everybody? Welcome back for another episode of Form Check Friday, the series where we take user viewer submitted videos, and we pull them up on the screen behind the video, and we pull them up on the screen behind me, I critique them, try to help people become more efficient lifters. If you guys are interested in this and you want to have your technique looked at, go ahead and send an email over to formcheckfridayatcalgarybarbell.com. Make sure to include some context to let me know what it is that maybe you see that's wrong with your lifts, list some things you're trying to work on, and let us know maybe whether or not you plan to compete, because sometimes that makes a big difference in how I'll critique these lifts. As well, if you like this type of video and you're interested in being a part of more of these form checks, you want to get to know Dylan and I a little bit better, go ahead and stop by twitch.tv.com. And check out our Twitch live streams. We're streaming once or twice a week now, and the schedule is usually posted about a week ahead of time, so you can scroll down a little bit and see when we're going to be live streaming. So, that being said, we're going to dive right in today. So, let's get to our first one here. It is a bench video from Tyler V. So, Tyler's a 66 kilo lifter. He says he's been bulking for some time, got up to 155, been at it for about six years. Deadlift has grown. Currently on prep for a meet in September using our program. Loves it so far. Three weeks in, he tweaked some things that weren't in the program. When he benches, he feels like the leg drive is somewhat not there, but not fully and unsure why. Any advice? So, let's take a look here. Tyler, there you are. Tyler, there you are. Tyler, there you are. So, we're going to pull this up and take a look. What have we got going on here, Tyler? Tyler, so the descent looks pretty good. The touch looks maybe a little bit loose, so I'd like to see you try to tighten that up and just keep a little bit more control over the bar. If we just pay attention to these frames right where the bar is on the chest, you can kind of see as the bar descends. Right here during the pause when the bar should be motionless, we're seeing a bunch of wobbling around, especially on these later reps. On this rep, the bar moves and dances quite a bit before we start pausing. Now, I can see one thing that we're getting, actually, is we're seeing the knees come in as he goes to press here. Right there. So, that to me tells me that perhaps the reason we're not getting as much leg drive is because the feet are out quite wide. Now, you might be someone who benefits from putting their feet a little more down here. Those are odd circles. You can't even see them on there. But anyways, so a little further down this way. Everybody see those arrows? There we go. Down that way. So, Tyler's feet are a little bit too far up, I think. And I think we can move them down to get them more out in front of him this way so that his leg drive pushes more back into his arch. Now, that, I think, is going to solve the leg drive thing. I also think that we just need a little bit more tightness kind of overall in this upper back. So, right in sort of this area here, as we're locking in our press, as we're in our paws there, we're seeing a fair bit of movement and a fair bit of things kind of jostling around just a little bit more than I would usually like to see. And that's making that second and third press a fair bit harder than they should be. We're seeing the elbows come out almost behind the bar. So, making it really tough to kind of finish that bar path when the shoulders elevate like that off the chest. So, a little tighter in the upper back. Let's try to move the legs down this way a little bit. And that should help a little bit for you. Best of luck with that, Tyler. Let's get to our next one here. Our next one comes from Antonio. So, Antonio says, thanks for taking the time to read this email. He's 29 years old. Started taking lifting a lot more seriously about a week, or sorry, about a year ago. My apologies. Would like to try and compete eventually. He watches a lot of our YouTube videos as well as reads starting strength in order to learn proper form and technique. So far, it's going really well. He's at a stage where he feels like outside feedback for his technique would be helpful. And he trains alone for the most part. For context, his bench is the worst lift. He's been struggling with it. He feels he can do more, but his left shoulder seems to get an impingement when moving the bar down. Sometimes he feels a sharp pain in it, which makes him lose tightness. All right. So, let's see if we can get this to pop up behind me. There it is. All right. Now, Antonio, let's see what we're working with, my man. So, setup looks pretty decent. Looks like we can maybe get a little tighter in that upper back. I would think about lowering this rack height. So, that's a big thing there. It's just how much we are currently elevated in the shoulders. Right in there. So, watch this as we unrack the bar. Shoulders roll forward even a little bit here. And then tuck all the way down. So, number one. I'd like to see you set up just a tiny bit higher up the bench. Right now, we're eye level here. And I'd like for maybe nose or mouth level to be lined up with the bar. That way, when you unrack, we're not having to bring the bar out quite so far. Hopefully, we'd have to bring the bar out about there. Now, that's going to move your whole body up the bench this way. And I think that's going to be a valuable tool in terms of maintaining more tightness as you unrack the bar. Now, let's get into the press here. Okay. So, it's tough to say. I mean, I don't know necessarily what may or may not be causing your pain. That's tough to assess from just watching a video. But one of the big things that we really want to do is we want to try to maintain more control down into the bar. Or more control throughout the lift. So, when we get to about here in the range of motion, this whole range from here to here, we're just dropping. Right there. And you see how much that sort of hits, sinks. We loosen a lot of tightness. If we look up into the shoulders here, we're seeing the shoulder loosen quite a bit as we sort of drop into that bottom position. Now, that to me is indicating that we are losing a lot of tightness. And that may be a symptom of or maybe caused by that shoulder pain. My biggest advice when it comes to dealing with pain as a powerlifter is number one, let's reduce the intensity a little bit. And see if we can find a range wherein we can lift pain free. And then slowly try to increase the weight on the bar so that we can get back up into working weights and challenging ourselves while avoiding that pain. Now, obviously, pain is very multifaceted. And I'm not a physiotherapist. So, that's going to be the extent of my recommendations. If that doesn't work, go see a physiotherapist. Go see a qualified professional to help you deal with that. Now, let's get back to the bench press here. So, the big thing is we're dropping. We're loosening. We're losing a lot of tightness onto the chest. And we're also pressing very much up and back as opposed to back and up. So, that's kind of the diagram. If anybody has read the Greg Knuckles article, he's got a really great article on bar path. And that's going to be the bar path of a more novice lifter. And a more advanced and efficient bench presser is going to press more back and then up. So, you can see the difference in those two bar paths. And I think you are more the novice where we're seeing the bar come up and then back towards the top. So, that would be the other thing I would recommend is pressing it back a little earlier off the chest. But that's also going to mean you're going to have to work harder to stay tighter on the chest. Hopefully, that helps. All right. Let's keep on boogieing here. Our next one comes from Frank. And Frank is from Hong Kong. He says he's interested in competing in the future. First week... Sorry. The first set went a little bit squat morning. I also fell forward on the midway down, overextending the spine. Second set, I went for a higher bar position. Feels like hips shoot back less. How could I address these problems? Well, let us take a look here, Frank. Let's see what we can decipher for you. All right, Frank. So, here we are set up. Looks to me first off like we're a little bit... I'll try to figure out what everybody can see there. It looks to me like we're a little bit elevated in the shoulders. Whereas what I would like to see is for those shoulders to be pulled down a little bit more. So, that's causing a little bit of tip forward and sort of... What's the word I'm looking for? Frontal sort of displacement. So, we're seeing the shoulders tipped forward at the top, which generally doesn't bode well for the upper back in terms of tightness throughout the squat. Now, that in and of itself could produce a squat morning pattern. Let's continue to watch and see what comes up here. So, this looks okay, actually. It looks like as you descend, you're kind of pulling your shoulders into a bit of a better position. In relation to the upper body and trunk. One thing I think we are doing for certain is we are sort of overextending too much as you descend. And trying to reach up too much with the chest. As opposed to just keeping this braced tight like this. And allowing yourself to lean a little bit. Allow yourself to lean. Allow yourself to lean. See how we get the shift into the bottom? So, right here. If we slow things down, we can see the torso angle start to shift forward. We're starting to shift forward here. As we go through. Whereas, if we had sort of set that torso angle at the top and allowed you to be a little bit more tilted, we would have been able to keep the trunk a lot more braced. And in a similar position, although maybe a little bit leaned forward, it would have been unmoving. And not ending up changing and shifting positions throughout. Which definitely contributes to that sort of squat morning feeling and a loss of tightness in the bottom. Let's take a look at this next set. A little more high bar, he said. So, the high bar definitely does, I mean, tend to agree with your wanting to stay really upright a little bit better. So, I mean, that more high bar, bar placement agrees with your squat mechanics more. So, it's hard to say, okay, this one's definitely going to be better for you. Because it just kind of doesn't work like that. But, I would say continue to train both. For your low bar squats, I prefer to see you change your mechanics a little bit to allow yourself to lean as you initiate the movement. Christian Hiller. Here's my recent sumo deadlift PR of 240 kilos, 529 pounds. Hoping for an analysis. Alright, Christian. Let's see it. Let us analyze it. Getting hyped up, which is good. Super loose start. Not pulling the slack out. Debatably locked out. Yeah. So, probably a little bit overhyped. But, like, you go from loose. And I love the intensity. I really do. But you go from loose to reaching. And then from this position, you start your lift. And you just jack into the bar. The hips shoot up. And then you kind of, like, start to lean back and pull that bar back into yourself quite a bit off the floor. So, there's a number of things. Like, you're pulling that bar into yourself really bad. By trying to, like, extend your hips and your back. And just, like, you're just kind of really just going for it. Now, I think that also this lockout here doesn't look like we're all the way locked out. It does not look like we have, oops. It doesn't look like we have the right sort of shoulder position. The shoulders look too far in front. And the hips don't look like they're far enough forward. So, the shoulders are too, or sorry, the hips are too far back. Looks like we still are a little bit flexed in the back. I'm not sure I would give this lift white lights. And I'm not saying all of this to try to be a crusty old man or to poo-poo on your PR. Because it's great that you're hitting PRs and getting stronger. I do think that there's a real lack of sort of technical intent that went into this. So, it may or may not have been time to reach for this PR, in my opinion. Obviously, like I said, we're just not pulling the slack out of the bar. We're not really conscious of the timing of pushing the floor away versus pulling back at the top. So, there's a number of things going on here. And the last of which I would say is we need a cleaner lockout. So, like I said, I don't mean to discredit your PR. But I personally believe in you as a lifter. And I think that you can do better. All right. Lastly, Oscar Erickson. His name is Oscar. And he's 20 years old. This is a video of his latest gym PR. And his goal is to be a competitive powerlifter. So, let's take a look. I've already downloaded this. Oscar. Let us see. Let's see what we've got going on here. So, out of the rack. First thing we're going to look at is the unrack and the walkout, right? So, here. Looks like we're doing a pretty good job. We're pretty well stacked under the bar. We stand it up. Maybe a little excessive on the walkout. Probably could have gone one or two more steps shallower and been a little closer to the rack. But that's okay. Really good, man. Really, really good squat. So, as he descends, one of the things that I'm watching for here that I think he does pretty well is we stay tight and we set this upper back. So, as he begins to descend, what we're seeing is we're seeing him pull his shoulders and elbows down his back in line with his trunk. Now, let's see if we can sort of identify that. As he goes, you can see the tension increase there as he begins to descend. The butt goes back a little bit, but he maintains that tension through the upper back. As we get to the bottom, at about this point, the knees sort of stop tracking forward. We don't see them track too much further forward. I may have made that line a little bit premature. But we see his hips sort of dip straight down. If we focus on the feet at the bottom, we see nice, even pressure. We're not seeing the heels come up. We're not seeing the feet roll in too much. And not that that is the be-all and end-all, but it is sometimes a pretty good indication that we're getting a little bit off balance or a little bit loose. Depth, especially from this angle, looks like we're pretty good. Again, tough to say definitely from a rear angle. As we come up, the knees don't shoot back too far. Obviously, the knees come back a little as they extend. But they certainly don't outrun the hips to a great extent, which is something we often see. We'll often see lifters' knees really sort of fire back, which shoots the hips up. And in this case, we're doing a much better job of keeping the knees forward, even just a tiny bit. Right about there, the knees stop movement and the hips go through. And we finish the lift. So while that may not have been a lot of critique for you, Oscar, hopefully this illustrates for some people some of the things that people do right. So I think there's a value in having a decent mix on the channel of things that, okay, these are the things that we messed up. These are the things I'd like you to improve. But also having illustrations of, okay, these are how we fix those things. These are what it looks like when we do these things properly. And sometimes that's a beneficial illustration for people. So with that being said, we're going to wrap this video up. So I want to thank everybody for tuning in today. If you like these videos, be sure to hit subscribe. We have plenty of other more short form sort of entertaining, informational powerlifting videos coming very soon. And like I said, if you liked our lives, or sorry, if you would like to tune in, get your form checked live on air with Calgary Barbell, Dylan and myself, go ahead and click over to twitch.tv slash Calgary Barbell. And we'll see you all there. Thanks for watching. Any questions, comments, leave them below. And we'll see you in the next one. Yes. Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes