All right, this is form check Friday. This is a series where we're going to take your viewer submitted videos and I, a professional powerlifting coach of 10 plus years, is going I is I am going to review the videos, try to offer you some technique recommendations, perhaps talk a little bit about programming or any other way I can think of that you might be able to fix and improve your lifting based on what is sent in. If you're interested in submitting, we have a submission form up on our website at calgary barbell.com. Just click on the link for form check. Now, without any further ado, we're going to intro today's first submission. Now, first up is Jason. Jason's doing a deadlift here. Uh it's 465 lbs single at what he calls an RP8. And Jason is training for powerlifting for competition. He says he's new to using the belt, aiming for 500 lb by the end of the year. and he's worried he has too quad dominant of a deadlift which makes the bar start a little further from his shins. So, taking a look at this this let's see what we can see. So, first off, the pull into position looks good. I think the only adjustment I'd make here is maybe just not craning the neck back. I'd try to just keep the neck in line with the rest of the trunk. Right. Pick a point maybe about here that you can set your gaze on. That way, we're not pulling a bunch of excessive extension in the upper back here, which is going to make it harder to get good tension through the midback and uh, you know, get as much of the brace going as we want. The other thing I'm seeing here is maybe we're on a little bit of the insides of the feet might be that narrowing your stance very slightly to allow yourself to get a little more knees out and be a little more straight up and down in the shins. I think if we looked at this from the front, we might see a little bit of an inward angle from your foot to your knee, which in some cases means that we're not going to be as stable as we can be on the feet. So, probably narrowing your stance very slightly would be a recommendation I'd make. In terms of things being too quad dominant or being too far from your shins, I I don't think that's something that I would be concerned about looking at this. Right, we're starting with the bar pretty much right up against the shins, which I also don't think is always 100% necessary. I think in some cases, depending on a lifter's anatomy, starting with the bar slightly away from the shins, right? If this is the front of the shin and the bar is here, so it's over the middle of the foot, that's totally fine. In your case, yes, we have a little bit more of a positive or forward shin angle, the bar starting right against the shins, not an issue. I don't think we're overly deep. I don't think we're overly knees forward. So, the concern of it being like too quad dominant, I don't think is something that I'm concerned about here. So, I would maybe mess around with your your start position stance-wise. And in terms of the belt, if you're new to using a belt on deadlifts, I would probably opt to go looser rather than tighter. It doesn't look to me like this is too tight, but I think in some cases, people's first inclination when starting to use a belt is really cranking that thing on. And uh sometimes that can mess a little bit with your brace, with your start position, and I often I I don't think the trade-off is often worth it. So overall, you got a really solid looking deadlift here, Jason. Um I think whatever training you're doing seems to be working. I don't know if this is a PR or not. Seems like we had a little s at the end there. So um yeah, I don't I don't think we're all that far off by uh the end of the year for that 500 lb milestone. So good luck with it. Let's get on to the next one. Now, our next lifter here is Auntie. Auntie P. Uh, also doing a deadlift. This is 210 kilos, single at 10. This was a new PR for Auntie. So, Auntie is training for comp. I think this might even be done in competition. And the sort of context given was despite the obvious error, which I believe we're talking about this little bobble at the top there. Uh he figures it was three white lights, which yeah, I mean you can kind of say that about a lot of lifts, right? If I hadn't missed depth, that would be three white lights. Um I get what you're saying though, right? Like I don't think you have many other issues other than losing that balance for a split second and seeing that bobble. Um, you said you've been trying to figure out what causes that bobble. The weight felt pretty easy. Uh, and you said this felt like the easiest lift of the day despite it being your final pull. So, let's see if we can't figure out why we're bobbling. Right. So, just before the bobble, we're kind of trying to jam the hips through a little bit. We're a little back and forth. If we look at how the weight is displaced on your feet, we're a little far back on the heels and then we kind of come forward to the toes a little bit. I think for you what I would recommend is just number one, bring this toe angle in a little bit. It could just be as easy and straightforward as our like base of support when our feet are out, right? Wow, that's a interesting looking foot I'm drawing here. Right. Right? When our feet are really out like that versus when our feet are a little more straight forward, right, we get a little bit of a a a bigger and and wider base of support, right? So, if we're extremely towed out, this like vertical support that we have is a lot less than when we're towed forward. So sometimes just changing that angle ever so slightly can help to provide you some better balance cuz you're better able to keep that bar centered with yourself. The next thing that I would look at doing is trying to be a little more conscious of where that weight is on your feet. Right? It looks like off the floor. Number one, we're super super knees out, which I think also tends to cause some issues with lockout. If you're really forcing external rotation, we're not going to be able to get full hip extension, right? Like if you do a deadlift where all you're thinking about is pushing your knees out, even if you just do it like with a broomstick really quick, if you're watching at home, you can you can try this at home. you know, try to focus predominantly on really forcing your knees out and then also try to lock your hips at the same time. It doesn't quite work like that, right? Your your knee and your femur kind of like need to internally rotate a little bit and get back to more of a straightforward orientation before you're able to get full hip extension. So, if we're really forcing this knees out, I think a lot of the times that can make things get a little locked up and and kind of clunky at lockout. Another thing that goes along with trying to maintain good pressure on the feet and if we if we watch this lift in its initiation, it looks like things move back a decent bit, right? So, we're putting a lot of the load back on the heels. And then around here, we're trying to really extend the hips relatively early, which is going to start us moving forwards, putting the weight back on the front of the feet. So, there's this transition from heel to toe. And I think if we can iron that out to where we just maintain better foot pressure between heel and ball of the foot throughout the entirety of the lift, I think we're seeing less of that bobble. Now, going hand in hand with that, I think also working on staying over the bar, it's going to kind of be the same cue, just differently, right? Instead of trying to pull back and push your hips forward and then kind of like leaning into the bar. If we're just a little more patient, focus on locking the knees while staying in that same torso position, we may be able to avoid that bobble a little bit. Yeah, those would be the biggest things. Um, you know, uh, I think in terms of training interventions, potentially something like banded deadlifts where it's going to, you know, kind of really kick in at the end, working on that lockout and also if you're not like I hesitate to call it pausing your deadlifts at lockout, but holding your deadlift at lockout every single rep, right? Right? You're doing a set of five. Lock it out, hold it, make sure it's balanced, then set it down. I think a lot of lifters get into this habit of like locking down, locking down, as opposed to cultivating that skill of being balanced, locking it out all the way and then setting it down, right? Hopefully that helps. Our next video comes from Marcus, also doing a deadlift. We got a lot of deadlifts today, so hopefully y'all are in for the deadlifts. Uh, let's see. 150 kilos for seven. This is an AM wrap. Uh, Marcus figures his 1RM is around 180 to 185. He is training for a competition. Says he's newish to sumo. Uh, been doing sumo for about 11 weeks and has an issue with the back rounding. Now, when RP gets higher, the rounding increases and lockout gets really hard. Sounds like that's where Marcus is missing if he gets to the point where he's missing a lift. Uh he figures it's a setup issue. So, one thing that I can kind of see here from the hop and let's get a look at these last couple reps before I say too much. So, yeah, bit of a breather. He mentioned between rep five and six and then pulling the last two of this AM wrap. Yeah. So, definitely getting pretty stuck towards the end there. Now, it's quite hard for me to tell from this sort of like straight on side angle, but it looks like we may be gripping the bar really narrow, which is preventing us from being able to to get our shoulder blades down into position. Right. We've got a decent bit of rounding in the thoracic, which not really a big issue with the deadlift until that rounding carries in through the lumbar. Then that's when we're getting stuck at lockout. That's when we're having a hard time getting that pelvis and low back kind of slammed back into position at lockout. Right as we come up off the floor, these shoulders are just very, very forwards, which makes me think that you're right and that it's a setup issue. And I think the fix is going to be number one to work on trying to get some better extension here and get those shoulders pulled into position. Now, if you just take and like put your hands really close together here and try to pull your shoulders back and down into position without moving your hands, it's going to be really hard to do. The wider you are, the harder it's going to be at a narrow position. However, if you move your grip out just so just slightly, all of a sudden that frees us up to be able to get a lot more movement out of them shoulder blades, right? So, it looks to me like number one, we're strapped up, right? Which I think there's a lot of a lot of more novice lifters right now who strap up, grip on the smooth, and then wonder why their upper back position is not so hot. Right? And I'm not saying you're doing that. Again, hard if not impossible for me to tell if that's what's happening from here, but going wider a lot of the times is going to help you get a bit better position in the upper back. And I think your starting position in the upper back is probably the biggest thing holding you back here, right? Like as we go to pull in, right? So like here, I feel like we have some tension pulling the shoulder blades back, which is commonly You know, a common kind of mistake lifters make when they're trying to create upper back tension. What we're looking for is we're looking to try to take this shoulder blade and pull it into the brace. Right? A lot of that's going to come from feeling some good tightness in your lats. Right? Thinking about bending the bar, pulling those shoulders down, clamping the armpit shut, pointing the elbow towards the back wall, and on and on and on. There's a lot of different cues to try to create this, but essentially I think you're going to feel lat tension as an indicator that you're starting to get this upper back position figured out. Right. The other thing I'm noticing here, yeah, as we go to pull in, like we're good from like here down basically. We might also be trying to wedge the knees out too far, too hard. But I think the biggest thing is coming from this upper back. Again, this neck position is going to make it hard to have as good a control as we as we can here, right? Because we're we're creating this extension here and it's going to tighten up the upper back, but it's not actually going to allow us to like work with that position quite as well. So, let's tuck that chin in a little bit, right? Instead of this, tuck the chin in a little bit. And then we'll be able to get a little bit more positional awareness and a little bit better working with the upper back. I think I think grip width might be the big the big thing holding you back here. Um, as with that other lifter, I think we might be towing out a bit much. that might be making lockouts a little harder. Um, in your case though, I don't think I would tow in. I think what I would do is actually heel out just a tiny bit cuz I think it looks like your hips are fine being in that wider position. There's also Yeah, like if we look at the start position of the hips themselves, right, and the knees, right? We look at where we start rep one from, we're a lot further back here. So, just working on trying to find that good consistent foot pressure off the floor. This rep is a lot of heels. Some of these later reps, we're a little more balanced between midfoot and uh or sorry, ball of the foot, midfoot, and heel. So, again, just trying to like make sure that we're finding that good consistent feeling tension in each rep before we break the floor and and trying to incorporate your upper back more into the setup. And now we're going to mix it up with a bench. I told you there's a lot of deadlifts, not solely deadlifts. So, we're looking at Chris's bench press here. Now, Chris is benching 225 for a set of three at 8 and a half. Chris is training for competition. And he says bench is the lift he struggles with the most. He says he feels his technique is generally okay. Heels up, he wanted to note, is perfectly fine in his federation where he competes. and he said he got the bench from 235 to 250 using the Calgary barbell 16week program. So that's pretty cool. If anybody's interested in the 16week program, you can head to calgary barbell.com, check that out. It's free. You just put in your email, we send it to you. Uh and then you have a free 16week powerlifting program that has been used by like 10 plus thousand people. Um and and has gotten a lot of people a lot of gains. So go check it out. All right. So, first thing I'm noticing here is we're pretty we're pretty close gripped. We're pretty narrow gripped. Um, we're seeing a decent bit of movement in the initiation of the press, but the biggest thing I think is how much we're loosening at lockout, right? We see that here as you finish the rep, there's just a heck of a lot of movement going on. Boom. Right. Like I think what we're trying to do is we're trying to be like explosive, but really what it's doing is moving your shoulders around and losing you a lot of that back tightness that you painstakingly created during this like this setup. And what that's going to do is it's going to make your reps degrade really fast, right? You're going to go from rep one being nice and tight to rep two, all of a sudden we've lost a decent amount of position to rep three, now we're super loose. Right. We're seeing So, the big things we're seeing there are number one, as we press, the shoulders creep up. So, we want to work on trying to keep those shoulders stable as we press, right? Even if it means being a bit patient, even if it means being a little bit slower off the chest or maybe rather thinking about it as smooth off the chest. We don't want to be slow, but we want to be smooth. You know that that ancient saying that smooth is slow, slow is smooth and smooth is fast, right? We want to be smooth in the movement. So, keeping the shoulders pinned and just really focusing on how we're initiating off the chest, right? Making sure the shoulders aren't creeping up as we press. Big thing. Um, the other big thing when you're finishing a rep, again, maintain that upper back tension. maintain that upper back tightness. If you want to like be, I don't know, explosive or snappy, do it with the elbows, right? Don't let those shoulders follow through, right? Anytime we're losing that little bit of shoulder position, it adds up. It piles up throughout the set. I would agree. Generally, your technique is quite good. Um, I would experiment with a bit of a wider grip, even just as a as an accessory movement because I think, you know, wider grip limits range of motion. At the very least, if it doesn't provide like a a valid alternative to pressing with this narrower grip, it will at least provide you a bunch of good training for your pecs and delts, right? Like, it's a great bench accessory movement to bench wider, even if you don't end up changing your like competition grip. Um, let's see here. Yeah, touch weight is is fine. Uh, I used to be a lot more of a stickler about people touching like, oh, you got to touch super light. But it seems like you have enough control there. Like I don't think the touch is really messing you up. I I would still even if it's legal, I feel like we we don't get as much leg drive being in this like kind of toe pick. So, I would play around with that again. And just like maybe on an accessory day, maybe do like a um uh like a an IPF bench day or something, you know what I mean? Like where you you bench wide and you put your feet flat and just like play around with those positions and stuff and see if there's anything um that you can learn from benching in that style. Not necessarily that will change your comp lift, but at the very least, like I said, it'll provide a At the very least, it will provide a good accessory movement that I think will help to bring up some some muscle groups that I don't know. I I can't look at you and say like, "Oh, your your pecs are lagging." But, you know, I I think getting some wider grip benching usually pretty good tool. Playing around with your foot position and leg drive, I think, is something that a lot of really good benchers do as they progress for quite a while, right? That's something that I've messed with a number of different times in my career, each time trying to find a slightly better way to provide support for my upper back u by slightly changing my foot position. Right? So, yeah, I think generally speaking, your bench technique, like I said, looks quite good. Um, I think just being a little more conscious of keeping the back tight as you initiate the press and that lock out would be the biggest things. And then I may play around with a wider grip, foot down or heels down bench press, uh, as an accessory movement. And lastly, we have Ailio. Ailio C. Uh, again, deadlift 425 double at 7 to 8. Is not training for competition. um says he's gone up to a 500 lb deadlift with poor form. Learned a bunch from watching our videos and other people's videos on the internet trying to correct his form for he says four months now. He hasn't matched his previous max yet with his new technique, the changes he's made. Um but is open to further critiques here. Um and honest honest to goodness, um I think this looks incredibly solid. I think I would be remiss to change anything here. Um, we are pulling into a really, really good position here. We are initiating with a lot of quad, a lot of leg drive. Um, some people might look at this and be like, "Oh, his hips shoot up." But the fact that your hips move like half an inch off the floor, uh, I really don't think is something that I would worry about or like try to micromanage. I think you do a great job with your torso position in the opening phases of the pull here. Really just kind of pushing it off the floor. As the bar comes across the knees, we start to drive the hips through and pull back with the upper back. It's just it's really smooth, really solid, really clean. Um I would be very surprised if this was a full like this looks more like maybe a six or less. like these looked like we got I don't know probably six reps there pretty easy. So yeah, I think your your deadlift technique looks wonderful. I do not think I would change anything here and I would just encourage you to keep doing what you're doing. I know that's not the most uh exciting advice, but sometimes just knowing that you're doing things right is a good thing. All right, that's form check Friday. Again, if you want to submit, go ahead and check the links. Uh, we'll probably put a link in the description box below so you can get straight to the form submission. Um, and we'll be doing one of these once a month. So, there we go. Diversifying our uh content here on Calgary Barbell. So, if you like this style of coaching, if you want your own form check Friday, well, we do those in our Calgary barbell app. You can check that out in the description box below as well. We got 51 programs in there now. And every week, one of our coaches goes in and does exactly this for our members in the Discord. So that's pretty cool. Anyways, we'll see you in the next one. Peace.