! Alright, hello everybody, welcome back to the December edition of Form Check Friday. Just to let it be known, I want it to be here. But apparently, we're being festive and I'm here. So this series is where we take your videos that you've submitted to us, we put them up on this fancy little screen behind me and draw on them and stuff and give you some powerlifting coaching advice. I've been in this game a long time, I've coached a lot of people, I've done some cool stuff as a lifter myself and we made this series so that we can give a little something back to our community. If you're interested in submitting for Form Check Friday, there's a link at CalgaryBarbell.com, so it'll be pretty easy to find. I think it says Form Check Friday up at the top, you click that, that's a good start. So yeah, CalgaryBarbell.com, go there if you want to send videos in. But let me get down to it here. So we're starting off with our first submission from Huey? I don't know, I'm probably saying your name wrong and for that I apologize, but we're going to take a look at a deadlift. Alright so Huey here is pulling a 202 kilo single and then a 187 set for three at, he figured about a nine. Now he's not training for a powerlifting competition right now and he says his biggest issues are problems with the slack pull and a slow lockout. And he says he tends to set his hips a little bit lower when he's approaching a heavy single versus how he sets them on his working sets. So first off let's take a look here and see how we're setting things on the heavy single. So we definitely get pretty far back here and I think we might even be potentially like too far behind the bar, right? Especially if we're reaching the hips down and back, we might be getting too far behind the bar. You can see there as you initiate the pull, we get pulled forward, right? And then on your rep work, you set yourself a little more kind of where you want to be with your upper body and we don't end up getting pulled forward quite as far. Now I think the issue we're seeing here in terms of the slow lockout is due to this like little bit of flexion in the low back and having the pelvis, you know, kind of what's the word posteriorly tilted, right? So if this is the front of you and this is your spine, this is your pelvis, right? If we're tilting it this way, that's anterior pelvic tilt. Water, if the pelvis were full of water, the water would fall out of the front. Posterior tilt means if the pelvis were a bucket of water, the water would fall out back. Antior pelvic tilt, posterior pelvic tilt. What we're seeing here is posterior pelvic tilt, right? The pelvis is tilted in this way. And usually as you can see in those illustrations, the lumbar, the lower segment of the spine here, this part here, is going to be flexed as well. Now what that means is we're starting off with a certain amount of lumbar flexion. We get to the top at lockout here and by about, let's see, this part of the range of motion, we've got almost full hip extension, right? So the hips are extended, but we still have this flexion in the lumbar to try to make up. Now, the muscles that extend the lumbar spine are not as strong as the muscles that extend the hip joint, right? So if we finish with hip extension, we've got the glutes, the big muscles that make up your butt, those are going to be driving the extension. If we finish with lumbar extension, then we have these small muscles that run up and down your spine called erectors, those are going to be finishing the extension. So what I'm getting at is that if we can change our pelvis and lumbar position slightly, so when we're pulling in, if we can try to aim to get a little bit of extension here, I'm not too worried if there's some flexion in the upper back, right? The upper back tends to be more built for extension, right? Like it's easier to get a little bit of upper back extension at the top versus trying to get low back extension at the top. So when we're pulling in number one, I want you to bring your neck out of extension because sometimes if we're extended here, we'll end up getting more extension in the upper back, which makes it harder to get extension in the lower back, right? We only have so much manipulating the spine we can do with our hip position. And I don't think that's an issue with hip position, it's just the way it is. So if we move the head so we're more neutral instead of up like this, sometimes that allows us to put a little more intentional flexion in the upper back, the thoracic spine, and that leaves a little bit more slack for us to pull into a little more extension in the low back or lumbar spine. Now, I can't see this lip from the front, but if I could, I might be encouraging you to maybe narrow the stance and try to push the knees out a little bit. And that's one way we can try to create this space to get into extension here a bit better, right? If the knees go out, sometimes what we see from the front is your torso will kind of run into your quads, right? Making it tougher for you to get that extension. But the long story short, long story long maybe, is we need to try to build that extension as part of our brace, right? We need to be pulling into a bit of extension. I don't know if like pulling the slack is necessarily the issue here. I think it's more of a positional thing. Now, a lot of lifters will pull with some flexion. It's not a bad thing. You're not going to hurt yourself. You've clearly been able to train like this for a while and get to the point where you can handle 400 and some pounds at whatever body weight you are. So we're not weak. This position isn't terrible. And it's not like we're not able to lift here. But I think if we can fine tune it a little bit, get a little bit more extension, that's going to be a big thing. That's going to be a real enabler in terms of alleviating that, specifically the tough lockout, right? That's one of the biggest issues we run into with having that little bit of flexion in the low back. So that would be the biggest thing I would work on. In terms of how you work on that, I would program a couple of different things. Number one, I would program some low back specific work, maybe some glute ham raises or low back extensions. Focus on building up the erector. So if we do lose that position, at least we're strong enough to get through it with more weight. Another thing I would do is program maybe some pause deadlifts. Start off really light with those so that you can be in like a perfect position, barely push the bar off the floor, pause and hold that position, and then push again, starting the deadlift, right? If we're going to do a pause deadlift, we want to be pausing like here, right? Just as the bar leaves the floor. And that allows us to really build up the ability to hold extension in the bottom of the range of motion, which is where we're going to lose it more than likely. So that when we get to the top, we don't have to make it up. You can also use some RDLs or stiff legs to again work on hinging in that position and strengthening those muscles at that joint angle. But I digress. That is my advice and best select to a Huey. Up next we have a squat and this squat is from Michael. So let's talk a little bit about Michael. Michael is doing 216 kilos here, close to an at 10. So Michael is training for a meet. He said he's always struggled with squat more than the other two lifts. Above 200 kilos, he feels like he stays too upright. When he braces, he says he's trying to tuck his pelvis and find his glutes, which contributes, he feels to him staying more upright. This is the last heavy single before he hit 200 kilos at comp, which was max effort. I think 220 was what he said. I might I think I miswrote, miswrote that down. So let's take a look at this squat and see what we can see. So I think I think the pick in the walkout looked pretty good. I feel like maybe there's some upper back position things happening here where we're in like a little bit more flexion with the upper back than we want to be. Shoulders maybe a bit forward. Like I feel like the shelf is maybe not super, super tight. So you might want to play around a little bit to start with with grip width shoulder position and just trying to really build a stable shelf. Now let's get into the squad itself. So there we go at that point, you know, we're getting squat command from the head referee. Then away we go. Big breath and brace. So descent looks pretty good. But one of the things I'm noticing here right off the hop is that number one, we're super knees forwards, right? We're going to hit a point in the bottom where the knees won't go any further forwards and we have to dip back to get to depth. Right? So we're certainly pretty upright. Right? And then as we get stuck, head comes up, which means generally we're trying to regain some lost extension here. We've got feet out slightly wider than where the knees end up. And yeah, we're looking like we're pretty, pretty straightforward from the hips. So I think one of the things that might be happening here is we're kind of trying to fight against our hip anatomy in terms of how we're squatting. You look to me like perhaps you are a more comfortably, a narrow stance squatter. Right? This to me looks like, okay, number one, I'd not 100% sold on this depth. I think we're maybe a tiny, tiny little bit high. And I think with this positioning in the bottom and how much we come back out of the hole, right? We're not really in the hips on the descent. Right? We're very knees forwards. We're not keeping as much pressure as we could and should be towards the back of the foot, meaning that we're sitting into the hips and hamstrings. And then we hit the bottom and we need those hips and hamstrings. So all of our weight kind of displaces from here up on the front of the feet to like, okay, now we're a little more balanced. The other thing that I'm noticing here is as we hit the bottom, that bar does do a little bit of a roll up on us. Right? It's kind of coming up on us a little bit that way. And that's probably why we're craning the neck back and fighting for that upper back position. But the biggest thing I think is that we're having a hard time getting the depth based on how your femurs and your hips are oriented. Right? Like your knees clearly want to be closer together to be able to push through heavy weights. So a lot of the times when I see that, I'm like, okay, well, let's just let your body do what it wants to do. Let's not fight against your body. Because in a lot of cases, it's like, okay, well, your anatomy is just not built to be like a wide stance squatter. And if you got your feet narrower, then relative to your feet, your knee position would be maybe more over them or even slightly outside of them, which sometimes if feet are here and knees are here when we get the depth and then knees come in to come straight above the feet, that can be a recipe for like, okay, we get that extra little bit of dunk at the bottom, but we don't totally lose position. Whereas if our feet are here and as we descend, knees are maybe in line with feet, maybe even slightly inside of it. And then as we come up, you know, knees move into here. A lot of the times when we have that, that internal rotation, right, we have the adductors having like take over a lot to help with that hip extension. We end up losing a decent bit of like hip extension power. Right? And not really being able to do as much with the hips and hamstrings out of the bottom as we'd like. Right? We end up kind of on the insides of the feet a little bit. So that would be one of the first things I would look at, right? Is I would look at, okay, can we get a bit better shelf built so that that bar is not rolling? That's honest in the bottom. And number two, can we play around with stance width, toe angle, and maybe even flats as an option in order for us to play into allowing the femurs to kind of go where they want to go both on the descent and then therefore on the ascent on the way up. Try that out. Let me know how it goes. Okay, let's get into another deadlift. Shall we? Bada bing, bada boom. This is Nicholas. 160 kilos, triple at six or seven RP. Nick is training for a comp. Says he's been struggling with his deadlifts for quite some time. His biggest issue is some back rounding. He's wondering if there's a lack of engagement or poor brace. Is training for a second meet in June. So first thing I'm noticing here, like first, first rep, this back position honestly pretty much fine. Like this little bit of rounding. This is the kind of flexion that is like, look at this segment of the back, right? Little bit rounded. And then look at this segment of the back. Pretty straight, pretty neutral range. This to me is a totally acceptable back position. However, I think this, again, the neck craning pulls a lot more tension the upper back, which again can make it a little harder to get extension the low back. So when we're doing this like over extension of the cervical spine of the neck, sometimes that can throw us off a little bit. What I'd recommend is pack that chin down and back, right? It's going to help you get a little more out of your lats. It's going to help you get, just hold a little bit better position. Now lower body looks like it's working pretty darn well off the floor there, right? We get a good push. We're relatively smooth. We're holding torso angle as we get going. We're finding a decent amount of tension. We're maybe almost a tiny bit soft in the knees. I would love to see this from the front because I think in your case I would almost have you widen up stance and knee position ever so slightly. As we get into this final rep, we're starting to see that position break down a little bit, right? Again, let's look at a couple things. I want to compare this final rep to your first one. We're going to compare hip height. Let's see. That's front of shoulder. That's probably about good. Let's compare that to our first rep. It's small. The difference is small. But on the final rep, and as the set goes on, you're starting to sit back more and more and more and put yourself more and more behind the bar, right? Now, this line of pull is going to be the same. When your shoulder blade is directly above it, you're able to maintain this nice lever arm and everything moves super well. When instead of being right above it, we end up putting the shoulder blade almost behind it, right? Then this hip, as it pushes, we're getting this additional force that's kind of rounding us out, right? Whereas if we have this little bit better extension, hips very, very ever so slightly higher, you probably feel a little bit more tension in your hamstrings in the position from rep one, you're going to be able to hold position better, right? You're not going to lose that little bit of flexure, that little bit of extension as we come off the floor. Now, I don't really think that little bit of extension is probably that big of a deal. The other thing I would look at, actually, based on just what I'm seeing from the side in your upper back position, is I would think about grip width. It might be that we're pretty wide in our grip, maybe wider than we need to be. If we can narrow it up, even like one finger's width without crowding the knees too much, and again, you've got to balance grip width with stance width, right? If the stance goes wider, then we can't bring the grip in more. Maybe we can, and we're gripping really wide, but it's impossible to tell from the same. I want you to bear in mind and consider those two factors, right? Potentially widening the stance to give yourself a slight, slight bit more room to get into position and potentially narrowing the grip. Now it might be one of those two, it might be a little bit of both, tough to say, again, with just having the one angle, but those are the limitations of what we're doing here. I hope that helps, and best of luck with your deadlift progression. All right, now I want to talk for just a quick second about a little thing that we have called the Calgary Barbell Training app. If you like what we're doing here, if you like form checks, if you're a lifter, if you're struggling with technique, or perhaps struggling with your programming, then the Calgary Barbell app has everything you need to make a whole bunch more progress. You can check out our app and everything that's on offer there at CalgaryBarbell.com. We have 51 programs at this point. We're going to be putting out a new program about every three months from now on, and we tailor to pretty much any level of powerlifter. We have some more advanced programs for competitors. We have some stuff for people just wanting to get their foot in the door. Most importantly, we do check-ins like this form check Friday. Actually, almost exactly like this form check Friday, except if it was a Discord check-in, I would get the Angron background, not this Christmas tree. But we look through the Discord every single week. We do a video check-in. We answer your questions. We help you modify the programming. We help you with technique, all of that kind of stuff. Head to CalgaryBarbell.com and check that out if you're interested. Now, let's get back to it with Chris's squat here. So, Chris is squatting 495 pounds for a set of five. Chris says he's not training for a meet. He's been lifting around 10 years, and he says he's always found a belt to feel really unnatural on his squat. He uses a belt to deadlift, but when he uses one on squat, he feels like he gets too bound up, can't really hit depth, feels too much pressure. Now, he wants to know, like, should he chalk it up to, like, if it isn't broken, don't fix it? Or can I offer some suggestions on ways that he might be able to use a belt and benefit from it? Now, generally speaking, I can absolutely...I mean, first off, dude, you're very strong, right? Like, you just hit, like, an easy set of five with 495. That's a pretty damn good squat. Technically speaking, your lift looks essentially flawless, right? If you were a lifter of mine, and I was coaching you weekly and doing check-ins, like I do for most of my time, I would be like, okay, great, like, load selection looks good, we can probably put some on next week. Wonderful. I'm not changing that technique in the slightest. However, with the belt discussion, I think generally speaking, a belt on squats is almost always a benefit. Now, there's going to be exceptions to every rule, you know, only Sith-speaking absolutes and whatnot, but I think it probably is worth playing around with a belt. Now, I think if we struggle with it and it feels unnatural on our squat, I would probably just dedicate a secondary squat day to, you know, squat with belt. And introduces as a secondary movement, don't expect yourself to be able to lift the same amounts of weight immediately. Again, 90% of people, when they put on a belt and they go to squat, they're like, oh, this feels way better. But your case is obviously not that. So you need to develop a bit of a unique approach. And by implementing it as its own variation, it takes a lot of the pressures of, okay, well, I'm doing my comp squat today, you know, I did 495 for five easy last week, we're going to go 505 this week, and I'm going to add the belt, right? If you put the belt on, it's like 405 for five is what we're going to squat today, because we need to figure out how it feels to get to depth with the belt. One thing that might be happening, right? You mentioned that you found like it's too much pressure, right? And you have a hard time hitting depth. It could very well be that you're wearing the belt a little too tight. It might be that just wearing the belt a little looser allows you a bit more room to feel like you can get into those positions. And it also might be that that pressure and that difficulty getting depth is kind of exactly what the belt provides, right? If it's difficult to get depth, then in an ideal world, you know, it's like a piece of equipment, right? Like a squat suit or knee wraps or something that will restrict you from getting to depth. However, if you do get to depth, and if you can push for that extra little bit of depth, that additional resistance into and out of the hole is going to help you move more weight, right? So that would be my thought there. And again, it's really interesting case where a lot of lifters, maybe not a lot, but a sizable number of lifters will choose not to deadlift with the belt. And I think there's a case to be made for that. There have been times in my powerlifting career where I forgot one time in particular and I was doing heavy deadlifts and it was, you know, just any other normal working set. I had hit set one with my belt on, forgot my belt somehow was just like caught up chatting with somebody pulled my second set and then realized like, Oh, whoops, I forgot my belt. And the set felt 0% worse. You know what I mean? I think more often lifters are opting not to use a belt on the deadlift. But I think in the case of the squat, I would say almost everybody I've talked to who has used the belt has benefited from it. Now I actually be interested if anybody watching this has had a similar experience to Chris's, you know, have you, have you struggled with using a belt on the squat? If so, did you find a way to use it? Did you opt not to? Yeah, be interested to hear some other takes and some other thoughts on this. I mean, obviously Chris, again, your squad is friggin beautiful, man. Like phenomenal good squat. It says here, you're not training for meat. I think you should absolutely do a powerlifting meat. Get into powerlifting, my man. You're a hell of a lifter based on how your squat moves. So anyways, I'm going to go ahead and move on to the next one here. But yeah, hopefully that helps give you a little bit of an approach as to how you might implement the belt. Boom. All right. So up next, we have another deadlift. Let's get into that. Okay. So this is Benji. Now Benji sent in this deadlift, 170 kilos per triple at nine is training for a competition, hasn't made much progress on deadlift. Says he feels he, he seems to kick the bar forwards. He's played around with hip height and how close the bar is, would appreciate any advice. And Benji, surprise, you are on our new segment called the good lift of the week. So this is a segment where we basically just offer some positive reinforcement. Benji, your deadlift is good. There is not nearly as much technical deviation or issue as perhaps I think it feels like. And maybe this set isn't indicative of what your, what your trouble sets or problem sets look like. But again, if a lifter sent this to me who I was coaching, I would say, damn, nicely done. All right. Like looks good. So I think sometimes as lifters and especially, you know, I noticed with even some of our audience performed check Friday clients I've worked with in the past and, and even myself, I think sometimes we can get a little too wrapped up in some of the minutia, right? We can be maybe a little overly critical. And I think some of our personality traits as power lifters can sometimes lead us to be, you know, bordering a little bit on neurotic. Now, I'm not calling anybody neurotic here, but I'm saying that, you know, sometimes we get a little too caught up in the details and we forget to just like stand up real hard. And the good lift of the week is here to encourage people to just sometimes like good enough is good enough. And you know, a technical change is maybe not what is necessary in terms of how to get this lift to progress for you. Right. It may be more of a programming thing that you want to try to address. And I'll use this as an opportunity to plug our free 16 week program. Again, just go to Calgarybarbell.com. It's free. It's 16 weeks. I don't know. It's been downloaded and used by probably at this point, like 20,000 people or so. And we've gotten hundreds and hundreds or if not thousands of people's feedback that, you know, it's helped them immensely. It was their first program. They ran it for like two years in some cases and just like built crazy totals. Anyways, I think in this case, Benji, your polls look frigging great. If you're feeling like the bar is getting away from you at all, just remember to kind of be patient, keep your lats doing their job. And you know, like you're doing a stiff arm pull down, right? Trying to like pull the bar into yourself a little bit with your upper back and lats. But my man, the polls look good. You are the good lift of the week. Congrats. And now a bench. This bench comes to us from William. So this is 170 kilos. William hit this for a single out of 10. He said he recently PR this 170. I think he sent this in September and figured he'd like to hit 180 by the end of the year. He also laid out some other goals. So 180 by the end of the year, 200 kilos by August and then 215 by the end of 2026. In the past three years, he said he went from 80 kilos bench to the 170 we're seeing here in the video. Just looking for some general technique advice. First off, I really think that setting those kind of goals is awesome. Right? I think having those kinds of goals and things to look forward to and things to drive you and numbers in mind is generally really useful. And it's good to have, you know, a little bit of a driver like that. Screen screens all messed up. You're just going to have to live with it, I guess. But I think those goals are huge. Like those are massive goals. So this was September, October, November, December. So four months from this to put 10 kilos on your bench. And you know what? You might be like a gifted bencher and that might be totally doable. Yeah, I might just leave it at that. I don't know if it's my place or if I care that much to like tell people their goals are too big because I don't know that that's really a thing. I think people should have big goals and, you know, just understand that those are big goals. And if you accomplish them more power to you, if you fall short, try not to beat yourself up too much about it. Right? Um, most importantly, I think is that we have good training and do good training and try to build sustainable long term habits, learn to enjoy the process, blah, blah, blah. Okay, uncle. But you know what I mean? So anyways, let's look at this bench and see if we can offer you some technical advice. Right? I think generally speaking, your bench is actually really clean. Right? Um, you look good.  eidotirac, back is decently well set. I think that's one area we could probably tighten up a little bit, right? It's like just watching this unrack, right? Shoulders pop a little bit forward on the unrack. We pull the bar out. We're a little wiggly here. Again, this is a PR weight, so understandable. But the tighter we can get that upper back locked in, and not necessarily pulling the shoulders back more or down more, but just keeping the muscles around them contracted tighter so that when we unrack, the whole upper body and upper back is just like unmoving, right? This is locked in, your big concrete block. That way we're gonna get the most pressing power. The other thing I think we can work on a little bit is maybe being a little bit more intentional with our foot position and leg drive. I think as we come down, we don't necessarily have a whole lot of leg drive going on. As we press, we got a little bit, but that's one thing I think we can work on. If we notice this press, one thing we wanna work on if we are training for, is training for a competition, now this is borderline a heave, a sink and heave, right? Now it's close, but if we watch this, we got our little pause here, right? And then right before we press, sink and then up. So we gotta watch out for that, right? Now this lift probably passes. I think it's gotta be maybe a little more egregious to get called, but it's definitely on the line. Now we need to be able to press from the lowest point of our sink. If we're gonna sink like that. And a lot of successful benchers sink. I definitely don't have anything against it. I did it for a while when I was 120. I don't know if it benefited me at all, but I definitely tried it out because I was like, yeah, a lot of really good benchers, especially in bigger weight classes. Use that little bit of like a sink and then press from the, you know, a little bit of a heavier touch. So I'm not telling you not to do that, but what I am saying is if you're gonna sink, make sure you're pressing from the lowest point, right? We can't touch, then sink and press because that is against the rules in the meet. I think, yeah, probably the foot position could be a little bit better, right? Based on the fact that we're seeing some like wiggling here. I think we could find a placement where the feet are a little more anchored, right? Where we're able to actually drive into the feet more to provide more support, perhaps keep ourselves a little bigger in the upper body, right? Like keep those ribs up higher, reach up higher into the bar. So even if we do sink, there's less range of motion, right? We're more locked in up there. And then when we press, and again, this is just something that's gonna happen sometimes with max effort lifts. So I don't necessarily know that this is a technical issue, but the more you can nail things like this down in your training lifts, the less likely it's gonna show up when we have 105% on the bar. But watch what happens as we press, right? We see some shoulder looseness, like I talked about on the Unrack, but we also see the elbows come out like a little bit prematurely, right? So as we press, we're flaring, we're flaring, we're flaring. We end up kind of like, this is the point of the elbow. Now, if we keep moving forwards, we'll see a lot of that elbow tuck and flare. And then we end up kind of getting that bar back the way we wanna move it. But what I'm getting at is I think we wanna try to be a little more conscious of bar path. As we press, we want that bar to come slightly back and then up. Now in general, again, you do a pretty damn good job of this and it's a max effort lift, but we're here so I might as well be really nitpicky to try to offer you something that's actually gonna help you, right? If we can be a little more conscious of that bar path as we press and also of just maintaining, again, more upper back tension during the touch, even if we are heavy or touch, the amount we sink is gonna be limited or yeah, is gonna be limited by how tight our upper back is, right? So if we sink a bunch and the upper back goes, we're gonna have a whole lot of position to try to make up as we press. If the upper back stays super tight and we sink, we're gonna be still really tight across the pecs, delts and everything and just have more of a springboard start, if that makes sense, right? So maintaining that upper back tension, playing around with your foot position, I think probably moving feet out this way slightly or out this way slightly and really trying to focus on using those feet to solidify your position throughout the bench, right? We don't necessarily wanna be using too much leg drive as like a jolt when we start the lift because that's when we start looking at issues where the butt comes up. But anyways, that is what I'm looking at, that is what I'm seeing and thinking and I really do hope it helps you, man. I hope that you are like breaking powerlifting records and building one of the biggest benches in wherever you're from. So yeah, like I said, I'm not gonna sit here and tell you your goals are too big. They are big, but whether or not they're too big, not for me to say. All right, that's it for me. That's it for this month and this year from Calgary Barbell. Maybe we got some more educational videos or something. I don't know, but that's it for Form Check Friday. So I just wanna offer a very heartfelt thank you to everybody who tunes in, to everybody who's supported us for a whole lot of years. Last year was 10 years at Calgary Barbell. 10 years of us doing this and we couldn't do it without all of y'all. So from the bottom of my heart, Bronson's down here. He says thank you. Dylan's out there. He says thank you. And yeah, everybody at Calgary Barbell, thank you very much. Have a wonderful holiday season. Whether you celebrate whatever you celebrate or don't, I'm kind of a Grinch, not a big Christmas guy, but I do think there's something special about spending some time with loved ones. Be safe out there. Get some gains, get some good food, and we'll see y'all in the new year. Peace.