 Welcome back, everybody. This is Form Check Friday, the show where you send your videos in to me, a powerlifting coach, and I analyze them. We talk about technique, we talk about psychological barriers, we try to dissect why you might be struggling with your lifting, and basically just give you a little bit of free coaching. So if you like that kind of thing, go ahead, like and subscribe, whatever. And you can head to Calgarybarbell.com, use the contact form there, you'll click Form Check Friday at the top, and you can submit your lifts if you would like to be looked at. All that being said, let's dive right in. Now our first lift comes from Chakouma, I really hope I'm saying your name correctly, apologies if I'm not. But let's take a look and see what we've got for the deadlift. So he said he's not training for a meet, this is 102 kilos in the clip, and says he struggles with losing position and feeling some pain in his hips on the way up. So what can we see? First things first, I think we need to try to find a bit better position with the back throughout. I think we need to kind of learn how to pull the slack out of the bar. One thing that might be helpful is it looks like these plates are a little small in diameter, and that might just be what you have access to, right? That's kind of how it goes with some smaller gyms and stuff. If that's the case, go ahead and just get a little block or something like that to try to bring those up to like a standardized height. That's going to help a lot, right? The first thing to help you get better position off the floor is make sure the bar's at the right height. If it's extra low, you're basically doing sumo deficit deadlifts, which is not super helpful when you're trying to learn the technique, right? Now, the next thing we want to do is try to find some tension in this bottom position. Now, I feel like we get the hips to a pretty darn good place here, but we don't really hold this back tension and this hip tension. Instead, what happens is we go ahead and we start pushing, and this happens, right? We see the hips shoot up behind you. We see the knees straighten. The shoulders get pulled forward out in front of the bar, and then we end up pulling from a very different position than what we're starting or trying to start to pull from. So the ideal would be that we're able to maintain this position. Now, what that probably means is we're holding a little more tension in here, right? We're not allowing those shoulder blades to get pulled out over the bar. The other thing it means is we're holding a little bit more tension through the back and the hips and hamstrings so that when we push with the quads, we're able to maintain this angle and we don't see it change quite so much, right? One of the reasons we might be feeling some extra tension in the hips is because we're ending up in a more stiff-legged position, right? We end up having to do a lot of the work with the hips in the back. So based on what I'm seeing here, we probably need to, number one, get the bar to the right height by maybe putting some blocks under the plates and making sure that we're pulling from a standardized height. Some of these reps are a little bit better, right? Off the floor anyways. The other thing we're seeing here is we're getting to the top and, right, we're out of position. So we're wedging the knees underneath. We're bouncing the bar up and down. We're, you know, hitching to finish. And we generally want to be seeing a much smoother lockout, right? What that tells me if we're having to do that is that we're losing a lot of position here, right? Now, it might also be, and I can't see this from the front, but if I could, I would hazard a guess that we're probably pushing the knees out way too far, right? We're probably focusing way too much on driving the knees out. And that's a really common thing. That's probably one of the first cues you hear when somebody's like, you know, when you ask a lifter and say, hey, I'm trying to learn sumo. What's your best, you know, tip for me? They're going to say, get your hips low and drive your knees out. Now, generally speaking, those cues are maybe okay, but I think in a lot of cases they get over exaggerated and they lead to us to actually kind of mess in the lift up because we're over focusing on pushing the knees out. If we end up with the knees too far out, what happens is we end up kind of dumping the pelvis in, right? We lose this little bit of extension that we maybe want to have in the low back. And then we end up in this kind of like stuck position here where, you know, knees and hips are almost locked, but this low back needs to get into extension. And it's going to get really tough towards the end. The other thing I'm seeing here is, you know, from the first rep onwards, we're already having some struggles and issues with the technique. So we're probably using too much weight, right? Now, nothing to say that you can't use weight, challenge yourself and develop technique at the same time. That is absolutely possible. But if we're getting to the point where, you know, 60% of our reps were hitching, we're losing a lot of position, there's just too much weight on the bar, right? So the other thing that I'm seeing here is as you start pulling, you're really trying to pull hard back with the upper back. Now we actually just did a really big long video on hip rise, why it happens, how to approach it, messing with your start position, all that kind of stuff. So you can check that out on the channel, probably very relevant and very helpful. But yeah, biggest things, get the bar to the right height, drop the weight a little bit, stop pushing knees out so hard, tighten your upper back and be a little more patient in pushing the bar off the floor. Don't try to reach back as you start the pull, just keep your trunk where it is, push the floor away. All right, I hope that helps. All right, now let's get to another deadlift. Everybody sends in deadlifts. If you send in a squat or a bench, your odds of getting selected are going to skyrocket because we have about 30,000 deadlifts, three bench presses and four squats in the inbox. So let's get to another deadlift. This deadlift comes from Ben. Now Ben is not training for a competition. This is 177.5 kilos for a set of six at a nine, which was an AMRAP. Was it a nine? Was it an AMRAP? AMRAP 2.9, I get what you're saying, just being kind of semantic. So he says he feels like he has a tendency to use his back a lot. This block that he's currently doing after this set, he has kind of pulled the load back a little bit and is trying to work on fixing this issue. Now he's curious if his start position is good, if his hips are too high or too low. And I can see a couple of things right away, right? So you feel like there's a tendency to use your back a lot. And I think your start position is actually quite good. We just need to really develop patience. Now this is something I was talking to the last lifter about as well, but as soon as we start lifting, right, the hips come up first and we're just basically doing a stiff leg deadlift. Right, just right from the get go. We may also want to try to get a little bit more extension in the upper back. Now I harp on people a lot for being overextended. In this case, I think we could actually try to get a little bit more extension, which would allow us to be a little more over the bar instead of being kind of behind it. Because what's, yeah, what's happening is as soon as we start, the hips come up, the shoulders come forward. So the shoulder blades a little more in line with the line of pull. So I think right now we're kind of starting a little bit behind the bar, partly because we're trying to, I would guess, be really conscious of not using too much of the back, of not ending up out over the bar. And it's kind of one of those things where it's not doing what you want it to do. It's not doing what you think it's going to do. So we need to pack the upper back a little harder, right? Keep those lats pulled down, but allow your shoulders to be a little more out here. And when you start the pull off the floor, do not let this change, right? Now it might also be that we need to find a little bit of a wider stance. It's hard to tell from here. Again, I can't see it from the front, but it looks like we might be kind of crowded in between the arms, right? In terms of the knee position. And one thing that happens if we're a little too narrow and the knees have to kind of come in, that leaves the hips really kind of not able to give as much, give as much force into maintaining the positioning off the floor, right? If we're not able to get the hips to contribute as well to the brace, that's when we're going to see this hip rise and we're not going to be able to maintain the torso angle, keep it in the quads and push it off the floor. The other thing I would recommend is actually some sumo deadlifts. That was one thing that for me early on, I was a conventional puller, pulled my first world record conventional, I'll have you know. I found that pulling sumo for a period of time really helped me figure out how to push the bar off the floor, what it felt like to start the deadlift and to hold position really, really well as I initiated the lift. So I think that would be something I would try out. And you know, I said a wider stance and then I said sumo two different things, right? A wider stance in the conventional being just kind of widening it up a little bit to give yourself some room to at least get your shins kind of straight up and down. If you look from the front, if not even a little tiny bit out, that's an exaggeration, but like a little tiny bit out. And that way we have a similar angle. If this is your hips and we're looking from the front, we kind of want maybe a little bit of external rotation at the hip. At the very least, we want to see things nice and straight. What we might be seeing right now is we might be seeing the femurs kind of pointed in. We might be in sort of excessive internal rotation as we're pushing the bar off the floor, which can be a little problematic in terms of holding position as you press the bar off the floor. So sumo deadlifts, slightly wider stance in your conventional. Let's pack the upper back, try to get a little bit more, little tiny bit more extension if we can, right? Just so that we don't end up getting pulled out forwards. And lastly, I would also recommend some paused deadlifts, right? And I would be pausing like just barely off the floor. And you'll notice if you lose position, right? Because you want to pull to about here, pause for a good two count, and then keep going, right? Now, if there's a huge change in position from pull into tension to the pause, right? Like we can see here, we're going pretty much into a full stiff leg of deadlift. That's something we want to try to address, right? And taking load off is going to help quite a bit. But the biggest thing we need to find is that that leg press push feeling off the floor so that we don't get pulled out of position. So we can feel the quads doing a little bit more work. So we can press through the front of the foot a little bit more. All right. I hope that helps. All right. Now, our next lifter here is Oliver. And Oliver's doing a squat. Now, interestingly enough, Oliver had submitted a lift previously and was our very first good lift of the week. So shout outs to Oliver, but we're going to take a look at his squat today. And in looking at Oliver's squat, let's get a little bit of back story here. So Oliver is training for a competition. This is 240 kilos at around an eight ish is competing January 24th at 90 kilos, feeling strong out of the hole, but running into a sticking point, feeling like a bit of a squat morning. Said he's really working to try to force his hips forward out of the hole and thinks there's more that he could refine. So the first thing I'm noticing here is that this side angle looks a little on the line depth wise. All right. I got to say, I think like hip crease top of the knee. I think we're a tiny incy, we see a little bit high there, but also this camera is slightly behind you, which is not doing you any favors, right? Anytime the camera angle is kind of behind the lifter, things are always going to look worse. So take that with a grain of salt. I think we're, you know, right on the line. So if this was a bit of an anomaly, whatever. The main thing I'm noticing here is that we are pretty upright, right? We're a little bit extended. We get the chest pushed out. We hit the hole and then we come up and we go back into this kind of more neutral range brace. Right. So we look at the difference in position on the descent. Right. As we descend, we're really kind of arching up. We're really head up. We're really chest out. We hit the bottom. We lose that brace. We end up in this kind of a brace and let's, let's take a look on the right hand side and see if we can see the bar roll a little bit. That might be something that coincides with this as well. Tiny, tiny bit. Maybe it bullies you, but those would be the big things I'd work on. Right. So number one, trying to get that brace more consistent so that on the way down, our brace looks more like this. Now, not necessarily the, the hip and knee position, right? Again, like you mentioned, we do want to try to be a little more in here, but I think we're going to be able to control the difference between our descent and ourselves on the way up better if we're a little more consistent with that brace. Now that might actually mean to some extent sitting back a little more on the way down, finding a little more hips and hamstrings on the descent, so that we're a little more consistent in our, our foot pressure throughout. And that would be another big thing I would try to focus on. So first things first, let's, let's kind of break it down, start to finish. First things first, let's work on this shelf, right? We are seeing that bar kind of push up the back a little bit. We're seeing the shoulders and shoulder blades change position a wee bit and have to kind of fight the role of the bar there. So ideally we might want to have that bar a little lower, a little higher, grip a little wider, a little narrower, play, play with thumbs around versus the thumbs over that you got going on. See what we can do to try to make that upper back position a little bit more consistent. Number two, on the descent, try to keep those ribs tucked down a little bit more, tucked in a little bit more. Try not to get into this extension because that shift from slight extension to more neutral range that's happening in the hole as we change positions, right, is what's responsible for us losing the bar forward, hips coming up, knees coming back. That shift and change in position, which probably also has the associated changes in our foot pressure, which we can kind of see there. Really front of the foot and then you can see this slight change, right? If we just like watch the ankle, ankle, ankle, ankle and feet here, right? Prefront of the foot and then we see this shift around to end up a little more balanced between front of foot and heel. Now that front of foot and heel balance is great. That's what we need, but we also need to access it on the way down so that it's consistent between the descent and the upward phase of the movement. I think that's pretty much it. Overall, like, yes, I spent some time on the movement, but I think that's pretty much it. Overall, like, yes, I spent some time kind of getting into the weeds here a little bit. Really, to be honest, you have a pretty great squat. You know, I would be conscious of depth and I would work a little bit on bracing and foot pressure. But other than that, like you have the fundamentals absolutely nailed. So overall, great work and hopefully a little bit of tweaking. Let's see, put a couple more kilos on the bar there. Up next, we have a rare bench siding. Ooh. And this bench comes from Ibrahim. Ibrahim is training for competition. This is 70 kilos for a set of four. And he said leg drive is pretty new for him. He finds it difficult to be consistent with it, sometimes focusing too much on the leg drive, and not pressing as hard or as well as he could with the upper body, and says that he gets a pretty good leg pump from benching lately. Now, overall, right, I really do think this is some some damn solid pressing, right? I had a feeling because I was watching it before, you know, setting up to record this, and your spotter there gets pretty amped up, right? So I figured, okay, this is going to be like an absolute grinder of a set. But it actually looked like pretty good training intensity, right? We get to eight and a half, maybe nine-ish RPE there. We have to grind a little on the final rep. But the biggest thing, and probably the cornerstone of any critique I have for you here, is you just got to pause these, right? There's definitely a real quick transition off the chest. I think one of the things that people struggle with is maintaining and pushing that leg drive as they change from decent to usent, or coming out of the pause, right? That's where lifters are going to want to press the most with the leg drive. That's where some lifters run into issues with their butt coming up off the bench. And that's where we need to really have the leg drive, you know, locked in and nailed down. So because that pause and that, you know, pressing from inertia of being motionless on the chest is so, so important, that's probably the single biggest piece of advice I have for you here. In terms of how your elbows and shoulders and upper body is moving, in terms of how you're applying pressure here with your leg drive, like, honestly dude, things look really freaking good. Like you've got excellent fundamentals here. The big thing is we just need to have that same, sorry, we need to have a really high standard of execution when it comes to our training reps, right? We need to be executing to a competition standard. If we're not practicing paused bench, like 70, 80, maybe even 90% of the time as a competing powerlifter, we're probably doing ourself a disservice, right? Any time in competition, we will need to be breaking inertia from a motionless bar on the chest. That's how we need to be training almost exclusively. Do I use touch and go bench in some instances? Yeah, absolutely. Do I use it somewhat sparingly and is maybe like one out of four bench exposures a week? And even then, maybe not consistently throughout, if I were to look at a number of programs in a row, a number of blocks in a row, you know, maybe one out of three that gets some touch and go bench. The pauses are just so, so important in terms of, you know, unlocking and learning all of the different components of technique. So, yeah, really, really got to work on the pauses. Other than that, dude, things look friggin awesome. It was a great, great bench, to be honest with you. All right, now if you're somebody who's sitting there like, dang, I wish I had this kind of flavorful and helpful critique, but tailored to me. And maybe that came with, you know, 50 plus programs and a really slick app with a user interface that allows me to upload all my videos and add comments on every single set and look at the last time I did this exercise filtered by reps super quickly and easily with the touch of a button. Well, perhaps you're looking for the Calgary Barbell app. Now the Calgary Barbell app provides all those things I just said, but it also comes with our app users only discord, which is just a phenomenal community of people who are trying to get stronger. And that's kind of what we're all here for, right? Trying to get better at squatting, benching, deadlifting, trying to get stronger in general. So if that's you, if that's something you're interested in, then check it out. It's at Calgarybarbell.com and yeah, maybe it'll do the trick for you and help you with your New Year's strength goals. I'm going to call that being said, let's get to our last lifter of the day. Now this lift is a deadlift and it comes from Jesse. Now Jesse's actually a buddy of mine. He was a lifter here or is a lifter here in Calgary, who I coached for a decent amount of time and has recently gone on to do some bodybuilding. Now getting back into some more focused strength training. Jesse submitted this lift said he's not training for a competition specifically right now. This is 595 pounds, which is 270 kilos. And he feels like he's having trouble with his hips rising. So what we're going to do with this, Jesse, is we're going to bring back a golden oldie, a form check throwback of sorts. We're going to put this one up for our community to give a little bit of advice on. So anybody watching right now, I want you to head down to the comments. Let us know what you think Jesse can do a little bit better in terms of his hips rising. And we're going to start next form check Friday with my critique. I will make my way through a number of the comments and some of the advice given by our community here. And I will add my advice to it. I will give my critique and we'll go through kind of everything that I think will help here. But first, we're going to put it up for community discussion. So if you've had issues with your hips rising before, if you, you know, are currently dealing with it, then yeah, let us know what's worked for you or what you're struggling with. And starting in the next one, we'll be talking a little bit about Jesse's deadlift. Thanks everybody for tuning in and we'll see you in the next one. Bye.