Point number three, think big picture. A lot of the times when we get to the sort of bleeding edge of progress, whatever that might be for you, we need to start zooming out a little bit. Things aren't always going to trend upwards on a week to week basis. When you're a novice lifter and you can just do 3x5 for 4 months and put 20 kilos on all your lifts, that's pretty cool. you squat on Monday and then you squat on Wednesday and your squat gets better and then you squat on Friday and your squat gets better. That's not the case with advanced lifters. A lot of the times we need to zoom out and think more about maybe these these pretty convoluted looking up and down patterns and think long-term are we moving in the right direction? And again, this goes back to analyzing your progress and analyzing your programming and all those kinds of things. But you may need different periods of time where a specific phase focuses on a specific quality in the bench press. Maybe we're training variation movements or accessory movements harder or more intensely than the competition bench for a period of time with the intent being that it pays off in the long run. That's why it's important that we zoom out. And while things might look a little convoluted or seem a bit illogical in the short term, we have to think about the contributions to long-term progress, cuz that's what we're talking about when we're getting into the higher ends of strength development. A good phrase that I've I've heard mostly from Taylor at Calgary Barbell is to think in months and years, not days and weeks. I don't think that's his original, but he uses it a lot. and I'm going to go ahead and credit him for it. To wrap it all up, wherever you're at, I hope that this advice has been helpful. Whether your milestones are 225, 315, and 405, or whether there's something completely different based on your journey, hopefully you can use these tips to progress further, to break some plateaus. And uh we'll see you in the next video. Thanks for tuning in, everybody. Bye.