Hey guys, what's going on? Welcome back to Calgary Barbell. Today we're going to talk about shoes because as we all know, fashion and what you wear is integral to your powerlifting performance. That's sarcasm in case you were wondering. Anyways, guys, we're here today to talk about the Sabo deadlift shoes. Uh, I've been using these for about a year now. I've pulled a lot of deadlifts over 800 lbs in these things and I think I've really put them through their paces. So, I'm finally comfortable giving a review on these shoes. So, first off, I'm going to talk about my initial impressions when I first got the shoe. Couple of things that I really, really liked where that the sole's very thin. It's curved on the edges, which prevents my feet from rolling. I found it was a really, really tight fit to start off with, but that the shoe gave and stretched and now fits my foot really, really well. Another thing that I noticed that's kind of not a big deal, but something that I thought was worth mentioning was when I first got the shoes, uh, or actually still to this date because I haven't replaced them, the laces are very, very short. Whether or not that matters to you, I don't know. New pair of laces, but four bucks. So, very easy fix if it is an issue for you. So, moving on, I'm going to go through some of the things I liked about the shoe. The biggest things that I liked are, like I mentioned, the sole is very thin and curved, which prevents rolling. Um, the grip pattern on the bottom I found really, really good on all surfaces. Uh, whether you're training in the gym, on a platform, uh, or whether you have carpet on the on the competition platform or whether you're just training on some rubberized flooring. Uh, I've found that these have never slipped on me. and slipping was one of the biggest reasons I moved away from the Chuck Taylor because I found my feet often ended up further out than where they started. Another couple things that I really liked would be the strap across the ankle and the metatarsal strap across the middle. Those I found again really anchored me into the shoe and stopped my foot from moving around too much when I was deadlifting. Some of the things I didn't like about the shoe, however, were that I had some issues with tearing in the ankle strap. The Velcro is starting to come away from the strap itself. Um, I have had some issues with eyelets. Now, just as an aside, Sabo has recently redesigned and updated the shoe, and one of the things they've focused on in the newer models is fixing the eyelets. But, I don't know how well you can see there, the eyelets that I have have started to rust on the inside from sweat in my foot. and one actually tore out on this side. Uh, so I now have to skip a hole on my right shoe. So, kind of minor annoyances. Um, but maybe speak to the durability of the shoe. At this point, a year in, I don't know how many countless reps of deadlifts, they're still holding up well. I'll probably continue to use them until I can't use them. I would give these shoes about a 7 and 1/2, 8 out of 10. Overall, as far as the price point goes, right now the older version is on sale for 99 bucks from inner strengthproducts.ca. I'd recommend you get it from there. Ryan and Ray are great people. They do a lot for the sport. Um, so if you're going to order Sabos in Canada, I recommend you get it from them. Um, the new version, I'm not sure what it's going to be. Um, before these shoes went on sale, they were about 120 bucks. This is all Canadian dollars, by the way. Um, chop it in half if you're American. I don't know. And other options for deadlift shoes, obviously you can use Chuck Taylor's. I used those for a long time. As a conventional deadlifter, didn't really have many problems. As a sumo deadlifter, I found my foot was often almost rolling off the sole from the lateral pressure. And I also found that the sole of the shoe or sorry, not the sole of the shoe, but the stitching here would blow out very very quickly. Um, so that was one of the reasons I switched away from the Chucks as well as the slipping that I talked about earlier. Another solid option, which I'm not going to go too in detail about, is going to be a wrestling shoe. Uh Nike, Adidas, uh Selena's using some AS6 right now, she really likes, but again, I'm not super versed or wellversed in those, so I'm not going to speak on those much. I just know that sometimes, and in some cases, the prices on those can really be uh up there. Anyways, guys, I hope that helps you make an informed decision as to what you're going to put on your feet when you deadlift. Let me know what you think. Let me know your thoughts. If maybe you've been using these shoes and you have a difference of opinion, please let me know. If you have different footwear that you like and that you use for deadlifting, tell me about it in the comments below. Let's have a bit of a discussion here. Leave a like if you liked it. Hit that subscribe button and we'll see you guys in the next video. Thanks for tuning in.