 Hello and welcome back to Calgary Barbell. I'm Bryce and I want to help you fix your deadlift. Is this you? Do your hips shoot up into the air as soon as you start your deadlift? If so, this is leaving you in a poor position to get the most out of your deadlift. You are being inefficient in this position and you're missing out on valuable stimulus for both strength and hypertrophy and I don't want that for you. I want you to get strong and jacked. So let's talk about how we fix this issue. Reason number one, rushing the start of the deadlift. In order to help explain this, I like to break the deadlift down a little bit. In the deadlift, what happens when we lose our position and the hips fly up is we're not being patient in the first pull. The reason this is important is because if we allow that first pull to be a little heavier, to feel a little heavier, I should say, and to be a little bit slower, that's going to allow us to stay in a better position for the rest of the pull. A lot of times when we have people whose hips shoot up, they get out of position off the floor, they struggle with lock up. They either lose a bunch of back position, or they just have way too much range of motion through the hips to get to lock up. So by learning to be a little bit patient through that first pull, letting it be a little slower, we're going to end up allowing ourselves to preserve that more upright position for the second pull for the rest of the lift. Reason number two, inefficient position at the start of the deadlift. The second issue and concept that I want to illustrate here is the idea of your hips rising because you've chosen and are starting from an inefficient position. A lot of the times when we see hips rise in the deadlift, it's because we've set them too low to start off with. In some instances, the hips rising is us making up for that and putting our hips into a better position. However, because of the fact that we're not setting them intentionally, a lot of times this will mean that the hip height and angle that we end up pulling from is going to vary quite a bit from rep to rep and will continue to get higher throughout a set. If we can find an ideal start position and start with our hips in that position at that height, realistically, we're going to be able to be much more consistent. And anytime we can increase the consistency of our lifts, we are doing good things. I think a lot of more novice lifters, especially in the sumo deadlift, tend to think that lower hips is wrote better. That is always better when in actuality, I think there is such a thing and this applies to conventional as well as setting your hips too low. If we can be conscious instead of thinking of hip height, whether our hips are higher or low, if we can think about just finding the tension, that should guide us to a place where we end up with the right hip height. So what I mean by that is incorporating a process within your setup where you're thinking about good, even foot pressure. You've got good pressure through the ball of your foot and your heels. You're finding tension through the hips and hamstrings as you pull yourself into position. You're finding that adequate kind of balancing resistance from your quads, right? You're pushing against the bar as you pull into position. And finally, we're also finding tension through the trunk, the mid and upper back, finding good lat tension in order to brace our torso for the pull. So if we can incorporate all of those ways of finding tension and find that spot where we have good balance and full body tension, we don't have to worry about bringing our hips up or sitting our hips down because once we've found that tension, we'll have found the ideal start position for your limb length. Now, maybe you're not exactly sure which of these faults apply to you. Maybe you're struggling more with your squat or your bench press. We'll be making more videos to cover those, but in the meantime, if you want more hands-on help and coaching from myself and my team here at Calgary Barbell, you can check out the Calgary Barbell training app. In the app, we have over 50 programs. We have a really slick user interface that tracks everything. You can upload all your videos to there for referencing in the future. And you can look at all your metrics over time so that you can make intelligent and informed decisions about your training based on what's working and what's not. But most importantly, you have access to our app users only discord, where myself and the other coaches at Calgary Barbell do weekly check-ins. If you struggle with any of these faults, if you can't identify which fault you might be struggling with, if you need to swap an exercise due to injury or equipment restraints, we got you. We are offering real coaching with this app. It's not AI and it is not just here's a spreadsheet. Go have fun. If you want to check that out, the links in the description below. Let's get back to the video. Reason number three, not understanding how to push when you pull. The third concept here that's going to help you fix your deadlift is knowing how to push when you pull. Now it sounds weird because we constantly talk about the deadlift as a pull. We say we're going to do deadlifts today, we're going to do pulls today. What are you doing? Well, I'm doing some pulls. We're pulling. But if you can understand that that first phase of the movement is a push, you're going to be in a much better place to hold your position off the floor. You need to learn to be comfortable being slightly over the bar. And again, this kind of goes hand in hand with people who sit their hips down too far. If we can allow ourselves to be a little bit further over the bar in terms of how our shoulder blade lines up with the bar, we're going to be able to better find that feeling of leg pressing. When we start the deadlift, I want you to think about pushing the floor away as opposed to pulling on the bar. Many lifters make the mistake of trying to pull back on the bar as they're starting the lift. And what this does is it forces them to work against themselves. Either the hips will go up behind you and you're just negating everything you're trying to do. Or if you manage to somehow start a lift in that position, your knees are going to push the bar away and probably your hips are going to shoot up behind you and you're going to be out of position. It seems counterintuitive, but sometimes being slightly further over the bar will allow you to line things up in a better way so that you can maintain that tension in your hips as you start the lift and find that feeling of leg pressing. Push the floor away, push the earth away for that matter. And then you're going to have a better start position. You're going to be able to maintain the hip height as you start the lift by pushing when you pull. Reason number four, poor bracing. Concept number four is going to be working to find and maintain the right brace. In some instances, people's hips will rise because they're unable to find and use that connection between the shoulders and the lats and the upper body, ribcage and up into the hips and knees. If there's a disconnect in this area, a lot of the times we won't be able to hold position and then those hips come up. What we need to do here is try to tie those areas together. When I cue a lifter in the deadlift, a lot of times what I'll get them to think about is trying to pull down on the bar, row it or roll it into themselves to point their elbows towards the back of the room. A little bit of external rotation in some instances helps. The big thing here with finding the brace and one of the other faults that I think a lot of people make is they tend to pull the shoulder blades back. People will pull into retraction instead of making their arms long and trying to pull the shoulder blade down into depression. When we pull properly into depression, we should feel mostly some lat contraction and that's going to be a huge cornerstone in making sure that we're able to build and maintain our brace in the start position. Another concept that I think people struggle with is that bracing in the deadlift and pulling into extension are not always the same thing. A lot of people will look at a deadlift where the lifter's back rounds even a little bit and think, oh my god that's dangerous and that's wrong. When in actuality that's probably a very optimal brace for that person. A lot of lifters also will pull into extension and think that by arching their back they're creating the best brace, they're creating the strongest position and the least likelihood of them going into too much extension and losing the force transfer. So I want to make it clear that extension is not the same as a strong brace. However, some lifters will brace in a bit of extension and the biggest indicator of whether or not you've found this optimal brace, whether it be more flexed or more extended, is going to be whether or not your back position changes as the bar comes off the floor. If as the bar leaves the floor we're able to maintain our brace and our positioning in terms of how flexed or extended we are, we're probably in a good back position. If we're super, super extended and as the bar leaves the floor we lose a bunch of that extension, we're probably overextending. So think about that, record your lift from the side and see whether or not you're going through a huge amount of change in your brace as you pick the bar. Now that you have a handle on some of the cues and concepts as to why this might be happening, I also want to highlight a number of exercises that I think are extremely helpful for somebody who's dealing with hip rising in the deadlifts. Let's get to that now. And the first of these movements is the Snashgrip Deadlift. Why the Snashgrip Deadlift? Because I feel like this movement, maybe above all others, teaches you what it feels like to push a deadlift off the floor. Because you're in such a disadvantaged position with your arms out as wide as they need to be for a Snashgrip, you've got to push the bar off the floor. If you don't keep your quads going, if you don't maintain your torso angle, you're going to get bent right over by this variation. So when you're doing this variation, number one, make sure that your grip is wide enough that it is actually a Snashgrip. And number two, really focus on that patience off the floor and taking your time with it, finding good solid tension, all those things we talked about so that you can learn how to push the bar off the floor and maintain your hip position. The second exercise I'm going to recommend is the Sumo Deadlift. If you're a conventional deadlifter, do some Sumo. This, for me, was one of the most eye-opening things I ever did early in my career. Even at a time when I was competing exclusively in conventional, this led to me pulling my first world record conventional. I did a lot of heavy Sumo training for maybe four to six months leading up to it. And this taught me what it felt like to maintain position off the floor because, again, the loss of position is so much more exaggerated in Sumo. And your start position is inherently at least a little bit more upright. So you can feel that quad engagement. You can feel that push off the floor and that need for patience a little bit more in the Sumo deadlift. So I think as a conventional deadlifter, utilizing the Sumo is a really good and smart way to work on that hip rise. Up next, if you've ever watched this channel before or heard me talk about deadlifts before, I've probably mentioned this movement and that's the pause deadlift. In particular, we're wanting to pause the deadlift really close to the floor, just off the floor. It should feel like we're starting the lift twice, which is the entire reason it's useful. Our issue here is with starting the lift. What we're going to do is pause in such a way that it feels like we're starting the lift twice for every rep of this exercise that we do. You can see how that might be beneficial. Movement number four is kind of a bunch of movements, but doing heavy upper back work, in particular, some that I like for this are going to be heavy bent over rows, heavy pendelae rows, and heavy chest supported rows. By doing heavy upper back work, you can train your back and your brace in that position that's relevant to the deadlift to maintain that position while moving your arms. Strong back, strong deadlift. And the final movement, the fifth one, is just train your core. We did a video on all my favorite core training movements. You can go check that out, hit your core from all angles, practice your brace in those movements, and train it as if it's a movement onto itself. Because once you master bracing for the lower body lifts, you're going to make a lot of progress. Bracing is fundamental. And that is how I want to help you fix your hips rising in the deadlift. If you enjoyed the video, if it helped you, leave a like, subscribe. We're going to be doing more of these fix it videos. And let us know in the comments below if maybe you've utilized different strategies or different exercises in fixing this fault. If you like this shirt I'm wearing, we got them for sale. You can check that link out below. And we'll see you in the next one.