Welcome, guys. My name is Bryce Crotch and I am the owner of Calgary Barbell. I've been doing a lot of thinking lately about what powerlifting means to me and all the things that I've gained from being a powerlifter and from the powerlifting community. Uh, and I've decided that as a business, uh, and an entity that makes money off of powerlifting, I'd like to give some of that back to the community, starting at a grassroots level, because I think that's incredibly important. And I think that's the responsibility of people who are profiting and making money off of powerlifting to make sure that those people who are supporting us, the athletes, are being taken care of uh, and and rewarded for their part in this whole amazing thing that is powerlifting. So, what I'm going to do today uh, is I'm going to draw 10 names from a hat. I've got a hat here with the names of all 44 competing athletes from the Alberta Powerlifting Union that are competing at the upcoming National Championships. Uh, and I'm going to draw some names. If your name gets drawn, I'm going to send you $120 to take care of your membership or sorry, not your membership, your entry into the contest. Uh, I'm insanely happy to be able to do this uh, and to offer this up. So, if your name gets drawn, congratulations and I hope it helps. Let's get started. Name number one, drum roll please, Terresa Parsons. Name number two, Alfred Jong. Number three, Janice J. Antonio D. Abjing. I'm sorry if I just butchered your name, but congratulations, man. Bill U. It's cool cuz I know most of these people. Uh Danielle Filibbert, you're up next. Brody labels, you've been chosen. Kyra Thompson, Zack Chwalk, Alexandra Stadulka, and one more name, Tim Nadau. All right, guys. So, to summarize, we have Bill U, Teresa Parsons, Zack Chwalk, Alfred John, Janice, Antonio D. Abjing, Danielle Filibbert, Brody Label, Kyra Thompson, Alexander Stadulka, and Tim Nadau. You have $120 coming your way to do with as you see fit. Hopefully that helps cover the cost. I know powerlifting can be an expensive sport. Uh, and you know, I've been I've been very fortunate to be able to do what I do with powerlifting. Uh, and I I relish the opportunity to give back to the community a little bit. So, congrats, guys. I'll be getting in touch soon. And uh I'm not going to ask you to like and subscribe cuz I don't think this should be about calorie barbell. To me, it's more about the athletes and I think that should be the focus of this. So, we'll see you.