All right, folks. Pucker your butts because we're about to rip through the single best pin squat video that you've ever seen. We're going to go through the who, what, where, when, why, and how of pin squats because they're great. They're one of my favorite accessory movements for early to early intermediate lifters because they correct what I think is one of the most common faults in the pin squat, which is the dreaded squat morning. Let's get into it. So, who should be pin squatting? One of the reasons I really like this movement is because it's extremely effective at correcting what we in the industry call the squat [music] morning, wherein out of the bottom of your squat, as you start driving the bar upwards, the knees shoot back, the hips shoot up, and the [music] bar maybe pulls you forward pretty good. I see this fault really commonly in [music] beginner and early intermediate lifters. And if you see yourself doing this, maybe you should be pin squatting. What? Okay. So, what the hell L Cool J is a pin [music] squat? Well, you're going to perform it mostly like a normal squat. Has normal on rack walk out, but when you get to the bottom of the squat, you're going to have the safety pins or blocks or whatever. We'll get into that. set at a height that the bar will hit them or gently make contact with [music] them at the lowest point or very close to the lowest point of your squat. At the bottom of the squat, you're going to unload 30 to 40% of the bar load onto the pins for a very slight pause. [music] Then drive up off the pins with a very big intentional focus on holding position as you do so. stand up and boom, there's a pin squat. Where where So, where the heck you going to do pin squats? Well, ideally, you find a cage or power rack with adjustable safeties that you can set to the appropriate height, like this Bella Steel collegiate rack. If I was doing pin squats, I'd be doing them here. Alternatively, if you don't have access to a cage, you could do them in a competition rack, [music] depending on your height and your squat depth, or if you have some kind of spotting blocks or jerk blocks or something like that to take the bar at the bottom. When when So, if you're wanting to run pin squats in your programming, when should you run them? Well, I'd recommend putting them on a secondary squat day. For example, a standard weekly layout would be something like day one, comp squat, comp bench, etc. Day two, comp deadlift, probably more bench, etc. Day three, squat accessory, probably more [music] bench, etc. Day four, deadlift accessory, and yeah, probably bench again. So using that layout, the secondary or accessory squat day is the perfect place to put them. Now obviously we can use pin squats in higher and lower reps or higher and lower intensities. But let's give you a couple of examples of a common prescription for some pin squats in your programming. You could use them in ascending work, something like three at six, three at seven, three at 8, maybe some back offs. You could use them in a top and drop kind of scheme. So, three reps at an eight, three sets of three at six as a back off. And you can also obviously incorporate singles on [music] your pin squats to maximize the intensity you're putting on them and maybe get a little bit more specificity or carryover from that to your comp squat. In competition, you could do a single let seven followed by some ascending sets or followed by a top set of however many reps and some backoffs. Now, obviously, you don't necessarily want to just take what I gave you there and plug it into the program. Although, if you do, it probably works pretty well. Ideally, you're thinking about how you want this movement to apply and fit within the context of your current training program and the goals of utilizing this exercise and how. And now, let's talk about the execution of the pin squats themselves. We're going to go through some of the beginners mistakes, some of the things that I want to see when I'm coaching the movement and help you to execute it properly. First, we want to make sure that the pins are set at the correct height. Right pictureed here is what I would consider appropriate or correct pin height. Now, you might notice that if I were doing a comp squat here and you were a referee, you might be a little hesitant to throw me a white line, right? This isn't full comp depth. Generally speaking, when we're squatting the pins, we want to try to set them to parallel. And in the case of uh a lot of racks that have longer hole spacing, like a longer distance between the settings for the pins, I generally recommend lifters go slightly higher than slightly too low. Illustrated here now is too low. And you can see I'm having to lose position and kind of fold uh to get to the pins. So, we want to avoid having to come out of that brace because that brace in and around the depth position is what we're trying to develop the most. One of the biggest things to remember in the execution of the pin squat is to de lo onto the pins slightly, right? Like I said earlier, maybe 30 40%. We don't want to come crashing down and slam into the pins and just drop ourselves onto them, but we also don't want to be [music] doing a pause squat where the bar uh doesn't really interact with the pins at all. We also want a nice even tempo all the way through the movement. You'll see some lifters go really fast just in the bottom portion of the lift or really fast throughout. Just try to be smooth. Try to have a nice consistent descent rate to the pins and uh and you'll be good. Another quick tip is when it comes to getting the bottom position, getting through that last little bit, make sure that it's coming from sitting into your hips and actually getting deeper in your squat, not folding your upper back forwards. A lot of the times lifters will kind of find close to the end range of their squat and then just let their back tip forwards to get to the pins. This is not what we want. I want you to set the pins where we're having to push just a little bit into depth. kind of stretch just a bit while being able to maintain the brace in order to get to the pins. And lastly, focus really damn hard on trying to hold your position coming off of the pins. This is the whole purpose of the movement. If we're doing this exercise and we're doing a squat morning, lighten it up or focus up and do better. The whole point behind this is that it's going to exaggerate the things [music] that make you want to do the squat morning. So, you have to win the fight, right? You have to be executing reps where we're feeling a lot of strain in the quads and through the brace in order to maintain our position as we come off the pins. That will let you know that you're doing this exercise correctly, and you're going [snorts] to get the most out of it. If you like this video, leave a like, hit that subscribe button, let us know in the comments below what accessory movements you like, maybe on other lifts. And if you want to see a video like this on them, let us know. Share this around with your friends. That does wonders for the algorithm gods. We appreciate you. Thanks for tuning in. We'll see you in the next one. >> I don't know if we did why. >> Wait, wait. >> What did I say? [laughter] >> We did who, what, where, when, and how. We didn't do a why. There is no why. It's kind of packaged in there. >> Why do it? >> Deal with it.