What's going on, guys? Welcome back to Calgary Barb. Today, we're going to go over one of my absolute favorite deadlift accessory movements. I think it's probably if I if I could only do one deadlift accessory movement other than a competition deadlift, this would be it. And we're going to go over the pause deadlift today. So, the first thing I want to talk about with the pause deadlift is why would we want to do this movement? The reason it's so valuable is because it essentially forces you to start the lift twice. Uh it really really reinforces the bottom position and how to maintain proper positioning off the floor because if positioning alters that much between the first position being on the floor and the and the pause position being maybe an inch off the floor then that's when you're going to start to see a lot of the technical breakdowns that lead to a slow lock out or problematic lockout positioning. Now, if anybody is listen if you guys have listened to me coach the deadlift at all, I'm very very big on starting position and maintaining that position. And that is why this movement is so valuable. Second, how do we do this movement? Essentially, what you're going to do is you're going to start the deadlift. You're going to pause about an inch to 2 in off the floor and then you're going to complete the movement. Uh we want to be paused for maybe a second to two seconds, about a two count usually. Now, third, we're going to go over some common mistakes. The biggest mistakes I see are either rushing the pause. Uh, another mistake that I see often is going to be losing position from the floor to the pause position. The third and more subtle mistake that I see sometimes is people going from a push to a pull too early. Now, to explain that, what we want is we want to start the movement with a push. Now, this is regardless of whether you're pulling sumo or conventional. We're starting the deadlift with a push. As far as I'm concerned, we want to go from a push to the pause about an inch to two inches off the floor. And then we want to push again to restart and reinitiate the lift. If we go from a push in the initial phase of the movement to a pull when we restart is when we're going to see a lot of the backgrounding and loss of position and stuff like that. So, we'll illustrate all that stuff now. All right, guys. Let's get down to business. So, what we're going to do is we're going to go through the pause deadlift. Um, you're going to set up just like normal. When you start, you're going to start with a push. You're going to pause about an inch to two inches off the floor, and then you start with a push. Again, of the utmost importance is maintaining your back angle that you start with throughout the the entirety of the movement. So, I'll show you guys an example of what it should look like in sumo. Then, we'll do unconventional, and then we'll go through some of the the common errors that I see. So, we're starting off same starting position as usual. We're going to come down, set tension into the bar, push, push. Now, if you watch from the side, watch my back angle. It should stay pretty much exactly the same from the floor to the pause to the completion of the movement. That's part of the point of this whole exercise. Set the back angle. Push. Push. Finish. Like so. And conventional. Set the stance. Tension at the bar. Push. Push to completion. Once more. Like so. So, some of the biggest errors that I see are going to be number one, rushing the paws. That's going to look like this. It's just going to kind of slow down as opposed to actually getting a stop in the in the joint angle. not really pausing. So, we want to see the pause a little bit longer than that. Uh, the next issue that a lot of people have is that when they restart the pull, uh, they go from a push, which is how you want to start the pull, to a pull, which results in losing some of the back angle. So, I'll show you what that looks like. It's a lot of reps. So, we're going here and then we're starting to pull and he comes out. You can see the change of my back angle there. That's not what we want to see. You can see the shoulders roll forward. That bar might end up getting out in front of you. Less than ideal. So, we had a lot of people ask about how to program the movements the last couple times we did them. So, I'm going to give you guys some examples of how you might want to program pause deadlifts. I use them mostly as a secondary exercise, which means they're going to have generally as much intensity uh in terms of percentage or RP as a competition movement. Uh and they're also going to be uh pretty similar on the volume scale as well. Now, if you're just starting to do these, you might want to start with 45 55% just to make sure. Or if you're using them as a tool to uh increase the proficiency of your starting position or to regrve or repattern things, I find them really helpful for that. Then you're going to want to start on the lower end of the spectrum. Maybe three sets of five, five sets of three. Super general sort of prescription there once a week with those on top of your competition deadlift. Now, if you're wanting to use these simply to enhance your your deadlift, and you're pretty pretty solid in your positioning and those kinds of things, you're going to want to use probably similar parameters to what you're using for your competition lift, you're probably going to want to space it out a couple days, though. Uh, for myself, when I do pause deadlifts, I usually do my competition deadlift either Monday or Tuesday. I'll do my pause deadlifts Thursday or Friday. Uh, and these will range anywhere from uh some some days I'll do a top single and then some volume work. That's one way you can go at it. The other thing you can do is prescribe it with a set number of of reps and sets. Again, three sets of five, five sets of three. Not a bad place to start. All right, guys. That's it for the pause deadlift. Thanks so much for tuning in. I hope you guys found the information in this video very useful. If you did, please give it a share. Get it out there. Uh, leave a like, comment below if you have any questions, and we will see you guys next time.