Maybe you've heard somebody at some point tell you that the deadlift is dangerous. The riskto-reward ratio is a joke for deadlifts. For deadlifts. And a lot of people aren't going to like that I'm saying that. Well, I couldn't disagree more. I'm here to tell you that I think you need to be deadlifting. And I don't think you need to deadlift like this, but you should be deadlifting something. So, why do people fear the deadlift? Well, I think most people have some sort of misconstrued idea that the deadlift is somehow more likely to injure you than another movement. Everybody's heard that one story from their uncle's exgirlfriend's former roommate about how they once did a deadlift and snapped their up so bad they will never be the same. Fatality. Now, before I try to convince you of anything, let's arrive at just a working definition of what the deadlift is. because I bet you you're already doing it. If you work a manual labor job, you're probably lifting stuff. If you have kids, nieces, nephews, or grandkids, you probably lift them. Or maybe you just want to. The deadlift essentially boils down to a hinge. And whether you're doing it with a barbell or dumbbells or a kettle bell or a dog or a couch, you're already doing the deadlift. So, there's no need to be scared of it. You just need to get better and stronger at hinging. Do you want to know what you should be afraid of? Do you want to know what should scare you? Be scared of sitting. Fear is the back killer. Being afraid of movement and being afraid of training is probably something we should be more concerned about than the actual training and deadlifting itself. Being sedentary for long periods of time, working a desk job, those are the kinds of things that actually realistically and statistically present an injury risk. So if you're looking at deadlifting and doing nothing, doing nothing is significantly more dangerous. So maybe hopefully by this point I've piqu your interest, but maybe you're also still thinking, "Damn, I don't know if I'm about to walk into a gym and grab a barbell and just start slapping plates on there." Well, like I said before, the benefits of training and the benefits of the deadlift don't just come from deadlifting heavy or only using a barbell or training like a powerlifter. In fact, there are a lot of ways you can get the benefits of doing the deadlift that could be a sort of intermediary or your first steps towards doing the deadlift. So, if you're interested in some of those alternatives, let's run through them. The first alternative is the trap bar deadlift. It puts the weight in your hands by your side instead of in front of you, meaning it loads your back a little bit less. But the important thing is that we load the back, not that we load the back the most immediately. There's this thing called graded exposure and that's how we're going to go from not lifting or not training your back to training your back. Trap bar deadlift allows you to pick from a little higher. It's a little more squatty. You're a little more upright. Keeps you comfortable. It's good alternative. Next alternative is the Romanian deadlift. Romanian deadlift. Deadlift. The Romanian deadlift is another alternative and it's just a partial range of motion deadlift. So, you're gonna start with the bar at the top and you can either pick it up off the floor or do this out of a rack or something, but basically you're just going to kick your hips back, go down just past the knees, and come back up. Right, we're essentially doing the deadlift, but not fully. Maybe not to a dead stop. we can maintain our brace a little bit better and it's only a partial range of motion so it can be a good first step. Another great alternative is just grab some dumbbells and deadlift them. You can do them a little more stifflegged, keep your hips up high, don't bend your knees as much, get a little more hamstring in there, or go ahead and bend your knees, make it a little more like a conventional deadlift and do a little RDL. It's still a deadlift and maybe you curl them too. So you super efficient. And lastly completing this lesson that anything that is heavy you can deadlift the kettle bell. Now you might even see people doing kettle bell swings. Get a bit of momentum in there. Swing it around. Be functional. I don't know. Just do things that involve hinging and weight. It's good for you. I don't know how much harder I can make that point. It's so hard. In summation, you don't need to deadlift like me. You don't need to use a barbell or deadlift 800 lb. But I would argue that if you care about being capable and strong and healthy and aging well, that you do need to do some kind of deadlift. You do need to be strong. You do need to challenge your body and you need to not be afraid of one of the most fundamental movement patterns that we have. And if you are interested in maybe deadlifting hundreds and hundreds of pounds, maybe getting into powerlifting for the first time, go down to the description below, check out the Calorie Barbell app. It's a fantastic resource to give you programming and coaching and to be a part of a wonderful, wonderful community. What more do you need? Do it, please. Why are people scared of deadlift? I don't know.