 Welcome back to Calgary Barbell. My name is Bryce, and I'm here to fix your deadlift. In powerlifting, nothing is more frustrating than being strong enough to lock out a deadlift, but your grip giving up. This has cost people PRs and championships and records, and honestly, it just kind of sucks. If you're struggling with your deadlift grip, then look no further. Today's video is going to cover everything that I've amassed throughout my career in lifting, and that includes the strength to hold onto a 400kg deadlift, as well as the protocols I've used with multiple world level lifters now to take their grip strength to the next level. Now there are two ways of gripping the bar for deadlifts. The key to either of these grips is that they stop the bar from rolling out of your hands. Option A is a mixed grip, option B is a hook grip. With a mixed grip, here's the low down. When you're setting up for a mixed grip, one hand goes under and one hand goes over. There will be one of these orientations that will feel quite a bit more comfortable than the other, so try a few either way to get a sense for which of those works for you. The reason this stops the bar from rolling is because if it rolls out of one hand, in theory, it is rolling into the other hand. If you want to perfect a mixed grip in the deadlift, then focus on these three things. Thing number one, pull the slack out of your grip. The same way we pull the slack out of the bar, the same way we set all of our tension before we initiate the deadlift itself, we want to do the same thing with the grip. Now what the heck does that mean? What that means is get the bar to essentially the lowest point of your grip and the highest point of resistance before you pull. If you're setting the bar really high up in your hands and wrapping more of your hand and fingers around it, it's going to roll some when you start. Now this rolling counteracts the entire purpose behind the mixed grip, which is to stop the bar from rolling. Once this rolling happens, if it occurs at any point through the lift, it is going to feel bad and it is going to make you not deadlift as well or not be able to deadlift as much weight. Thing number two, pick a side. Now like I said earlier, one orientation of over versus under will feel better and more natural than the other. Go with it. Don't worry about trying to switch it up for your warm-up sets or on secondary days. If you're worried about quote unquote imbalances or shoulder health or something like that, there are ways to address that. However, what we're talking about in this video is how to efficiently grip for the deadlift, which is a skill and requires repetition to practice. If you're changing your grip orientation constantly from session to session, it's going to be really hard to get those reps and that practice for the skill of deadlifting. Thing number three, let them hang. Now what I mean by that is I see people over tax their grip because they're trying to pull the bar. They're trying to be far too active with their grip and their arms and they're not thinking about their hands as just hooks. We want a good solid grip. We want to squeeze the hands, but we also need to be somewhat passive. We don't want to be bending at the elbows and trying to pull with the biceps. We're going to put probably too much pressure on the biceps and the pecs if we get into that habit. So we really want to try to anchor things in the shoulder blade, keep the arms nice and long and keep that pressure tight, but passive in the grip. Now if instead you are a hook grip enjoyer like myself, here's the lowdown. So we are essentially just wedging our thumb in there and squeezing the crap out of it. I want to add that I don't accept that this only works for people with freakishly long digits. Now a couple quick notes about setup. When we're wedging the thumb in there, we want to internally rotate at the shoulders to give ourselves a little bit more length of thumb to grab onto. However, once we start pulling the slack, we want to externally rotate and put our shoulders back into the position where we're going to get a little more out of the upper back. This is also going to bring the thumb parallel to not perpendicular to the bar. And when you're grabbing your thumb, you want to try to line it up so your middle finger in the most distal knuckle grabs onto the nail bed of your thumb and your pointer finger will overlap the knuckle of the thumb. The other two fingers kind of don't really do too much. Here are my three tips for a perfect hook grip. Thing number one, it takes two. Now what I mean here is like I was saying, generally the hook grip is going to come down to two fingers. That's kind of all that you really need to anchor on the thumb to have a solid hook grip. If you're mucking up your positioning so that you can get more than those two fingers onto your thumb, you're probably doing yourself a disservice and creating a less sturdy grip at the end of the day. Thing number two, pull the slack out of your grip as well. Just like we said, with the mixed grip, we want to make sure that the bar is settled, that your grip is solid as hell before you start pulling. It's easier, I think, with hook grip to take too deep of a grip and have a bit of a roll to the bar feel kind of natural at the beginning of your deadlift. Don't do that. Make sure that the bar is as low as it's going to go so the bar is not rolling against you when you're pulling 300 plus kilos or whatever. Thing number three, preserve your thumb skin. Now, not everybody has to be quite as reserved with their hook grip as I am, but I think if you're trying to hook grip every single set, every single rep and high rep sets in particular, you're probably going to end up tearing and damaging your thumb webbing, which is just going to prevent you from being able to actually train your grip. So what I recommend is taking your top set or sets with hook grip. I generally won't do more than maybe a triple with hook grip. If we're pushing into sets of four and up, if we are doing a whole bunch of volume in our back offs, a lot of the time that's a great place to use straps fairly liberally. I use straps even when I'm warming up and in my peaking blocks, a lot of the times I'll do about three singles a week and the rest of my work is all strapped up. Luckily, as a hook grip, enjoyer, the feeling of pulling into position and the actual distance of the bar from you and all of these kinds of things can be very similar between pulling with straps and pulling with hook grip. If you're looking for an extra set of eyes on your deadlifts for your grip or maybe on any other lift in terms of helping you correct some technical mistakes, well, you can check out the Calgary Barbell training app where you get access to over 50 programs as well as expert coaching from real people, including myself and the team here at Calgary Barbell each week in our app members discord. If that's something that sounds interesting to you and you want to take your training to the next level, then check the link in the description below or go to calgarybarbell.com for more details. Part two, grip training. If you're somebody who's watching this video and you have the grip fundamentals down but for whatever reason it still starts to fall apart when you approach a max load, we've got you covered. This is Britney Schlater and this is Oliver Dahlquist. What do these two have in common? Well, they're both wonderful people and they're both very strong. They've both meddled at IPF world level competitions and they've both broken world records. But they also both used to struggle with their deadlift grip, that is until we put in a whole bunch of work and they got substantially better. So how do we do that? First, we just add holds to our existing deadlift training on the last rep of the last set and on the last rep of any top set or top single. We're just going to hold for four to six seconds. It doesn't have to be anything crazy. It doesn't have to be a 30 second hold. Just hold what you're already doing for a little bit longer, but do that every time that you do it. And the second thing we'll do is introduce high rack pulls or block pulls. Please for the love of God, do not submit good competition bars to rack pulls. If you have a nice bar, only do block pulls. If you have an old beat up crappy bar that you don't care about bending the hell out of, then you can go ahead and do rack pulls. But the idea here is that once we're done our main deadlifts on our main deadlift day, we're going to haul the bar and all the plates over to somewhere where we can set up a high rack or block pull. Something where we can get to lock out within two to three inches of range of motion. Then we're going to do some pick and holds. We're going to start with 80 to 85% of our one rep max. We're going to hold for eight to 10 seconds each set. And we're going to do three sets of this. Simply pick the bar like you would if you were doing a deadlift, lock it out all the way and hold it there. Don't let yourself rest on your thighs. Just a quick aside there. Each week you do these, try to add a little bit of weight. If the time you can hold it for goes down, then stay at that weight for another couple weeks until you can get the time back up. Just progress this along and between those two protocols, I promise you. You will put a whole bunch more weight in your hands and hold on to it better than you have before. And that's our video for today. Thank you for watching. Hopefully this helps you hold on to more deadlifts and get more white lights and hit more PRs and break a record and whatever else. If you enjoyed the video, make sure to let us know. If you have other grip training things that you've tried and that have helped you maybe share it in the comments below so that more people can do better at things. Yeah, thanks for watching. Like and subscribe. We'll see you in the next one. Bye-bye.