 All right, so today's gonna be a bit of a short one. I plugged in all my fatigue stuff this morning and I had like mistracked a few things. So once all the sessions got lined up, it was like, this is why you are fatigued. So today's just gonna be a quick deadlift. That's it, we'll do some abs. But I just finished doing my cardio-hardio, 35 minutes, getting spelt and skinny. But yeah, it's gonna be a pretty quick... Pretty cool. We'll go through my head on a big lift. If I'm lifting well, my mindset on a big lift is to shut my fucking mind off, stop thinking about so much damn stuff and trust that I went through the steps and through the cues on my body. I'm not gonna be able to do that. I'm gonna be able to do that. I'm gonna be able to do that. I'm gonna be able to use on all my warm-up sets and my back-off sets and everything like that. Because when I get to a top single, I want that to be as competition adjacent as possible. It's a single that is the most specific way in which we can practice for our sport. So when I get to a top single, I wanna just deadlift. I don't wanna have to be thinking about how I'm sitting into the suit or where my foot pressure is. I don't wanna be thinking about a little bit of that kind of stuff as I'm setting up, but really pared down. So that's why a lot of the times I get into the suit or get into the shirt super early. I pulled 220 in the suit today. It probably moved like an empty bar. It probably came off the floor before I even got all the way into position. But it allowed me to practice a little bit more how I'm pulling into the suit, where my position is, how I know when I've hit that perfect spot with all the tension. I do that stuff well enough on warm-ups. When I get to the big stuff, I try to stop thinking. I think that's something that, you know, not everybody's gonna have the same take or the same successful solution. But I think for some lifters, getting out of their own way and just like doing the thing, trusting that they have the requisite technique and that they know what they're doing and just turning the brain off, stop running through like a laundry list of 56 different cues while you're trying to lift and just do the lift. Right? Because when you get to a meet and like especially in equipment, like there's a razor's edge. There's no room for messing about. You know what I mean? You got 180% of your raw max on your back. You're shaking like a leaf just trying to get it out of the rack and get it into a position where you can stand without falling and crushing the spotters. Like if you're thinking about like, okay, tight back, I gotta sit my lats. Okay, brace, big air, 360 pressure. Okay, like, no, no. But that's me, that's my solution, right? It's like my solution and one of the things that I love the most about lifting that like brings me the most fulfillment and joy is that I can like turn that off completely, right? Like just almost like escape myself for a second. You know what I mean? Like you just get completely lost in it. Just lost in the sauce. That is how I lift best. It always has been like just pushing, right? Just like just stand up real hard, right? In the moments leading up to a lift, sure, maybe there's some self talk or like, I don't know. I don't know. Again, I think that's maybe why I like try to drown it out with music, right? I just like turn the music up and vibe and try to just like get to the place where my, that part of my consciousness is just like, it can't bother me, it can't touch me. This is purely like visceral, purely physical, purely like disconnected. I don't know, maybe that's a weird take, but that's what works for me. That's always what worked for me. I remember my first world's in 2016. I was able to just like just hit that flow state so hard. I had no idea what was going on. No idea what my competitors were doing. All I knew was when my coaches said, go, I just went and lifted and that's it. Like that's it, blinders on. And I went nine for nine and, you know, came in second at Worlds. And until the last deadlift, when Ryan looked me in the eyes, it was like, if you hit this, you get a silver medal. If you miss it, you get nothing. Up till that moment, I had no clue where I was in the standings. No clue what any of my competitors were doing. I wasn't looking at the screen. I wasn't watching the feed. I did not want to know. I did not connect. I did not care. And I think a lot of the times when I compete, I try to get to that spot, right? I think I've become better. And again, like that coach brain has kind of integrated more to where I can pay a little bit more attention and have an idea of what's going on. But I really don't want to be like crunching numbers or being like, how much do I need or whatever? Cause that's just, it's too taxing, right? If there's any like self talk or anything that I think, I've told this to a few clients, but it's like leading up to that minute, it's like you were, this is what you tell yourself. You were put on this planet to lift weights, to do this lift. That was it. That's it. You just go do your job. That's it, right? There's nothing extraneous. There's no like, doesn't have to be high stakes. You don't have to like imagine your family being murdered or whatever weird shit, you know, some people are into, and hey, if that works for you, I mean, it's weird, but whatever. But like, this is just what you do, right? Like you have dedicated your life to doing this thing, this one thing, this one moment, just do it, right? Like all the, all the like coming and hauling and can I can't I should be like, out of the way by that point. You're done. That's it, right? By the time you step on the platform, like you're just there. You have a hundred percent confidence belief that you were gonna hit this and that's it. And you have to buy into that. You have to believe that. Cause if you don't, that's when you're like thinking on the way down like, oh, this is heavy. It's not ever good. And like I've been there too. You know what I mean? Like I've had bad meets. I'm not saying I'm perfect or that I've like mastered this, but that is when I'm successful, when I'm lifting well in competition or even in training, that's where I'm at mentally. I don't know. Well, that's it for today. Bronson's excited. That means LUNCH time is quickly approaching. It was again a really good deadlift. I feel like of all the equip lifts, the deadlift is the one that's coming back like the sharpest, the quickest, the most comfortable. I was a little bit worried. You know, my last however long training of deadlifts hadn't been amazing. I did some pretty good training heading into Worlds and then ended up having pretty poor result, especially on the deadlift. And you know, I wasn't entirely sure how it was gonna go, how it was gonna feel, but it's been awesome. Like 345 last week, friggin' boogied. This week, 352. Like, I feel like we're gonna be hitting 8 plus very routinely very soon here and very comfortably. Like, it's feeling snappy, it's feeling like I got plenty of headroom to continue making progress on it. So that's really exciting, really, really exciting. Overall, you know, I've said it a million times in this series, but getting back into a equip is just like breathed. Has breathed a lot of life? Broath, I believe? Has broken a lot of life into my lifting once more. I feel a lot more excited, a lot more engaged, a lot more rewarded, more able to lose myself in the sessions and enjoy lifting. So it's been very, very good looking forward to it. I think registration for the meet I'm trying to get into goes up this weekend. So really crossing my fingers I can get in. I know a lot of the meets around here fill up super quick. So I'm gonna have to be a little on top of that and make sure we can get the application sent in in time. Cause otherwise it's gonna be pretty hard to do nationals without a qualifying total. But yeah, keep your eyes peeled for the new apparel. We got a fun little promo thing we're doing for it, which I'm really excited about. I know Dylan's really excited about it. We'll see. Anyways, thanks for watching along, tagging along. Hope you all are enjoying the series and my ramblings. We'll see you in the next one. Deuces. And now ready? And ready? And ready? You thought to see from the inside, you shot at glass and I walked too far, I couldn't see how bad I was You thought to find some decent, when you set the alarm on your side, you tried to leave yourself behind I've said myself before, it's not safe anymore, I've grown myself for you