 If you are struggling to progress your deadlift, and it looks like this, this, this, or like this, then you're making the same mistake as the rest of these lifters, and that's probably why it's stuck. Now, this mistake isn't just limited to beginners either. Check this out. This lifter here is pulling 285 kilos and same mistake. So what's happening here? Well, all of these deadlifts are more of a pull than a push. And when we pull deadlifts, what ends up happening is we use a lot more of our back than we need to, and we're not using our quads. If we watch Aaron's deadlift here, there's a little dip before the pull, but then his hips shoot right back up, and he ends up pretty much stiff-legging it. Now, both Josh and Owen here just start with very high hips, meaning they're not able to get their hips into a position where the quads can contribute much. And Johannes here is somewhere in between. We do pull in at least just a bit, but we're not pulling in all the weight. There isn't enough tension, or anything. enough of a push. So how do we fix it? It's not as simple as just sit your hips lower. We have to learn how to build tension before we start the lift. In order to find tension, find your appropriate position, and use your quads properly in the deadlift, I like to do this quick little checklist when I set up for the pull. Number one, heels, hips, and hammies. Push your weight way back on your heels until you find tension in your hips and hamstrings. Number two, lats. Pull your arms long and tighten your lats and resist the weight of the bar with your upper back. Number three, find your quads. Keeping all that other tension, literally use the weight of the bar to pull your hips down until we find pressure through the whole foot and you feel your quads light up. Once you've got that tension, when you're starting the lift, be patient. Fixing this issue is going to make your deadlift feel a little bit harder off the floor. That's a good thing, though. If you're not used to this position, your body will probably still try to kick your hips up and force you to stiff-legged. Making big adjustments to your technique like this can be pretty tricky. That's why we put so much emphasis on exactly that in the Calgary Barbell Training App. We do weekly video check-ins to help our lifters refine their technique so they're more efficient and they get stronger faster. If you'd prefer to roll the dice and potentially be selected for me to look at in one of these videos, we pull a few submissions from our inbox each month and you could submit your videos at calgarybarbell.com. And if your deadlift looks like one of those deadlifts from the videos at the start, well, make sure that you're finding tension before you start the lift. That's going to help you fix your position. It's going to allow you to use your quads and to push, not pull your deadlift. If you can fix that, you're going to feel a lot better real fast.