 aposin, Standing-r Standing-r Standing-r Standing-r Standing-r Standing-r Standing-r Standing-r Standing-r Standing-r Standing-r Standing-r Standing-r Standing-r Standing-r Standing-r Standing-r Standing-r Standing-r Standing Standing-r Standing Standing-r Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing Standing sort of rotation you can get when you take the grip on the bar. The sort of bulldog or sometimes called Japanese grip versus a more conventional sort of straight on grip to the bar. But what I want to talk about today is actually how deep the bar is in your hands. Now I think the mistake a lot of people make is that they take the bar for the bench press like they would for the deadlift. So it's further down towards the fingertips and this causes a couple of things we're going to show in just a second here. My big tip, my recommendation here is to work on taking the grip lower in your palm. Now you may be or may know lifters who are a lot more comfortable with what's called a false grip where the thumb is behind the bar instead of laid over the bar. What I'm recommending here is we try to sort of meld the two. The reason people like a false grip is because it puts the bar more directly over the wrist and allows us to kind of set it and forget it when it comes to grip. We're not thinking about stabilizing the wrists because we put it in a natural position where it just sits and then we worry about elbow position, shoulder position, etc. which is another video. So the way we're going to place the bar, the way I recommend to place the bar is actually to kind of push the thumb out of the way so that we can get the bar set on the meat of the palm right into the sort of the butt of the hand we'll call it and that's going to allow you to stack it right over the wrist and then we're going to fold or lay the fingers down across the bar. You can see there's actually a little gap here between my knuckles and sort of the first digit of my fingers and the bar. So we're more worried about getting that bar low in the hand than we are about having a super sort of contactful grip with the bar. We're laying the fingers down across it. Now let's show you why we might want the bar lower in the palm. Now I want to demonstrate from a practical standpoint what the what taking the bar lower in the palm is going to do for you. So to illustrate that what I'm going to show is first off what happens when we take the bar too high up in our fingers. So you can see here the bar is too high up in our fingers and we have a huge amount of distance between where the bar rests and where the force is going to come through the end of the forearm. So it's a big energy leak. Now the other way people might try to fix that is by trying to have more neutral wrists. But you can see there that puts the bar out in front of my elbow makes it very hard for me to try to keep my elbows in under the bar. So one of two things is going to happen either we're going to be back behind the bar and end up pushing the bar away off the chest or the wrists are going to cock back anyways and then we're going to be back in that same crappy position. So by taking the bar lower in the palms it allows us to set a certain angle in the wrist which is going to keep the bar relatively over the top of the forearm and allow us to keep the elbows in line underneath or just slightly in front of the bar. So we have better control over the bar path it's easier to press the bar back over the shoulders as we go through the movement and we're a little bit more sturdy as opposed to having to try to fight for an angle in the wrist that is not going to be maintainable. Now obviously these tips are not necessarily going to work for every single person but it is something I would recommend you at least try and see if it affects your bench press in a positive way. If you like this tip go ahead and share it with your friends, hit that subscribe button for more videos like this, leave a like on the video and if you have any questions go ahead and send them in the comments below. We'll see everybody in the next video.