Do you feel like you're putting in work on the bench press every single week but not getting any stronger? Like the number just isn't moving at all? It could be because you're selecting the wrong accessory movements. Today, I'm going to take you through my top five bench press accessories. Whether you're chasing your first one plate bench press or you're trying to bench 500 lb for the first time. Let's start off with one of my favorite movements that highlights something that lifters mess up all of the time. The long pause bench press. If you want to build a big bench, you've got to be strong and skilled while the bar's on your chest. Many raw lifters think that their lockout is their weakness when in actuality what happens is they lose position either while touching their chest or while pressing off of the chest. Long pause bench is a classic and it's in damn near every program that I write. Get better at pausing, get better at benching. If we can be stronger in that bottom position and in breaking inertia, we're going to put kilos on the bench. Period. You never heard period? No. Oh, I'll usually program these for no more than about four reps and no less than about a seven RP because we want some intensity and we want some specificity on this movement. I'll also differentiate between a twoount pause bench and a 3ount pause bench. Often swapping between those in programming. So, the key to long pause bench is to make sure that the bar is motionless. No bounce, no momentum during the pause. And be careful at how quickly you count. Every single week, I remind lifters that their long pauses need to be longer. Next up, let's talk about the pin press. So, let's talk a little bit about the pin press. If you're somebody whose issue in the bench press comes when you initiate the press out of the pause, well, pin press might just be the perfect accessory for you. The way to set it up is to try to get the pins to take the weight just as the bar touches the chest. If you don't have a rack with really nice close hole spacing like this one here, you may end up in a situation where you can choose either a little bit above the chest or a little bit below where you usually touch and have to sink to touch. If that comes up, I recommend you go for the higher of the two settings. If you have to sink, you're going to lose a bunch of position during the pause and it's going to kind of defeat the purpose of the movement. When you're executing this movement, always start from the top and unrackck as normal. I don't see a good reason to do pin presses starting from the bottom. The rep will consist of bringing the bar down at the speed that you normally bring the bar down. You may need to have a little bit of extra control at the bottom because we don't want the bar to fall on the pins and we don't want the bar to bounce off of the pins. We want to be able to unload maybe 70 or 80% of the weight onto the pins without completely relaxing and then press having to break inertia off of the pins. Just a quick note, you can use some variations of this that perhaps focus a little bit more on different parts of the range of motion, but the most universal variation of the pin press I can recommend is doing it at chest height. In terms of how I would program the pin press, it would be very similar to the long pause bench. Generally more specific, lower reps and higher RP. Next up, the close grip bench press. The close grip bench press is a great variation both because it is quite similar to your usual bench, but different enough. The benefit of this is that you'll have a separate training max. So, the intensity will likely be a little bit lower and the pattern will be different enough that you can have maybe a little bit more bench exposure where you otherwise wouldn't be able to have comp bench or wide grip bench exposures. Ideally, when we're using this as a variation, we're going one to three fingers widths narrower. And in some cases, I will prescribe as a variation very close grip bench where we're coming into the edges of the knurling. But for example, I bench with my middle finger on the rings. And when I do my close grip, I come into pinky finger on the rings. So it's not a massive difference, but it's enough that the movement feels different and is functionally trained a bit differently. The other main benefits of the close grip bench is that it's going to hit your triceps and your front delts maybe a little bit more than your normal bench pattern would. So, if we are actually a little weak at the top end or just a little weak in the triceps, adding in some close grip bench is a good way to kind of even out that strength curve so that we can get the bench progressing again. So, the main differences execution-wise with your normal grip and your closer grip bench are going to be that your normal grip, you're going to have a little bit of a higher touch point and your elbows are going to be flared out a little bit more. Right? Note the touch point. Note the elbow position. If I bring my grip in to where my close grip bench is, which is only about, like I said, two fingers widths, you'll notice that the touch point is going to be further down my chest and my elbows are going to be more tucked. So, those things should happen relatively naturally. But if you're wondering why, like, okay, my close grip feels so awkward, maybe you're not tucking enough, maybe you're trying to mimic your usual bench a little too much. One final quick note about utilizing the close grip bench when it comes to programming. I think that the more generic close grip bench, one to three fingers narrower than your usual grip, is a great tool both for more specific work in the lower rep ranges and higher intensities, but also can be used for less specific work, the hypertrophy rep ranges, you know, 8 to 12, pushing for more of a muscle building stimulus, where I think once we go closer than that, utilizing what I referred to earlier as the very close grip bench where your hands are pretty much on the end of the knurling, I think that lens lends itself much more to the higher rep, less specific, maybe more hypertrophy focused stimulus. And now, feet up bench. The feet up bench press is a great exercise if you're somebody who finds themselves wobbling around on the bench. If you struggle with keeping your shoulder blades tight throughout maybe a higher rep sets and then that translates over into your 1 arms. Well, the feet up bench takes the legs and the feet completely out of the equation which forces the upper body to have to do all of the stabilizing work itself. It also in some ways acts as a pseudo deficit bench where there's maybe slightly more range of motion because you're not able to use your feet to drive your chest up as much. You're going to end up with tiny little bit more range of motion. For that reason, I really like it as a hypertrophy exercise. Uh something to be utilized with less specific protocols, maybe higher rep ranges. But I also think this can be a great way to build that strength into the stability, right? Kind of pairing those two things. Synergy and getting the best of both worlds. I probably wouldn't be doing like heavy singles and triples here, but I do think you could probably push sets of four to six and get some good results out of it. As a little tip for when you're doing the feet up bench press, here's how I recommend the setup be. Right? You're going to go through your entire bench setup with your feet down on the ground like you normally would as if you're doing a normal competition bench press. Set everything up, go through to the point where you unrackck, put your butt down, and make putting your feet up the very last thing that you do. That way, you give yourself the best odds of maintaining the best position that you can. And finally, overloading the bench press. All right. All right. Now, the last tool that I want to talk about is actually kind of a bunch of tools. I think there's definitely a case to be made for using bands or chains and boards. Yes, even for raw lifters. You could also use something like a slingshot or set up some reverse bands. Now, one of the things that I like to use the board press for is in the case of lifters who tend to get maybe some irritation or discomfort or pain from more frequent bench pressing. If that pain or those pain symptoms come in the bottom range of motion, we can cut the bottom range of motion using I would say a one or a two board, no more of the range of motion trimmed for a raw lifter. bands and chains will do a similar thing, right? Just allowing the weight to be lighter at the bottom while still utilizing the full range of motion. I think boards, bands, and chains are also just good tools for just straight up getting strong overall. You can also use, like I said, something like a slingshot or a reverse band setup, although that can be a little tricky to set up. I would lean on those a little bit less, however, just anecdotally, I've had less success with less of my lifters using those tools. A few tips. Number one, for the boards, like I said, for a raw lifter, uh, no more than a two board. I would say two or a one board is very useful. And if you have somebody like James here, the top of it is just above the middle of my sternum. And when you're pressing off boards, all you're going to do is try to be nice and light to the boards, right? We want to be in control of the touch. You can have a little bit of a sink if your bench naturally has a little bit of a sink, but we want to watch out for people who kind of use the boards to their advantage, right? Where you come down and sink in and then kind of use your sternum and the boards to really rocket it back up. I think that's taking away a lot of the benefit of the board work. Now, if you don't have a lovely person like James here, you can get something like this. These are bench blocks with a Z. You can get them, I don't know, somewhere probably. But the benefit to these is they actually fit onto the bar, right? They have these divots here for different heights. This is your two board. Uh that's a three board. That's a four board. And that's a five board. Unfortunately, it's a separate one for a half and a one board. And then a separate one for the two and up. But anyways, all you do with that is slap it onto the bench like so. And then there you go. Same thing. If you're training alone, you can use that and get the same thing. Two board. Boom. Now, let's talk a little bit about bands and chains. All right. So, we're going to talk about using bands. I'm going to assume most people don't have a chain setup. We'll skip that. With bands, there's two ways I like to set them up. Number one, get a dumbbell. Set it down next to the bar. Loop it around like so. Come up. And usually I'll actually put this Should have grabbed a heavier dumbbell. I [\h__\h] it up. Cut. Cut. Cut. We're going to talk a little bit about a band setup. Grab some dumbbells. Pro tip. Make sure they're heavy enough to hold the band down. Don't make my mistakes. Loop it around there like that. Pull it up. Pop it on. Bada bing, bada boom. The other way to set it up. Go under the bench. This is a really easy one if you are mobile, if you're if you're training at a place that isn't the same gym every time and you want to just bring one band with you. Loop it under the bench, pull it out, set it up. I would set it up in here inside of the plates, but I've already got the plates on there and collars. So, just do it. Right. Now, in terms of weight, you don't need a crap ton of weight from the bands or chains. Right? You want to use 10 to 20% of your one rep max. There's no need for you to be using hundreds of pounds of band or chain tension on the bench. That's just probably not going to do much for you other than feel weird. So, prescription wise, I would use bands, chains, and boards for pretty much anything. I think they can be really good tools to be used with high rep, less specific stuff, even lower intensity stuff, as well as all the way down to singles. Probably would put more intensity on bands and chains and a little less on the boards, but individuality rules here. So, you know, take what I'm saying here with a grain of salt. In terms of slingshot or reverse band, if you want to go through the headache of setting that up, probably stick to higher intensity work. And yeah, I don't know. Reverse band is just maybe don't bother with that one. Get a slingshot if you really want to overload with that kind of Yeah, that's the thing is it is it is fun. It's like a bench shirt without all the sucking. But like is it going to help your bench? I don't know. Like maybe. Probably not a tool that I would like turn to. All right. So, in terms of prescriptions, I would say that board bench, I would do probably not super heavy, right? I would stick with maybe like fours and up. I don't think for a raw lifter driving that intensity because you're cutting the range of motion, you're going to lose a lot of the specificity and therefore how much transference you're going to get from training that into your main lift. But with bands and chains, I think you can get away with going down to singles and training those in pretty much any protocol. All right, I shouldn't need to tell you all this, but I'm going to. Don't run all five of these at once. Just like that. Yep. Speed explode. Yep. Use your legs. Don't just use them haphazardly and shotgun them all into your program thinking that they will, as a conglomeration, fix your bench press. What you should do is think about the intent behind any of these exercises, why you might want to use them, and then how you can apply them intelligently into a program, test them by seeing how that impacts your estimated one rep max by the end of the block, and then either repeat that exercise if it worked really well, or swap it out for a different one. Here are some tips as to when you might want to use any of these specific exercises. Okay. So, if you are struggling off the chest, if you're finding that you're weak in accelerating off the chest or losing position during the touch or after the touch, you can use the long pause bench and the pin press specifically. Maybe to a lesser extent, feet up bench. I think feet up bench is one of those movements that you could probably use for pretty much anything because it's easier to program alongside some of these other movements. If you're finding that maybe your triceps and your delts aren't keeping up, close grip bench can be a wonderful addition uh in any of the widths that we talked about. If you're somebody who needs more bench stimulus, but you're running into overuse issues with your shoulders and elbows flaring up, things like board press, benching against bands or chains can really help you keep that stimulus there while giving the shoulders and elbows a bit of a break in the more sort of demanding parts of the range of motion. And lastly, if you're having stability issues, if you're shaking all over the place, if you're wobbly or wiggly on the bench press, you can use the feet up bench to help build some more stability in the upper body. One last thing that I'll throw in is if you're finding that your chest is falling throughout the lift, pin press set where your chest is at its highest can be a really good tool because you'll notice if there's any difference between where the bar settles and where your chest was on rep one. It's going to teach you to pull your chest back up to that position and help as an external cue to keep you reaching up to the bar throughout a set. If you don't want to deal with the stress of trying to trial and error all of these accessories, well, maybe you want to check out the Calgary barbell app, and I can do that for you. Myself and the other Calgary barbell coaches have an app exclusive Discord where we do video form checks every week. We have all kinds of different programs, 51 at last count, including a specific bench plateau breaker program that might be perfect for you. If you're watching this video wondering, "How the hell do I get my bench going again?" Head down to the description box below. You can click the link there to check out the Calgary Barbell app. We'll see you all in the next one. Thank you for tuning in and uh take care out there. This is audible.