I've got a pretty good squat, but I want more. Chances are, if you're watching this video, so do you. In your journey to build the biggest squat that you possibly can, sometimes just doing more squatting isn't going to get you there. That's why in this video, I'm going to talk you through my five favorite squat accessory movements to help you correct technique and movement patterns, build a little bit more muscle in some specifically relevant places, and overall just push your squat to the next level. The first accessory movement that I'm going to talk about is the paused squat. Now, it's a pretty basic one. All you're going to do is a squat and pause in the bottom. But there is some nuance to it. The pause squat is going to be a really good tool for helping you build positioning in the bottom and for helping you build strength coming out of the bottom. When we pause at that joint angle that we're hitting in the hole, we're going to strengthen that joint angle. We're going to get better at breaking inertia and changing directions on the bar. One of my biggest pieces of advice for the pause squat is to make sure that you're not falling into the bottom. We don't want to be relaxed when we get to the bottom of a pause squat. Depth is not necessarily the main concern of a paused squat. Chances are your pause squats are going to be just on the line if you're doing them well. Because in a competition squat, we're going to use that little bit of looseness to bounce just a bit and get that extra little bit of depth. In a pause squat, you're pumping the brakes. you're putting the brakes on on the way down to make sure that we are holding a really, really tight and well- braced bottom position. We also want to avoid bouncing out of the bottom before we come up. A lot of lifters will pause and then dip and come up. That's going to make you coming out of the pause way easier and kind of defeats the purpose of the movement. So, if you're struggling with the consistency in your bottom position, or maybe you're starting to panic as you get down there, the pause squat can be a great tool to work on those things as well as just building a lot of strength in the bottom. The second movement that we're going to talk about is the pin squat. Now, the pin squat is going to expose any weaknesses you have out of your bottom position. It forces you to maintain some tension to the bar, but also forces you to delo some of that tension. It's it's about finding sort of a perfect balance between how much you're unloading onto the pins. The reason this is so good is that if you have any issues coming out of the bottom in terms of holding your torso position, if your quads or your hips are not strong enough for you to come up without compromising that position, your hips shooting up, your knees caving a whole bunch, those kinds of things, do pin squats. Because if you have those issues, you're going to be terrible at pin squats. And getting better at pin squats means getting better at those positions, which should then carry over to your comp squat and make you better. Okay. So, the the the keys to a good pin squat. The key to good pin squats is going to be finding the right pin height. Now, if you look at this rack, you'll see that these pins are all very close together in this range. That makes it really easy to find that Goldilocks height. However, most racks are not going to be quite as adjustable on such a small scale. So, if you have to, most of my lifters that I've given pin squats to will have to kind of decide between far too low or like a little bit too high. I'd go with the a little bit too high option. If we're going 2 in past depth in order to get to the pins, we're just in a totally different position. It's not going to have any carryover to your squat. you're going to have to go super light or it's just going to be absolutely terrible. And that shouldn't be the reason pin squats are terrible. They should be terrible because they're working. So, if you go a little bit high and your squat is a little bit high to pins, that's fine. Make sure that when you're going down to the pins, however, that number one, we are unloading a little bit onto the pins. And number two, we're not changing to be better at pin squats. And this is similar to how people will try to get a bit better leverage on pause deadlifts. A lot of people will kind of keep their hips high and then fold down to meet with their trunk. We want to make sure we're getting all the same depth in the hips. Reach back. And then when we come off the pins, a lot of people are going to end up getting this. they're going to start losing position because it's going to be really hard to keep your quads engaged and to stay in the position we want out at the bottom. That's where we're going really going to be tested. So, if we find the right height and we're able to drive the knees forward out of the bottom, we shouldn't see too much of that hips shooting up and then that's going to fix that in your comp squat. One last thing, don't go crashing onto the pins. It doesn't have to be light as a feather, but we don't want you to just get halfway down and then free fall to the pins and try to start from a dead stop. You want to maintain at least some control of the bar throughout the entirety of the movement. The bar should never completely unload on the pins. The third exercise that we're talking about today is the tempo squat. Now, you could use a number of different tempos in the tempo squat. Tempo just being the speed with which you're executing the movement. Now, quick primer on tempos. There are usually three numbers in the description of a tempo. It's formatted as number- eentric or lowering phase of the movement. The second number is always an isometric or a pause or lack thereof denoted by a zero. The final number is always the concentric or upwards phase of the movement. And again, if this is just done at normal speed, there's a zero. So, all that is to say, generally, when I get to tempo squats, what I'm recommending is something like a 300 tempo squat. So, we're taking extra care and extra consideration and extra time on the descent of the movement. The reason this is useful is because it helps lifters figure out positions. We're not just speeding through the positions. We're not just again falling into the bottom. We're instead creating a purposeful series of movements that can be really effective as a learning tool. There are some interesting writings on the use of much much longer tempos. For example, in my own training right now, I'm doing a 600 tempo. Um, if you're interested in looking into that, this guy named Cal Deetsz who popularized it in a book called Triphasic Training. Not necessarily something I'd recommend for most lifters. I think most lifters in terms of just learning the positions, getting a little bit more time under tension, 30 or even incorporating a tempo paused squat, mish mashing the two together with the 320 3ount eccentric, two count pause, normal on the way up can be a great way to go about it. But the basic idea here is that you're just you're just slowing it down. You're slowing it down on the way down. A really important tip for the tempo squat is to keep the tempo even. If it's a 30 0 tempo squat, don't go one, two, three, and fall through the last half of the range of motion. You know what? Let's demonstrate it. So, when we get to the tempo squat, most common mistake people will slow through the first part and then just kind of bail on the tempo and do a normal squat. We want to try to smooth out the tempo. So, it's a three count. 1 2 3 up, right? It's not one 2 3. That's just cutting out half the tempo. And arguably the most important part of the tempo is that last little bit before the bottom, cuz that's the part that people mess up. This baby right here, this is called an SSB or safety squat bar. It's one of many bars that you can use that have a little bit of camber on it. Right? You can see this little bend. When it's on your back, it's going to put the bar or sorry, put the weight slightly out in front of where the actual bar sits on your back. So, in some ways, it's going to mimic a front squat. It's going to be very challenging for your upper back and your trunk. holding that bar and keeping it stable through the squat pattern is going to be one of the harder parts of this movement. But unlike the front squat, which if you remember I said was not a great squat accessory movement. And the reason I think this is is because you can load this up and it's not going to fall off of you. You will be able to build this to the point where it is still challenging for your legs. And in specific, I think it's a really good tool for building a lot of quad strength, especially if you're a lifter who folds in the upper back and then has their hips shoot up behind you because the bar is going to pull you forwards, more like a front squat or a high bar squat. My biggest tips for the SSB are going to be that you don't need to push or pull the handles. I get a lot of questions from lifters whether they should be pulling the handles into themselves or pushing up on them. Just don't worry about that so much. Let the bar do what the bar wants to do and it'll pull things into the right spot. If you don't have access to an SSB, that's fine. But it is a nice tool. The fifth and final accessory movement that I want to include here is the leg press. Most gyms have one. While it might not be the most specific and you might know a number of people who can leg press a lot and can't squat for it can be a really great tool if the bottleneck in your powerlifting training is getting more work on your legs because this doesn't load the back. You can get away with hammering volume on this thing. And I also just have a personal bias towards it. When I was rehabbing my knee and coming back from two years of my knee feeling like absolute garbage, this baby made it feel better every time. Things to note about the leg press are number one, get a very full range of motion. Doing quarter reps on the leg press is akin to curling in the squat rack, and you don't want to be that person. When you're using the leg press, I would try to do something similar to your squat stance on here if you can on the plate. And also the back angle on most leg presses is adjustable. So adjust it up or down so you can get a more comfortable experience. A lot of the times when I hop onto a leg press and somebody else has had it set, feels terrible. You adjust that back angle correctly, you're smooth sailing. There are great many other non-specific leg building exercises that you could include on this list. hack squats and belt squats and other kind of contraptions, pendulum squats and things like that. I'm sure those are all great. Go ahead and try those out if you want, but I like the leg press. Like we said in the deadlift video, you don't want to do all five of these at once, nor do you want to be changing them up every single week. Pick one or two that you think apply to your specific needs and weaknesses in your training. Run them for a period of time. Assess whether or not they helped. either run them again or change them in the next block. For most lifters, I would say you can probably run two of these as well as a comp squat each week. I think most lifters squat frequency can be a little bit higher than their deadlift frequency. So, I think if you were to run a paused squat and a tempo squat or a pin squat and a paused squat or any combination of those, you'd probably be just fine. Now, let's talk a little bit about the lifters or the squat issues and characteristics that might make you lean towards one of these exercises over another. If you're having trouble finding your position in the bottom or you're falling into the hole in your squat, the pause squat or pin squat are great for fixing that. If you find yourself crumpling as you come up out of the hole or your knees and hips shoot backwards, that is a classic case of I need to pin squat. If you're struggling with your hinge or how to position yourself and time things during your descent, tempo squats will help you a lot there. If your upper back or the shelf that the bar is sitting on is collapsing as you change directions, that is a pretty clear indication that the SSB might help you a lot. And finally, if you're just not able to get things moving in terms of squat progress, but your back doesn't seem to want to handle more squat volume, smash the out of your legs on the leg press. And if you're looking for intelligently designed programs that utilize all of these squat accessories as well as a wide variety more or a place where you can have a conversation with a coach like myself or one of the other phenomenal calorie barbell coaches about what accessory movements might work specifically for you. You can check out the calorie barbell app in the link in the description box below. And uh yeah, check it out. It's really good. We put a lot of love into it. If this video helped you, if you enjoyed it, share it with your friends. Leave a like if you liked it. Tell me what squat accessories you love in the comments below. And we'll see you in the next one. Bye-bye for now.