 If the lifts you did for strength, were cars, and I was a car salesman, I would sell you ab training by saying, this thing here can fit so many years of reliability into it. This is your daily driver. This is getting you to and from work without issue. This is no flat tires. This is good gas mileage. This is economic decision making. That's your ab training. So if you're trying to get strong. So if you're trying to get strong. So if you're trying to get strong, here are the ab movements that you should do to progress for strength. Movement number one, the plank. Modest, but effective plank. The reason I like the plank is because it just teaches you to hold your shit really tight. It teaches you how to contract and use your whole core and just keep it stable. Plank and plank variations. So your basic plank, you can go down your forearms. And if you get something like this, you can make it a little bit higher, and you can make it easier. Or you can go fully flat on the ground to make it harder. I like this cushioning because my elbows are a little sensitive. So your basic plank, you're going to put your hands and elbows sort of shoulder widths apart. And then you want to avoid this extension, right? That's going to be a really natural thing that you're going to do if maybe you don't have a whole lot of core strength. So you want to go from that extension in your low back to tucking the pelvis in and trying to bring those ribs down. Look at me shaking like a leaf. You're trying to mimic a lot of what I keep talking about in the squat with this, right? This is your bracing. This is pulling the ribs down and the pelvis up and trying to maintain that connection here. Plank variations. Number one, the side plank. On your side here, again, watch out for this dipping the hip. Try to keep it in line. Ribs down. Oh, shaking. Like that. And then if you're really good, really advanced, and I'm probably going to embarrass myself trying to pull this off, but the rolling plank. Where you're going to go from right side plank to front plank to left side plank. Do you want to see me struggle with that? Cool. Right side plank. Hoey. Front plank. Hoey. Left side plank. Hoey. The wider your elbows are, the more advantage you're going to give yourself because the better balance you're going to have. The narrower your elbows are, the more challenging it's going to be to not sway side to side. Number two. Number two. Dead bugs. Why do I like dead bugs? Because again, it's good bracing practice. You'll notice a trend in a lot of these, or at least some of them, where we're trying to recreate that squat and deadlift brace. Ribs down, pelvis in, and just holding tension 360 degrees. The reason we get a good amount of this in the dead bug is because we're holding that tension, but then shoulders and hips are moving while we keep this tight. Much like squatting, dead lifting, bench to a much lesser extent. In any case, this is good practice for that bracing. So, let's go through dead bugs real quick. So, just lay down and basically, you want to try to keep your low back flat to the mat. Because again, if we get arched up, there's going to be a bunch of space under your low back. If your back is flat, then you're properly pulling the ribs down, pulling that pelvis up. So, that's the start position. We want our arms up, legs up. From here, you might want to kind of take it easy instead of just going straight into the whole thing. And just do like one arm to start with. See if you can maintain this contraction here. Pull the arm back up. Then do the opposing leg. Can you get the leg all the way to hip extension? Pull it back in. Good. From there, a more advanced thing would be to try to do both at the same time without losing the leg. Without losing that brace. Alternating sides. Right? If you want to go super crazy with it, you can like put a little dumbbell in your hand. Get some ankle weights. Do some crazy stuff like that. Or hold each position for a static contraction once you're stretched out. Right? Good practice for bracing. And to me, a good ab movement for power lifters or people straining for strength are going to be movements where we're keeping this really rigid and moving the rest of the limbs. Cut. Which brings us to the ab wheel. Now this is the first movement that will require some kind of equipment. Let me tell you a little secret. If you don't have one of these, just use a barbell. If you want a little bit of extra challenge, put some weight on that barbell so it's harder to roll. Is it better? Is it worse? I don't know. It's probably pretty close to the same thing. But if you have one of these, they're pretty handy also. With this, we're trying to maintain that contraction, maintain that position of ribs down, hips tucked slightly, while our arms go into and out of extension. And our hips go into and out of extension. So it's kind of like this. You feel me? Yeah. Basically, all you're doing here is you're getting anchored. You're going out as far as you can. And then pulling back in. What I like to do with them is actually try to like almost pull with my hip flexors to like pull my abs back in. Pull myself back in with my abs as opposed to like pulling down with my arms. I feel like I get a little better feel in the abs for what that's worth. Now, word to the wise on these. The first, second and maybe third time you do these, it's going to feel like somebody's Zorroed your ribs with a katana. And that's okay. Just keep going. Do it again, even if you're a little bit sore. And it'll start to feel less terrible. But for whatever reason, this movement is insanely conducive to being very, very sore. If you want a huge challenge, you can start trying to do them from your feet. I'm not even going to try to demonstrate that because I don't want to fall on my face today. So this one I'm really bad at. Hanging leg raises. My shoulders are a maze of scar tissue from years of destroying them with competitive power lifting. But I'm going to do my best to still demonstrate it for you. Now, most normal people whose shoulders function can hang from a bar. I, however, have these to assist me in demonstrating. So I'm just going to hook through here. And basically, in this one, we're trying to move in and out of that brace position a little bit, right? We're trying to get relatively good hip extension at the bottom and then pull up into brace and then get some hip flexors going as well. Right? A good movement. In some cases, if you can hang, also maybe a bit therapeutic for the shoulders. I like this movement because, again, it helps us to get a feel for going into hip and lumbar low back extension and then pulling yourself out of it. Because like I've said repeatedly throughout this video, we want to be able to produce some of that upward force when we're clamping down into our brace. Little side note, if you're going into full extension in the hips and you're letting your pelvis go, I'm good with that. I like lifters being able to pull that pelvis back into position. But Dylan was saying he likes to hold that and just try to get the full hip extension without letting the pelvis go. Either way you want to do it, I think it is good. It is valuable. I think there's some value, especially in more novice lifters, learning what it feels like to go from relaxed and extended to how do we use those lower abs and hip flexors to kind of pull that pelvis into position. Ka! Ka! The next one is spread eagle sit-ups. I got these ones from my good friend, Dr. Seth Albersworth. He makes YouTube content. A lot of it has to do with rehab and recovering from pain. He's doing a lot of vlogs right now because he's also a very good lifter. But anyways, go check him out if you want. I got this from him. So the spread eagle sit-up. Doable in a combo rack like this. I've got my feet kind of tucked under the spotter's platforms there. And I'm trying to toe out a little bit. From there, I'm going to use that to hold some tension in my adductors. Again, as I go back, I think on this movement it is important that your pelvis moves with your back. So it's going to tuck under. Right? You're going to keep that relative neutral position in the low back as you go back. To as far back as you could get. Shakey, shakey. And then come back up. You want to use the little adductors. Again, you want to try not to go into a whole bunch of extension as you go back. You want to keep ribs down, hips tucked in underneath. Move the hips and then pull back up. You can also do it in a cage. This actually might be better. However, I'm often using a combo rack for other stuff. Makes it a little easier to just throw it in at the end of a workout. In this instance, not only are these uprights wider, but you can hook your feet in a little bit better and do the same thing. Slide in. Yo! Yo! Yo! If you like, add a plate on your chest. Put your hands out. Put a dumbbell in your hands. I don't know. Make it more challenging if it's too easy. Bonus round! Back extensions. But Bryce, back extensions don't train your abs. That's okay. I want to talk about the whole core complex. And I think training your back and your obliques, surprise spoiler for what's next, is really important to building a full, strong core for a power lifter. Back extensions. They are pretty straightforward. However, there are some nuance to them. So you wedge yourself in. Blah, blah, blah. Right? Boom. You've got to do a hip extension. However, if you have adjustability like this, you can set this really low. If you want to get more hip and hamstring in it and hinge more from the hips, you'll see my back not really changing much position. Conversely, if I go all the way up to the top, this is Dillon height, I'm not going to get a whole lot of hip movement at all. This is going to be all back flexion extension. So I can really focus on training my extensors. Most of the time, to be honest with you, I'm going to put it somewhere in between. So I get a little bit of hip back, a little bit of hip and hamstring, a little bit of back extensor. Best of both worlds. And then, you can do a combo breaker. You can do a combo breaker. Surprise. There's more. Also, I said this earlier, but train your obliques. Here's a cable. It's attached to a weight stack. Pick it up. Hold your brace. Get close. So it pulls pretty much straight down. And then, yoink it back up. Let it pull you down. Yoink it back up. You should feel this over here. If you feel it over here, something is wrong and weird. You can do this on a cable or... ...or...