Hello, I'm Bryce Crochuk and this is the Strength Edge, home of Calgary barbell. This is our shoe rack. Most people still put their shoes on the floor. Over here we have a signed picture from Franco Columbo to Andrew the gym owner. And this this is the office/massage room. We have a wonderful RMT. Her name is Sarah. I fully recommend her. I love napping on that couch. And I do programs over here. Here at the Strength Edge, we have a ton of Strongman equipment. Starting with uh some tires. We go from about 700 to 900 lb on these bad boys. We also have a little kitchenet, microwave, water cooler, fridge so we can get our post-workout bicep nutrition in. We got some cheese in there. Wonder if it's still good. Over here we have dumbbells. They go from 2 lb to 120 lb. We also have a loadable handle that's about 15 lb. And of course, the centerpiece of the whole facility, the easy curl rack. We've got kegs here from 100 to 220 lb. We got five logs for log pressing. They range from about 65 to 220. We got some farmer's handles here. These go from 53 for the light pair to 90 lb per hand on the heavy pair. We've got two of these yolks, one assembled. This is about 200 lb dry. We got a sled and a long strip of turf and a sander. And uh this is great for running the sled back and forth. Uh we also have a drag sled over on the other side. We got a multitude of specialty bars here. 65lb Texas squat bar. We got a Buffalo bar, three safety squat bars, trap deadlift bar. We have five or six Texas power bars, Rogue Ohio bar, a Leo competition bar, and I think that's it. We have two ER competition grade squat bench combo racks. We've got a monolith. We have close to 500 kg competition plates. We have an elite FTS bench rack with the band pegs and the very adjustable safeties. We got a couple pieces of cardiovascular equipment should one be so inclined. We have the pec deck. We've got a calf raise that's probably my senior by about 30 years. We've got a shoulder press machine as well as a combination leg curl leg extension machine. We got a beautiful Rogue GHR. We have a number of chairs for sitting. We have a full-sized multilevel stone platform and stones ranging from about 75 to 420 lb. We've got a magnum leg press. We have a super sketchy squat rack that Ryan Self took 900 in using some sort of sail apparatus as a spotter. two large, very sturdy power racks. We have the reverse hyper, also from Rogue, also known as the coffee table. And we have a multitude of cables and cable attachments, including a cable crossover, lat pull down, and seated row. Here we have a multi-level shelving system for people to put their bags when they come in and train. This also gets ignored, and most bags end up on the floor. We've got deadlift blocks of two different sizes. We've got a box squat box. We have, I don't know, a whole bunch in chains. We also have a multitude of circus dumbbells, some loadable, some fixed weight. And just in case you want to get jacked and handed at the same time, boom. I'm