Next up, the close grip bench press. The close grip bench press is a great variation both because it is quite similar to your usual bench, but different enough. The benefit of this is that you'll have a separate training max. So the intensity will likely be a little bit lower and the pattern will be different enough that you can have maybe a little bit more bench exposure where you otherwise wouldn't be able to have comp bench or wide grip bench exposures. Ideally when we're using this as a variation we're going one to three fingers widths narrower. And in some cases, I will prescribe as a variation very close grip bench where we're coming into the edges of the knurling. But for example, I bench with my middle finger on the rings and when I do my close grip, I come into pinky finger on the rings. So it's not a massive difference, but it's enough that the movement feels different and is functionally trained a bit differently. The other main benefits of the close grip bench is that it's going to hit your triceps and your front delts maybe a little bit more than your normal bench pattern would. So, if we are actually a little weak at the top end or just a little weak in the triceps, adding in some close grip bench is a good way to kind of even out that strength curve so that we can get the bench progressing again. So, the main differences execution-wise with your normal grip and your closer grip bench are going to be that your normal grip, you're going to have a little bit of a higher touch point and your elbows are going to be flared out a little bit more. Right? Note the touch point. Note the elbow position. If I bring my grip in to where my close grip bench is, which is only about, like I said, two fingers width, you'll notice that the touch point is going to be further down my chest and my elbows are going to be more tucked. So, those things should happen relatively naturally. But if you're wondering why, like, okay, my close grip feels so awkward. Maybe you're not tucking enough. Maybe you're trying to mimic your usual bench a little too