It's the age-old question. How do you know when to put more weight on the bar? Do you just add 5 kilos to the bar every single time you see it and hope for the best? Whether you're an advanced or a beginner lifter, knowing when to push and knowing when not to push is the difference between progressing and spinning your wheels. The first thing we need to know about when we're talking about progress is progressive overload. that is the basis for all results we will get from training. What progressive overload means is we're adding volume or intensity or some amount of work over time. Today, I'm going to take you through how to know when to add weight, how to know when not to add weight, and how to reframe things or what to focus on if you're feeling stuck. If we're going to talk about progression, we need to talk about progression models really quick. There are plenty of them. I'm going to talk about three. There are more. I'm going to talk about three. And trust me, this baby can fit so many models of progression in it. Okay. So, the first of these progression models we're going to look at is what's called linear progression. Now, linear progression dictates that pretty much every time you do a session or week to week even, you're just going to add weight. And presumably that's going to work for quite a while when you're a beginner because not only are you going to adapt quickly cuz this these are stimuli that you maybe never experienced before, but also you're developing on multiple levels. you're going to be developing in terms of putting on muscle, putting on strength, and the coordination that's necessary to do movements like squatting, benching, and deadlifting. Those adaptations are going to happen fast. Therefore, you'll be able to just add weight pretty much every time you approach the bar. Number go up. That is the crux of a linear progression. If you're doing a 3x5 or a 5x5 and your plan is just add weight each time, that's your classic linear progression. You're going to make gains quite quickly, meaning you will have adapted and likely recovered by the time your next session rolls around. Hence, the ability to add weight after a period of time though, this stops working as well. The second model of progression we're going to look at here is a wave progression or undulating progression. After a while, linear progression is not going to work anymore. Once you're of runway on your linear progression, you want to start planning some fluctuation into your training. Usually, this looks like a period of time where you intentionally decrease volume while increasing intensity, hit a little reset, and then repeat that process again. If you look at most of the 50 plus expertly designed programs in the Calgary barbell app, that's their general structure. The basic idea behind this progression structure is that you build up, back off, and then repeat. By manipulating the variables of rep ranges, the intensity, maybe even the number of sets, you'll move from adding weight each week to now adding weight each block. So, you'll be able to prolong that progression as you get more experienced. The third progression model we're going to talk about here is autoregulated progression. Autoregulation is just a fancy way of saying that on days where it's there, we're going to go harder and on days where it's necessary, we're going to pull back and maybe go lighter. Imagine. By far the best tool when it comes to autoregulation is going to be RP or rate of perceived exertion. Now, I fully recommend that every lifter, regardless of whether you're using RP to regulate your training or not, learn how to use RP. It's an immensely useful, if not necessary, skill for spending a good amount of time getting good at lifting. And because it's a skill, you're going to need to practice it to be able to implement it correctly. An advanced lifter's training program is probably going to use any number of these different methods or or models of progression and is going to rely heavily on fatigue tracking and RP to autoregulate loads and bar speed in order to make sure that we're getting the appropriate stimulus at the appropriate time. In a lot of the programming that I write for the lifters that I coach, it may look more like a linear progression, but we're relying really heavily on reviewing each block afterwards to see what worked and didn't and hyperindividualize the programming as well as relying very heavily on RP to guide our load management. Okay, so at the highest level, you now have an idea of how to organize your training so that you can continue to make progress. But how about when it comes to each individual session or exercise? I'm going to give you some tips for how to know when you should add weight and then when you shouldn't. Okay, so the first indicator that you can probably go up is going to be bar speed. The bar is flying and you're moving smooth. Lifts are clean. It's a good sign. If your lift feels average, maybe repeat it the next week and try to get that bar speed up before adding weight. Indicator number two, if the RP is lower than what's programmed, if you're supposed to do a set at RP8, but you rate it a six, obviously you've got room to go up. Now, to give a little bit more specifics about that, if you're one or more RPS under what's prescribed, I'd say go ahead and go up in that session. But if you're only a half RP under, count it as an undershoot. You crushed it and add weight the next week. The third indicator I've got for you is minimal technique breakdown. Yes, we need to strain. We need to push against heavy weights. And sometimes reps get a little sloppy. I don't want anybody to be terrified of tiny little nuances and changes in technique because that [\h__\h] is normal and it is fine. But I like to apply the rule of 80% that I got from Mike Tash to Shear. You want 80% of your reps to look about 80% good as far as technique. 80% perfect or better. Do they have only one or two minor errors to their technique on a on a hard set? You don't panic over it. you don't reduce the weights or or anything like that. I've seen lifters who hold themselves back on progress because the technique is not absolutely perfect, but this is a long-term thing. Eventually, you get to where you can correct this. If you're checking those boxes, then you're in the clear. All right, so now let's talk about three examples of when you should not add weight to the bar. I call these the three nigh nighs. I have trouble saying no. I say nigh nigh. It's easier for me. Number one, if there's too much technique breakdown nigh nigh. Now, I mentioned the rule 80%. That still stands here. But if every single rep is reinforcing breakdowns in your technique that maybe you're trying to fix, well, you're not going to be able to fix those if you're just doing bad reps over and over again. Neigh neigh. There are some edge cases where you can progress in weight and get stronger while fixing technique issues, but you have to be executing your reps well in order to do that. Number two, if you're absolutely grinding out every rep. Yeah. Hey, [\h__\h] Yes, in order to get stronger, we need to strain against weight. I get it. But we also need to be able to accumulate a decent amount of volume. Training your competition lifts does not need to be a grind fest. And if you're hitting RP1 on the second rep of what should be a set of eight, give your head a shake. Neigh neigh. The last one is if your externals are poor, right? If you're not sleeping well, if you're not eating well, if you're overly stressed, if you're feeling super fatigued, those might not be good times to be expecting to take big jumps in weight and make a ton of progression. Yes, there are times where we'll be able to progress despite externals being bad, but you should adjust your expectations and be realistic going in if you know the odds are stacked against you. So, it turns out Kel Supre that there are other ways to progress beyond just adding weight to the bar. And the first of those ways is to add or remove sets or reps. Let's say you're running a 3x5, right? That's your progression. 3x5, you just smacking weight on there every week or every time you squat. Who knows? How can you progress that once you come up against it? Well, you could do a 3x six and and try to keep the weight the same. You could do a 3x4 in order to add more weight without failing or overshooting. Or you could do a 4x5. You could add or remove sets of reps to make it more reasonable to progress for longer. You can also try implementing accessory movements. If you're stalling out on the big three squat bench press deadlift, try out some variations of those movements. You can check out the video that we just did recently on my top five deadlift accessories. I think probably in the description below or maybe on the screen somewhere here. You can also work on trying to improve your bar speed. Maybe you track this meticulously and you have a velocity tracking device of some kind. Maybe you don't. But progressing bar speed is not only something that you can probably measure visually if you make a decent enough jump in how fast you're able to move a weight, but also it can be a good goal when it comes to getting stuck progressing the weight itself. Up next, how we do it at Calgary Barbell. Did you get it? In the programs on the calorie barbell app, we use all of the aforementioned methodologies for helping our lifters progress. We'll modulate the intensities throughout the programs. We'll add and remove sets and reps so you don't have to. The results that our lifters get are impressive, but it all boils down to doing the basics correctly, which we will help you with through our Discord, through our community, through doing form checks to make sure that your technique is on point. Progressing as a lifter doesn't always mean just slamming more weight on the bar as much as we might like it to. Sometimes it means reframing what we think of as progress or changing the model that we're using to build that progress. I was going to say a bunch more stuff, but now I forget. Now, if you want a powerlifting program that's going to help you take all the guesswork out of all the stuff I talked about, you can check out the description box below for a link to our free 16week powerlifting program. Thanks for watching. We'll see you in the next one. Scared. Together, we're going to make it through this. See, look at how much more creative you are right now.