 Neighth, epochumazumisartan, embroillezumisartan, embroillezumisartan, Had to kind of squish two days together today. Despite having a really good squat and deadlift, today was a bit rough. So started off with block pulls today. Last week pulled 400 at an 8. It was fantastic. Felt really good. My grip held really well. Everything was good. All signs were there that I should go up this week, take a little bit more. But it was not in the cards. So I greedily loaded for 10 thinking, oh, you know, this will be a 9. And it was just not there at all today. So the first rep or the first time I tried it, it literally just didn't budge but just pulled my hands open. So one of the first times I've had a big miss like that with my grip. Not really sure what is behind that. But suffice to say the grip was not there today. Immediately strapped up, tried it again. Just couldn't get my back through. Kind of got pulled out of position, which I think is one of the big things. Um, that's, that's for me is worth training with block pulls. Most of the time when I'm in that 360 and up range, I do get a little bit pulled out of position off the blocks. And then have to kind of pull the back through, kind of fix the shoulders at lockout. Um, and I think going through that part of the range of motion is going to carry over, is going to be beneficial. Because I will end up losing position on some of my top end deadlifts. Being able to pull through that, training that top end, I think will be useful. But today it was just too much weight. Uh, I think block pulls for me are one of those things that are very fast and very easy. Until they're not. And today was a not kind of thing. First time I've seen your hook grip slip. Yeah. Ever, I think. Yeah, I don't think my hook grip is. Well, I've had reps where it slipped before, but never where it just like flew right out of my hands. So, obviously that's something I need to work on. I'm torn on whether or not to like come back down and try like 400 again. Or whether to just call it. 387 moved pretty well. So maybe I'll take, take a quick one at 400. See if I can hold on to it. And then do my back down work. You think Bryce Lewis is going to pull 400? I don't know. I hope he doesn't pull 410 though. Shit. Or maybe I hope he does. I don't know. It's one of those things. I'd love to see him do well, but it hurts to watch him do better than me. I came down and thought, okay, 402.5. But probably wasted or rather spent a whole lot of energy on the first two 410 attempts. That moved better, but again, still got just before lockout. The shoulders were way out of position. Couldn't bring it through. Couldn't lock it out. It was a bummer. Not going to lie. I'm pretty disappointed. Pretty bummed out by that. But we'll see how this next week goes. Maybe 410 will be in the cards. Maybe we'll go 405, 407, 402. Somewhere in there. Anyways, came down. Did one of my three sets of three at 360. And it was already like a nine. So I just called it there. Kind of decided that that was enough for block pulls. And went on to do just a crap ton of benching. Which actually went exceptionally well today. So as some of you might know, been rehabbing the shoulder. Started off pretty aggressively with a really low, low max. And by aggressively, I mean aggressive in terms of how much I took off. So I started off benching like 40 kilos. On Monday, or I guess not Monday, Wednesday this week. Came in, worked up to a single at 165, which is great. Today got 155 for a triple with reverse bands. Did some five count pause stuff with 120. So again, nothing crazy impressive. But getting back into sort of the low end of my previous working weights. Which is pretty encouraging considering the shoulder is still feeling really, really good. Did some dumbbell bench today. And I think that's pretty much it. So album recommendation for the week. It's going to be a brand new album from He Is Legend. Now if you haven't listened to He Is Legend, you should go back and listen to some of their older stuff. The Seduction is either a song or album of theirs. It's a really good song. I'm not sure if that was the title of the album or not. They had one that was just numbers. 701, 2, 6, something or other. That was a really good album. Anyways, lots of really good stuff over the last number of years from He Is Legend. But they just put out a new album called White Bat. And this was maybe only a week ago. There's some really good stuff on there. It's not incredibly heavy. Pretty like southern rock kind of riffy. And some pretty cool stuff. A little bit of a harkening to the days of like that southern hardcore feel. So definitely check that out. Let me know what you think. In terms of rating the album, I'm going to give it a 3.5 out of 5. It was good. It wasn't my favorite thing that He Is Legend has done. Like I said, some of their older stuff might be better. But it might also be a bit of an easy introduction to that band. And like I said, a lot of their discography is worth checking out. So do that. I did just want to mention really quickly that we are going to be live streaming our form checks over on Twitch. If you go to twitch.tv slash Calgary Barbell, you can check it out there. We're going to be streaming on Twitch for the foreseeable future. If you go to that page that I just mentioned, you'll be able to scroll down and see a countdown to our next streams as well as a schedule for the following week. And the videos will be posted on Twitch afterwards if you want to go check them out at a later date. Anyways, that's going to be it for us today. And we'll see you all in the next one. Thank you.