 Welcome back to Calgary Barbell. My name is Bryce, and I want to help you fix your bench. Is this you? Are you somebody who has a really good, clean, consistent rep on the bench press, and then the next rep just falls off a cliff? Maybe you're somebody who struggles with inconsistent performance when it comes to the bench press, even within the same week. So in today's video, I want to take you through three, count them three, bench press tips that will help you push your bench along and get the most out of what you're already doing. All right, so number one, we want to fix your unwrapped. When we go to set up for the bench press, that set up prior to the unwrapped is always very important. Whether you're way up on your traps, or whether you're somebody with a more flat back position, you're taking the time and energy to set your shoulder blades, your foot pressure, and all of these things to ensure you have a good bench press. What often happens is that falls apart on the unwrapped. The very first piece of advice I'm going to give you is always make sure that you're setting up before the unwrapped. If you're laying down, grabbing the bar, unwrapping it, and then trying to set your shoulder blades and your foot pressure and all of these other things, you're going to have a hard time. We're never going to be able to set up as well once the way to the bars in our hands, as we will be before we unwrapped. When it comes to executing the unwrapped, the best that we can, there are two components to think about. Number one, the vertical component, and number two, the horizontal component. When we talk about the vertical component, we want to ensure that we are setting the rack at a height where we can unwrap without losing our shoulder blades, without popping our shoulders forward, without doing anything more than extending the elbow to full extension. In this first example, you can see that I have the rack set to an appropriate height. I simply straighten my elbows, the bar pops out, and boom, we're right there. In the second example, however, I have the rack set far too high. You can see as I go to unwrap it, I'm needing to protract or pop my shoulder blades forwards in order to get the bar out of the rack and into position. If we're benching like the lifter in this second example, we're losing a lot of that setup. And like I said, it's going to be really hard to regain that once the way to the bar is bearing down on you in your hands. When it comes to the horizontal component, we're talking about how far into the rack you're setting up. When I set up, I tend to reference my feet and my foot position relative to the length of the bench, as well as thinking about how the bar lines up between my eyes and nose or mouth. The goal here is to be able to unwrap and have to move the bar the minimal distance that we can to get it into our pressing position without running into the issue of pressing it back into the uprights or J hooks. In the first example here, I'm set up where I normally do. I can unwrap the bar, pull it out. It's not too far, but there's no risk of me pressing the bar back into the J hooks. In example number two, you can see that I've set up far too far out. I'm having to pick the bar from really far away and move the bar quite a bit in order to get it into position. In example number three here, I've set up too far back. And while it might be easy for me to unwrap from here, the issue is that if I press the bar back at all along the ideal bench bar path, it's going to hit the uprights, it's going to hit the J hooks, and it's going to be a problem. The ideal position when it comes to the horizontal nature of our setup here is going to vary from lifter to lifter. As I said, I tend to set up my feet in line with the end post of the bench and the bar above my nose ish. If you were looking down from the top, start there, play with it and find what works for you. Fix number two, we're talking about the lockout. Just like how we want to preserve our position when we unwrap, we also want to preserve that position when we lock out each individual rep. The one exception to this rule is going to be in competition or if we're going for a PR single. If we're benching some weight, we've never benched before and we're only doing one rep, we can go ahead and let the shoulders go if that means we're going to have a successful rep. However, when it comes to training, doing multiple reps per set, any position that we lose at lockout is going to make each subsequent rep much, much harder. So again, let's give some examples to illustrate. In the first example here, you can see throughout the set, I'm locking out with just my elbows and just my triceps. The idea here is that we're trying to lock out as short as possible, trying to preserve as much shoulder position at the lockout as possible. In the second example, you can see as I lock out each rep, my shoulder blades are sneaking a little forwards, they're sneaking a little up, losing position as I complete each rep. And that is exactly the issue that we're trying to get away from here. This is going to make you go from hitting a rep at a six on rep four and a rep at a 10 and a half or missing on rep five. If you can learn to hold position better throughout your sets, you're going to be able to take advantage of the most important reps of our training. And those are the reps where we struggle, but we hold position and have good technique and we're successfully completing the reps. Those reps are of the utmost importance, whether we're trying to get strong or jacked. So if you're somebody whose bench is fast until it isn't or your bench flies until it dies, this is probably something I would look at investigating and trying to fix over the course of your next training block. I'm compiling all of these tips and fixes from over 11 years of coaching powerlifting, coaching people from all experience levels, from those who can't do a squat when they start to world champions and world record breakers. And from all of that, I've also created a very hands on approach to coaching, which we've then tried to distill down into the Calgary Barbell training app. So in our training app, you get not only access to our constantly growing library of over 50 programs, but you also get a version of that very hands on personal coaching approach. The other coaches at Calgary Barbell and myself are in there every week doing video review, technique check check ins with our app members. So if you have questions about the programming, if you have questions about your technique, that's what we're there for. I'm really happy and proud to be able to provide the service that we do through the Calgary Barbell app. If this sounds like something that you're interested in, go ahead and check the description box below or go to Calgarybarbell.com for some more details. Now let's get back to the video. And now fix number three to fix your touch point. The touch point is not only something that plagues beginners as they start to get more and more consistent with their technique, but it's also something that more advanced and experienced lifters can struggle with sometimes. Perhaps their touch point creeps higher or lower as a result of some sort of pain or injury. And in some cases, these lifters might not even recognize it until feeling the effects of that touch point changing. Now there is no one perfect touch point. Unfortunately, there's no numerical formula where you can measure your arms and always hit the exact right point for your leverages, no matter what. But I want to walk through some ways to create a sort of model and some generalizations that we can make that can help you start investigating this and changing it for the better. In order to look at the touch point, we're going to look at the forearms. First we're going to look at the bench press from the side. Like I said, we're looking at the forearms, so the angle of the arm from the elbow to the wrists. If the elbow is tucked super far in front of the forearm, this could mean that we need to move our touch point slightly lower. Ideally, we're looking for a forearm angle that is relatively straight up and down. A little bit of tuck is probably okay. If you're seeing the opposite and the elbow is very much flared out behind the wrist, in this case, that means we might want to move our touch point a little bit higher. Just a quick disclaimer, your touch point is not the only reason we might be seeing these sort of odd angles in the forearm, but it is a place to start. The other angle we want to look at the bench press from is from the top or the bottom, from the head or the foot angle. We're looking at the forearms. If from this angle the elbow is well inside of the wrist, we may want to look at touching the bar a little bit lower. If we look at it and the elbow is way outside of the wrist, then on the other side, we want to look at potentially touching a little bit higher. Again, these are definitive things that are strictly and only related to the touch point, but they are a good starting point that can give you an indication of how moving your touch point even slightly might be helpful for you. The final point about touch points is that we need them to be consistent. Once you've found a good touch point and it works well and we're getting some good bench training in, you need to make sure that you are touching the same place every rep within a set, every set within a session, and every session within a training block or training cycle. In order to do this, one little gimmicky tip that sometimes I will have lifters do is to just wear a dark colored shirt, put a little bit of chalk on the center knurling of the bar and try to touch the same point every time. Do this between sets. If you're noticing a bunch of different marks across your shirt, your touch point is a little bit inconsistent. The other thing you can do is try to film at an angle where you can see your touch point really well. It might not be the best for seeing a lot of what your shoulders are doing, but if at least you can focus in on the touch point and make that consistent, I find a lot of times the rest of things will fall into place from that. And those are our bench fixes for today. Thanks for tuning in. Leave a like if you liked it. Share it with your friends if you found it helpful and make sure to subscribe because we're going to be doing a lot more of these on the channel. If you like the shirts that I was secretly rotating through throughout the video, we have those for sale as well on Calgarybarbell.com and leave a comment if this helped or if you have other things about other lifts that you want us to explore. We're more than happy to have some conversations about what might be coming up next. We'll see you there.