 Hello and welcome back to Calgary Barbell. My name is Bryce, and I'm here to fix your squat. Today I want to talk about the bar rolling up your back while squatting, like this. If this is something you're struggling with, you're probably noticing not only a really distinct sticking point in your squat, but also a pretty hefty loss of positioning as you're changing directions out of the hole, like you're being pitched or tossed forwards. Now this can really mess with your ability to get good clean reps and good squat training. So whether you're trying to build a huge total, or whether you're just trying to build some big ham hawks by doing some squats, I'm here to help. In this video, we're gonna go through three quick fixes to help you deal with the bar rolling up your back while squatting. Fix number one, bar placement. So our first fix is basically just don't put the bar too high up your back. Sure, maybe you're squatting high bar, in which case this might not apply to you. But if you're squatting mid or low bar, if you have the bar anywhere along your shoulder blade, just make sure it's not too high. When the bar's higher and we lean our torso forwards like we must in a squat, then the bar's gonna roll easier. If the bar's a little further down your shoulder blade, then it's restricted from being able to roll up as easily. The other big part of making sure the bar's stable on your back is what we call the shelf. Now when I say shelf, I mean all of the components that go into creating what the bar rests on. So I'm talking about your physical shoulder blades, your rib cage, all the muscles of your upper back, your elbows, wrists, all that stuff. And two big things that we wanna focus on there. The first of those big things is to keep your shoulder blades down onto your rib cage. I see a lot of lifters go to unrack and walk out a squat and their elbows are way up out behind them, which also means their shoulder blades are winged way up off their rib cage. So what I want you to do here instead is when you unrack, allow yourself to have a little bit of a lean. Now we don't need to be super hinged forward and be in like half of a good morning when we're unracking a squat. That's not what I'm talking about. But we need to be just enough hinged forward. We need to be in just enough of a lean that the line of pull for that bar is into the shoulder, not off of our back. That way we can pack our shelf, we can tighten everything in the upper back, we can pull those shoulder blades down into the rib cage and create a really tight, good brace before we unrack. We can hold it during the unrack and we can keep our torso angle and that shelf the same all the way through the walk out into the start of the squat. The second big thing is pretty simple, but maybe just try narrowing your grip. Now there's gonna be a point of diminishing returns here and I've talked about this before, but this idea that we can create this kind of false tightness just by pulling the hands and the grip in and in and in. It's gonna bunch up the muscles of your upper back, which in a lot of cases just gives you more meat to put the bar on, can help it feel a little more stable. But if we take this too far, then we end up not being able to actually pull that tightness and be active with our upper back tightness. So what I'm saying here is if the bar's rolling on you, think about moving your grip in like a finger or two fingers widths to create a little more stable shelf. So maybe your squat is stuck because the bar's rolling up your back and you have some technical difficulties with the execution of the lift, but maybe your squat is stuck because your programming is not this enough. Now, we are putting out a squat plateau breaker program on the Calgary Barbell app the day this video launches. It's Friday, it's Black Friday, we're doing a sale with it. You get 30% off the app for as long as you have the app code as BF2025. And really excited about the squat plateau breaker program because we did a bench plateau breaker program and we got this feedback from Jamie. Jamie here said he went from a 300 pound bench to a 330 pound bench at an RP8 and a half. The program's nine weeks. The training methodology that I used for that bench plateau breaker program is the same thing I'm implementing into the squat plateau breaker. Now, not only do you get access to that program, but there's 51 other programs on there that cover all sorts of different things. Whether you're peaking for meat, offseason, power building, you get access to all of the programs, all the new ones that come out, you get access to the Discord where we do form checks every single week. We go in there and answer all your questions. We'll help you pick numbers for your meat and help you with attempt selection, help you with meat day psychology. We'll help you modify your programming, all that kind of stuff. It's real hands-on coaching and that's I think what makes it special. So check it out. Check out the new squat plateau breaker program and use the code BF2025 for 30% off. And let's get back to the video. Fix number two, torso angle. Fix number two is all about the torso angle. Now we already talked a little bit about being too upright and the effects that might have on your bar position, but in this, we're looking at the angle of your torso during the descent of your squat. Now many lifters have a tendency to push their knees forward more than they ought to on the descent. Now, if we're squatting to depth, what's gonna happen is we're gonna have to push the hips back. We're gonna have to bring the knees back. As we get into the bottom, what this is gonna do is it's gonna knock our torso forward and it's gonna give the bar a chance to bully us and to roll up our back and to have the momentum to pull us forward onto our toes and totally mess up our squat. Now the best way to understand if this is your issue is to just record some squats from a straight on side angle. You can screenshot yourself at approximately the same joint angle on the descent versus on the way back up and see if you're way more leaned forward on the way up. Now, we might be losing a little bit too much position, but we wanna try to get those things closer together. And if we're seeing huge discrepancy there, it probably means that we're trying to be too upright. We can't hit depth there and we're gonna get pulled forward anyways, so we're better off just leaning on the descent a little more. So when you're just figuring out this torso position thing and how to incorporate it into your squat, you may need to start with what I consider the kind of training wheels of torso position, which is what a lot of lifters call the pre-hinge. Now essentially all that means is you're gonna go through your Unrack and your walkout like you normally would. However, before you start bending your knees, before you descend at all into the squat, you're gonna hinge. You're gonna push your hips back a little bit. You're gonna find that torso angle as a distinct and separate movement before you start the squat. Now, I think in the long term, the ideal is you're gonna be able to Unrack with this torso angle. You're gonna be able to walk out with something similar to your squat torso angle. And if need be, you'll be able to transition into it smoothly as you initiate your squat. But if doing this pre-hinge method allows you to start to practice that torso angle better and hold that torso angle at least throughout your set of reps, then I think it's a very worthwhile way of approaching learning the torso angle. Fix number three, get stronger. Really? Just get stronger? That's your wonderful advice, you fricking guy? Yeah, in a roundabout way of saying, what I'm talking about is specific muscular weakness. Now, I'm gonna go through some of the particular groups of muscles that I might target if you're having this fault and some of my favorite accessory movements to target them and make them stronger. The first of these muscle groups we're gonna look at is your upper back. Now, if your upper back isn't strong enough, then it's possible that that is one of the components that's giving out as you hit the bottom. It's not strong enough to keep your lats and upper back and that whole shelf incorporated as part of your brace. So how do we address this? Well, we can approach it from a more specific point of view and look at exercises like safety bar squat or a paused squat or a pin squat. And we can also look at it from a less specific angle. And ideally we're getting at least one exposure to a decently challenging RPE for three-ish, maybe more sets of a vertical pull and a horizontal pull each week. Now, if your trunk slash core is the weak component, then that may be why your brace is given out in the bottom and the bar is rolling up your back. We can target this from a more specific sort of angle, looking at things like tempo or paused or even front squats to a lesser extent to try to get more work for the core. And I also think most strength athletes should probably be doing direct core work at least once a week. We got a video about my favorite core work for strength athletes on the channel, but really quick, dead bugs, ab roller, planks, back extensions, hit those up sometimes and it'll be good. Now, if your quads are the weak point, they're gonna contribute to you getting pitched forward, to you not being able to keep your knees forward as you change directions out of the bottom of the squat. To strengthen your quads in a specific way, just put a whole shitload of intention into your squat. Make sure that when you're squatting as you change directions, you're driving or keeping your knees forwards. Load your quads when you squat. Practice with intent so that 80s and 90% of the reps you're doing, look the way that you want your squat to look. Peel back the load accordingly. However, if you wanna take it a little step further and really target your quads with some special exercises, again, any of the lists that I've already mentioned will work really well, be it pause, tempo, pin, SSB, any of those. Also, I think things like leg press, belt squat, any single leg variations like Bulgarian split squats or lunges, any of that kind of stuff is gonna help at least to some extent with quad development. Now, if you're pretty sure that muscular weakness is your big hangup, I'm gonna give you my super secret special weapon. And that is SSB pin squats. For a lifter who is dealing with bar roll, who suffers from the bar, pulling them forward in the bottom every time the bar gets heavy, this pattern is going to hit the skill and the muscles to the nth degree. This movement should give you pretty much everything you need all wrapped up in one nice neat little package to get you to the point where this is happening less at the very least. Now, I still think all those other things I talked about are very worth investigating and thinking critically about, but this exercise could work really well if you want a little one size fits all magic. All right, so that's our video. Hopefully it helps you get past maybe some difficulties that you're having in your squat. And if you're having difficulties in your squat, make sure to check out the Calgary Barbell Training app and our brand new squat plateau breaker program, as well as the 30% off sale that's going on, code BF2025. We got apparel, it's all there, Calgarybarbell.com, check it out. Leave a like if you liked it, make sure to comment below. Let us know if you are struggling with this fault, with a different fault or with a different lift and maybe you'll inspire our next quick fix video. Subscribe because we're making more videos whether you like it or not and leave a like if you liked it. I'm sorry, it was done.