 Okay, welcome to, I think what's technically episode two of Road to Nationals. We are... walking. We're walking. We're working on the cut still. I was down to about 108.5, competed just before the little holiday break there. And at the meet, I weighed in 107.3. My scale had said 108.5 for, like, weeks leading up to it. So I think my scale's a little heavy. Scale's got me around 110 now. I enjoyed the holidays a little bit, food-wise. So trying to get a little, little step work back in. Had a meeting with Derek this morning about nutrition to get that all sorted. I think the goal is try to get down to, like, between 107 and 108.5, do an acute cut. Today will be, uh, like, a little washout pivot session. A bunch of movement variety. So we got some SSB squats and some close grip bench and some accessories and kind of a decent little bundle of stuff. Over the last month, so the last block, training actually went really well. The shoulder, it's more just shoulder now. So that in and of itself is good. But the shoulder is getting better. Still not perfect, but on the day of my competition, when I did my qualifying total, I benched 120 and it was excruciating. And I was like, not sure I was going to be able to compete that day. Fast forward and two days ago, Monday, benched 132 for five. And I'm certainly not at my strongest because that started to feel like work, which is a bummer. But it didn't hurt. And I'm not being kept up at night from shoulder pain. Yeah. So we'll be continuing to bench pretty light, unfortunately, but also hopefully continuing to recover and add weight each week. We get back into equipment next week, which should be pretty good, pretty exciting. It's still going to be pretty loose stuff. I think I'll take in the squat suit a little bit, maybe taking the sleeves on the bench shirt a little bit. But yeah, that'll be that. So I think National Spring is going to be. It's going to be a competition where I'm not putting a lot of pressure on myself. And I think as a goal, that is kind of how I make all the other things fall into place. You know, when I decided I was going to do this cut, when I had the performance that I did at Worlds and felt the way that I did for a long time after that, you know, it became apparent to me that I needed to change. I needed to like pump the brakes with my pushing for performance and not even necessarily the pushing, but the pressure around it. Because I think that was what caused a lot of the issues. It wasn't I was pushing my training. It was I was putting a shitload of pressure on myself to be at a certain level, to compete at a certain level, to beat lifters at a certain level. You know, and I think that pressure made it more challenging for me to do things like, OK, well, I'm just going to like, I'm going to bench 90 kilos for two weeks and then my shoulders won't hurt anymore. Like I'm just going to take whatever measures necessary to ensure that I'm not in pain constantly. Whereas when that pressure is there and to be real, the only one putting that pressure on me is me. But when that pressure is there, it's hard for me to be like, OK, well, I'm going to pull back to whatever I have to, because my well being, my sleep, my like mental state is more important than whatever happens at this meet. Right. And I think those values, you know, traded for a long time. And I think, yeah, it just led to me making a lot of decisions that didn't favor me as a person as much as everything was geared towards me as an athlete. And I also think that if I can take care of myself as a person, I will be a better athlete. So anyways, that's where I'm at. Trying not to put too much pressure on myself, trying to just enjoy training, trying to be conscious of progress, come up with like realistic markers for it. But also just, yeah, being being real about trying to be healthy, trying to like do the things I want to do and knowing that until like until 2026. It's kind of whatever. Honestly, if you're watching this video, like I know you give a shit, but pretty much nobody gives a shit. Right. Like in the grand sense of things, and I mean that in the best way, right. Like nobody gives a shit. Nobody cares what your total is. You know, nobody can see it when you're walking down the street. The people who love you don't love you because your total is big because you benched a world record or whatever. Right. Like these things only matter insofar as we make the matter. And I think to an extent we can do a really good job of making the matter in a good way, in a productive way, in a helpful way that drives us to do more and to be better and to take care of ourselves for that purpose. But I think we can also overstep and value those things so highly that it starts detracting from everything else. Right. So I don't know. Just waxing philosophical now. But anyways, let's let's do some lifting. I'm going to walk for a bit more, but we'll see you on the other side of this cut. Were you zoomed in enough for my arm to go through the front? There you go. Nice. So we're doing SSB wide stance squats. So what I'm trying to do here is basically mimic my equipped pattern because after my recent equipped training, I kind of realize that the way I squat in equipment now that my raw technique is quite different, it needs to be adapted. One of the things I found was that moving back to my wide stance squat and squatting a little more upright, a little more knees out, wider stance felt infinitely better in the suit. So I think for this variation, that's what I'm going to try to mimic today. It's not even all that wide. This is wide for me. And that squats. Some bench, a bunch of accessories. I'm tired of this man's pull. It's all in this Cyrillic alphabet. Hop lights or something. I don't know what to say. I'll put a reminder of the translation if I'm just coming up with words. So I'm just running this microphone into stuff. Probably sounds really good. One more time. It's been a long time since I closed grip anything. I should not feel that heavy. But it didn't hurt. And that's a win. On my left side just has no clue how to press in that plane. Like, I mean like a 5% incline. My left shoulder is like, I don't know. I just don't know. I don't know. It just feels like so uncorrected. Problem solving though. It's a previously problematic movement. Anything incline or overhead previously like set shoulder off immediately. And like a dummy, I would always push it until I like felt my pecs, my delts, my triceps like working. And then I wonder why my shoulder is blown out afterwards. So what I'm trying to do here is be incredibly conscious of how I'm moving. And yeah, that means I'm probably getting up to like 35 pound dumbbells on dumbbell incline. Which as I told Dylan before he pressed record, it's kind of embarrassing. But here we are. We're gonna do the right shit. We're gonna be a little smarter. We're gonna get to the point where one day maybe we can, you know, dumbbell press, incline press, overhead press. At a level that actually matches our upper body strength, presumably. So we'll see. A lot of coordination to be gained on that left side, I think. And that might be it. That might be it. I didn't feel a thing. But ideally I don't feel a thing. And instead of going until it feels a little iffy, which is my natural predisposition. I'm just gonna leave it there, see if it feels tomorrow. And then hopefully at some point down the road, we'll get another incline dumbbell day. And we'll know, okay, 35s, we're clear. Or 35s, maybe a bit too much. I'm also doing these all weird like Seth wants me to do them too. Right. I used to just grab these handles and like pull down low and just like put 400 pounds on here. But now I'm out here. I'll put my shoulders down, elbows up. And it feels wildly harder. And that's what I showed. That's how I did it. I did it. I did it. I did it. I did it. I did it. I did it. I did it. I did it. I did it. I did it. I did it. I did it. And that's wash out. That's probably all that y'all will see of it. Pretty quick, easy day today. Yeah, I don't know. I said a lot at the beginning. So I don't think I needed it. Hi River. Do you want to help me with this outro? What do you think I should talk about? How cute dogs are? Yeah. That's a pretty good idea. Yeah, I don't know. I said a lot at the beginning. So not really too, too much to go over. Excited to be back into training. Excited that training is feeling good. And yeah, we'll bring you some more vlogs and some more contents and stuff now that we're back from holidays. Hope y'all did the best you could through the holidays. I know it's not always a great time for some people, but hopefully you'll be there with some rest and relaxation. And we'll see you in the next one.