So, your bench is stuck. It's tail as old as time. You're eating, sleeping, techniques on point, but still the same number week after week. This video might just be for you. I'm going to break down a full week of bench training for somebody trying to break through a plateau. And we'll even go in-depth and give you a full training day from a brand new program that we just dropped on the Calgary barbell app. A lot of lifters either bench way too heavy too often or don't get enough frequency to practice the bench press and or don't push their accessories hard enough to promote building muscle in relevant areas. And that's how you end up hitting a plateau. It's not because you're not working hard enough. It's because the structure of your training doesn't necessarily promote or support that progress that you're trying to make. And you know what? from lifter to lifter. I've struggled with my bench my whole lifting career. I've been powerlifting for I think 14 years now. And my bench has always been my weakest lift. But you know what? I've been able to bring it up and push it way beyond where it started. And in today's video, I want to help you do the same. All right. So, here is a week of example programming. You'll notice at a glance the first thing you're going to be benching a lot. You're going to be doing the competition bench every single of the four days that you're training. Now, day one here is what I would call sort of the meat and potatoes exposure of the bench. You're doing a decent number of reps with a moderate RP that should provide you a whole lot of the sort of base building strength and skill. Moving on that day, you'll see that the accessories, there's not a lot of volume here. We're not necessarily trying to push that that peripheral or or hypertrophy kind of stimulus on this day. Because the next day we're going to carry forward with, you'll notice these exposures here. We have this what I call a sort of baseline bench exposure on each day. So, we're going to have multiple sets of four at a pretty easy RP. These are going to be just above warm-up weights. They should be very easy to move through and they are simply there to help us stack on that little bit more stimulus without you getting burnt out or blowing your shoulders or elbows apart. Right? So that's why I have these percentages to sort of modulate and ensure that the intensity is low enough on those. This intensity will scale week over week versus dayto day. We also have our long pause work on this day. Most raw lifters lose it as they start the press. They're not comfortable enough with the bar on their chest. The lifters that are more comfortable, are stronger, are more stable with the bar on their chest tend to be better pressers. So that's why this is very important. On day three, there's again the baseline exposure followed by a big focus on that other side of the coin, the hypertrophy stimulus. We're pushing higher reps on the closed grip bench. We're doing more work for the triceps and the delts. Really trying to hammer that less specific stuff again in higher rep ranges. Making use my reps there even. And on day four, we do a little bit more of the baseline volume because we're not doing any accessories on this day. So, we're getting a little bit more of the lighter stuff to start with. But what we are doing on this day is our heaviest, most specific work. This is going to be heavy doubles. And as we get later into the program, it's going to scale into singles on that day. So we have that really specific comp exposure. Also to help us gauge whether or not we're making progress, right? Anytime we get to that, if that is going up, we're getting good results through the program. All right, so let's zoom in on day one. This is from that program that we built in the Calgary barbell app. And this is how we're going to be breaking bench plateaus. First exercise of the day is going to be competition squats because despite the fact that we're trying to break bench plateaus, I mean, we're still a powerlifter or at the very least we are concerned about building muscle and strength through the full body. So, we're starting off the squat. Now, with the squat, we're doing ramping sets up to a set of five at a 7 1/2 RP. What you want to do is set a goal weight for your top set of five at seven and a half and then kind of work backwards. Your first set is going to be 90% of the goal weight. Your second set is going to be 95% of the goal weight. This is going to allow us to adjust the weight for that top set up or down as needed to ensure that we get the right weight on the bar. Now, for the bench, we are running the exact same protocol, although we're adding on a back off set. So you'll do the same thing. Work up to your top set of five at 7 and 12 RP, but then take about 5 to 7% off of the bar and perform an additional set of five. Bear in mind for all of these bench reps, anytime it just says bench press, we want to be pausing these reps. We are powerlifting. We have to pause bench in competition. And I mean, generally just pausing bench, even if you don't care about powerlifting, is a great way to just build your bench. The next movement is the feet up bench press. And this is one of my favorite movements for just forcing the upper body to do all of the work. We're taking the leg drive. We're taking the lower body completely out of the equation. One of my tips for this exercise, though, is get set and set up while using your feet. Then unrackck, then lift the feet. If you do things in that order, you have the best chance of being able to create and maintain a good position while still fulfilling the requirement of removing the legs. Lastly, for this day, we're going to do some dumbbell overhead press. Obviously, the shoulders and triceps are going to get hit here with some relatively low volume, relatively high RP work. Now, an RP8 means that we are seeing a little bit or some noticeable slowdown on the final rep. We've got about two reps left in the tank. Like I've said a few times throughout this video, hitting an appropriate intensity on these accessory movements is quite important. If we want to build muscle, we have to be pushing pretty hard. Now, this session, this week, this training program isn't sexy. I don't have any super secret answers or shortcuts. You know, bench pressing in the bottom of a squat to save time. It's not going to help you. What is going to help you is number one checking the easiest boxes that there are to check, which is going to be eating enough, sleeping enough, and making sure that your programming is intelligently designed, which hopefully we helped you with here. Real progress on the bench and in lifting in general comes from consistently doing the boring the basics, doing them well, doing them repeatedly for a longass time and being very committed to doing those things. Now, we have this full structure, like I said, including the squats and deadlifts built around breaking bench plateaus. Now, this program is contained within the Calgary barbell app, which encompasses the entire philosophy we've been talking about. And if you're interested in trying out the Calgary barbell app, we're having our huge annual sale right now. So, it is currently 30% off. And if you sign up during our anniversary sale using code 4 years, you're going to get that 30% off in perpetuity. It's 30% off the monthly, 30% off the annual, which is a steep discount off the monthly. And as long as you don't cancel, you get that price forever. So if you're struggling with your bench or any other lift, go check out the Calgary barbell app. Links in the description below. Code four years. Get a steep discount. Other than that, thanks for watching. We hope this helped. Now go lift some heavy