You know, like I said, however, as we become advanced, we love a contradiction. So, as we become more brain dead in our execution of the lifts, we have to at the same time become more cerebral with our prescription. What I'm talking about here is individualization. We need to have a system that we work within when it comes to prescribing weights, sets, reps, accessories, etc. You need a system for your programming and you need to be able to record, analyze, and iterate within said system. You need to be able to pick out what works and what doesn't for an individual lifter. And it's a tall task to work with an advanced lifter and still find progress. It would be really hard for me to break down real quick what is individualization, but that won't stop me from trying. So, here we go. Number one, understand your system. Whether you're using conjugate, bottom up, top down, periodization, whatever the hell it is, you better know that thing in and out so you know which knobs to twist and which buttons to push to make changes to it. Number two, record and analyze data. If you're not even writing things down, or better yet recording into some sort of spreadsheet or app like the Calgary barbell training app, you're doing yourself a disservice. The best coaches in the world have systems for analyzing the feedback from lifters. what works, what doesn't, are able to analyze sets of data and parameters over time, like E1RM in a certain rep range based on accessory movement selection, whatever that might be. And number three, don't change too much at once. This is a big part of the reason that I'm such a huge fan of bottom-up periodization and repeating micro cycles. Just Google those terms if you're interested. Keeping things consistent allows you to pull the signal from the noise. If everything is changing all the time, if you're cycling rep ranges every single week, if every exercise changes in every block, it can be really hard to tell what worked and what didn't or come up with any reasonable conclusion on why that might be the