What's going on, guys? This is Vince with vshreed.com, and today I'm going to be showing you five of the most common shoulder training mistakes and how to fix them. All right. So, when it comes to training your shoulders, there's obviously a lot of different mistakes that you see very commonly when you go to the gym. And so, obviously, I can't go into every single one of them. So, I'm just going to cover five of the most common ones that I see the most. Uh, and I'm going to get right into it. The first one, and the most common issue I see comes with a shoulder press. We all know what a shoulder press is. It's when you're also known as a military press. You can do this with barbell or dumbbell. Um, typically it's I say that you should start this with a barbell because what you see when people are doing shoulder press is they're getting into position and they're pressing this weight up and then when they go down what they're doing is they think that they need to be flaring their elbows straight out to the side which is going to cause way too much pressure on their shoulder joint and end up causing an injury. and they go out to the side and they think that that because they feel all that tension in their shoulder, that's how they should be doing it. And this is the most common issue because this is one of the most popular shoulder exercises. So instead, what I want you guys to do, instead of putting your elbows out as far as you can, flaring them out, I want you to actually bring your elbows forward to about a little less than a 45°ree angle. So I want you to overemphasize pushing them forward. I want them to be in line with your hips. So my hips are directly below my elbows now. And then from here, you're going to focus on pressing. And then when you go back down, you're going to make sure that your elbows stay in front of your body. And the reason that you want to have your elbows coming in front of your body is because your shoulder joint, the shoulder socket, it doesn't sit straight out. It actually sits at a slight angle forward, which is why your elbows need to be at a slight angle forward in order to work your deltoids evenly. So that's going to be the first thing that you guys need to fix. Then the second one is also going to be in relation to a shoulder press. And now let's say that you do fix the first one and you do roll and you do get your elbows slightly forward. The next issue that I see is people typically it comes from people using too much weight and needing to cheat a rest because they go down, they press this weight up and they sit there for a second and they straighten their arms, they lock their elbows out. And right here is a cheated rest. If I go down, perfect form, press back up, straighten my arm, lock my elbows out, I'm resting. Down, up, resting. Instead, what you want to do is really focus on not losing tension at the top of the exercise. So, you're going to go down up to the top, squeezing, getting the peak contraction of your shoulder without locking out your elbows at the top. You want to squeeze your shoulder, go right back into the next rep. Up, squeeze your shoulder, right back into the next rep. Up, squeeze your shoulder, right back into the next rep. And when you stop cheating that half second of rest at the top of your rep, you're all of a sudden going to have continuous tension on the muscle and you're going to feel a much deeper burn in that muscle. So that's the second tip. Now the third tip, we're going to get rid of the uh the shoulder press. We're going to pick up some lighter dumbbells here because we're going to be moving on to more of an isolation exercise like a lateral raise or a front raise. And then the last tip, we're actually gonna move into a reverse fly to work the rear delts. But when it comes to lateral raises, we're going to go into the side raises. Um, the most common issue I see here is people going too heavy. And it goes a little bit deeper than that because you could say, well, what's too heavy? Too heavy is when you start recruiting other muscle groups when you're trying to isolate a certain muscle group. So, when you're doing lateral raises out to the side, you're trying to isolate the medial head of your deltoid. You're not trying to hit your traps. You're not trying to hit anything but that medial head, that outer head. And so, what happens is people load up on too much weight. Let's imagine that these are like 30, 40 lb dumbbells. Get into position and then they end up bringing this weight up and it becomes too heavy. And you see this a lot. And now, if you didn't see anything wrong with that, you're probably guilty of this. What was happening was, yes, from about here to about here, I was using the medial head of my deltoid, the side delt. From about here to about here, I was going like all trap engagement. I was going from here and then I was shrugging the weight up the rest of the way using those secondary muscles to get that weight up because it is too heavy. So the third tip is to drop weight and then really focus on when you're doing a lateral raise, you want to focus on keeping your shoulders pressed down as much as possible. Almost like you're flexing your chest, pressing your shoulders down, creating as much space between your shoulder and your neck as possible. Create that space. There's a big difference between right here and right here. And so you want to do here. And then as you bring this weight up, you want to focus not on raising the weight. You want to focus on pushing the weight outward. And that's when you're going to start to see the medial head of your deltoid really being worked. And in relation to the lateral raise, a lot of times people will end up bringing this weight all the way up here past shoulder level because they think that that's going to get them the best contraction in that part of their deltoid. When you're doing this lateral raise, you actually want to stop when you're doing this right. Your body will naturally not be able to go past about just under shoulder height. And that's going to allow you to get that peak contraction. So you're going to press your shoulders down, push the weight outward. You want to go outward, not up. Press it outward. And that's what's going to really give you the best contraction of that medial head of your deltoid. So, that's the third tip. The fourth tip is again going to be relating to a a a raise. It can be front raise, it can be lateral raise, whatever it might be, is to stop resting at the bottom. When people are getting any kind of weight and they're doing any kind of whether that's a side raise or a front raise, when they bring the weight down, they end so that let's say they have perfect form and they're pressing this weight outward, getting that peak contraction and then bringing it down to here. Right here is the same thing as a shoulder press. When I'm when my arms are straight up, I'm resting. When my arms are straight down, I'm resting. I'm just holding this weight. down. Instead, what you want to do is instead of calling this your starting position, you want to call this your starting position. And then from here, you're going to press that weight outward, bring it up, peak contraction, back down to here, and you're going to stop right there. And your full range of motion is going to be right here. And it's the same thing with a front raise. If you're going to go out to the front of you, you want to make sure that you're pushing your shoulders down. you're pressing this weight out frontwards rather than lifting the weight up because again you'll get trap engagement and then you want to not start right here but start right here because right here my front delt is now being activated right here nothing's being activated. So starting position is right here. Press the weight forward. Get that peak contraction which is going to be just below shoulder level if you're doing it right. Back down to starting position which is with your arms slightly forward. Full range of motion right here. So that's the fourth tip. Now the fifth tip is going to be relating to a rear delt fly, also known as a reverse fly. And you can do this with a machine. You can do this with a dumbbell. You can do this with a cable. The most common issue I see with this, and I've talked about this in past videos, is people end up again loading up on too much weight. Therefore, they start cheating and they start using assisting muscle groups like their traps and their rhomboids. If you don't know what your rhmboids are, you obviously traps are up here. Romboids are basically the muscle that runs down. So it's like your traps and your muscles are going to run down the middle of your back. So what happens is when people start doing some kind of reverse fly, which is like this, this is what this is what you see a lot of times. And the issue that I have here is that when you're bringing this weight up, you end up, and typically it's with heavier weights than 10 lb dumbbells, but when you're trying to isolate a muscle group as small as a rear as the posterior head of your deltoid, such a small muscle, you have to understand that you're going to be using light weight. You can't load up on a ton of weight when you're isolating such a small muscle group. So, drop the weight. And then what you want to focus on is instead of bringing this weight up, you're obviously, like I said, you're going to bring the weight outward like I told you with the lateral raises and the front raises, you're going to bring the weight outward, but then also you're going to overemphasize rolling your shoulders forward because that roll of your shoulders forward is going to allow you to isolate that rear delt and not more importantly not stimulate your rhmboids or your traps. So instead of this which is a lot of trap and roundboyid engagement. You're going to roll your shoulders forward and you're going to press this weight out and then just like the other tips, you're not going to bring it down to here because this is a rest. You're going to bring it to about here and then you're going to roll your shoulders forward, press the weight out, and this is going to be the correct exercise. So, next time you guys are going to hit shoulders, I'm going to recap real quick. Make sure that you are not flaring your elbows out on shoulder press. You are not resting at the top of shoulder press. You want to get the peak contraction, but you don't want to rest with lateral raises. You want to make sure that you are using weight that you can control. You want to press the weight outward. You want to make sure that you are not shrugging up. You want to make sure that you're not resting at the bottom. And then it's the same thing with front raises. You want to make sure you're pressing the weight outward, keeping your shoulders down and not resting at the bottom. And then lastly with the reverse flies, you want to make sure that you are not shrugging and engaging your trap muscles and really trying to isolate that part of your deltoid. So try these out next time you guys are going to do shoulders. And if you like them, make sure you're coming back and giving this video a thumbs up. And if you guys want more tips for your body, for getting in shape, I have a free fitness quiz where we ask you a couple of questions about your body to figure out what you're trying to achieve. And then we spit out a video with a couple more tips and then after that, it recommends which program would be best for your body type that has the training and the diet that you need to get there. So, if you want to check that out, you can click it in the link in the description below this video. Uh, again, like I said, if you like this video, make sure you're clicking the thumbs up. If you have any questions about this video, any comments, if you have video recommendations for me to make on my channel, comment them in the comment section below. And then last but not least, make sure you're clicking the subscribe button so that you don't miss out on any future videos. All right, guys. Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next one.