 Taking five minutes to do some gentle stretching in the morning can have a massive impact on your metabolism, your mobility, and just your overall well-being. It helps increase your blood flow throughout your body. It can mobilize you. It can help reduce soreness and inflammation. It can help wake up your muscles. To put it simply, the less stress you have, which is going to be caused by more stretching, the faster your metabolism will be. Live your best life while working on your health and fitness goals. We're here to make your journey fun and inspiring. Welcome to the Be Shred Better Body Better Life Podcast. What's going on, guys? I'm your host, Vince Sant. Welcome back to another episode of the Better Body Better Life Podcast. Today, we're going to be talking about some morning stuff. If you're a morning person, you'll love this. If you're not a morning person, you'll love this. We got some, I'm going to call morning metabolism boosters. That will help you if you are looking to speed up your weight loss. If you're looking to burn some fat, because obviously we've all heard them people say that breakfast is the most important meal of the day, right? And I would, for the most part, agree with that. It's also my favorite meal of the day. But I'd also argue that it's not just about what you eat in the morning, but it's also about how you kickstart your entire morning routine. Because what you eat in the morning is just part of that routine. And so I think there is something that's overlooked pretty often. And so I'm going to break down a few specific habits that I think you should incorporate into your morning routine. Some I do, some I admittedly don't and probably should do, but also something that I'm not interested in. So listen, listen up closely and see if there's any that you think that you could incorporate and that you would enjoy and that would help you a lot to help you wake up, be more routine and also to help get that skill moving in the right direction faster. So like I said, whether you're a morning person or you're not like myself and you hit that snooze button a couple of times for getting up. Let's just go ahead and jump right into five simple ways to fire up your body's metabolism and set yourself up for all day fat burning and just overall success. All right. So getting into this, the first morning metabolism booster is to hydrate before you caffeinate. Okay. And I get it for a lot of us that first cup of Joe or if you're an energy drink person feels like it's about the only thing that can get us out of bed in the morning or get us focused for work. But hear me out after a full night's sleep, your body naturally gets dehydrated and guess what dehydration seriously slows down your body's metabolic engine. And it makes sense. I mean, if you're not, if you're sleeping for eight hours, you're not drinking any water for those eight hours. And then also if you're not aware, every single time you take a breath, you're losing water. Every breath you lose water and all your bodily processes require water. And so when you wake up after a proper night's sleep, you're dehydrated. Even if you're not getting proper sleep, you're still probably going to be a little bit dehydrated because you haven't taken any water in the past couple of hours. And again, dehydration slows down your metabolism. You need to be hydrated to have an optimal metabolism. And so before you reach for that coffee, before you hit the gas station for an energy drink or the fridge for an energy drink, drink water. A nice tall glass of water as soon as you wake up. I personally have a shaker bottle next to me at all times. This literally is on my nightstand every single night when I go to bed. I typically don't try to chug it before I go to bed because I'm not trying to wet the bed. But when I wake up, I make sure that whatever's left in here, like I will fill it up like before I go upstairs to go to bed. And then I'll probably sip a little here and there. I'll take my night supplements and then whatever's left in the morning. I'm chugging that. I'm drinking that water. And so typically that's at least 10 to 14 ounces of water. I would love to probably get 18 to 20 ounces of water in the morning. So I'm not talking about just a couple sips. I'm talking about some water, like some chugging some water. So if you can name for 12 to 16 ounces of water first thing in the morning, it's going to help you a ton. It's going to help you feel better. If you're somebody who gets chronic headaches, that's going to help that a ton as well. And the crazy thing is, is that water is, I mean, it's, it's free. You can drink it from the tap. But it's also like one of the easiest tweaks that someone can make to kickstart their metabolism and to flush out toxins. And it also will give you a nice little natural energy boost. And also there's been studies done on caffeine that you shouldn't have caffeine within 90 minutes of waking up because it will make you more tired sooner. Versus if you allow your body to naturally wake up for an hour and a half, and then you have caffeine, it works way better and it stays in your system way better. And so multiple reasons you can do this. It can also help with curbing hunger a little bit. If you get really, really hungry in the morning and you don't really want to have a big breakfast, this can help to curb those hunger pangs. Or if you get like mid morning munchies that make you a little tempted to I don't know, grab a donut on your way to work. This will just, just water that you're chugging before that will help to hopefully cut that out. And you could also try to add a little bit of water to, or sorry, a little bit of lemon to your water. Not only adds a little refreshing flavor, I guess if you call it that. I don't personally like it, but it does add some flavor and it also gives you a nice little dose of vitamin C to support your immune system. I personally take vitamin C every day. I would recommend that to everybody out there. But yeah, that's a huge one. Okay. Metabolism booster, numero dose. Get your body moving with a morning walk. And this one is fantastic. Not only for your physical state, but I also think for your mental state. And I know what you're thinking. Vince, I can barely get out of bed and it's cold outside. I'm not going for a walk, but trust me, this habit, when I'm good about it, this is like I said in the beginning, there are some that I do and some that I don't water. I'm great about walking first thing in the morning. Not great about, but I would like to get better about it. And when I am good with this, it changes everything. It changes the game for me. Changes the game with my mood, my mindset, my energy levels. And I also have heard from a lot of people in our V-Share community how much of a game changer this has been for them. Literally a 10 to 15 minute walk first thing. You don't even really have to get ready. Just throw on clothes so you're not naked out there. And if it's cold, throw on some warm clothes and go for a little 10 minute walk and make it a brisk walk. Make it a little quicker than normal. And that's going to make you feel good. It's going to get the endorphins going. It's going to rev up your metabolism for hours. And walking is just phenomenal for you. Get your blood flowing, wakes up your muscles. It signals to your body that it's time to start burning calories. And the best part is that you don't have any excuses. You don't need any fancy equipment. You don't need a gym membership for this. Just put on some sneakers, head out to your front door and make sure you don't come back for a full 10 minutes. And if the weather isn't cooperating, walk in place. Walk around your house. Go up and down the stairs 30 times and do it while listening to your favorite podcast or maybe this podcast. But just do something. And, and a little bonus tip. If you can try to time those morning walks so that you catch morning sun. Sun in the morning is one of the best things that you can do for your body. The natural light helps to regulate your body's circadian rhythm, which can improve your metabolism and even help you sleep better at night. Like literally there's been studies done that if you get sunlight directly in your eyes, first thing when you wake up, you will get tired more naturally. You'll have more energy throughout the day and you'll get tired more naturally and sleep better at night. It's one of the best things that you could possibly do. And also you're going to get vitamin D, which is great for so many different things. So like a domino effect of goodness for your body. Okay. So those are two great ones. Third one, I want to talk about having a protein packed breakfast. Okay. And I'm not saying that you need to sit there and whip up some five course meal every morning and turn your kitchen to a Michelin star restaurant, but skipping breakfast or just grabbing something sugary like a donut or a or crepes or or banana bread. I don't know what people are having for breakfast, but just grabbing something sugary is like telling your metabolism to keep sleeping. It's like hitting the snooze button for your metabolism when in reality, your metabolism should, you should try to get your metabolism firing on all cylinders. First thing when you wake up between the water, the walk, the sun and now a protein packed breakfast, that's going to get your metabolism going. Why? Well, because your body actually has to work harder to digest protein, which means you burn more calories in the process of that digestion. Plus it helps you feel more full. It helps you feel more satisfied, helps fuel your muscles. And so you're less likely to reach for that greasy leftover takeout that you had last night, unfortunately, or sugary cereal. That's, that's, that's the one that people are having a lot and they think that, oh, because it's Wheaties, it's healthy. No. You need protein and some quick and easy high protein breakfast ideas could be yogurt with berries and a sprinkler of nuts or some eggs, maybe a couple of hard boiled eggs. You can prepare a bunch of those at once and not a lot of time and they're good for a while with maybe a side of a whole grain toast or a protein smoothie with a bunch of different types of berries in there to get your micronutrients, get a little bit of fiber, get some simple carbs with some high quality protein. That's if you're in a pinch, I guess. But the key is to find something that works for your schedule and tastes good to you. And that's huge because if you don't enjoy what you're eating, you're not, you're not going to stick with it. Let's be honest, willpower only lasts so long. Stop acting like you're a God and you can, and you're going to be the next Arnold and you're going to be able to stick to this diet that you absolutely hate for longer than a couple of weeks. It's not going to happen. It's not sustainable. Find something that you like to eat. And then you're built. You can be able to stick with it a lot easier. Okay. Fourth tip, fourth metabolism booster. This is one that I am not good about and I say that I would like to get better at it, but I don't think I ever really will because I have another form of doing this, but this is cold showers, cold showers are brutal. So don't be calling me crazy. Hear me out for a sec, but ending or starting your shower with a blast of cold water, even just for 30 seconds can have some pretty amazing effects on not only your brain, but also your metabolism because when your body is exposed to cold water, it has to work harder to maintain its core temperature. Right. This process is called thermogenesis and actually it burns calories while you do this and it can give your metabolism that little extra boost that it needs to wake up and stay fired up and, and, and that jolt of energy that you get from that cold water is guaranteed to wake you up better than any alarm clock and it might not be the most pleasant experience at the very beginning of it or while you're doing it and I've, and I've heard from people who do them religiously. It doesn't get easier. You just get better at doing them, but I promise because I have done them before I have a cold plunge at my house and that's actually what I prefer cause I like my warm showers in the morning, but cold plunges are equal. I mean, probably even more brutal cause you have to stay in them for a couple minutes and it's like 35 degrees, but I promise that if you do this, you will feel invigorated and you will feel ready to tackle your day. And if you're not quite ready for a cold plunge or maybe just a full on ice cold shower, I get it. I personally don't do them and I hate them and I'm bad about doing my cold plunges religiously, but if you're anything like me, just start small. You could try starting your shower or ending your shower with five or 10 seconds of cold water gradually work your way up or you get, I know my, my, my mom and dad actually, they just got this little like inflatable cold plunge thing. Um, and I mean, they live in Ohio, so it's cold there anyways. And so they just put like hose water in it and then they are working their way up. They're working their way down in temperature and working their way up in time. And so start where you got to start and just try to get better at it. And it's going to have incredible benefits for your brain and your body. Last, but not least, we have a really good one for again, getting that blood pumping, getting your metabolism going. And that is some morning stretching, taking just five minutes. And this is one that I could probably be better at. I don't typically ever stretch in the morning, but that's because I do about 20 minutes of mobility before every workout and I work out most days, but taking five minutes to do some gentle stretching in the morning can have a massive impact on your metabolism, your mobility and just your overall wellbeing. Cause stretching obviously is so good for you. It helps increase your blood flow throughout your body, um, which can help to kick your body's fat burning engine into gear. It can mobilize you. It can help reduce soreness and inflammation. It can help wake up your muscles to put it simply. Um, the less stress you have, which is going to be caused by more stretching, the faster your metabolism will be. The more cortisol you have in your body. I talk about this all the time, more cortisol you have in your body. The worst, the worst things are going to work. The slower your metabolism will be, the harder it'll be to burn fat, the harder it'll be to build muscle stretching is going to help reduce stress. And so the less stress you have, the faster your metabolism will be faster. A lot of stuff will work. The better a lot of stuff will work. And so I'm not, I'm not saying that you have to do, you have to be, go be, become a yogi or you have to do any kind of crazy poses that you can't do or that hurt or make you look like a human pretzel. Just reach your arms up over your head, do a couple of twists, maybe try to touch your toes if you're flexible enough or work your way towards being able to touch your toes, move around. The key is with yoga and mobility is to move in and out of positions. Slowly and mindfully focusing on your breath and how your body feels and also working into ranges of motion that hurt a little bit, but that you slowly open it up, you slowly open up your shoulders, you slowly open up your hips. You slowly work your mobility of your ankles. You warm up your knees a little bit, your elbows, your neck. Focusing on opening those up is going to help you in so many different ways. Not only will it help to boost your metabolism, but it'll also help to set a positive and calm tone for your entire day. And all of us could use a little bit more positivity and calmness to start our days in today's society. Um, and if you are looking for some like personalized guidance on how to optimize your mornings and the rest of your day for maximum fat burning, and positive mentality, our V-Shred coaches are ready to help you. They want to help you. Um, we can create completely customized meal plans, including all the healthy and delicious foods that you want and that you like and that are going to help you reach your weight loss goals. It's fully tailored to your lifestyle. We'll take out all the guesswork of your fitness journey of what you should be doing with your gym, help you with routines and our meal plans, our workouts have already gotten literally millions of people in great shape. And I'd love for you to be next. And so if you're ready to get back on track or just to get this weight loss going for the first time ever, just hit the link below or wherever it is. There should be a link somewhere, maybe down in the description and we'll get you matched with a coach right away. But that's all for today. Hopefully you learned something. Um, hopefully this was helpful. Thank you for tuning in and I will talk to you or see you in the next episode. Thanks for tuning in to today's episode of V-Shred's Better Body Better Life podcast. Whether you're doing one of our programs, taking our supplements or just doing things on your own, tune in every week for exclusive content with Vince, V-Shred trainers and special guests as they share valuable tips around motivation, workouts, food and living a healthier lifestyle. See you next time.