 if you think of your body as like a car, if you don't put gas in the engine, it's not going to run. So by fueling your body appropriately, so we're talking fruits and veggies and whole grains and lean meats, cutting out carbs is not gonna do it. Going on a low-fat diet, that is not gonna do it. The carnivore diet is not gonna do it. It's about valves. Welcome to the V-Shred Better Body Better Life Podcast, where we help you live your best life while working on your health and fitness goals. We're here to make your journey fun and inspiring. What's going on, everyone? Welcome back to another episode of the Better Body Better Life Podcast. I'm your host and today we have a special guest with us, Barbie Brown, one of our V-Shred coaches. Been one of our coaches for a little while now. She's a certified personal trainer, certified nutritionist, she's an international presenter, been in the fitness industry for 15 years and today we're going to be talking about balance through habits and how important that can be in helping you get in shape, helping you stick to a plan, helping you not get overwhelmed. And so we're gonna, I got a bunch of questions for Barbie and she's just gonna be telling us about what has worked for her and her experience, what has worked for her clients the best and so hopefully you can get a lot out of this. So Barbie, welcome. Hi, hi, it's good to be here. Thank you for having me. Yeah, thanks for being on here. So I know I just gave a very simple intro, but go ahead and just kind of tell our listeners a little bit more about you, your background, what kind of got you into fitness, what made you wanna become a personal trainer. Oh, okay, sure. So for me, I graduated with a marketing degree from UT and I planned on going into corporate America but right after college, I got married, I had babies and decided to be a stay at home mom and so here it is, I'm at home with these babies and it was a struggle for me to lose the weight. I'd never been overweight and so I had no concept of, and I wasn't like an athlete when I was younger so I didn't know what to do, I didn't know how to eat, how to feel my body, even how to move. And so I joined the local YMCA and it's because of the members. I feel like that's where so many people start. I was going there when I was a kid, my parents were memberships, I had memberships there, my whole childhood, went to daycare there, played sports there. And let me tell you the real thing was, they had childcare. Yeah, that's why my parents loved it. I could leave my kids and as a stay at home mom, and that's tough, it's like you have nowhere to take them and so I would go and I would leave my kids and just started moving and I just fell in love with the process of moving my body and then seeing how I was able to lose the weight and to get stronger and to have confidence that I had never had before in my body. And the more I did it, the more I fell in love with it and I was always there. And so the aerobics instructors there were like, oh, you should do this. And of course there was a part of me that's like, well, I have every intention of going back into the workforce, it's like, this is not really what I wanna do, but it'll be something fun in the meantime. And then it just kind of snowballed. I fell in love with it and found out I had a net for it. I loved teaching group exercise and I loved sharing my passion for movement with people. And then it, then I got into personal training to where I could have an impact one-on-one. And then I wasn't doing that very long before, I realized that there's so much of gym that is overlooked because of a lack of knowledge of nutrition. So then I really did a deep dive into understanding nutrition and that's where like it all kind of morphed for me that the gym is just one part of it. It's the nutrition is the most important part. You know what they say is you eat well to look good, you work out to look good naked. I don't think I've ever heard that actually. And I love me some good quotes, but I'm about to add that one to my repertoire. There you go, that'll be like the subtitle of today. That's today's title. Eat, what was it? Eat to look good. You eat well to look good. You exercise to look good naked. To look good naked. Eating well also helps looking good naked, but. Oh, absolutely, absolutely for sure, for sure. So then, so growing up, what was your experience as far as like your, you said you didn't really play sports? Like what age I guess did you get into fitness and then like growing up? Were you generally skinnier? Were you generally more heavy set? So sadly, I am one of the many young ladies that really struggled with some disordered eating and I had some body dysmorphia. And even though I never was overweight in my brain, I was. And so this has really helped me to coach people through mindset because there's so much that people will just try to hate their bodies into submission and you know, that just doesn't work. And I know firsthand, because I've lived it. And even though I wasn't ever overweight, I struggled with the mindset and I struggled with that four body image and just trying to starve myself to unrealistic lengths. So once, this is where I would say honestly, working out saved my life was when I had those babies, I didn't have a healthy coping mechanism. My whole life, the way I would cope was I would just stop eating. That's how I controlled my life. Well, I was breastfeeding my daughter. So I had a toddler and then I was breastfeeding. And so I couldn't starve myself because literally her nutrition depended on me being healthy. So I had to find a healthier outlet to control myself, to control my environment and to manage my stress and to try to help build some confidence. And this is where, you know, working out was, I was overweight and I was really upset about it. It's like, well, I don't know much, but I know that going to the gym is what you're supposed to do. And so that is honestly what drove me to the gym. But no, I wasn't overweight, but I did struggle with disordered eating through my teens. I was never encouraged to do sports. I did academics, I excelled and I did choir and I did debate and UIL things. I started swimming when I was in college. So I would go like on my lunch break or our campus had an indoor pool and I love to swim. So I started swimming laps and that was kind of my first attempt at trying to be healthy and that was good for me. But it wasn't until I had my kids that I joined the gym and was trying to be intentional about being healthy. And so before that, you just kind of always struggled. It wasn't until you had your kids that you kind of got out of that disordered eating mindset. And then what did that disordered eating kind of look like for you if you don't mind me asking? I would just, I would starve myself. I would get like a bowl of cereal and I would stand on the scale and just for a frame of reference, I'm five foot six. And I hit this hype when I was in junior high, but I didn't get over a hundred pounds until my junior year of high school. So I was 80 to 90 pounds at five foot six, but I still fuck it was fat. And I would watch everything I ate and I would do the classic things, push food around my plate or say, oh, I'm not hungry. Oh, I just ate and so. Interesting. And again, answer what you feel comfortable answering. What do you think that mindset was attributed to? How do you think that was developed in such a young brain? Honestly, childhood trauma. So I'm one of those people, you know, the kids from hard places and, you know, had an abusive childhood. And this is one of those things that happens when you grow up in an abusive home is you look for ways to cope and you look for ways to gain control. And one of the hallmarks is disordered eating. So that's what I'm talking about. You sound like you've been through some self-work. And so. You know what? I've had so much therapy and so much counseling. That's good. I wholeheartedly believe in it. And it's not something I do consistently, but I'll find that, you know, I go through difficult times in my life and I go, you know what? I think I need a little perspective and I'll go to counseling for a little while and, you know, try to get, you know, a better perspective on things. Yep. I'm a huge advocate of therapy. I've done many, many, many hours of it. Couples and solo. I think everybody, I think it literally would benefit everybody. So I think for anybody listening, if you got some issues going on or if you don't got some issues going on, cause you probably do, you just don't realize it, just go talk to somebody. Anytime you're stressed out. And like you said, like it doesn't have to be something that's consistent. Sometimes I'm consistent with it. And sometimes I go a couple of months without it. And that's cause I'm feeling pretty good. I'm feeling in control. And then I'm getting stressed out about something or I'm feeling like I'm spiraling a little bit or whatever it might be. And then you go back in. And it's also important to find someone that you like. But that's not what this episode is about. We're trying to get you guys some advice on, just like balance with your fitness routine. And so tell me when did this balance, this better balance start for you and how did it get, how did it get started? Why did it get started? You said that it was because of your kids, but did you start studying for your personal training certification? How did, what was the first step to learning proper protocols? Are you talking about proper protocols for nutrition specifically or for just the healthier lifestyle? Are they different times? Well, sure. So I started off just going to group fitness classes. Okay. So it was just learning to move my body. And then through doing that consistently, then I became an aerobics instructor. So that was when I dipped my toes into, into being in the fitness industry. And I never intended for that to be a career. But I started because, cheap childcare. And because I needed to get out of the house and because I needed to lose weight. So that, that just seemed like an easy segue and going to group fitness classes, you know, that's a great way to start because you have somebody else who's kind of leading the group. You have the camaraderie, you have some accountability. It's all great things to start your fitness journey. After I had done that for a while, it was funny. It was actually my mom who was like, oh, you should be a personal trainer. And, you know, what's funny is I, I look at my body and it's not perfect. And so when she said that, you know, I like, I still like didn't feel like I looked the part. It's one thing to like lead group X, but to me like personal trainer was kind of on this pedestal. And I was like, oh, I'm, I'm, I am not like to that point. And she says, I think you are, I think you are. You have a passion for this and your people love you and you've been doing it a while and. Mom's always no best somehow. Right. And I was like, no, I don't think so. And she goes, well, here's what's happening. For your birthday, I am gifting you a personal training certification course. Oh wow. You are not. What a gift. Just as, but that's what you're getting for your birthday. I was like, you jerk. You're gonna maybe go to school as a birthday present. You're gonna force me to do something. But bitch, she was absolutely right. It was get a group group X group fitness is like my first love. But I really, I've come to really love the impact I can have one on one. Cause group fitness isn't for everyone. There are some people who they're not comfortable in a group setting. You have people who are more introverted and the thought of being confined in a room with, you know, 15 to 20 other people for an hour and sweat is just like their worst nightmare. That's me. So. And, you know, and in some people this, they, they want the one on one or they're looking for something that they can't quite achieve in a group fitness setting. They have, you know, more individualized goals that we need to work on. Yeah. And I came, I came to really, really love that of just having that opportunity. But it was after, even after being a personal trainer for a while, that I started doing research into like really understanding nutrition. And a big part of it was for me, I have, I come from a long line of people with high cholesterol. And I, every time I would go in for, you know, checkups and whatnot, they would always tell me that my cholesterol was too high, which didn't make any sense because I was so super active and I thought I was eating well. And so then I just kind of started really trying to understand about nutrition and trying to understand macros and understanding, you know, what my body needs and what that balance looks like. Because like everybody else, I was just going to the gym. I didn't understand the importance of fueling my body and it just threw a lot of research and a lot of trial and error and kind of playing with, with the factors on my own and spending a lot of time on Google. And then like I'm one of those like research nerds. I will Google things and then I will like buy textbooks and start learning things through textbooks. That's good. So that's a quality, that's a quality trait to have. And especially as a personal trainer, because when somebody comes to me and they may, what I remember, I've got this bursitis on my shoulder. You know, can you work around that? Absolutely. And then I go home, what is bursitis of the shoulder? My research is like, what are things that are contraindicated? What are things that are beneficial? You know, what kind of markers should I be looking for? Yeah. You know, how do I help my client to optimize, you know, growth and strength and mobility of the joint without doing any damage. So when did you get certified? And what did you get certified in first? Because you said you're certified personal trainer and certified nutritionist. It sounds like the nutritionist side of it came first, like the actual certification. Okay, so in terms of certifications, again, a third group back. So it would start off with YMCA step. Oh yeah. So wait, that's a certification? Mm-hmm. Oh, okay. It was 100 years ago. Okay. My cardio and step certification and just a general group fitness. And then Pilates and then Bootcamp. And then I got a body pump certification. I got a mashup certification. I can't think of all of them off the top of my head. So I had all of these group experts, I just remember that was my first love. But then it was my personal trainer because that's the one my mom gave me for my birthday. Okay. And after doing personal training for a while, I realized that I was having conversations with my clients about nutrition, but I wanted to make sure that I had the certification behind me, even though I felt like I had a really good grasp of nutrition, I wanted to make sure that I didn't amass any false information. So I went ahead and decided to invest in the education. I'm really big in investing in education. So that's when I got my nutritionist certification. And at this point, you were doing one-on-one coaching, right? Mm-hmm. Okay. And then what were some of the biggest roadblocks you saw your clients running into in the beginning? I will say the most common thing I see, number one, is I have clients who come to me literally every single day saying, well, I don't eat that much. And trying to find the most delicate way to say, you don't get overweight by not eating enough. Now, we do have issues where sometimes like with your BMR and what you're getting in and not eating quite enough to lose weight, but that's not most people. Most people, what they're eating more than they realize, either they're snacking throughout the day or even when people are trying to be healthy and they think things like, okay, I wanna have a snack and I know that I could have pretzels, oh, but those are carbs and carbs are bad, I'm gonna have a handful of nuts. It's like, well, what you don't realize is first of all, carbs are not bad, carbs are not the enemy, but you have this handful of carbs, these pretzels are 100 calories. This handful of almonds, while delicious and full of healthy fats and good things, like 400 calories. And so too much of a good thing is just too much. And there's a lot of those types of things that unless you are tracking everything you are eating, then you are getting in more calories than you realize. Then you combine that with the fact that people tend to overestimate how many calories they're burning when they're working out and they struggle to lose weight. And then what about exercise? That's it, because that's probably the best one I've ever heard when it comes to nutrition because I'll even have friends who come to me and they're like, I'm not, generally guys in my friend group are like, I can't put on muscle. I'm like, well, how much are you eating? And at the time of their eating, two meals or- If you're having trouble putting on muscle, for women generally, if they're having trouble putting on muscle, it's because they're not getting near enough protein. For men, if they're having trouble, it's because they are really, they are not dedicating the intensity to their workouts. They don't have a plan. They show up and they do chest. They, men work what we call the show muscles. They work the chest, the shoulders, the arms, the abs. Oh, all right, didn't have time to get to legs today. And they miss the go muscles and that's the back, the traps and the lats and glutes. Yep, no, I was, it's funny to say, I was literally having a conversation with my buddy last night and he's like, I'm stuck at 190. I want to lose like 10 more pounds, but I'm also not getting any stronger. And I'm like, show me what you're doing. And I was like, oh boy. I was like, I was like, I was like, this workout plan looks good, but if I were to come to the gym with you, or you came to the gym with me, my sets would murder you. Like, the, like, though, like, people don't realize that like the last, if you're doing 12 reps, it's rep 11 and 12 and maybe 13, even though you wanted to go for 12, that matter. The first 10 pretty much don't matter. You're just using the first 10 to get you to a point of overload so that you can actually challenge your muscles and actually build muscle. And that's what most people don't really, or they're talking between sets and now they're a rest rather than it being 60 to 90 seconds. Now it's four minutes, five minutes long. They completely lost their pump. They don't feel motivated anymore. So yeah, a couple things, but I digress. Okay, so, I'll go ahead. I was just gonna say to your point, something that I recommend is so like, I have my workouts in my notes, like in my iPhone, I just put them in my notes. And so I can copy and paste. And so what I will do is for, you know, for this set of exercises, I used this weight and I did this many reps. And then I can copy and paste it. So like when I go to do legs this week, I'm gonna look at what I did for legs last week. And I just copy and paste. And my goal is to either go up on weight or go up on reps. Cause let's say I'm trying to get to those, you know, those sets, we're going for four sets of 12, let's say, you know, the first set I was able to get 12, and then I got 10, and then I got 10, and then I got eight. So my goal is to get all of those sets up to 12. And then once I can do that, guess what? It's time to add some weight. And that's how you do that progressive overload. And it's being consistent. It's, you know, what is it? You know, really effective workouts are quite boring. Same shit, different shirt. It's the same workout over, over, over, over. Yeah, I'm full of those. Over, over, over, over. I get, I get, I get teased all the time about being a quote guy. They, they laugh every single time I bring up quotes on podcasts or videos and so on. I'm learning some new ones, which they absolutely probably hate. Maybe they love us. They don't hear the same ones anymore. But, um, so like with the progressive overload thing, and we'll get back to the, the balance through habits aspect of things in a sec. But that progressive overload doesn't happen weekly, you know, that progress won't happen every single week. You won't push more weight every single week. You want some weeks you're going to push less weight. Some weeks you're not going to get as many reps as you did the prior week. What do you do mentally to not overwhelm yourself or not get demotivated by your progress, kind of losing progress almost. You see, you feel like you're losing, you're not losing progress. It's just like maybe that day you didn't have enough carbs and your muscles don't have the fuel or you didn't get good sleep or you're stressed out or your mind's elsewhere, whatever it might be. How do you get over the fact that you're not progressing every single week? Well, first of all, I look at the fact that I've been doing this a long time. So I do competitive powerlifting. Oh, wow. And, and so I have been lifting heavy for years. And, and there are, there are times where I just feel like I am stuck at, at a certain number. So I'm 130 pounds. My dead lift right now is 310. I can only do simple at 275. You can only what? I can only do triples. I can do sets of three. Okay. At 275. And, and, and I can't seem to get past that. So I don't know, like every time I put 280 on there, I can't get to three. Now it doesn't make any sense because I can do it with 275. So doing with 280 I should be able to do. And so it's like, it's in my head. I was going to say. And what, right. It's a mental thing. And so what I have to tell myself is first of all, I have to get out on my head, but like that will come. And if it's a matter of, I just don't quite have the strength yet, then, okay, then I need to dig in. What could I have done better to set myself up for success? Because if you fail the plan, you plan to fail. So if I did not get a decent amount of sleep, if I did not get all of the carbs, I needed all of the food I needed. I'm one of those people, uh, when I get stressed, when I get overwhelmed, when I have deadlines, I go into deadline mode and I, like, I don't eat. And then the next day my gym has been a sufferer because I barely got what I needed. That's like, I grabbed a protein shake. I grabbed a bar. I, you know, grabbed, you know, a peanut butter sandwich. And it's like, I just kind of snapped throughout the day grabbing just a little things here and there, but did not feel my body near enough. If my body doesn't have the fuel, I can't work. You know, your, if you think of your, your body is like a car. If you don't put gas in the engine, it's not going to run. And here's the other thing. If you, if you have a high performance, you know, NASCAR, you're not going to take it to the local, you know, uh, Walmart gas station and put unleaded gasoline in it. Oh no. You are going to put the fuel in it. That is going to make it optimally run. Cause if you put the grocery store fuel in that NASCAR, I mean, what they drive, probably, is it going to do near what it's designed to? Absolutely not. So by fueling your body appropriately. So we're talking fruits and veggies and whole grains and lean meat, you know, maybe some dairy, depending on, you know, what, what you got going on, but fueling your body appropriately is going to help it run at its best. Cutting out carbs is not going to do it. Going on a low fat diet, that is not going to do it. The carnivore diet is not going to do it. It's, it's about balanced and, and you can either balance through balancing, you know, macros every day, getting a good amount, you know, of your carbs, your fastener proteins, or even doing something like we like to do here at V shrug where we do the carb cycling where it ends up balancing out, but because of the way we put it together, gets you a little bonus on that metabolism burn. But, and what do you say to people who get overwhelmed at everything you just said? Let's start small. Nice. One thing. Let's pick one thing. So what I will say, so for instance, if somebody joins V shred and they come to me, they're my client, I'm going to write them a custom meal plan and I'm writing a custom workout. If they look at this and they go, I can't do all of this. There's so much here. I'll go, okay, what can you do? Can we start with maybe doing the breakfasts and the lunches? Can we, can we start there? But, you know, maybe breakfast and snacks, what, what feels realistic for you? And then when it comes to workouts, you know, I have some people who come to me who, you know, they sit behind a desk all day long and they have no intentional movement in their day. So maybe step one for them is just to get some movement. I'll go, do you think that you could go on two 15 minute walks this week? You have to think of healthy as a spectrum. For you and I, gym is part of our life. So for you and I, this is part of the routine that we have built. When people first start, the reason that so often people will fail unless they have some kind of program or accountability in place is because motivation will only take you to so far. I find in my experience, it's about two weeks. You go to the grocery store, you buy the food and you're all amped up and you're super excited. And then at the end of two weeks, you're, you're, you're a little bit over your, your sore from maybe exercising. You've been eating healthy. You keep denying yourself cause I can't have this and I can't have this and I can't have this because I'm on a diet. I'm trying to lose weight. And then you decide to go out to eat with your girlfriends and you have the chips and the salsa and then you get, you know, the queso and then you top it off with a margarita and then you shame spiral. You're like, I failed. I failed. I fell off the wagon. I, I chopped up the wagon and I burned it and roasted tacos over it. You know, I totally failed. So then you go home and then you drown your sorrows and then Jerry's and you're like, I messed up. I failed. I can't do this. Well, yeah, because you tried to overhaul it. Lifestyle. The way that you see success longterm is by building healthy habits. When you first start a program like ours, or any program really, you have to change your habits. You know, if you come to me, you have created all kinds of shortcuts and habits in your life and none of them are really intentional, but you know, you have the things that you grab and go for breakfast and maybe you go out with your coworkers for lunch. Maybe you go for happy hour a couple of days a week. You know, these are things that you've just kind of built into your life. Maybe you're, you've got kids in various sports and so you're just picking up fast food. These are things that you didn't intend to make habits. You did not intend to become your lifestyle, but here you are. It's not a death sentence. It's just where you are right now. So then it's, we have to change that. And so when you first start and you get a meal plan, like I write to, then it's, oh my gosh, I have to go to the grocery store. And then I have to remember to eat this food and I have to pack my lunch and I have to prep these dinners and it requires so much bandwidth. Cause before you just kind of did what you did. You were on autopilot. So the more things that you can do to start building the healthy habits, the easier it is. Once you build the habits, it's so much easier to maintain. It is so much easier for me to maintain my weight where I am than for a person who is just now getting started to try to lose weight. Because this is how I've structured my lifestyle. I go to the grocery store. I usually go on Fridays. I go and I pick up the things that I know. I pick up snacks that are high protein that work for me. Like I, I love my high protein Greek yogurt and my, my protein granola. I buy like pork brimes for my kids. I get protein bars. So I always have something easy on hand. I have like four different types of protein powders on my countertop, depending on what flavor I want to go for and what I want to do with it. I even, I've even gotten like protein chips and dry roasted out of mommy. And so I have like high protein snacks. That's one thing that for grab and go, I always have. I have this water bottle.  and take it with me everywhere. And my goal is to drink at least three of these every single day, because being properly hydrated is good for you, and it's good for your digestion. It's good for your skin. It's good for helping you to have... Everything. ...pocus. It's good for helping to maintain your weight and helping to lose weight, as well as helping you to not overeat. Going to the gym is a part of my day. It's a part of my day. I go whether I'm not feeling good or I'm feeling great. I go no matter what my deadlines are, I... Whether it's raining, whether it's cold, whether I stayed up too late last night. And it's not because I'm just awesome. It's because that's a part of my daily grind. It is the things that I do every day. And because I have built these habits and I have established them, it makes it to where I... I don't have to think about what I am eating every day. I don't. I've got my snacks, and it's like... My breakfast items, we're all creatures of habit. I have the same basic stuff I eat every day for breakfast, and I have the same handful of things I do every day for lunch. And then dinner's just whatever I got from the store. I prep it ahead of time. I like to batch cook to where I'll cook something, and I eat on that for a few days, or maybe I'll do two meals, and then I've got two different things that I can cook. I made burritos the other day. I mean, I just pop one of those in the air fryer and reheat on 10 minutes while I'm doing something else. By the time I've sent like two emails, lunch is done. So, I love having things like that. But because I've established the habits, I can maintain my weight, and I can do it without much thought. But when you first get started, it is so, so hard because you have to keep focusing on it. And if you take your eye off the ball, and if you kind of forget, you go to grab a snack. For me, when I grab a snack, I'm going for some Greek yogurt. But if your normal thing of snacking is, I'm gonna grab a handful of chips, you're gonna be elbow deep in that bag of chips before you're like, oh yeah, I was supposed to be eating better. So, it's just about breaking the habits and learning new ones. It's replacing old, unhealthy ones that are not serving you and not helping you reach your goals in changing them. That doesn't mean you have to overhaul it overnight. It could start with having healthier snack options. Yep, and one thing I wanted to point out as you were talking through that, you mentioned how like working out is just a part of your day. And so like even when you're busy, you know that you're going to go to the gym. But then earlier you said that you used to be this, what'd you say? You said like basically deadlines. When deadlines happen, you just would stop eating. How did you make that shift to making sure that you're still prioritizing your health even when things are getting busy or hectic or stressful? What were like some of the beginner steps that you made to get there? I started with having good healthy snacks. Okay, nice. Because I may not, you know what, I didn't have a chance to make it to the grocery store. I haven't done like my full shopping. And I didn't have time to do full shopping. I've had deadlines, you know? So what I had done literally this week was I had, I had about 15 minutes before the grocery store closed on my way home last night. I stopped by the grocery store and I picked up a handful of things that I can have for healthy snacks that will tide me over today until I can get to the grocery store this evening. So that's one of like the easiest ways to start is having healthy snacks. And then looking for ways to get more intentional movement in your day. So like having most all of us have some kind of either a fitness watch or even most of our phones will track our steps. But, oh, there you go. You got one of those fancy rings. Some people have like an armband of some kind. Yeah. Oh, whoo, I think it's called. Anyway, a, logging your steps is a great one. And it's not because there's anything magical about the steps, but it's just, it's more activity throughout your day. And I'm a big, big believer in looking at your steps. And I know everyone's like, oh, 10,000 steps. Nope, look at where you are. I challenge you, look at the steps that you get over like three or four days. And if let's say you get, you know, 3,000 to 3,500 over the course of like three days. Okay, that's where we're gonna start, 3,500. That's your goal this week. And then next week, let's see if we can't make it, you know, 4,000 steps. And maybe not even every day. Maybe we say, all right, so we're gonna focus three days next week, we're gonna get 4,000 steps. And then maybe the week after trying to get it for every day that week, maybe giving yourself one day off, like for me, my day off is Sunday. Same. Like I don't answer messages. I don't usually go to the gym. I think if I feel like it, you know, I will. But I don't usually, like I'll walk my neighborhood. If I walk, I'm gonna tell you what, it is not uncommon for me to get like very, very few. You know, five hundred steps. I can come home. If I can just come home from church and just put on my pajamas and just slug like the rest of the day, it's a good day. It's like my son and I just this last week, we came home and he's like, mom, it's been a busy week. He says, jammy day, jammy day. We came home, really we put on our pajamas. We had a bowl of cereal for lunch. That's great. I got a dog that won't let me not get at least a walk in each night. So I'm actually not mad about that because there are days when I would just literally not go outside at all. But Sundays, you see like, I'll probably golf or something and that's like my activity. There's plenty of activities. You're walking a ton when you're golfing. And so yeah, I'm the same way. And that's the other thing is like people, when they think that they need to get in shape or they think what's required to get in shape is they think that like, like I have people all the time ask me like, oh, do you work out every day? I'm like not even close. Like sometimes I only work out four times a week. Like I aim for five. Sometimes it's six because I'm feeling it on the weekends. But most of the time it's five, sometimes it's four. You know, and sometimes those workouts aren't even that good but I'm still doing them. And so like, yeah, it goes back to like what you said of like making sure that it's a habit in your life rather than something that you negotiate with every single, like today I know I'm going to the gym. Yesterday I knew I was going to the gym. Tomorrow I know I'm going to the gym. Saturday, Sunday, up in the air, that's okay. Got my workouts in already. But like I'm not waking up and going, oh, I wonder if I'll be able to make it today. I'm going, huh, I got a busy day. I gotta go to the office, gotta film some videos. I have to go to physical therapy. I have to get some work done on my computer later. I want to play some video games at night, whatever it is. I'll be like, where am I gonna, where am I going to fit this in? Rather than if I'm going to fit this in. I just know I'm going to non-negotiable. I think that's my takeaway here is like, you gotta create non-negotiables. And you can't be too hard on yourself with them at first because if you get too hard on yourself, you're gonna get overwhelmed. You have to give yourself grace, but this is where again, you fail to plan. You plan to fail. In my day, I know, so for most days for me, like somewhere between 11 and one is kind of where my gap is between my morning classes and clients. And then I have a gap and then I have my VShred conference calls and writing plans and answering messages and all that stuff in the afternoon and the evening. So like that's my time. But then like today, for instance, this is my workout time, but I'm here with you. So that means that for today, and I've already planned it in my head, that after my conference calls, instead of getting to move into the living room and get to work out comfortably there, it's like, nope, I'm gonna have to take my tail to the gym and I have to get in my workout. And it's not that I have to, it's that I get to. And it's important to me. And this is part of what my goals are for my life. And I want to be strong and I want to be healthy. And I want to be a good example for my kids. And I wanna be a good example to my clients. And I feel like if I am here telling them, if I'm talking the talk, I'm gonna walk the walk. And even when it's uncomfortable, I'm shifting my gym time. Now, there are times where it just doesn't happen. And that's okay. But you shoot for that and to know which day. So on my typical weeks, it's like, I'll work out Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and then I have stacked clients on Thursday. So that's one of my days off from the gym. But then I'm gonna go on Friday. So that's at least four days in the week. And then if I miss one, then it's like I tell myself, I do want to make it up over the weekend. I don't have to. It's not the end of the world, but it's important to me. And it suits my goals. Muscle is the engine that drives your metabolism. So the best way, the only way to truly repair your metabolism is to build muscle. I gotta work out to make that happen. Yep. And I love what you said about, some days it just doesn't happen. I think that's the other important piece that people kind of forget about is that, even picture whoever you think is the perfect example of fitness, that person misses. That person slips up. That person skips. That person wakes up late, snoozes the alarm, misses their workout once in a while. It's okay. People don't realize that you don't have to be perfect. You just have to be consistent most of the time. And that's built through, like we've been talking about habits. If you don't have the right habits in place, you're not going to have the consistency that drives results over time, like consistent results over time, regardless of whether you worked out today or not, I guess. Well, and to your point, this is where it's about balance. If you tell yourself, you have to work out every single day and you have to get in all your steps every single day. And you have to eat super healthy every single meal, every single day, and you have to nail your macros and hit your caloricals. If you make it so strict, there is no way. It is not humanly possible to nail it every single day. And if that is your expectation, perfection is your expectation, you will never get there. You will fail your first week. It will happen, it will happen. You will, something will happen and you won't get your steps or your boss calls you during your gym time and you're like, dang it, I don't get to work out today. Your kid is home sick and that derails everything because now you've got a kid that's home sick. That is a part of life and our goal is progress, not perfection. And it's about consistency. If I could hammer anything, any point, it's consistency. I would rather have somebody who consistently shows up and gives whatever effort they can for the day and get a mediocre workout than somebody who says, I can only do it if it's perfect. You'll do it every day for a week and then you won't do it again for a month. And then another week and then I may not see you for three weeks and then you'll do it perfect for two weeks and then you'll be gone for six months. When you expect perfection, you set that bar so high that it feels unrealistic and that's not setting yourself up for success. So you have to think balance. This is our goal. I really like the 80-20 rule. It's not a hard and fast rule. It's kind of a general approach of you nail it 80% of the time. I go to the gym 80% of the time that I mean to and every once in a while I miss either the gym or the steps. My nutrition is on point most of the time but like last night I went to the movies with my daughter and I had already eaten everything for the day but we had some popcorn at the movie theater because I don't ever have the popcorn at the movie theater. I was like, you know, I'm gonna splurge. And you know, if I would have stepped on the scale today, by the way, I probably would have been up like a whole pound from that salty popcorn. Doesn't that mean I gained a pound by the way? Just throwing that out there. Just water retention from having eaten very, very salty popcorn. But am I gonna gain weight from that? Nope. Will my weight pop up for today? Yeah. And in two or three days as I'm living my life and being consistent with good, healthy choices, is it gonna go right back down? Absolutely. So am I stressing about it? Nope. And so if I go on vacation, same thing, go on vacation and I make good choices but I enjoy some splurges while I'm out and the weight may pop up a bit but then as soon as I get back into my routine of eating healthy and working out and being active at home then it's all good. What are those early habit changes you recommend for a beginner? Make a plan. Make a plan, decide what are your goals? So don't just say, I wanna lose 20 pounds. Awesome. How are you gonna do that? You need to have a plan. If you say, okay, I want to eat healthy and I wanna work out. Awesome. What does that look like? You have to be very specific. If you say, okay, so I wanna eat healthy. What does that mean? That means that I am never going out to eat. Well, is that realistic? If you go out to eat five days a week and now you're gonna all of a sudden not go out to eat at all, is that realistic for you? Or could you say, how about I will only go out to eat twice this week? Maybe start there. Healthy is a spectrum. It's not all completely healthy or all completely unhealthy. There's a big, big spectrum. I remember I had a lady who came to me who she drank like eight Dr. Peppers a day. That's a lot of Dr. Pepper every day. So for her, we set a goal to basically step it down. It's like, what about if we start with two Dr. Peppers a day? Now for me to go to two Dr. Peppers a day, that would not be a healthy change. Because I don't drink that throughout the day. Of course, that's not a moral judgment. This is just where I am in my life. I don't drink that. Adding two Dr. Peppers a day would not be good. But for her, going from eight to two, that's marked improvement. And then we got her to where she would have one as a treat twice a week. So she got two a week going from eight a day to two a week. And it took some weaning and it wasn't perfect. And then she would- Probably some headaches involved and some moodiness involved. And that's something else is you have to prepare to be uncomfortable. And that's, they're just saying comfort kills. And what I rather sit here on couch and do nothing or what I rather walk my neighborhood. Well, I don't wanna get up. I don't wanna put my shoes on. Maybe it like- It's cold outside. Maybe it's cold or maybe, yeah, maybe I'm not feeling the greatest or there's pollen, whatever. But no, I'm gonna get up and I'm gonna go. Yep. Trying, understanding that just because it's uncomfortable doesn't mean it's gonna be uncomfortable forever, but in order to change your habits and the change the way you think about things, it's gonna be a little uncomfortable at first. And it builds your inner resilience. Like I like doing hard stuff because it makes easy stuff even easier and it makes harder stuff much easier. And so there's plenty of habits in my life that are, that still occasionally are tough. Like waking up at certain times is still tough. I've never been an early riser. And so like waking up at seven for me is tough. Like some days it's easy, some days it's tough. Sometimes I'm snoozing till eight, you know? And then working out. Like that's a true, that's probably the most consistent habit I've had over the past 15 years of my life. And still it's tough sometimes. And still I miss sometimes. And so what I like to do is I like to challenge myself in other ways of my life that make that a little bit easier. And so for like anybody else who's struggling with doing certain things, it's like, I just got a cold plunge and I hate cold plunges. I hate cold, cold water immersion. It's the worst thing in the entire world. But I'm excited for it because I remember when I used to do, I used to do cold plunges just on the weekends. It was like one or two cold plunges a week, only on the weekends. And I found myself being able to do other things easier because I was building that mental fortitude that's required to continue lowering yourself down into this freezing cold water when you've already felt how cold it is on your feet. And then staying in it after you get that initial shock that takes your breath away and you sit there for another two to three minutes. Just doing that made little things like getting up when my alarm was going off easier. It made little things like getting into the shower in the morning when my room is freezing. Cause I turned my room down to like 66 degrees when I sleep because I like an ice box when I'm sleeping. And so getting out of bed, taking that blanket off, it's freezing in my room, but it's much easier when I am doing other things that are hard. When I'm building that like mental fortitude is an ongoing practice in my opinion. It's something that you constantly have to work on. Otherwise you're going to lose it and you're going to slip back into the confines of comfortable living. And so I loved that, what you said about like making sure that you are seeking out things that are uncomfortable because that is where you are going to grow. If you, you didn't get where you got by doing hard shit. You got where you got by doing easy stuff. Now it's time to change that so that you can actually start to see the progress that you want to see and many different areas of life. You know, and if you parallel the mindset of no pain, no gain in the gym, and of course we don't actually mean pain, but we know if I want bigger biceps, I have to go to the gym and I have to lift enough weight to make them burn. I have to be really uncomfortable. And it's short lived, but it's uncomfortable. And quite frankly, I don't like working my arms, but I want nice looking arms. I hate work, this is real life here. I hate working my arms, but I do it because it is good for me and it's going to make my other lifts better, which is part of my long-term goals, but I do it because I know there is benefit. We know, everyone agrees, you have to be uncomfortable in the gym to get the benefit, right? We all know this, whether you're doing cardio, whether you're doing heavy lifts, whether you're doing volume, whatever you're doing, it's going to be uncomfortable. And we accept it is going to be uncomfortable, but it's for the greater good. You have to, you know, you have to go through it to get to the goal. Yeah. Your lifestyle is no different. If you want to make better free choices, you know, would it be easier for me to, you know, swing by Chipotle for lunch? Yes. I could go, and instead of being in the kitchen and chopping all the veggies and roasting them and mixing up whatever sauce I'm going to do and planning ahead to make sure I've thawed the chicken and, you know, chop the veggies, you know, it would be way easier to just, you know, drive right down the road and pick up takeout. And sometimes you do that. That's another important piece of it. Sometimes, but for me, I try to keep that to a planned situation. I try not to just do that. So like tomorrow night, I'm going out with some girlfriends. So like I know I am going out. So if I were maybe tempted another time this week to go out, it's like, well, our tradition is we go out to dinner and then we go get ice cream. That is tradition. So I know I am going to go way over all my calories tomorrow. But that means that in other points of time, I'm going to make better choices, but it comes down to, we understand that we have to be uncomfortable in the gym to get the results that we want. Your eating, your lifestyle is no different. If I want to be healthier, I need to move throughout the day. So I need to keep an eye on my steps. If I want to lose weight, I have to make good, healthy choices. What does that look like? That looks like, you know, that looks like eating a good, healthy breakfast and not just grabbing iced coffee at, you know, one of the coffee shops on the way to work. That means being intentional to make sure that I'm not going over all my calories instead of just grabbing whatever I feel like eating, whatever snacks are in the break room. You have to walk past that plate of cookies. You have to walk past the tray of desserts. And that's uncomfortable. And nobody likes it. But that's what's required. Yeah. And so kind of working towards the end of this episode, which by the way, for everybody listening, we have another episode coming out. After this, what we're going to be talking about, more of the same stuff, but also about like progress versus, like aesthetics, like progress when it comes to aesthetics versus progress when it comes to just health and or like progress when it comes to just weight versus actual health. But for to wrap this up, what would be your final advice to somebody who is feeling overwhelmed and feeling maybe frustrated by the lack of results that they're seeing at the beginning of their fitness journey? They feel like they're doing most of the things right. They're not claiming perfection, which is a good first step. If you're claiming perfection, we need to accept that you're not going to be perfect. I'm not perfect. Nobody I know is perfect. But they feel like they're doing most of the things right. But they're not seeing the results that they want to see in the beginning. They're feeling overwhelmed by all these things that they're having to do and not getting results for. What is your advice for that person? Well, obviously, I'm partially a V-Shred as I am a coach with this. And so I love the idea of somebody coming to me at the very beginning of their fitness journey and having someone like me give them the tools and lead them through it. But if this is not something that you're prepared to do or able to do for whatever reason, accountability is good. Set a goal, maybe tell somebody about it, tracking your food. I like my fitness pal, but there's a lot of really great ones out there. And that's going to make sure that you are being really honest about what you are getting in. So you have to weigh and measure your food and you have to report it in the app. Yes, it's a pain. But it is the only way to truly see what you're doing. And then I would say start moving. Just start walking. Start small. You don't have to join a gym. You don't even have to start working out. Just start moving. Get getting in steps, getting in walks throughout your week. Start there. And I'll add to that because I was literally just talking to the, it's funny we're talking about this because I just had multiple of these conversations yesterday with one of my good friends. And I was like, well, what are you eating? And he like kind of broke it down. And I was like, okay, if you're not serious about this, just keep doing the same thing you've been doing. You're not going to get results. If you are serious about this, best thing I can say, and he's pretty accountable. So like, I think that's a fantastic piece of it. I think having some sort of accountability, whether that's generally I don't recommend holding yourself accountable because most people are pretty bad at that. And that includes me. I'm not the best at holding myself accountable for certain things. Some things I'm really good at. Some things I'm horrible at. So when it comes to something that you're bad at, for most people fitness, it's about finding an accountability partner. And so that's why I think having a gym partner is so important for people in the beginning of their journey because when you schedule a gym session at 6 a.m. with somebody, you are much more likely to go than if you just tell yourself, I'm just going to go work out at 6 a.m. because that alarm's going to go off. You're going to be cold in bed and you're going to be like, eh, I'll work out later today. And then that never happens. Versus if you know that your buddy is going to text you in a little bit being like, I'm on my way, and he's going to be like, where are you at? And you're going to be wondering why you're not there. And then you know you're going to get shit for it. You're much more likely to go. And so I think the accountability piece is huge. And then when it comes to tracking, yes, tracking, that's probably my best piece of advice to anybody who is wanting to take things to the next level. And it doesn't really matter what level you're at currently. Tracking will always get you to the next level if you are not doing it. But the other thing that I told him is that you don't have to track every single day. I said, start by tracking a couple days in a row, two, three days in a row. See where you're at. And then if it's too much, take a break and maybe get some help. But I think just a couple, because most people, like there's exceptions to this, but most people eat similar meals months at a time. Whether that's a total of five different meals or 20 different meals, nobody's having a different meal every single day. Like most people don't do that. People have food preferences. People, like you said, build habits unintentionally. And so like they're eating similar meals. So like for me, I have a total of probably 10 meals that I have for, I'll have this whole year. And so like. And so variations of chicken and rice. There's beef, there's some beef in there, but yeah, I mean, and eggs. But it's like, it's rice with most stuff. Lots of chicken, lots of beef, lots of eggs. That's the majority of it. But so I know, so what I say is like, what are those main meals for you? Track those main meals so that you have an idea of what's in those meals. That way, you like, for me, I don't track because I know my meals. And so I know if I have my breakfast in the morning, I know what that calorie count is. I know how much protein that has, the carbs that it has, the fats that it had, like loosely, same thing for what my typical lunch is. Same thing for my typical post-workout smoothie. Same thing for my typical dinners. And so like, I know that like, if I got this lunch today, or I missed this protein shake, then I need to have something instead of my normal dinner because I need to make up for that. And so just tracking a couple days and seeing what your trends look like and like a ballpark. Like, I think people, most people would be absolutely baffled if they just tracked their meals for a single day and looked at the numbers. Or sent the numbers to a nutritionist to tell them like, there'd be massive holes. There'd be massive problems with what their macros look like. Whether that's not enough protein, whether that's too many fats or not enough fats, whether that's not enough carbs because they're trying to cut carbs or maybe they're not trying to do anything and they're having way too many carbs. Whatever it is, there's gonna be these massive holes or maybe that's the times of certain foods because that is important too. This could be affecting your sleep. It could be making you tired midday. Like there's, or maybe you're not getting your micronutrients, like that's another huge piece of it. And so yeah, I loved what you said about getting accountability. I think that's huge. And then tracking. If you're somebody that can get on yourself and you and your partner, you can have an accountability partner for your tracking. And every single week you guys send each other screenshots that you tracked that week and you have a $100 bet per week where you're like, if someone doesn't do it, you gotta put a hundred bucks in the jar. And then that person's paying for our next dinner or whatever it might be. Figure out a way to make it fun. And then yeah, find what works for you. You don't have to do everything perfect. I think that's probably the main message here. It's like what you said, you gotta give yourself grace. You have to be kind. And something else with the accountability is you can have different goals. So I have a group chat with a couple of girlfriends of mine where I have... 查第一第一第一第一第一第一第一第一 her tracking at the end of the day. Good for you guys. So when you're looking for someone to be there, so in the three of us, we all actually live in the same town, but our schedules are also very different that we actually don't see each other very often. So we're not working out together. We're not getting our meals together. We're not actually even seeing each other face to face, but we have this little group chat and we have set the ground rules of what that's going to be and when are we going to redo our weigh-ins and how we're going to do this. And I can support my friends and their goals. Just because they're not my goals, I can say, hey, you've lost weight. Amazing, great job. And for my other friend, she's like, well, I maintained this week. I was like, okay, okay, I'm glad you maintained. She goes, okay, well, this is what I know I could have done better. It's awesome. We can celebrate successes. And that's like, okay, I did bad. I ate my feelings today. Okay, okay. What are you going to do tomorrow? Okay, well, tomorrow, tomorrow, I'm back at it, and I'm going to start this and I'm going to go to the gym first thing in the morning and I know that's going to make me feel better. That's awesome. That's very cool. And yes, I mean, I think, and that's the other thing is the community aspect, like who you surround yourself with. So, so crucial. If you're around a bunch of people who don't care about how they look or making progress, like, like saying like you are the average of your five closest friends, like that's the most true thing in the world. Like, or like the guy who forget his name, he was like, show me your five closest friends, I'm going to show you your future. And it's like, God damn, okay, maybe I need to change who I'm talking to and who I'm listening to and the content that I'm consuming. Because if I'm around, if I'm, if I'm somebody who is not in good shape, and I'm around a bunch of other people who don't who aren't in good shape and also don't care that they're in good shape and they're eating like shit every single day and they're not trying to be better and they don't care about health and they're, I need to change that. Does that does that align with me? Like, yes. And maybe they fill a certain bucket of yours. They don't like I have different friend groups that fill different buckets for me. Like I got I got friends who I look forward to talking about business with and talking about big goals with and talking about exciting shit. And then I have friends who I don't talk business at all. And we just talk about sports. And that's about it. And so like, and then I have friends who I just kind of talk about literally like nothing with, but it's just fun, you know. And so like, I have these different buckets. And so I think that's another thing that people can try to do in their own life is find people to fill their different buckets. Like, you can have your best friends, your best friends don't have to be the people that get in shape with you. But maybe it's worth being a little bit of an extrovert the next couple of weeks and finding somebody that does share that that that that desire to improve. And maybe you guys maybe maybe that person's looking for you without you even without even knowing it. And so you might spark up a conversation, you might be like, Hey, I'm trying to really I mean, shoot your shot, you know, doesn't shooting your shot doesn't have to be about just dating. I shoot your shot and be like, Hey, I'm looking for an accountability partner. I've seen you in the gym working out a bunch. And I like what you're doing. I like what you're about. And maybe you already have people in the gym that you loosely talk to. I know I do for sure. Absolutely. I'm positive. They would be like, Hey, if you were like, Hey, you want to get a workout in some time, as long as like, they'd actually like you and they don't like, like there's people that would ask me the gym if I wanted to work out with them, where I'd be like, I'm probably not. But then there's people that I probably would work out with. And so it really just comes down to like, yeah, the consistency, accountability, and then and finding that balance and really trying to focus on things that are going to drive results over time. Like I think the people that get in the mindset of getting results and now getting results fast, getting serious results for this vacation. It's like, I mean, it's good to be in the mindset of wanting to get results. But you also need to make sure that you're doing things that you're going to be able to do for the rest of your life. And, you know, and this is where, you know, people will miss the forest for the trees. When, when you are so focused on this like short term goal, like I want to lose, you know, a few counts for this vacation. It's like, this is where we run into like yo-yoing. Yeah. And where you're constantly gaining and losing weight, which will ruin your metabolism, by the way. Yeah. You're so much better off focusing on changing your habits. It's like, yes, I understand that maybe you want to lose that weight for that vacation. But as soon as you come back, like probably as soon as you get on that vacation, you're going to go back to eating the way you always have. And all of that weight is going to come back. And then you're going to come back and you will have gained the weight that you worked so hard to deprive yourself for however long you did to lose it. Also, also good habits will drive results for that vacation. Like if you're, if you're focusing on the proper methods, you're, you're still going to lose weight, probably just as fast or get in shape just as fast. But then like you said, when you're back, you're not going to rebound like crazy. And chances are you will, most all of us will gain a little bit of weight on vacation. And that's just part of it. It's okay. But, but, you know, it's the difference between maybe gaining, you know, a pound or two versus, you know, five or 10. Well, and then, and then continuing to gain weight long after because you just want when you come back from your vacation, never get back to it because that was, that was, that was too brutal. That, that two weeks of dieting was so brutal that you could never do that for the rest of your life. Well, that's just creating a worse and worse relationship with your personal health, with a worse relationship with food or worse relationship with your diet. And so if you start doing things that are actually beneficial to your body that actually feel good, that are actually sustainable. And now I was, then you go, well, during that two weeks, I lost seven pounds and it wasn't that bad. It was kind of nice. And generally people aren't going to be able to figure that out on their own. And that's why I always like you said that you're biased to V shred. I obviously very biased to V shred, but regardless of whether it's working with one of our coaches or working with a coach at your local gym or working with somebody else that you follow on social media, having somebody that can get you started in the right direction and answer questions for you along the way, make adjustments for you along the way is probably the biggest game changer somebody could have when it comes to getting in shape, especially in the beginning. And I would, I would say I'd like to kind of leave off with this is one of the most important things about changing your habits is that's going to change your lifestyle. We're talking about quality of life. What good is quantity of life and taking all of those drugs if you feel like shit and you can't do anything? What good is that? So when you focus on the healthy habits and you start wherever you are, I have clients who start this in their 20s. I have clients who started in their 60s, even 70s. It's like you still have life to live and by making the healthier choices and by building the healthy habits, that's going to take you on to where you realistically, within reason, can do whatever you want. You want to go on a trip and be able to walk up and down the stairs. You want to be able to get on the floor and play with your grandkids. You want to be able to walk your dog. You want to be able to, you know, walk by yourself down the aisle at your grandkids wedding. There are so many things that, you know, when you are younger, you don't think about, we take for granted where we are that we can get up and down off the floor. We take it for granted that, you know, I could go outside and I could run a couple of miles. It would suck because I don't like to run, but I could do it. And this is because of the choices I've made for where I am now. And it's not too late wherever you are to start doing that. And so it's not just about losing weight now or improving your health now, but it's where do you want to be in five years, 10 years, 20 years? Think about the things that you see other people doing, you know, you look at some of the older people around you and you're like, man, I don't want to do that. You know, I have a couple of clients who are both in their 60s, a husband and wife that I train. And, you know, I don't train them the same way I do when I've got people in their 20s and 30s. But you know what, these people, they literally just came back from a two week trip in Greece where they hiked and walked the whole time. And they talk about, like they go on these group trips and there's several other people kind of in their age that go with them. And they end up having to like sit out because they don't have the stamina to walk around. You know, or because they take all of these medications, they just feel kind of lousy and they only have so much energy. Whereas my clients, they have made a habit. It has been a lifestyle for them. They eat relatively well. It's not perfect. And they are consistent with their workouts, which aren't super hard core, but challenging and able to keep them going. But it allows them to have the quality of life that I think all of us, what we all want by the time we're that age, to be able to go around the world and to hike and to see all of the amazing things that this world has to offer to be able to play with their grandkids. They keep their grandkids for like a week at a time and do like grandparents can't. And they do that because they can. And walk their dogs, they walk their goats. They have an incredible life. And a big part of it is because they have taken good care of themselves and they've been intentional with their health for so long that, you know, it's like that's the quality of life I want. And people need to get started now for that too many times. Like we work with Dr. Drew closely, obviously, and he talks all the time about how he's always treating people in response to serious medical conditions. And by that time, it's impossible to be proactive about it. You have to rely on medications at that point. So if you're not that to that point yet, it's time to be proactive about this so that you don't get to that point when you're 15. You're not on blood pressure medicine and you're not pre-diabetic, or maybe you're already pre-diabetic and it's really time to get taken care of this like right now. And so, yeah, love, love all that. But we are, this is a pretty long episode, but I think we went over so much good stuff. And so I'm going to cut us off here. And for anybody listening, we have a ton of other episodes and we have another episode coming out with Barbie. And also, if you guys want to work with Barbie, we have coaching options where you guys can sign up here with us at VShred and then you can specifically request to work with her. So if you guys want to check that out or if you guys just want to work with a coach in general and you like what we're about, there should be a link somewhere around. Click that link and then just fill out the questionnaire and you'll get a coach assigned to you. And then you can start with like what we said, getting that beginning of your plan figured out so that you know that you're on the right track. The confidence that you get knowing that you're on the right path in the beginning is, it makes a night or day difference than if you do it yourself and then second guess yourself the whole time. So, yeah, check that out if you guys want. Check out the rest of the podcast. Subscribe to the podcast. But Barbie, thank you for being here. I think this is a really good informational episode and I appreciate it here and all your insight. Thank you for having me. Thanks for tuning in to today's episode of VShred's Better Body Better Life podcast. Whether you're doing one of our programs, taking our supplements, or just doing things on your own, tune in every week for exclusive content with Vince, VShred trainers and special guests as they share valuable tips around motivation, workout, food and living a healthier lifestyle. See you next time.