 custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom custom and inspiring. What's going on, everyone? Welcome back to another episode of the Better Body, Better Life podcast. I'm your host, Vince, and today we are welcomed with another guest that we just had on. If you guys missed the last episode where we talked all about mobility versus muscle building, we have Dr. Zaki here, a good friend of mine, physical therapist, treats all my injuries, makes me actually be able to work out all the time. Welcome back. Thank you so much. Thanks for having me again. Yeah. So just as we did last time, tell everybody why we should trust everything you're about to say. Well, don't trust everything I say. Take everything with a grain of salt. But I'm a doctor of physical therapy. I graduated in 2015. Afterwards, did some extra training, did a residency, did a fellowship to kind of gain that extra bit. Came back to Vegas, started my own practice where now we specialize in working with only active adults and athletes, people that go to the gym, they run, they climb, they do yoga. And that ended up becoming a place where we end up seeing a lot of professional athletes now. So we're kind of the go-to spot in town for professional athletes to rehab. Not even in town. You got people from all over. Yeah. We got NFL teams around the country that get us to rehab their guys, depending on if they're, you know, if they're around the area. So, so yeah, we've kind of become that place. And I feel like we've, we've become that place because we provide a level of service and a level of knowledge that allows people to get better somewhat faster and provide a concierge level of service. And also provide a coach in that person's corner that's with them throughout the entire process and has a very wide range of information. So I built that practice up. Now I do some more online mentoring, online, online work as well. So I'm just kind of trying to spread more good information and allow people to feel better regardless of where they are on the planet. Yeah. And, and you're actually now kind of moving more into Zach. He's the Zach. He's still good at physical therapy that he teaches other physical therapists, how to be good at physical therapy. That's kind of where his, his practice has not, I wouldn't say has taken you because you still do work with clients one-on-one. Um, I'd say your level of clients is a bit higher level than a typical physical therapist. Um, but no, I mean, one of the reasons that I said this on the last episode, one of the reasons that I love coming to you is because you're all about evidence. You're all, if it's, if it's not evidence-based, you don't preach it. Right. Right. And you'll, maybe you'll try stuff to see like if it works for you, if it works for that client, but, um, you're generally looking for something that has shown that it's worked in literature. Right. And I love that. And there's different, different levels of evidence too, right? You can, you can utilize evidence. Uh, that's like a peer reviewed study of an actual experiment done where the compared group a versus group B, you can have evidence that is more theory based. That's like, Hey, based on this scientific knowledge, we have about basic principles of physics of biomechanics. We can, you know, assume this to be true. And then we can actually do a scientific method in the clinic where I can have you like, you know, check a test on you, say your shoulder motion. I can have you do an exercise and then recheck your shoulder motion. And that's basically me doing my own little experiment. So there is different levels of evidence. Um, obviously there's more bias in that than there is in a peer reviewed study. But, uh, I think when you're, uh, I think evidence is a great place to start. Literature is a great place to start, but really understanding how to consume information and criticize it the right way and scrutinize it the right way is going to be, um, the way most of us gain good information. Yeah. Yeah. And so getting into today's subject, we're going to be talking all about, um, exercise selection, which I think is a huge piece of the puzzle for a lot of people, especially we're going to be talking about it as you age. Um, and then also volume. Yeah. And I think those are two things that have changed for me drastically, especially since coming to you. Um, and just also as I've aged, I'm an old 30 now and I feel about 45. Um, but no, I actually feel really good. And whenever I have an injury, the first thing I'm doing, I'm texting Zach. It's funny. Like I'll like, I had that snowboarding injury and I like FaceTimed him and me or I texted him immediately and I'm freaking out. I'm like, bro, my, my bone is sticking out of my shoulder right now. He FaceTimes me. He's like, looks like a grade three AC joints dislocate or, uh, dislocation. And I'm like, okay, I don't know what that means. Uh, is that bad? He's like walking me through it and then I go and get an x-ray. It's a grade three AC joint dislocation. I'm like, okay. So that's why I call him the magician because he just, he knows everything and he's very good at what he does. And so, yeah, I want to talk about exercise selection and volume as you age and how it changes. And so first I just want you to start with how your exercise selection and volume has changed. I think you might be a little bit different than normal person just because of your, your brain. Um, and also a lot of things that you talk about are, it's all very goal-based and so yours might be changing based on goals rather. And I feel like you're probably good at doing what you should be doing most of the time compared to the average human. But how in your journey has your exercise selection and volume changed? So in my journey specifically, um, as I'm getting older, I'm entering that part of my life where now I'm married. Now I have a kid, a little boy that's three and a half and another little boy we just had six months ago. So my responsibilities are changing a little bit. I also run a practice. I also, I'm starting an online business also another practice, another practice in Michigan that we're opening up also have a, you know, med spa that's opening up next year. A lot, a lot of things kind of going on. Right. And so what I'm limited with now is time, right? So as I'm getting older, um, what I've realized more and more and what the science kind of tells us about age is that it's not necessarily your actual number of your age, just getting higher and higher. That's changing the way your body feels. It's more so your activity levels changing and your responsibilities changing. Right. Um, because I've realized I have 50, 60, 70 year old people that are running marathons that are doing powerlifting meets that are doing CrossFit events and feeling good with it and performing well with it. So, um, age is something that can definitely have some effects, but not the effects that we think they have. Right. And so the way my life has kind of changed is now the volume of my exercise has gone down, right. But the intensity has stayed high, right. For the smaller volume that I'm doing, the intensity is up where I am doing, uh, you know, if I'm lifting, I'm lifting fairly heavily, right. For, for that short amount of volume. If I'm jumping and I'm, and I'm running, I am sprinting or a maximal jumping. And then I'll have some like extensive work was like plyometric work, which is like hopping, bounding, things like that are a little more sub maximal. But if I only have a little bit of time at the age I'm at, I need to make sure I need to keep up my maximal capabilities because that's what comes down the fastest as you get older is your maximum capabilities. Right. Our mid range capabilities generally stick around a little longer, but statistically we're shown that after you turn 30, you most 90% of people never sprint again after they turn 30. That's crazy. So then when you watch these viral videos go crazy about like people do the 40 yard dash to pick their fantasy. Yeah. Pull a hamstring. Every single one of them pulls a hamstring because that hamstring has never been lengthened that fast or put that much force through in decades. And now they're asking it to do it. Right. So I think people underestimate the forces that can go on your body. Like if I'm sprinting, I can put seven to 10 times my body weight amount of force through specific muscle groups. When's the last time you expose your body to that? Yeah. Right. So you have to understand that. So that's where my mind's kind of changed. I want to make sure my top end stays my top end. And even with some of my NFL athletes in the offseason, you have to hit top speed at least one time a week to maintain your top speed. Even when you're on a deload, even when you're like resting or trying to build up, you need to hit it at least one time a week. If you want to build, probably want to hit it more often than one time a week, but you need to hit top speed at least one time a week to maintain your top speed. And that's even for these NFL athletes that have everything at their disposal, the best nutrition, the best recovery, the best strength conditioning coaches, all that stuff. So, so as you age, the, my, my goal is to keep my top end stuff as, as top end as I possibly can. Okay. And then has your, has the type of workouts that you do now, has that always been like that? The exercise type of exercises you've been doing? Cause I know like since I've been seeing you and since like just certain injuries, I think at least for me, certain injuries has caused me to, uh, branch out into other stuff generally prescribed prescribed by you. Um, but would you say that you're in the same boat where as you've aged your, your types, your exercise selection is changing pretty drastically and you do much different stuff now that you would not have done when you were 20? A hundred percent. I think when I was 20, um, I was just learning really. Like I was, I was exploring different movements. I was doing what I was in the muscle and fitness magazines. I was doing what was on all these places. And, and like, that's where you learn. And that that's where access, in my opinion, the social age, uh, or the social media is really got popularized. It was internet sites like teenation.com and stuff like that, where we used to go in the forums and, and everything's on there about looking, looking better. Right. And what they discounted and what they kind of avoided was talking about how to move better, how to perform better. So, um, as, as I've gotten older, my goal is performance more than aesthetics. Yeah. And the funny thing is like when you chase aesthetics, the amount of performance that comes with it is not very much. You actually have a little bit of decrease in performance and you're only chasing aesthetics. I'd say a lot of decrease in performance. And think, cause think about like your top level bodybuilders. They don't move very well. Right. They can squeeze really hard, but they can't really relax as much as the athlete needs to. But then when you're chasing performance, you get some pretty decent aesthetics that come with it. Like think of like a sprinter, think of like Olympic weightlifter, right? They're moving more performance, but they're jacked, man. Like they're moving things fast. And I, and I think that, um, people discount that people think that for, because bodybuilding is really what popularized exercise and like how to really lift weights. But we were just talking about this earlier. Like if, if your goal is not to get on stage in a, in a speedo and oil yourself up and pose in front of people, like, why are you lifting like a bodybuilder? Right. You should be training like someone that has different goals. Cause you do have different goals. Right. And, and, and yeah. And it like, for me specifically, I do still like looking aesthetic. I like having a good physique, but I also know the importance now of my body being able to move and injury prevention and also just feeling good. Like when I walk down the stairs, I don't like my knees hurting. You know, when I get out of bed, I don't like pulling at my low back because it's kind of hurting a little bit and needing to, if I'm standing for too long, having to stretch it out every 10 minutes, you know, that I've been in that boat before and it's not fun. And, and the difference in how you look might be a little, my, like, it's very minuscule. I'd say like when I looked my absolute best, I was probably way less, uh, mobile than I am when I looked slightly worse. Exactly. You know, exactly. Yeah. I think that that's a great way to put it because there's, there is always going to be a trade-off, but in general, from what I've seen, the trade-off towards aesthetics only is usually, like you said, a lot bigger of a sacrifice in my mobility versus the other side. But the funny thing is if you attack it, understanding this stuff, maybe even at the start of your journey, like at the start of, like, even if you're getting into this at age 35, right? If you're starting this at age 35 and you're, and you're getting into exercising and wanting to hit these different goals and you have a performance, mobility and aesthetic mindset going into it. Um, a lot of these things that you think aging is going to do to you probably won't do because you're able to reverse the effects. And I don't like using that term a lot because the effects of aging are a lot slower than you think. Um, but we can speed them up or slow them down even further, depending on my activity level, depending on my sleep, depending on my stress, depending on my nutrition. A lot of these things can change our aging process. Yeah. No. And I love what you say about aging. It's not that age that's doing it to you. It's what you're doing as you age that's causing you to feel worse, to get fat, to be foggy headed, you know? And so I like that you brought up, like if somebody starts working out at 35 and so I was going to ask you, um, age related question, what age do you typically start seeing people needing to adjust their routine? Yeah. So, so this is, this is both age related, uh, stage in their life related. And then also, um, uh, injury related. So age related wise, I think typically I see around like the 30 years old and not because 30 is some magic number. I think 30 relates to the other two things where, you know, I've had somewhat of a, like a couple of significant level of injury in my life, whether it's like strain, my low back, sprain, my ankle, some shoulder pain, whatever. If you've pushed yourself enough in the gym or playing basketball, whatever you're doing, especially when you grow up an idiot in the gym, right? Right. From 15 years old to 25 years old, you're just lifting like a dipshit. Yeah. And the point that you're going to eventually have some kind of injury, but I would much rather someone push themselves in the gym and have some shoulder pain, some back pain, then then sit on the couch and get diabetes or heart issues. Right. So it's, it's a trade off there too, but one I would take every day. And the other thing I would say is like, it's, it's depending on the stage of your life. Some people get married at 22 and start having kids at 23. Like at that point, this stage of your life is different. So, so now their responsibilities are different. Their stress levels are different. Their sleep is different. And that can quote unquote, age you faster. Right. Cause stress is something that can age you faster. They've actually like, it's, it's interesting to look at. And I don't think there's like a lot of studies done on it, but there's a reason why a lot of these like inner city schools that are maybe are not in the greatest areas, their sports teams generally do better in basketball and football and more athletic type programs is because these kids that are in these programs are aging faster and they're at an older level at 13 than the kids that have grown up with not a lot of stressors in their life. Cause stress ages you faster. Right. So, so these kids have, have gone through hardships that other kids will never see. Right. So you, I bet you've seen this, like when you've played volleyball, going up, you go to play a school night, this kid's not 16, that's a 30 year old man right there. Right. So you see that and it's because of the life they've lived that's aged them like that. And it can give them, it can give some beneficial qualities of like muscle build. You got these big cap delts at 15. You're like, who the hell is this guy? He got gray facial hair. Right. So you see these things happen and you have to wonder why. And a lot of times it's because of the stresses they've been put through. So it can, it can, it can age you faster. So I think there's, there's a, you know, a birth certificate related age everybody has, but also like a biological age you have that can have some positives as you get older and some negatives as you get older. So depending on where you are with that will dictate, Hey, what level do I need to change my exercise? How would you test your biological age? Do you think? That's an interesting question. I don't have an answer for that because, because there's no, there there's brain age, right? So there's a, it's funny when I, my, we were younger, we had this little Nintendo DS game that used to have you do like IQ tests and stuff that would give you a brain age. Um, and that's not like a, like a scientifically studied thing, but I think how quickly you can process information will give you brain age, right. And ability to stay sharp there. Um, when it comes to biological age, I think realistically, the best way to check it is, is, um, uh, a couple of different ways. One, like in the morning when you wake up, like, how do you feel? What's your energy levels like, right? Are you starting to get a decrease in libido? Are you starting to get a decrease in energy, mental fatigue, mental fog sooner than normal? Are you feeling old, right? You can't really put a specific number on it, but there are effects that all of us feel. And like, I would almost, um, I would almost put those stresses and those effects kind of feeling like you're sick all the time, right? You're not, might not have an infection. You might not have a runny nose, those things, but the body aches and like the fatigue, you get heaviness, you feel in your body as you get up. That's because when you're sick, your body's fighting an infection. It's under a lot of stress. Those signs are put on your body to give you an idea. Hey, chill out a little bit, right? Make, or at least change something, right? Change something in your life while this is going on, right? So when these stresses and these symptoms come on of pain or immobility, usually it's your body's way of telling you, Hey, you need to make a change, dude, whether it's eating better, sleeping better, moving better, uh, training better. It's, it's usually a sign of change. So I don't think there's a way of measuring biological age, but there is signs and symptoms you should be on the lookout for to understand, Hey, I'm not doing what I can to maximize my body's potential. Yeah. And then that's a great place for a little cross promotion. If you guys didn't listen to our last episode, we talked about, uh, mobility versus muscle building. I think that goes right in line with that because whenever I've felt my worst, it's because I've had a lack of mobility. Yeah. It's, I've never really been in this scenario where like I'm eating like crap all the time or I'm super sedentary. That's just not who I've ever been really. Um, but I have gone through phases of power lifting and then phases of getting super mobile and super flexible. Yeah. And I always feel better when I'm super mobile. And even sometimes when I'm lifting super heavy and I'm like trying to, I'm, I'm, I'm dead lifting 500 pounds and squatting 400 pounds. It's like, even then I might not be looking my best because I'm trying to get my calories in and I'm kind of looking just soft and bulky versus like, and so like, but there are times when that extra muscle definitely helps like muscles, like a super metabolically active tissue, you know, uh, it's an organ. Um, and so, but when I have that mobility side, I'm also still looking good. And I have, I usually have a better diversity of training where it comes to strength, where it comes to mobility, where it comes to endurance. And so like, I'm all like right now I'm probably the healthiest I've ever been at the oldest I've ever been. You know, that's because I've gotten very intentional with what my training looks like. Yeah. And a lot of that has been driven by experiencing injuries. And so those injuries have caused me, have driven me, motivated me to actually spend 15, 20 minutes before every single workout to warm up the right areas of my body so that I'm actually prepared to lift this weight. Uh, my heart health is probably better than it ever has been because I'm actually taking my endurance seriously. And so, yeah, I think, um, as you age, there's, I don't like, like you said, I don't think there's a specific age. I think it's really going to come down to like how you feel. Yeah. And then you have to make an adjustment based off of that. Yeah. Do you agree? Yeah. And basically you just detailed in your own life, how you did exactly what we just talked about, you know, the injuries you go through, um, the, the lifestyle changes you go through shape you as you are as a human being. Right. And I think that everybody has different circumstances. So everybody's training should look different because everybody is different. And to use, uh, something like age as either a reason to, to do something or an excuse not to do something, I think is a little short sighted. And I think it should be based on what your body has done. And because at the end of the day, I think as we talk more into like the generals, I see into exercise selection, as you get older, understand this, that movement preparedness will Trump move movement selection almost any day of the week, right? Being prepared for a movement will allow you to be more ready for that movement than having quote unquote perfect form. Yeah. Right. I've seen people get off the couch and not run in a really long time, start running, have perfect form with running and not feel very good. Right. But I've seen people with not great running form, but they've been running 20 miles a week for their, you know, for the past 10 years. And they feel pretty good with that form because their body has built a resilience with that pattern. Now, could there be ways to improve their performance by improving efficiency? Sure. But when it comes to like that painful feeling, we get in that old feeling we get generally, that's just a inadequate preparation, not an inadequate movement selection, right? Because almost anything, as long as you have, you know, blood in your heart and your veins, you have air in your lungs, like your body will adapt to things you do, whether it's positively or negatively. But at the end of the day, we can't discount the amount of time it takes for adaptation, right? You guys don't sell 12 day muscle building programs. You just got to do 90 days or longer because it takes time to build muscle. It takes time to make change. So that's the other thing we need to think about is you didn't just get in the position you are feeling old overnight, right? You might've felt it today, but it's been a collection of your choices over the past years and years and years that have led you to feeling like this. Do you think just one change is going to make you feel better? No, you need to make a big change. No, that's a, that's one of the, my like go-tos when people are like asking about results. Cause it's the same thing when it comes, it's really the same thing when it comes to anything. If you've spent a certain amount of time getting to where you are, it's probably going to take, I don't want to say a certain amount of time as it took you to get there to get back, right, right. But you have to understand that there is a certain amount of time that you have to be patient through where if I've spent, like, if I spent five, 10 years of my life lifting kind of wrong, hurting my back, hurting my shoulders, like wearing down at certain joints. Yeah, it's, it's going to take some time to build the resilience back up, especially if I'm not doing it as much as I should be doing it and stop when I start feeling a little bit better. But, um, I, but I think that another point to bring up about that is that, um, I think that's what you guys do very well, right? Cause easy way to make people more patient is give them an experience. Don't give them a task, right? So, so instead of just being like, Oh, this is what you're going to do today. It's like, well, this is what you're going to do, but this is why you're doing it. This is how you're doing it. This is how I'm going to support you. Now you're creating an experience, create experience, build patience. There's a reason why people stand in line for a ride at Disneyland for three hours at a time because the experience, the magic of the, of the place. Right. Um, and otherwise they wouldn't do that. They would never wait three hours in line. Rides aren't that good. They're not that great. They're just, they're 35 to 60 seconds of a little bit of fun. Are they worth a three hour trade off to most people? No, but they're at Disneyland. They do it all the time. Right. So if you can create an experience and this is whether you're working with a coach or not, I would almost recommend always working with a coach when you're first getting into things or when you really have a high level goal. Yeah. But otherwise, like if you're in a place where, uh, you're trying to make a habit change in your own life, you need to make an experience for yourself. You can't just be like, Oh, I have to just do this because I have to do this. It's like, you know, you have to create an experience for yourself a little bit. Like if I'm say, this is a kind of a gross example, but say, I haven't never brushed my teeth in my life. Right. And I want to get into it because my teeth are falling out. My, everyone's recommending me for me to do it. And like, it's just like, Oh, you just have to brush your teeth. I'm like, but I've never done it. Like I might have anxieties about it, whatever. Like I would buy the best toothpaste I possibly, the best tasting toothpaste. I would get the best brush I could possibly get because now I'm like, Oh, this is an experience. Now I've created something in my mind that I've had so many mental barriers against starting and I've made it the easiest for me to get started. And that's where I feel like working with a coach helps so much. I think that's good. And then also on the other side of it, you want to make things that you need to do easier and you want to make things that you shouldn't do harder. Yes, absolutely. A hundred percent. I think, yeah, create creating barriers where they need to be created is really important. I think it's just, it's just like when you have to like, you know, once you get married and you move out of the house, you need to create boundaries with your parents, not to show up at your house all day. Right. Cause it's something that, uh, well, the right, the type of parents that you have, right. I don't know, but like you need to create boundaries with your social circle about things you can do with things you can't do the same way you should create boundaries with yourself with habits, right? Boundaries are just as important as allowing yourself to do things. And I think whether it's like diet, right? I know for myself, like, dude, I, I have a crazy sweet tooth. Like I had one time where my friend left a box of Reese's piece. And I'm like, Hey, are you sure you don't want any? He's like, Oh, you're not going to eat all of it came down 15 minutes later. The whole box is gone. He's like, I'm like, I'll buy you another one, dude. I'm sorry. But it's just one of those things for me. I don't buy those things in my house. Right. If they're not there, I don't think about that, but if I buy them, they're gone, dude. So I understand that about myself. I want to make it harder for me to eat that, eat that quote unquote bad food. Like some of it sometimes is okay. Like, but not be gluttonous with it, but I understand my tendency. So understanding who you are as a person, as you get older and gives you, it gives you the luxury of time to understand yourself, but you have to be, you have to be intentional about it. You have to understand who you are, not just look at it. Oh, that was a one-off thing, but you've done it the last 10 times you tried working out. Right. So look at it as a pattern. Don't look at it. You have to be a little less defensive about your own criticism of yourself to be able to actually make a change. Yeah. That was funny. I do have a sweet tooth, but like I do have also terrible food around me all the time. I'm just luckily not a snacker. Yeah. And I don't know if that's been by this. I don't know if that's been like a conscious decision that I've made over the years, like to get good at being, not making a habit out of snacking, but I do have a crazy sweet tooth. My thing is when I first get the taste of it, then I can't stop. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I don't have the taste of it. I don't really have Pringles effect. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. So that's, that's the thing. That's the thing that I have to look out for. Like if, if my assistant makes cookies or something like that, like they, I want them all the time, but until I take that first bite, I'm not driven to eat the rest of them. But the second I taste that, they're gone. Yeah. Yeah. I'm kind of the same way, but I don't, I don't know what it's driven by. And honestly, like, I don't, I'm not, I don't think I have the qualifications to find out what that's driven by probably have to see a therapist or something. But, but I understand it about myself and I can avoid it if I do the right things. Yes. Just being in tune with yourself and making adjustments to your routine, what you have around you is like you said, making it easier to do the hard stuff and making it harder to do the easy stuff. That's just going to make everything work more smoothly. And it's going to build that inner resilience that you have. It's like, it's like with cold plunges, like cold plunges suck. They're really hard, but the better you get at doing them, the better you get at doing hard stuff. Absolutely. And so the water never gets warmer. It just gets easier for you to do hard stuff. Right. So I think that's the thing is like the weights are not going to get lighter, but you're lifting heavier and it feels better, right? Because you've given yourself the mental capabilities and the, and the understanding of who you are as a person that you need to challenge yourself to grow. You can't be put in a position where everything is easy and that you expecting to grow in any world, whether it's like your finances, whether it's your, your physical body, whether it's your body composition, whether it's your intelligence, if you don't stress yourself enough, it's not going to grow. Yeah. And then kind of bridging off of that with that stress comes the necessity of recovery and rest. Yes. What is your take on the amount of recovery, the amount of rest you need as you get older? Does it increase? Does it stay the same, but it's lifestyle factors that make it change. So it's not really age related, but it's what you're doing or that. I know you talked a lot about that and I love that, but how would you say that the recovery time changes generally as people get older? So, so one thing I would do before we get into this is, um, I would change the mindset of recovery into adaptation, meaning that you're not recovering, you're adapting, right? You're, you're adapting. Cause like recovery would mean I get better and I get back to the same spot, but we know when we lift and we can do some muscle damage, we do some things and our muscle grows, we're actually getting past where we were. I'm getting stronger. Right? Like, and that's where I have a, and that's where I don't like the term wear and tear because like cars get wear and tear because they're not living biological human organisms that can actually adapt and change. So when you're, if your doctor's comparing you to a car saying, Hey, you're a wear and tear, your tires can only go so much run the hell the other way because it's not the right mentality to have. So that's the first thing is I would say, change it to adaptation and not recovery. Now, as you get older, you absolutely do need a little longer time to adapt because you have hormonal changes because you have stress related changes because you have responsibility changes that require you to not put everything into that adaptation, right? Like when I was younger and I was playing basketball and say in high school, only responsibilities I had was, you know, go to school, do my homework, play basketball. My parents took care of everything else. I had like a little bit of a side job once in a while, but it wasn't like I was working to survive. I was working to get some extra, maybe buy a pair of basketball shoes, whatever. And everyone's circumstances a little different. So depending on your circumstances, your recovery can get longer or shorter, but your adaptation. And as you get older, generally with the decrease in testosterone, changing hormones, generally the adaptation takes a little bit longer. But if you keep up with your activities, you don't have as long of a break in between like, Hey, I took like a, you know, five-year break from lifting and five-year break from exercising that will lessen those effects of adaptation. Cause you've never had to unadapt and then readapt. You've stayed around that adaptation level the entire time. So that will allow you to maintain that throughout your lifestyle is not having those huge drops in activity level. Yeah. And do you think it's the same? Like you said, you used an example of five years off. Do you think it's the same if someone takes three months off? I think with three months off, there is some D training, obviously to a little less effect of five years, but there is some D training. You're going to lose some strength. You're going to lose some muscle strength usually goes first. Muscle usually takes a little bit longer, but you will definitely feel like goes next day. Pretty because a lot of noise is neurological, right? There's a reason why there's 140 pound guys out there, powerless and that can deadlift 600 pounds. Yeah. It's not because they have as much, much muscle tissue as you is because the neurological drive to those muscles and the patterning they've built and maybe they're way more efficient. Yeah. More efficient with longer arms are built for it. Right. So, uh, I don't know if you guys ever seen Lamar Gant, but he's the first guy that I think he did, uh, four times, four to five times his body weight of a deadlift. He, first of all, he had scoliosis. That's the funny thing about it. Like he, his body wasn't like critical built for lifting, but he had arms down to his shins, dude. It was crazy, but super strong as well. But some people are built for certain things. Right. And, um, I think at the end of the day, understanding what you're built for, understanding what movements over your lifestyle, like have generally done well for you and not trying to fit yourself in a box you're not built for is going to be another thing that aging is going to help us with because I have more time to understand what movements I do well with. Yeah. But I have to be aware of those and be intentional about them throughout the, throughout this time. Right. If I find myself getting hurt all the time and I can't figure it out, but my program has never changed. I'm always doing heavy back squats and I'm not saying back squats are bad. All I'm saying is that maybe for that person. Right. And they never figured out that specific point in time, point in time in their life. Right. So, so I think everything requires context and, but you have to be aware to build context, right? Like if I'm studying for an exam and I just, I just keep reading the same page over and it's not sticking, not sticking, not sticking. But then I make context of like, okay, I read this sentence. I understand this maybe biological principle I'm trying to study. And then I make a correlation to something that happened in my life. I'm going to have a lot easier time remembering this and making an effect with this knowledge. Right. Yes. Same thing happens with working out when you're working out, be in tune with your body. Don't just go through the motions. Try to understand why your body moves the way it does. Try to understand why it feels the way it does and watch how much better and more confidence you go into the gym with. When you understand those things. Yeah. The correlation thing is, I think is huge because like anytime I'm trying to remember anything, whether it's a number, whether it's a, an airport gate, the airport gate is D4 or whatever. I'm, I'm immediately trying to find a word that I can associate D with. So it's going to be dog. And then four, what does four relate to in my life? Um, honestly, I can't think of anything off the top of my head, but there's going to be something in my life that I'm going to relate for two and it's going to make me room. And then when I go back to remember the gate, I'm going to go, Oh, that was dog four. Right, right, right. And I'm going to remember it better than just trying to remember these, this, this letter in this number. Absolutely. So the correlation I think is huge. What would, and then when it comes to that exercise selection, um, what do you think, what exercises do you think become less suitable as we age? Or do you think there are any, I think, I think like that's all context driven, but if I was going to speak in generalities and not like putting everybody in the same box in general, what I see because of, uh, of folks as they get older, generally spend a little more time sitting, a little more time inactive, uh, a little more stressors, uh, things that generally tax the whole central nervous system is tougher and tougher for your body to adapt to as you get older, as you get older. For example, I can take 400 pounds. I can put it on back of my shoulders and do a back squat. Now I understand that's giving me spinal load. It's also giving me complete whole body kind of compression, loading my body up in that, up in that space. Right. I can take the same 400 pounds, put it around a belt around my waist, into a belt squat and put the same amount of load on my legs, recover and adapt a lot quicker to that versus the back squat, because the back squat has a lot more central nervous system adaptation. It's also one of those things that is pushing me into this compressed position of my chest forward, um, which is not a bad thing. It's just generally what I see more and more people get biased generally what you need the opposite opposite of that's what you get a lot of. Yeah. Especially as a lifter. And so, so I see, I've seen, um, people do pretty positively by, by kind of being more in tune with how much they're loading their spine versus not loading the spine. The spine is meant to move. And if you're only loading the spine and not training it to move through all different ranges of motion, you're usually going to miss out on the movement aspect and only create a stiffer spine. Yeah. Right. Which some people want a stiff spine. Powerlifters need a stiff spine. Right. So like I said, everything is context. Nothing is inherently bad. But in general, if you can focus on bringing more, uh, athletic type movements and more split stances, more asymmetrical type movements, and then also, uh, maybe be more in tune with how much you're loading your spine and say you want to load your glutes, right. And your hamstrings, and you want to do posterior chain work. Um, and the only way you're doing it so far is with a barbell deadlift, right? There's other ways to do it very, very well. Sprinting loads the posterior chain very, very heavily. Step ups loads the posterior chain very, very nicely. Uh, like a kickstand RDL kind of single leg hinge loads it, especially if you understand positions loads it very nicely. Right. So, um, you understand you have options, right? We've been taught to believe that there's really good every, like, you know, squatting is the king of leg exercises, right? Which we always need to squat. We throughout our life, we'll have to squat, whether split squat, getting off of a, you know, low, low chair, getting on the toilet, we have to squat, but it doesn't mean you have to back squat all the time. You can do a searcher squat. You can do a front squat. You can do a goblet squat. Do what feels right to you and it helps you get closer to your goals. Nice. Cause I was going to ask next when it comes to those three main lifts that are super beneficial because bench press is going to be one of the better exercises for upper body. Yeah. Squats going to be one for lower body deadlifts going to be for a really full body. Yeah. When it comes to those three lifts, how, how do you approach changing those or, or just compound lifts in general? How do you approach changing those for someone as they're getting older, someone hits 40? Right. What I would say, like, like we talked about at the beginning is I would make sure you, make sure you do them at least at a level where you have, uh, like near maximal strength to, so like above 80 to 85% of your one or at max, uh, weight and like push it for five reps, right? Because I don't want to, as I'm aging, I don't want to lose my top end strength. That's where I would probably utilize those things the most is decrease the volume of it and keep the intensity high. Right. So I can make sure I have that maximum force production that's required, because as you age, um, a big, and this is, this is not like 30, 35, this is more up to like the 65, 70 year range. Um, you start losing some balance. You start losing, you have a higher risk of falls and stuff. And it's been shown the more power capability you have in your legs, the less risk of falls you have as you get older. Right. So, so you want to make sure. Dr. Drew talks about that a lot. Yeah. You want to make sure you keep that strength up, right? So that's the way you keep it up is you expose yourself to those things, but understand you're not going to be able to most likely in general, not going to be able to adapt to the level of volume as you get older, as you were when you were younger. Right. Um, now on top of that, what I would probably do is give some variations of those movements because the, a bench press, a squat and a deadlift is just a push, a horizontal push. Um, a back squat is just a squat and a deadlift is just a hinge. Right. So those are the movement patterns we're actually basing it off of. So if you want to stay like performing those movement patterns, well, there's very different ways to do this movement patterns. You don't have to always back squat. You can do a split squat. You can do a single leg squat. You can do a high box step up. There's plenty of ways to load that same pattern, the same muscles in your leg without doing the same pattern over and over. Because what we've noticed, uh, basically throughout all biology is variability is a sign of health, right? For example, um, if your body has shown that you're recovered better, your heart rate variability is higher. Yeah. That's, that's a metric that we've been tracking for a little while now. And what heart rate variability is, is basically the difference in times between heart rates, heartbeats. So say my first heartbeat goes off. My next one goes off a second later. My next one might go off 0.97 seconds later. My next one might go off 1.04 seconds later. So it's a variability between my heartbeats, right? That shows that I'm more recovered. The same with people that run like marathon runners, they might start the race with a heel strike middle of the race. They might change to a midfoot strike and then go back. Yeah. Because they want to dis ability to display stress in different positions and different areas is a very vital thing as you age, right? Um, so what I would say is variability is very, very key as you get older, making sure your body can keep moving in different planes. It can rotate. It can go single leg and go double leg and do these different things. You need exposure to those different things. Now with that variability comes the inability to get really, really good at that one single thing. But what's the reason you're trying to really get good at a back squat? Is it just for the number, right? Or is it to build some, some kind of quantity? If you're trying to build some kind of quality in your body, whether it's leg strength, whether it's movement capabilities, there's probably a better way to do it. Yeah. And then when you touched on, um, lack of intensity, but lower volume, how do people still get good results with that lower volume? So, so volume is very, very correlated to, um, a hypertrophy, right? So, so, but, but it's less than you think. Uh, most studies show that you need to get at least 10 good hard sets of a muscle group to like induce pretty decent amount of hypertrophy in that muscle group. Right. And that's how, and that's once a week, twice a week, it can be spread it however you want. It can be three times a week, three sets, three sets, four sets. It can be, you know, 10 sets one day, whatever it is generally in, in my, uh, experience, I've seen that spreading them out like at least twice a week is the most beneficial way. So you're not annihilating that muscle group and having a couple of days of like really poor movement. They can actually adapt, adapt to it. Yeah. So, so you recover and get smacked. Usually that's what I see. But, uh, but at the end of the day, I think, um, what we want to see is we want to see high intensities and a lower volume, because what we're trying to do when we're trying to work out a muscle is we're trying to recruit as many motor units as we possibly can. A motor unit is a group of muscle fibers and the nerve that goes that muscle fibers that activates it. Okay. So we're trying to recruit those. And what they're based on is called Henneman size principle, meaning that I don't want to pick a pencil off the ground and pick up and use every motor fiber in my body to pick it up. I'm going to go the most efficient route possible. So the only way to recruit all of my muscle fibers is a couple of different ways. I can either lift something till failure, which it's been shown, um, your adapt adaptation capabilities and your recovery capabilities when you're doing higher rep sets is actually harder to recover from that in your, your nervous system recovery is harder to recover versus a heavier set and lower reps, especially if you go to the same RPE. Okay. Okay. But you can, you can lift a failure. That can be another way to kind of, um, recruit as many motor units as possible. You can lift things faster, throw things, jumping, things like that can, can, uh, bring on a lot of motor unit recruitment. The problem with doing things really fast is you don't get enough time under tension because the quick burst and to go away. Right. And there's a risk of injury is higher too. If you move things faster, if you're not prepared, like we've talked about, I think movement preparedness trumps movement selection. So if you're not prepared for it, for anything, you can have a higher risk of injury. Right. Um, and then the last thing would be to lift heavier, right? If I'm lifting 80 to 85% of my one rep max, I'm recruiting those bigger muscle fibers right away because I need it. Right. I need to lift it because without those muscle fibers, I wouldn't be able to move this weight. So those are the three ways to kind of recruit muscle fibers. And as you get older, like I said, adaptation to higher volumes is harder. Um, and moving things faster generally don't have as much time under tension as we need. So the easiest way to keep those, that size and that muscle is going to be to lift heavier things for less volume. And then to talking about when you get over that 40, that 40 hump, um, what common mistakes do you see people making the most when it comes to their selection of exercises and volume when they hit 40 or over? So, so a lot of folks around that 40 start getting like that, that plateau feeling, man, my body hasn't changed in a really long time. So what I need is I need to drive a lot of extra volume, right? I need to just do more, more, more in the gym rather than do different. Yeah. Right. And I think that's the biggest mistake I see is folks, uh, get into the gym and they'll, they just think more is better, but even like any doing too much of even a good thing can hurt you. Like I can get water poisoning if I drink too much water, even though it's the essence of life, right? I need it to survive. But at the end of the day, like you want to put your, like you want to put yourself, uh, kind of looking like you want to almost like astral project out of your body and look at yourself from a different point of view. That's why having a coach is very beneficial because it's so hard to look at yourself differently. When I hurt myself, I go to see one of my therapists. I don't do it myself because I have such a biased view of my body. Right. So these people get to a plateau and they think like, man, I'm doing everything right. I couldn't possibly be doing anything wrong. I just need to do more of it. And then they push more and more and they get under adapted. They get under recovered and they, and their body doesn't change at all. They almost get more tired rather than switching to higher intensity work, lower volume work, and maybe changing up their routine a little bit, maybe doing more frequency, less volume on the one specific day, changing things up that way. I think that's the biggest mistake I see as folks get older with their exercise selection and just their workouts in general is they have a hard time kind of realistically like looking at themselves, accepting, accepting it. So, so accept that, like, you might not know everything about yourself. And if you've gotten to a plateau and you tried the same thing over and over, how is more of the same thing going to get you the goals you're trying to get to? Yeah. It doesn't make a lot of sense until you think about it that way. Well, and people are training in that specific way when they're younger, no problem. Yeah. And then they think that they can still into their 40s, maybe even older than that. And they realize, oh, I haven't done this because that's usually what happens. Somebody will take a break if you've seen the same thing. But even with somebody who hasn't really taken a break, things still do change. Like I haven't taken a break and working out ever. Yeah. You know, I've been lifting since I started when I was 14 years old. But the type of chain training has changed because of what I've been through, because my goals have changed. Yeah. But for somebody who's not like super cognizant of making sure that they're doing it properly, what would you, what would you be your piece of advice to a 40 year old who is bummed out that they can't train like their 20 year old self? Yeah. The piece of advice would be like, realistically be, why do you want to train like your 20 year old self? I think that's the first thing you got to do is ask yourself that question. Why is it? Is there a sense of identity that you've lost? Because you can't train like a 20 year old self? Like, that's usually what it is. And a lot of the like, in terms of like the, after an injury, I'm sure you've experienced this, people have like almost depressive qualities that come on, right? Like you hurt yourself and you go into like a state of depression for a little while you get really bummed. And it's because you kind of lost your identity a little bit, right? Especially with my like professional athletes that come in and they like are out for eight to 10 games in the NFL. They are almost different people. And they're really down in the dumps about it. Cause like this being a football player is their identity. They've built around their entire life, their whole life, right? Guess who's hitting them up for tickets all the time, friends and family. And they're like, oh, are you playing? Are you playing? Like the more questions they get like that, the worse they keep feeling. And it's, and it's really, it's really sad to see because, um, people stop treating them like humans. Right. And at the end of the day, like people will stop treating themselves as humans as they get older. Right. They think that, Hey, I should be like I was 20. I've done something wrong. So that's why I can't train like that. It's like, no, you've just lived your life, right? That's your stages of life are different. So I think really asking yourself, why do I need to train? Like I was 20, right? Do I want to look like I was 20? Um, do I need to go get plastic surgery to get the wrinkles away? Do I need to get do, does there's things that happen as you age that are supposed to happen, right? As trees get bigger, they get more rings on the inside, right? There's things that are happening inside my body that aren't necessarily due to bad things, just aging. Right. Um, so that's the first thing I would ask myself. And then after that, I would say your goals have now changed since now you're 40, right? You may want to move for different reasons, really hammer down your actual goals. And a really like, it's a little morbid, but a really good goal. I have people like a exercise I have people do is the funeral exercise. When they, if they get to this point where they're really kind of down about why they can't train like they're 20, I'm like, okay, pretend we're 30, 40 years in the future, you're at your funeral. Right. Uh, and there's three groups of people, right? There's your friends, there's your family. And then these are coworkers. What do you want them to say about you at your funeral? And you can even limit it to just your physical capabilities. Yeah. I was gonna say that goes way deeper than just physical, but keeping it surface level and be like, what do you want them to say about you? Right. Is, is what you're trying to do at 40 leading you to, to being for them to, to them to say those things about you, about your physical capabilities, right? Do you need them to say, Oh, he was shredded. He was jacked. He trained like he was 20 for his whole life. It's, it's usually not, it's usually like an attachment to that because at that point you felt pretty good. Right. So it's a correlation in your mind. You think I was feeling really good because I was training like that, but realistically your whole life was different. Right. So you need to look at, you need to step back a little bit, zoom out and look at what your life looks like. How not just your, just training wasn't the only thing that changed. It was a lot of different stuff. Yeah. So if you take into account all that stuff, you'll realize, Hey, maybe it's not just me training like that. Maybe I need to change some other things as well. And it'll make your, your mentality of getting around like, okay, maybe I don't need to train. Like I was 20 years old, make it more easier to accept. Yeah. Is there anything that you would have changed when you were younger? Yeah, absolutely. I would have a ton of different stuff. So, so the biggest thing I would have done is I would have rehabbed my ankle injuries different, right? Like I just, you know, sprung right back. Yeah. Or most later, sprained it again, get back, sprained it again. And I would have traded that a little differently, but also I probably wouldn't have done bodybuilding programs. I would have spent more time jumping, spent more time sprinting. And I did a lot of it during basketball practice, during track and field and stuff. But like, I probably would have spent a little more time doing that. And then, um, like, it's so funny. Everyone has this, like, like I see these Instagram posts and stuff about like, imagine you took this pill and you had this same mind. If you got back into like your 15 year old body, like, what would you different? Right. And it's, it's, it's a billionaire. That's what I'm saying. Like I would have bought Bitcoin. I would have, I would have bet on the pistons in 2003. Like there would have a lot of stuff I would have done. Right. But like, at the end of the day, um, like you, you can't, right. You can't do that. And the best step forward is the next step forward. So I think, I think people get, get stuck in a mindset of like, people get stuck in a mindset of like, what could I have done differently? It's like, dude, forget about that. Um, figure out what you can do moving forward. Right. But at the end of the day, if I had the chance to change those things when I was younger, I probably would have, but you know, I'm here now and I have a pretty good life now. So I'm happy. But you can give advice to those people so that they can do it a little bit different. 100%. Yeah. That's a good point. I think talking about it in that mindset is a really good way to talk about it. Hey, if I was to go back, this is what I would do. So this is the advice I would give you based on my experience. Right. 100%. They're not going to listen though, because they're dumb kids. I was the same person. They need to go through it. Yeah, that's true. And that's the thing is like, I mean, I heard all the time when you turn 30, things are going to get rough or you're going to hurt yourself or, or whatever. I'm like, your back's going to hurt. Whatever, whatever. Do get out of here. All right, boomer. And I hurt my back, picking up a 10 pound dumbbell and I dislocate my, or not dislocate, but a herniated disc. Yeah. And all of a sudden I'm out for six months completely. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I lost that sense of identity that you were talking about. I got pretty down in the dumps. I looked like shit, like considering what I normally look like. Yeah. And it was not fun. And then coming back from that, I completely changed a lot of what I do. And so, yeah. And that's what I think is like, is like, we would love, and I, and I'm finding this out more and more now that I have a three and a half year old, right? I would love for him to listen to everything I say based on my experience, but they got to go through this shit, man. They have to understand like, and they have to get, yeah, they have to feel, they have to like, we can't protect them from feeling these things. Sometimes protecting them too much can lead them to be soft and have other side of like mental health disorders. Right. So scared all the time. Scared all the time. Yeah. So we want to make sure that we allow, we allow people to go through the stress. Right. Just like you said, like I've talked to you about being proactive about things a lot, but eventually it kind of falls off and you hurt yourself and you're back in the office and it's, but it's normal, right? It's, it's, it's tough. You, you have to feel these things and the things you really felt and been able to allow yourself to feel is where you've made the biggest change. Yeah. Yeah. It's like the, it's the quote, since you called out a quote, I got to call out a quote now, lead a horse to water. They can't force it to drink. Yeah. You know, teach everybody anything you want. You can teach your sons that anything they want, anything you want to teach them, but I don't mean that they're taking it in. No. That don't mean that they're going to listen to anything that you say until they go through something that you warned them about. And then they're like, Hey dad, what was that thing that you said about this? And they're like, okay, you need to do it like this. And then they start listening. Cause they need to. It's so funny. I almost think like we're biologically programmed to think our parents are dumb. As soon as you turn three years old till, until you're like 16. I think you, you're programmed to think your parents don't know. Like really? Cause like I did the same thing. I'm like, my dad doesn't know this. He's just an old guy. He doesn't understand. And then I turned 16 like, and he was right about almost everything. Right. Almost everything he taught me about money, about people, about friends, about whatever else. Uh, like he's almost right about everything. And like, now I'm doing it with my son. I'm like, damn, I'm talking to my dad about like, dude, how did you cope with this? And he's just like, I actually don't know. Uh, like it was just one of those things that you have to almost accept that you're, you're like, you know, you can give advice all day, but that's kind of how we talked about a little bit in the, in the last podcast about like, you know, people accept advice a lot more when they have skin in the game. Yeah. Right. So I think that that, that's the biggest thing. And I'm, I don't know how I would get my three and a half year old to have skin in the game. Right. Oh, actually there, there's one, one way, like, you know, when we were potty training him, you let him shit his pants. And then he's like, oh, damn, this really does suck. Let me go poop in the toilet. Right. So I, I think like there is ways, even at that young age, to give them skin in the game. Yeah. You just gotta let, you gotta let them feel, you gotta let them experience. You gotta let people make mistakes. Uh, as long as they're, you know, decent mistakes, I'm not going to be like, oh yeah. Like if you let them do, let them do anything like, oh yeah, jump off the ceiling, you'll be fine. It's like, well, no, like jump off the couch first. Right. Like you can jump off stuff and just kind of prepare yourself for it. But, uh, yeah, I think that that's the big thing with age comes experience and comes with understanding of like, especially if you're intentional about it, like what can my body really do? And like, you know, it can do a lot of good things, but I also have to be aware of its limitations. Cool. Um, okay. So we're going to wrap up here. Yep. Um, any last words you would like to say or main takeaways for anybody listening? So I'll say main takeaways is that age is really, I know this is a cliche thing. It isn't just a number, right? There are certain biological processes we go through as we age. Um, but they're not, they're not death sentences. They're not something that like you have to make your identity. Oh, I'm just an old man that hurts themselves all the time. Zoom out, look at everything else around you. What's causing it. That is kind of how I feel. Right. Exactly. But you have to zoom out and look around you. Right. And when you were younger, you were playing volleyball all the time. You weren't filming in a studio for eight hours a day. Sometimes, right. You weren't doing all these things that you're doing now. You didn't have the stressors you have. Now you were moving houses every six months. That's a big stress in your life. Right. So, so I think that people underestimate the effects of those things, but overestimate the effects of age. So I would say, put, put the other things that are happening in your life on the same pedestals age, and then make your decisions on what do I need to change to feel better? Nice. That's cool. Yeah. So for everybody listening, it's not because you're old, it's everything else. And you're old. You suck everywhere. I think we want to make sure that like people, people have like a, like a movement optimism, right? They, they think that they can do things until they're proven otherwise. Right. Not that I can't do anything until I'm shown. Like you can, you can think you can do stuff until you're proven otherwise, at least like, you know, with context, being prepared for things and not like overshooting that, but like most things are not inherently bad for you. Yeah. Just got to do it in the right context and the right amount. Yeah. No, I love the preparedness versus the selection. A hundred percent. Yeah. Cool. Well, I appreciate you doing this. We've been, we've been scheduling this for a long time, so I'm glad we finally made it happen. I think we've covered some really good stuff. Um, and there's a bunch of other topics that we also are probably going to go over in the future. Um, and so make sure you guys are staying around and watching all the episodes and we have a ton of other episodes as well. We come out with episodes every single week. So if you're not, um, down, if you're not subscribed or anything, you're not checking in on this weekly, you should be. Um, but thank you for being here, brother. Of course, man. Thank you for having a good time. Yes, sir. Now, if you are looking for some extra support and you aren't looking to spend a fortune, you should consider working with one of our V shred certified coaches. Um, we'll figure out your macros. We'll figure out your calories. We'll figure out, uh, what your custom meal plan will look like. And yes, we'll make sure that it contains your favorite foods. Um, and basically all you do is you let your coach know what you like, what you don't like, because when we say custom, we mean it. And you get unlimited emails, you get weekly check-ins, you get access to our brand new coaching app where you can message them at any time about anything with any questions. Uh, our coaches are here to help you reach your goals and they care about your success. Um, and so all the details about how it works is in the description down below. So check that out if you want to, but thank you again for tuning in until next time. Thanks for tuning in to today's episode of V shreds, better body, better life podcast. Whether you're doing one of our programs, taking our supplements, or just doing things on your own, tune in every week for exclusive content with Vince V shred trainers and special guests as they share valuable tips around motivation, workouts, food, and living a healthier lifestyle. See you next time.