What's going on everyone? This is Vince with vshreed.com. And today we're going to talk about an exercise that many of you might be doing or maybe you saw someone else doing at the gym or on YouTube. But just because an exercise is popular doesn't mean you should be doing it. And in fact, for many of you watching this, this is one exercise that could be the cause of your bigger and thicker waist. And today we're going to talk about why you may need to stop doing the weighted side bend. And I'm gonna give you four exercises that you should be doing instead. All right. So, we've all been witnessed to the guy or girl at the gym holding a plate or a dumbbell and doing side bends. And maybe it was you, maybe it was someone else. Regardless, the reason most people do this is because they want to tone a certain area, their obliques. But first off, spot reduction isn't a thing. And second off, while this exercise does have some benefits for a lot of you watching, you can probably quit doing this exercise altogether. Why? Because just like when you train any other muscle, when you train your obliques, which is what you're doing when you're doing side bends, you're building that muscle and making your love handles even bigger because the fat likely isn't being burned, unless you're also sticking to a caloric deficit and eating the right foods for your body. And if you want help with doing that, by the way, I do have a free body type quiz that tells you exactly what you need to eat and what training is best for your goals to cut down on those love handles. If you want to check that out, just click the link in the description below this video. But instead, if you do want to train your obliques, the best love handle exercises are going to be those that involve and target this muscle the way that it's meant to be trained, which actually is not a side to side motion. So, instead of just bending back and forth, you want to focus on rotation. Your core muscles are designed to resist movement, not create it. And when working side to side, you'll feel it stretching, but you aren't necessarily contracting the muscle as much as you would with rotation movements. So, let's jump into four exercises that you should be doing instead. First up are wood chops. Wood chops are a great exercise that you can do with cables or dumbbells, but basically, you're going to start with your feet together. You're going to take a step back, kind of like a lunge, grab the weight, and then you're going to rotate your body and shift your feet at the same time so that they're facing the other way and lift that weight as you rotate. And then make sure that you do that to each side for 10 to 12 reps, maybe three to four sets with a minute of rest in between each. That's a great first one to try out. Next up, we have side plank reachroughs. And for these, you're starting in a side plank position, laying down with your body in a straight line. Don't let your hips drag or anything. And one thing I like to do is keep my pelvis tucked, which engages my abs more. Uh, but then you're going to take your top arm. You're going to stick it straight up to the ceiling. And then you're going to reach down and under your body and rotate your torso as much as possible until you can't go any further. And then rotate the other way and bring your arm back out and stick it straight up to the sky. And that's one rep on one side. You want to aim for eight to 10 reps on each side or just until you're completely fatigued. And then rest for a minute. and repeat that for two or three more sets. Now, the next one we have is similar to the wood chops with how you do it, but it's medicine ball tosses. And these are a great rotational exercise that can be done against a wall or with a partner, but you'll stand in a staggered stance position again with slight bend in your knees. And then you'll reach the medicine ball back to one of your hips and then throw it underhanded as you focus on rotating your torso with your ab muscles. and then catch it as it bounces off the wall and repeat for 10 reps. Then switch sides and do it all over again. Now, for the last exercise, we have one that I've actually never done on the channel here before, but is fantastic for all experience levels, and that is a rotational swing. And this exercise can be done with pretty much anything that's weighted. Uh, but I'm just going to do it with a dumbbell. But you'll start by standing up straight with the weight in front of you, holding it by both ends. And then you'll bring the weight down to one side. And if you're going to your left side first, you'll let your left arm go the furthest back. And then by engaging your abs, you'll rock the weight forward and then bring it back to the other side and shift the weight of your body to the right side with your right arm going back the furthest. And you'll basically just do this back and forth for 10 to 12 reps, trying to control the weight and not just swinging freely. And then rest for a minute and repeat for three total rounds. And that's it. Those are four exercises that you can do instead of side bends or just some extra ab exercises for you to try out in general. But again, getting rid of the fat on your obliques is going to happen when you lower your body fat. And if you're serious about wanting to do that, click the link in the description and take my free quiz and let me show you how. But that's it for the video. If you liked it, then like the video. Also, make sure that you're subscribing to the channel so you don't miss out on future videos. But thank you guys for watching. I hope this helped and I'll see you in the next one.