 clear your environment of tempting snacks. Whatever it is that you love snacking on, candy or muffins or cookies, if you got them in your pantry and your fridge or on your counter, the temptation is going to be too big. You're going to give in eventually. Welcome to the V-Shred Better Body Better Life podcast, where we help you live your best life while working on your health and fitness goals. We're here to make your journey fun and inspiring. What's going on, everyone? Welcome back to another episode of the Better Body Better Life podcast. I'm your host, Vince Sant. Hope you're having a great day. And today, we are going to be diving into an issue that a lot of people in our community and really just everyone typically struggles with, which is late night snacking. So let's start off with a little visualization. Okay, so I want you to picture. It's 10 p.m., maybe 11 p.m. You're on the couch, watching your favorite show, Netflix is on, HBO Max, or it's just Max now. Suddenly, you're halfway through a bag of chips or you're polishing off some leftover pizza and you haven't even realized that you've been eating this entire time. Well, if that is you, if that sounds somewhat familiar at all, I want you to understand that you're not alone and that probably most people listening to this have done that in the past week, if not last night. Or they're doing it right now, listen into this. But here's the thing, late night snacking can completely stall your fitness progress and any weight loss results you've gotten. But the good news is, is that with a few little tweaks, you can break this habit pretty easily, actually. And with the right approach, you can actually start seeing significant changes in, I'd say a week or two, for sure in the first month. So stick with me today, because we're gonna be talking about why late night snacking happens. We're gonna talk about the science behind it and then we're gonna talk about some actionable strategies that you can take to overcome late night snacking once and for all. Okay, so starting out, we'll call this chapter one, because there's gonna be, I think, we'll break this into like three chapters. The first one's gonna be about why late night snacking happens. Because first thing that you need to understand is why it's such a common struggle amongst so many people. And the first reason is emotion-based. It's because you're emotionally eating. Because, I mean, food isn't just fuel, even though we should try to approach it like that as much as possible, but it's also comfort. After a stressful day at work, after a stressful day or a fight with your wife or your husband or whoever, it's just easy to turn to food as a coping mechanism when you're not hungry. When you're stressed, when you're anxious, when your brain just craves quick comfort, what do you turn to? Well, you turn to sugary foods, you turn to high-fat greasy foods that release dopamine, which is the feel-good hormone that makes you happy while you're chewing it and eating it. But the downside is that emotional eating is a quick fix with long-term consequences, often leading to overeating and ultimately regret. So what do you do about this? Well, first, I would say you want to, and you do this with pretty much any time you have a problem or an addiction or you just struggle with something is you want to identify your triggers. Identifying your triggers is possibly one of the most important things to do when recovering from anything. And you want to replace eating with healthier stress relievers. For example, one of my favorite ones is just going for a walk. I got a dog, I'm sure a lot of you listening have a dog also. The next time that you're about to turn to a bag of chips, put the leash on your dog and go for a 15, 20 minute walk around the block. Another thing that I do before bed is I journal. Journaling I find is probably the greatest stress reliever in my life because stress is usually caused by overthinking. It's caused by what's going on between your ears. And when I journal, I can just dump out all my thoughts. And it makes it so that I'm less stressed after that. Another thing you can do is you can meditate. I'm not a huge person, I'm not a person who meditates a bunch. I've tried it in the past. It's something that I could probably practice. I could definitely practice and get better at. But if you are somebody who likes to meditate, 100% go for it. Or if you never tried it, try it out and see if, try it for two weeks and see if after a week or two, you don't actually really start liking it because it just clears your head and it helps you think clearly afterwards. Another thing you do is just call a friend. That's another great one. Catch up with somebody, catch up with your parents, your siblings. One of your best friends who lives across the country who haven't seen in years. These activities can provide the emotional relief that you get from comfort eating without the extra calories. Therefore, you're gonna make it a lot easier on yourself to continue to lose weight, continue to get in shape, continue to hit your fitness goals without slipping up. The second reason would be poor planning. And this is related to obviously your meals. Poor meal planning, we'll say. Because if you're not eating enough food during the day or you're skipping meals altogether, your body naturally craves more food at night. It's gonna crave those extra calories because you need those extra calories. So if you think about it, if you skip breakfast and then you barely eat lunch, your body is basically playing catch up during dinner time. And late night cravings often result from your body asking for what it missed earlier in the day. As long as it's not the comfort eating. Sometimes you can just eat all day and then you get to nighttime and you're still hungry. But for those of you who are not eating enough throughout the day, a lot of times you're hungry at night because you're just famished. And so what you can do is you can focus on balanced meals throughout the day. Focus on meal prepping a couple times a week. And with these meals, you wanna make sure that you're including a nice balance of types of foods. You want to have lean proteins. You wanna aim for healthy fats. You wanna aim for complex carbs to keep your energy levels pretty stable and also keep your nighttime hunger at bay. And if you do have high protein, high fat, that's also gonna make you more satiated. So you're not gonna be as hungry. You're gonna wake up less hungry. Making sure that you're not just reaching for the easy, quick, basically only carb snack which is what most like chips are that are just super high in sodium, super high in carbs, sometimes super high in sugar. And extremely processed. You don't wanna have these ultra processed foods. You wanna avoid those. At all costs, I'm not saying you have to avoid them all the time, but 80% of the time you want to avoid ultra processed foods. The third reason I'm gonna say is habitual behavior. Because sometimes snacking late at night is just a habit that's just been baked into your schedule from years and years and years of doing the exact same thing. Maybe you always make a little bucket of popcorn before you watch your nightly Netflix shows. Or you've associated bedtime with a sugary treat like ice cream. Well, over time, these habits create a conditioned response. You don't want to have this conditioned response. So what you wanna do is you want to break the association by replacing the habit with something new. So it's not always just about not doing something. It's about not doing something, but replacing that action with something else. That way you're still doing something, but you're working in the right direction. So instead of eating an open bag of Lays or Doritos and eating some chips during, you're watching, I don't know, Game of Thrones, try some nighttime tea. Try some, maybe some low calorie popcorn. There's, I forget the name of the popcorn, but there's like a low calorie, like skinny, is it skinny pop? Might be skinny pop. There's like a low calorie popcorn option. Try healthier alternatives or calorie free alternatives. Or you can even try tricking yourself into thinking that you're eating like chewing some sugar free gum or something like that. But trying different things rather than just going back, just always going back to what you've always done. Cause what you've always done has gotten you to the place where you're not happy with. And so you want to try to change things. And the first thing that you try might not be it. If you do try and make some tea for your evening show and you don't like tea, well, okay, tea's probably not the answer. So try something else. And you can Google a bunch of different types of, and I don't know what you specifically like, Google a bunch of different late night healthy snacking options, a million will come up and just work down the list. And eventually you will find something that you like doing that's a heck of a lot better than reaching for those chips or ordering ice cream. Okay, and reason number four is, and I was kind of hinting at this earlier when I was talking about like when I journal at night, which is your lack of a wind down routine, your lack of an evening routine, which is massive. Because without a structured evening routine, it's really easy just to wander into the kitchen out of boredom and grab for anything that you have available. So I mean, I guess another tip would be to keep your pantry kind of free from a ton of different unhealthy snacks that you could just reach for it in time. But yeah, you want to make sure that you have an intentional wind down routine because also, if you stay up late for no reason at all, staying up late increases your chances of snacking simply because you're just literally awake longer. And unhealthy snacking tends to be more prominent in the evening versus in the morning. So one thing you could even do is you could kind of change your routine a little bit to where you wake up a little bit earlier rather than stay up a little bit later. So if normally you're going to bed at midnight and you late night binge from 11 to 1130 or 10 to 11 or 11 to 12, well, what if you went to bed at 10? And you never really hit that late night binging cycle and you woke up two hours earlier. So before you were going to bed at midnight, waking up at seven, now what if you went to bed at 10 and woke up at five or six? Now, all of a sudden you got time for a morning workout. Now all of a sudden you're not tempted by food late at night. And one thing that you can do to help you get to sleep earlier or just get to sleep at the same time without relying on late night binging is to develop a wind down routine, like we said. Something that signals to your brain that it's time to sleep, not time to snack. This could mean you limit electronics, electronic usage, right? You're limiting the EMF waves that you get hit by. You're limiting blue light that your eyes get hit by. You're not just staring at your TV screen or your phone screen or your computer screen or your iPad. Again, I like to journal. I like picking the strings on my guitar. I like just kind of going on walks with my dog, something that's going to get me away from the stresses of daily life, away from the dopamine addiction cycle that you have when you open up Instagram or TikTok. Something that'll get you away from this is going to be much more healthy for you. And it's also going to signal your brain that it's time to start winding down and that sleep time is coming soon. And you probably want to start this at the same time every single night. Your body has this thing called a circadian rhythm. And your circadian rhythm basically is when your body naturally starts getting tired and when your body naturally wakes up. And if you can set your circadian rhythm to get tired naturally earlier, you're going to be less likely to binge eat at night. Set a fixed bedtime. Well, a consistent sleep schedule helps regulate your body's hunger hormones like grayling and leptin. And irregular sleep patterns throw these hormones off balance, which therefore increases your cravings. So your action step here would be to, like I said, aim for. And people say that you want to aim for six to eight hours of sleep per night. I say it's seven to nine. Because if you're in bed for six hours, that might only be five and a half hours of real sleep, which is not enough. If you're in bed for seven hours, that's probably six to six and a half hours of sleep, which is not really enough. If you're in bed for eight hours, well, okay, now you have seven to seven and a half hours of sleep. If you're in bed for nine hours, okay, now you've hit your eight to eight and a half hours of sleep. And on the weekends, if you're somebody who loves your sleep and you don't have much going on, then hey, use that time to catch up on some sleep and maybe sleep 10 to 12 hours on a Saturday night. But aiming for the seven to nine hours of sleep each night is going to work wonders for you and your body. And so you want to do that. And you also want to make it a consistent time that you're sleeping that every single night, even on weekends. I know I said that you can sleep longer on weekends. I mean, if your schedule allows it. But for the most part, you don't want to completely change what time you're waking up and what time you're going to bed because you want your circadian rhythm to, to in order for your circadian rhythm to remain steady, you have to be steady with what time you're going to bed. If you wake up at five AM on the weekdays and then you wake up at 10 AM on the weekends, your body's getting thrown for a loop weekly. So don't do that. Try to keep it consistent and try to make sure that you're getting seven to nine hours of sleep per night at the same times. Tip number two is relax with evening activities. Find evening activities that you enjoy that are going to help you wind down. And I'm talking about non-food related activities to unwind at the end of the day. Examples, dog walks, talked about that. Another example for all my bath lovers out there, a nice warm Epsom salt bubble bath. It's going to work wonders for your soreness and also probably just help you wind down and calm yourself and get ready for bed. Another thing is reading. For all the people that love reading out there, this is probably one of the best things you can do. And then for the people who don't love reading, this is probably one of the best things you can do because I'm not a huge like book reader. I'm more of a audible type person. I like listening more. But if I'm in bed and I can't sleep to save my life, pulling out a book and reading a book, all of a sudden makes me a little more tired. I don't know if you guys have ever tried to like read a book in the morning, but it kind of makes you want to go right back to sleep. Well, the same effect happens at night. If you're not that tired and you're in bed and the only thing to do, and you don't like reading and the only thing to do is read, you're going to read yourself to sleep. So reading a nice calming book or also another thing is listening to some sort of soothing music. Not talking about listening to rock or hip hop or EDM or anything like that. I'm talking about listening to like the sound of waves crashing or rainfall. And there's apps out there that have this or you can just go to YouTube and there's probably a four hour long video of waves crashing. Another thing that you can do right before bed that has tons of benefits is stretching. Stretching to ease tension, stretching to improve blood flow. That's going to help reduce soreness. It's going to help you sleep better. It's going to help you wake up feeling more refreshed. You could also just do yoga. If you're a yogi and you got some room in your bedroom, then yeah, go for a quick stretching session and you're going to wake up. You're going to sleep better. You're going to fall asleep faster. You're going to sleep better and you're going to wake up feeling better. Tip number three, and this one's a little more specific and weird, but it's just brush your teeth after dinner. Because, and like I said, it's weird and it's simple, but it can work for some people. Because obviously you get like this minty freshness from your toothpaste, right? That minty freshness can signal to your brain that eating time is over. Which is weird to think about, but kind of makes sense. Because after you get in bed, or after you brush your teeth and get in bed, your brain is used to not eating anything else because you're going to sleep. But if you just had dinner, and you kind of still have the taste of dinner in your mouth, and then, well, you're still kind of hungry and there's food around, and it's not inconvenient to eat it. And in fact, it's quite convenient to continue eating. And very easy to just grab for something in the pantry. Versus if you eat dinner, you go brush your teeth, and now all of a sudden, you just spent this time to brush your teeth. You might have this little placebo effect of, hey, I taste the toothpaste in my mouth right now that normally I taste right before I go to bed, which I don't think about eating when I'm right when I'm going to bed. And so it can literally be like a trick on your brain not to eat. And so, and also if you have that minty taste in your mouth, it makes food not taste quite as good enough because you've ever eaten right after you brush your teeth. But it's just not as tasty because you still have that taste in your mouth. And then also you'd have to brush your teeth again after you ate. So a couple of different reasons that could help. Again, it's not for everybody. Or if you don't want to brush your teeth, you can also just do mouthwash. Mouthwash is super handy for just a quick rinse if cravings hit. Another one that I have to mention because this one has so many studies backing it and it's something that I personally do. It's something that I personally recommend to pretty much everybody around when they say they're either, or clients, people who say that they eat too much, who say they're hungry, who say they have headaches, which is to drink more water. Making sure you stay hydrated is tip number four because thirst is often mistaken for hunger. So keeping, like literally sometimes when you are hungry, you're not actually hungry, you are thirsty. Or maybe you're a little hungry but you're not as hungry as you think you are. That seven out of 10 hunger would be a three out of 10 hunger if you were to drink 20, 30 ounces of water. So keeping a water bottle nearby can help you resist the urge to snack when it's not technically time to snack yet, or it's not technically time to eat yet, right? And if you're not a big fan of water, there's obviously a ton of different options out there for changing up the taste of your water. You can try infusing it with lemon or fruits or cucumber or mint. There's those little flavor things, like the powder flavors that you can put in them. There's like the little meo squirting things that you can put in them. There's a ton of different things that you can add flavor to your water. And also there's like the hydration packets that you can add to your water, which I'm a huge fan of. I take hydration packets literally every single day, every single morning. I drink salt with my water and it's a flavored salt, so it tastes nice. But I start my morning every single day with a big glass of water with salt in it so that I get the electrolytes, I get my hydration, and also I'm getting my metabolism rockin' with that water. And also I'm helping to curb hunger first thing in the morning and then I keep drinking water all day long. You want to avoid thirst, if that makes sense. Like you should aim to drink water before you get thirsty. And also aiming for a certain amount of water every single day is going to help curb your hunger as well. So there's a lot of benefits behind drinking more water every single day. If you're somebody who doesn't have a water bottle with you at least half of the day, change that right now. It'll be one of the best things that you ever did for helping curb your hunger, helping. Also your body's made up of over 80% water. Everything, every bodily function in your, in the human body needs water to be better at it. To optimize your body's processes, your body's systems, you need to be hydrated. So make sure you're drinking more water. It's gonna help you emit way more ways than one. Tip number five would be to prepare a snack-free zone. And this one's a little funny. But again, makes sense. If you have a bunch of candy in your pantry or muffins or cookies or whatever it is that you love snacking on, if you got them in your pantry and your fridge or on your counter, the temptation is going to be too big. You're going to give in eventually. Maybe not right now, maybe not tonight, but tomorrow probably, if not tomorrow the day after, probably, but honestly, it'd probably be tonight. So you want to clear your environment of tempting snacks and replace them with healthier options. Or don't just leave it so that you don't have them. I know for a fact, my parents, when I was growing up, we had all kinds of unhealthy foods in our pantry and in our fridge. And that's because us kids wanted unhealthy foods and as do most kids. But I know for a fact now, my parents are a lot more health conscious. They're obviously a lot older now than they were when I was growing up. And they want to, and they're both on like their own little fitness journeys, which is really cool to see. They're actually following our programs. They're both following our Move program. If anybody out there is following that. But they're snackers. My dad's a big salty snack kind of guy. My mom's a big sugary snack kind of gal. And they need to make sure that they limit the foods that they have in the pantry that they can grab for easily and snack on. Because if they're there, they will snack on them. My dad loves the pretzel mix. I forget what the name of them are. It's like a shiny gold bag and they have different flavors. He loves them. He's bags of them. My mom's a big Swedish fish kind of lady. Loves Swedish fish. If sugary or salty foods are in the house, they are going to snack on them. So they limit how much sugary and salty foods are in the house. They have them there sometimes. They have certain types of foods there. Sometimes they have a little bit healthier food, like fiber one bars now. But for the most part, they're trying to just limit what's around them so that it's easier to say no, or it's just not an option to eat something. All right, I'll call this section three now. We're gonna talk about healthy late night snack alternatives, which we've talked about a little bit throughout this entire thing. But fact of the matter is sometimes you just can't give up snacking altogether. And if that's you, that's okay. The key is really, I mean, the key is keeping your overall caloric intake lower so that you're in a deficit, so that you actually lose weight and keeping your foods a little bit healthier. But if you're going to snack, it's just about choosing something that's more nutritious and also something that's a little bit more portion controlled that doesn't have a ton of added sugars or added chemicals or that's ultra processed, right? Something that's gonna help out with your hunger, help maybe give you some micronutrients. And the first one that I'm gonna bring up, it does all of that. And it's gonna be a great high protein snack with healthy carbs and a bunch of micronutrients, which is gonna be Greek yogurt with berries. That's one of the best go-to snacks for me personally. I love, I like just like the Chobani, vanilla, Greek yogurt, I get a bowl, I'll put a little granola in the yogurt and then I'll put a little bit of berries on top, maybe put a little honey in it. But depending on like what your macros are, like I work out a ton guys and I train for triathlons, like I need those extra carbs. A lot of you guys don't need those extra carbs, so just some Greek yogurt with some berries is the berries are plenty of carbs. But yogurt and berries is a fantastic snack, because like I said, it's rich in protein, it's low in sugar, and the sugars that you do have in it are the good types of sugars, because it's from berries, it's a simple carb that's got a ton of micronutrients in it. It's also got fiber in it, which is great. And so Greek yogurt paired with fresh berries is both nutritious and also super satisfying. Like it's one of my go-tos because I don't have cravings after it because it's sweet. Like for me, there's really nothing worse than if I'm like really craving something sweet, and I have something that's the opposite of sweet. Because then it's like, okay, well now I just had these other calories that I didn't want, and I still want what I originally wanted. You wanna avoid that. And so that's why I like yogurt with stuff put in it because it is sweet, it gets me my fix, I guess. Another option would be some apples with some peanut butter or almond butter. Obviously the almond butter is probably gonna be a little bit healthier for you guys, it's a little bit of a healthier fat, probably a little lower in calories as well. But natural peanut butter is also great. You just wanna make sure that you're not going to the store and you're getting jiffy. Like jiffy's got all, I mean, take a look at, like next time you go to the store, look at the difference between like jiffy and whatever your natural peanut butter is, the one that has all the oil at the top, look at the difference in ingredients. That natural one with the oil at the top probably has four or five ingredients, jiffy probably got like 15, and half of them you can't pronounce. So avoid that, go for natural peanut butter. And I will, I'll be honest, if you've never had natural peanut butter, it takes some getting used to, but I like it way more now at this point because you just basically get a knife and mix that oil in all the way down to the bottom and it's tough, it's a tough little first mix. But after you get it mixed, it's really good, and you don't have to use a lot to feel like you're eating a lot because it's a lot thicker. The jiffy peanut butter, once you try natural peanut butter, you'll realize how sugary that jiffy peanut butter is and how good and more natural tasting that natural peanut butter is. So highly recommend that if you've never been one to go and get like the natural peanut butter because you kind of think like the oil on top is weird, mix that oil in and that peanut butter way better. And also, so like back to the apple slices, the apples are gonna have a fantastic amount of fiber in them. They're gonna have micronutrients in them. And then like I said, the healthy fats from the peanut butter or the almond butter make this just a great balanced alternative to an unhealthy snack. And it's also very filling because you're getting a little bit of fat, you're getting a little bit of protein, and you're also getting those simple carbs that are gonna give you the micronutrients and the fiber. Option three, which I actually mentioned a little bit ago, which is tea. I know there's a lot of people out there who absolutely love tea. I put this as number three because I don't personally love tea. I'm not a tea drinker. I'm also not really a coffee drinker. But, and I'm also talking about caffeine-free tea here because we're talking about late night snacking. If this is in the morning and you're one of the weirdos who gets morning cravings, which happens to a lot of people, then you could have some caffeine-filled tea, I guess, or tea with caffeine in it. But late at night, obviously, you wanna avoid caffeine. And I mean, I always recommend after 3, 4 p.m., you wanna avoid caffeine. But late at night, especially. A nice warm cup of caffeine-free herbal tea, like chamomile. If I am going to have tea, occasionally, I'll just, what I'll do sometimes before like I'm filming the next day or something, tea can be a great diuretic also.  it can help to de-blow you, especially if it's dandelion tea. Dandelion tea is one of my absolute go-tos. If I'm going to the beach the next day or I'm going on a boat the next day or something like that, dandelion tea is the go-to. But to help you get more tired, chamomile tea is a great one. Peppermint tea, maybe, I mean, it's depending on when you're listening to this. It's around the holidays and peppermint tea is just a great way to kind of get in the festive mood. Or if you're listening to this around Thanksgiving, obviously pumpkin spice is a big one. And this can just help to give you a nice little treat if you like the tea. It can help to soothe your mind and then, like I said, it can help to reduce those late night cravings and really replace them with a healthier alternative because tea is obviously zero calories. So that's great. Option four, this one's a little bit on the healthier side. If you're somebody who's been dieting for a little bit or just eating healthier for a little bit, this one's probably going to be a little easier for you. If you have not been eating good for a long time, this one might seem a little unreasonable. So take it with the grain of salt, which is veggies and hummus, which is actually a phenomenal snack if you actually try it. Like if you give it a fair chance, veggies and hummus is a great snack. The veggies are nice and crunchy, which I absolutely, that's the part I love about it. But then getting like a nice tasting hummus, which is super nutrient rich and also super low calorie and very filling is just a great alternative to eating chips or eating something else that you love eating because it's crunchy. Another option would be to make some hard boiled eggs and then eat it with a whole grain cracker. And I know that might sound a little weird again, great snack. If you're somebody who likes eggs and crackers, which I think most people do, but the combo is high in protein, it's high in fiber. It's depending on the type of cracker that you're eating, it could be nice good whole grains. So it's going to help you to curb your hunger and it's going to do it all without overloading on calories. So a bunch of good different options. Again, you could just Google late night healthy snacking options, but there's five for you that helpfully make it a little bit easier to say no to the Doritos, say no to the Oreos, say no to ordering ice cream and making better choices. And if you guys are struggling with this beyond just getting the help that you need from listening to a podcast and you guys want to break that late night snacking cycle or you want a custom plan that's tailored to your goals, we do have these red coaches that are here to help and they are wanting to help you and they create customized meal plans, customized workout plans that are designed just for you and you'll have ongoing support. So all the support that you need, whether it's asking questions, whether it's making adjustments to your plan, whether you're going on a work trip and you're going to be traveling and you're not sure what you should be eating or what the hotel gym is going to have, they're there for you all the way in your corner, helping you make this as least stressful as possible. And so if that sounds like something that you need, click the link below. There should be a link somewhere around. Click the link below for more details or go to our website and check out all the programs that we have to offer. But I know this one was a little bit of a longer solo episode, but I appreciate you guys sticking in there with me. Hopefully you guys found this super helpful and got some good actionable tips to take moving forward. And yeah, check out all the other episodes. If you have not yet, make sure you guys are subscribing and downloading the podcast and I will see you or talk to you in the next episode of Better Body Better Life. Thanks for tuning in to today's episode of the shreds, better body, better life podcast. Whether you're doing one of our programs, taking our supplements or just doing things on your own, tune in every week for exclusive content with Vince, V-Shred trainers and special guests as they share valuable tips around motivation, workouts, food and living a healthier lifestyle. See you next time.