 the way that you think of yourself and talk about yourself is really just going to manifest into your reality. If you tell yourself, I can't do my workout today, you're probably not going to do it. You're going to find an excuse at some point. And then when you don't do it, you're just only confirming what you told yourself. Yeah. Versus, I'm going to have a great day and I'm going to do this workout. Welcome to the V-Shred Better Body Better Life Podcast, where we help you live your best life while working on your health and fitness goals. We're here to make your journey fun and inspiring. What's going on, everyone? Welcome back to another episode of the Better Body Better Life Podcast. I'm your host, Vince, and today we are welcomed by Shania, one of our accelerator coaches. She's also a doctor of chiropractic and a certified personal trainer. We're going to be talking about how to stay disciplined in your fitness journey. So if you're somebody who is struggling with that discipline piece of the puzzle, then today we're going to be talking about personal experiences, advice that Shania and I both give clients when we're asked about this and just some practices that you guys can use moving forward to improve your own discipline and hopefully make sticking to your plan a little bit easier. So, Shania, welcome. Thank you. Yeah. So I know I just kind of gave you a little bit of an intro, but why don't you just go ahead and tell me and our listeners just a little bit about yourself, your background, what got you into fitness, all that good stuff. I'll make it short, but like most people, I did a lot of sports in high school and before that, I was in sports year round from track, basketball, cross country, just kind of doing everything to stay active. And then when I went to undergrad, I probably was in the gym maybe five times the whole four years. And then I made my way to chiropractic school where I realized I have to be a lot stronger to do this. And so I kind of regained my passion for fitness in a different way. So before I was doing mostly cardio based, and then I moved to weightlifting. And that was a lot of fun. I think that kind of really got me in loving the fitness again. I gained about like 40 to 50 pounds, not all muscle, but mostly muscle. Wow. Yeah, just to be able to take care of my patients and do the adjustments and all of that. So while in chiropractic school, I got my certification to be a personal trainer. And funny enough, I did it just so I could train my friends for free. Because we had like a oh, like it's like a student work, what do you call like a work study. So staff and students, we get trained for free. And I was like, Oh, if I do this, I can train my friends. But then I actually really liked it. Started doing online and then graduated, started adjusting, working as a chiropractor. And then I found V shred about last February. So that's kind of where I am now. So you so you throughout you said undergrad, you didn't really work out at all. What do you think that what do you think the reason was I think that's a great starting point for this episode, because it's all about like the discipline behind it. And I think a lot of people especially, in the beginning, and it sounds like you said that you were doing a lot of cardio in the beginning versus then when you either started learning more about what you were doing or just got back into it, maybe had different goals or whatever, you started resistance training more. What do you attribute your your struggle during your undergrad years to work out to? That's a good question. Funny enough, I think first to start off with going from the motivation of having a team and having to show up for a team versus just being like, Okay, now I have to go to the gym by myself. And I really understand how that's like two completely different mindsets. So I just didn't really care to work out and undergrad. I was, you know, I was just like, whatever, I mean, we went on walks or whatever, but it wasn't anything regimented. And I think when people talk about, Oh, you can do whatever you want in your early 20s or 20s, and then you'll regret it later. I think it just wasn't a priority. And I didn't realize how much how important it was until I went to chiropractic school. And it's also a culture thing. So I went from liberal arts school where people were walking around barefoot, we had a horrible campus. And like, not to say like anything crazy, but like we just, like fitness wasn't really a thing. We actually were D three. Funny enough, we had the record of the most consecutive football losses. Oh, no, that's the wrong side of history right there. We really were not into sports there. And then going from that to where I went for chiropractic school where we had like the best gym, like even our president like loved our gym, you'd be in there working out and everyone was really into lifting weights and staying in shape. It was more of a culture. And then you're kind of like, Oh, okay, so maybe it was a little bit more of like the same type of motivation you get from like team sports. Yeah, when you have like a community that's really into it and that helped a lot. And then all of my friends were like, Well, we're going to the gym to lift weights. And I'm like, Well, I guess I'll go with you. Wow. That's actually pretty crazy to think about because like you like in my experience, like growing up in Ohio, in Ohio fitness is not like at the forefront of most people's daily priorities, I guess, but then you move to a bigger city like when I lived in LA and much, much more people are caring more about fitness and health and really more than anything how they look. And Vegas is a little bit like that too. And so that's super interesting that that community aspect impacted you like that. Do you is that something that you experience with your clients as well? Because I know there's a bunch of people who probably don't have that community around them to help motivate them to help like make good decisions to hold them accountable. When somebody comes to you and they don't have that community around them, what is usually a recommendation for them? I'll say this, I've noticed that if I'm working with a spouse, usually a wife, I usually work with women. One of two things will happen and thankfully it's mostly the first their their partner will start to work out more or they'll start to eat healthier or they'll join them on a workout or two. And that helps them so much or like the other person will stay the same and they've noticed it feels like an extra barrier of okay, well, he's not going to take the cookies out of the house. So I have to put in more effort to kind of resist it or right. Well, we used to sit and watch TV all the time and now I have to go do this workout and it feels it's like a little bit harder to get that support. So I try to provide as much support as I can from online either like, you know, saying yeah, I totally get it. I remember being in those places where especially like during COVID, I feel like that's kind of a time when we all felt really isolated and I was like, yeah, during COVID, it felt like it was just really me and having to do these home workouts. I'm very much a gym person. So home workouts were a little bit of a big time. It was kind of horrible for me, but it's okay. So trying to emphasize with them and talk to them more. Also, another thing I'll try to do is encourage them to find another community, whether it's, you know, a recreational sport or, you know, something like that. Some of my clients will go and find like adult volleyball or something else just to hang out with other like-minded people. It's it really, yeah, it really makes things so much easier when you have that community. I love that because I mean, obviously like working out and like going to the gym and lifting weights is if you want to get like the most bang for your buck, like that's what you need to do, right? And then there needs to be like at least a fraction of your training that needs to be revolved around resistance training. But at the same time, if you're not going to do that, the next best option is to go figure out if you don't have the discipline to work out necessarily right now. Because I think that will come as you get results, but a way to start getting those results is to find out ways of working out that don't feel like you're working out. You know, if you, yeah, if you think, if you look at fitness or working out as a chore, then it's going to be much harder to do that versus if you find something that you enjoy doing, like you said, like when you were an undergrad, you went for walks. Like my girlfriend goes for walks with her friends all the time. She doesn't necessarily love lifting weights, but she'll go to a Pilates class or she'll go on a walk with her girlfriends around the block or whatever it is. And she also plays sports. She plays a ton of sports. She plays in a flag football league. She plays in soccer league. She wants to play in a, we're going to find a pickle ball league and then a softball league. And so like she, she has these like two, three nights a week where she's just going and she's having fun, but she's burning a ton of calories. She's working her body. And it's just a way for her to work out without feeling like she's working out. So I absolutely love that. Is that something that you do as well? I know you said you grew up kind of playing a bunch of sports. Do you still do that? Um, I, I'm trying to join a flag football league. Where do you live? By the way? Yeah, I'm in Dallas. Um, you guys probably have that. And then there's also beach volleyball that meets our community every Wednesday. So that's fun, but definitely not as involved as your girlfriend. I need to find some. She doesn't, she doesn't work out. I mean, she, she does, she does Pilates all the time, but like she just wants something else that like she, when the sun goes down, like she likes having like a league that she can go do. Cause like she doesn't have like an evening hobby, I guess we're like, I could play video games or whatever, you know, versus she likes to go be outside. But then when the sun sets, she's like, I don't know what to do. And so that's why she's found that she also just loves competing. And so yeah, I think that's, I think that's awesome. Finding sports for anybody listening, go find a sports league of a sport that you grew up playing, do that once a week. And yeah, like the, the team aspect of it is also super fun. Like I used to play in like a wreck basketball league here in Vegas. I stopped because of injuries. I would recommend to everybody that you should try to find something that your risk of injury is the lowest. That's why I stopped because my knees and my ankles and I was just getting beat up all the time. And my job is being in shape. And so when I couldn't work out, I felt lost and I felt angry and I was mad that I kept getting hurt. But having a team that you're playing with, it's like something to look forward to every single week, get a little group chat going with your team. It's a lot of fun. So I love, I love that recommendation. So what would you, what are some, I kind of want to go into like some challenges that you've faced since getting into your fitness journey, pretty hardcore. What does your like current training look like? And what would you say is one of the bigger challenges that like physical challenges that has come up that you've had to overcome? Yeah. So right now I'm, I'm doing more pyometrics and cardio mixed in with weight lifting. I try to go four to five times a week. No, some athletic stuff. Yeah, I really miss sprinting. We don't, I've tried to find a track to just like sprint on, but that's been difficult. But I, I kind of got into a rut, not a rut, but like I would just only lift weights and then maybe walk on the treadmill for 10 minutes and be like, that's fine. But then my Apple watch kind of started roasting me about my cardio fitness level. So I had to get that. A walk was treating you like it was a run. Yeah, it was not good. It was not good. But well, almost a year ago. Yeah, last November, I was in a car accident and I just, I got a concussion and I couldn't really do much at all, let alone go to the gym for like a couple, like a month. And then I just really wasn't in the mindset of it. And plus it was winter and then like, you know, the sun's not out, you're just not feeling it. And I would just start off with like very small things at home, even though I hate held workouts, but it wasn't, I would make my goal less about, okay, I have a workout and I have to go do it, or else I didn't do anything at all. Instead, I had to shift to, let me just get some type of movement in for the day, even if it's like a couple of squats and the walking around with my dog or something a little bit more than what I usually do, just to get like some type of small wins. And I did that with my clients as well. Either if they're like just injured, or they're having a really stressful week. I try to emphasize, well, just let's just start with movement, like how can we move your body today, even if it's like, you're taking a phone call and you're, instead of just sitting in the house, you just go on a walk, or you fall along with like some yoga video. I don't care, just try to get into the daily habit of moving your body. And it's like, for that week, can we say that person had like the best like workout, like can we say they burn the most calories? Probably not. But it's more about long term of building up the habits and feeling comfortable of movement so that your baseline of when you have on your worst days, you can still put in some movement. I tell people, sometimes you're 100%. Today won't be as high as tomorrow's 100%. But as long as you're trying, that's better than nothing. Yeah. Yeah. Do you, are you like, do you ever like recommend like the obviously like non exercise activity thermogenesis is like a huge part of like the daily calories that we burn? Are you somebody that would recommend to a client to park further away from the entrance of a grocery store, or take stairs instead of elevators? Like is that something that you would recommend or something that you do recommend? Or do you think that you prefer them just getting into the habit? Because like, I'll be honest, personally, it's like there's people who are like doing all these extra things to get a little bit more activity. And personally, I'm like, I work out enough. I don't need to be taking the stairs. I don't need to be parking far away because I don't care about an extra 20 calories burn. But for somebody who is struggling with that and could use all that extra calorie burner movement as possible, would you recommend that? Or do you think it's kind of overblown? I've heard it and I'm not against it. I just, I can, I guess my version of that is if you're on the phone, just take it outside. Or if you find yourself sitting for a long time, like, well, I guess I just really care about people going on walks. That's what it seems like. But I'm not completely against having people park further away or taking the stairs. If that makes them feel better. But I also kind of agree with you where it's kind of like, sure, it's a couple extra steps. I guess I don't have like a hard and fast. What is your big passion of recommending walks? I agree, by the way. It's like one of the best things that you can do for like longevity. I kind of like what your girlfriend does, going on walks with friends. Friends, like getting neighbors or someone just will go on a walk with you. I say, go. I actually have one client. She just moved in with her sister and I think they have the sweetest smell. They are so sweet. Her sister works at a library two blocks away from their house and she'll walk to the library and then they'll walk back home together and they'll talk about the day. Like a little old couple. She gets, I think she laughs every time she's like, please don't, because I'm like, y'all are so cute. I kind of tear up a little bit because like, that's so adorable. But so they'll walk around town together, getting into the idea of moving and doing things with people instead of sitting down. I think especially as like, just in my own life and just being like women, we're really good at just sitting and talking for hours to try to read exactly. We're really good at that. So I'm like, well, how about we just walk and talk and I do see a shift in that culturally and there's more like, more like run clubs popping up. Run clubs, I mean like the hot girl walk clubs or whatever, like going on a hot girl walk, that's like a trend on social media, I think. And there's run clubs all over. There's a million rug clubs now. I feel like a year ago there were none or maybe I just wasn't getting fed those by the algorithm. I don't know. No, I, I've, yeah, there's, there's a really, really big one in Dallas called like run it up and they have, I just from the picture that I don't go because it's a bit out of my way, but they have like hundreds of people showing up every time and they still have walkers. So I think just making fitness more social is like the best way to go about it. So it feels less isolating and easier to do. Yeah. And then I know that when we were talking before, there was like a, obviously like when it comes to being disciplined, there's the mental or sorry, physical side of things, which is hugely important because like you want to make sure that you are doing the things that you need to do to put those habits in place so that you actually get your, your workout in or your activity in, but the mental side of things I think is probably just as important, if not more important, because if the mental side of things isn't handled, then you're probably not going to stick to it. Like I always say that I could hand somebody on a platter the blueprint to their dream body, but if they don't have the mental fortitude or the willpower or the discipline to actually stick to it, it don't matter. And so I would rather than like I get asked all the time, like what's the best way to get in shape? The best, the best plan is the one you'll do. So like I would rather somebody just like figure out something that's realistic for them. So when it comes to that mental aspect, the mental side of things, what role does like self talk play in like maintaining discipline and making sure that you stay focused? Like how you talk to yourself, what role does that play? I think it's pretty huge. And I try, I'll notice it actually in like the first zoom call, just the way that someone talks to them. I'll be like, okay, we have a lot of work to do in this area, but about how like they talk about themselves or yeah. So you can, what's an example verse and okay, yeah, an example would be if I get on the call with a client and they're saying, well, I signed up for this, but I don't feel like I'm able to do this. I've tried this for years. I'm not getting anywhere. I'm not really a person who works out or eats healthy, but I really need help versus someone who's saying I've tried it all. But I know I can do this. I just need guidance. I've never had a coach, but I'm ready. And there's so much science that we're not going to get into because I don't like to quote science without being able to directly quote it. But the way that you think of yourself and talk about yourself is really just going to manifest into your reality, not even to get too much into like, you know, too deep into it. But if you tell yourself, if you wake up telling yourself, I can't do my workout today, you're probably not going to do it because you're already telling yourself that you're going to find an excuse at some point. Right. Yeah. And then when you don't do it, you're just only confirming what you told yourself versus I'm going to have a great day and I'm going to do this workout. So it really just so it starts with yourself and how you yeah, how you talk to yourself. I tell people you have to be a lot nicer. Sometimes I sometimes I had a few clients that are kind of they'll, they'll, you know, be going through the plan and they'll have one day or one, you know, one meal, they go out or one day they miss a workout and they're like, Oh, I did so horrible. Like I give myself a five out of 10 this week. I just really went off the rails and I talked to them. I'm like, you only did one out of like, what, like the 21 meals you messed up on one. Like, I think that's good. You need to be nicer yourself. And I'll tell this to my friends too. I'm like, you need to be nicer to my friend and you can't talk me into my friend like that. Just like to kind of add humor, but yeah, yeah, yeah, that's good. Kind of reminding themselves, like, you know, you're trying your best and you're all human. You're still human, but just being nice to yourself is probably the first step. And do you see like a correlation between those who talk badly or talk down to themselves or talk negatively and them not being able to follow through as much as the people who come in talking more positively? Like, do you see a difference in the follow through as well? I would say yes, but then there's also the group of people that come in with the negative and then they have a complete turnaround. Like I work with them. So I will say that the ones either they start off talking positively or end up positive with the self talk, they always have like really great outcomes. Of course, it's easier for the people to start off with a positive mindset to get there, but it doesn't doesn't mean that you can't like still get benefits or we still can't work with you. Right. Yeah, actually, my favorite client that, yeah, when I first met her, she had like really low energy and I was like really trying to work with her and I really liked her and she like, we worked like we worked together pretty well, but she still had like these barriers to overcome and towards the end, I remember that last zoom call, I'm looking at her like, you look completely different. She's like, I know, like she looked and it's not just like physically, but the way she carried herself. I like those transformations too. So yeah. And then kind of bridging off of that, what's a way that you help somebody celebrate like their progress in a way that kind of reinforces the discipline and keeps them motivated and pushing forward. Yeah. So I mean, every week I try to get them to do the weekly check ins. And even if we, so I try to look at how this week went in comparison to the other week. And I know like, Oh, well, you might have like, still kind of struggling with the real plan or you missed a workout or two, but you're getting better on the water goals or, hey, like, you're feeling a lot less stress this week. And it's really just highlighting everything non scale and scale victories for them. Because for them, they're going through it. So they don't really see the changes as much. Right. And even if they're like, Oh, I sent in my photos, I don't see a big change. And then I'll scroll down and look at their first photos. I'm like, Have you seen where you started? Like, like, you know, sometimes you really have to be their biggest true leader, which is fun for me as well. But just trying to find like small improvements in their life. And if they're saying, you know, I'm doing this and I'm some, some people are on like a really long program, like six months, you know, 12 months. Then it's kind of like, Well, how much energy do you have this month compared to when you started, and then they'll have a moment of reflection, I think that's probably the main thing is just getting them to reflective. Oh, yeah, like, you know, when I did start, I this was hard, or I couldn't fit into the shirt or going upstairs was a little difficult. Kind of zoom out a little bit. Exactly. Yeah, the day to day can get, I mean, I experienced that too. It's like day to day. I'm not really nobody's really improving that much day to day. Sometimes you're not improving day to day. But then yeah, you look back at like, like right now, I'm, I'm in a triathlon journey where my plan is an Iron Man and like a year and a half. And I feel like I'm not getting faster sometimes. And then I look back at like the shape that I was in, not not not like physically, like the shape that I was in, like cardio wise, I guess, like the times that I was achieving and how easy those times were. And it's like, I'm like now, now compared to a week ago, I might be slower. Now compared to a year ago, I'm in significantly better shape and I can go much longer distances with much lower heart rate. And so like, I do the same thing, like I kind of get in my head a little bit where everybody, everybody wants progress to be linear, but it never will be. And so, exactly. Yeah, I love the zooming out part of it. And then what would you say that you do to help a client when they experience a setback? Like what's what's your advice then? Yeah, so, you know, setbacks, they can range from as minor as them being sore in the beginning of the program, which just happens. And I, you know, reminding them, you know, delayed on site onset, muscle soreness or doms is, you know, that's easy. We talk to them, okay, here's let them know, hey, things to do. Hey, one day you'll love this. Like I absolutely love when I get sore now. A lot of workouts I don't get sore just because I've been listening for so long. But then when I do like miss a week, like I just didn't work out for like a week and a half because I had a race. And so I wanted to like, carve up basically wanted to preserve my glycogen and not fatigue my body so that I was ready for race day. And I got back in the gym. And I was my I did like a push to work out the first day of pole workout, the second day in the legs and oh my God, like that Thursday and Friday, I was toasted like more sore than I've been in a very, very long time. And I absolutely loved every second of it. Versus in the beginning, like people are like, I hate being sore. I'm like, when you start looking at that soreness is like a like proof that you're improving. You might start liking it a little bit. So yeah, Dom's a good one. But I gotta go ahead. I digress. Yeah, no, they definitely are like, okay, I'm like, okay, well, you know, do the essence all bath, do some extra stretching, foam roller. That type of setback is easy. But when it comes to like bigger setbacks, like major life changes or, you know, new injuries, things like that, I'll talk about.  adresus, maybe that might be the lighter subject, like the lighter side of things. Way in common too. Super common. Yeah, pretty common. It's just like, okay, well, we can still going, we can still keep going, but it's just about kind of redirecting and trying to keep them out of the idea that, oh my gosh, everything, all of my progress is gone. I'm hopeless. Like, Noah's not. You still did all of those months of work. You're not, that's not going anywhere. Progress might be a little bit slower, but we can still make sure it's kind of trending the way we want it to. Or you can at least maintain until you get over that injury, right? Yeah, exactly. Or maybe another, not so much a setback, but when they go on vacation, I think that's the funniest. Like funny time for me because they'll be like, oh my gosh, I'm going to go on vacation. I'm going to try, but I'm going to, I don't know if I'll come back with 10 pounds more. And they come back and they're like, oh, well, I gained three pounds and then two days later I lost it in a waterway. I'm like, yeah, because you've been doing all this work. Got all this muscle on you now. You got better habits, better relationship with food, all of it. Yeah, your metabolism's all like way better. And so of course you can go on vacation and just jump back. They're like, I never thought I could do this. I haven't done that in X amount of years. So it's really just trying to keep them focused on the goal rather than feeling stuck again. Because if the quicker they get out of that kind of eat back loop of like negativity, the better, because you really don't want them to start going backwards to where it actually does like, okay. Now we're getting closer to day one just because, you know, but as long as they stay in contact and we keep talking, it's not too difficult. And do you experience like your clients dealing with like burnout? Because like, I know I've been there before where it's like, to be honest, that's like why I started my triathlon journey because I had burnout with weightlifting. Weightlifting for over 15 years and it's been like weightlifting. Yeah, there's new science coming out that like talks about like stretch, mediated hypertrophy and all this shit, you know, but it's like, it's the same exercises, the same similar set numbers, volume, rep ranges, same form, same gyms, same routines, same pre workouts, you know. And so like it got very like, I don't know, repetitive to me and I did experience burnout and I found myself struggling to get good work. I found myself struggling to want to go to the gym, which I had never really experienced before. And then when I was at the gym, I find myself struggling to get through a full workout. And even if I got through the full workout, it wasn't really that good of a workout. Like I wasn't really finding the motivation to push myself really hard. And when I'm about to hit failure, try to get two more reps and truly go to failure and actually get a sweat roll and like, I just wasn't getting the good workouts in. And so like that was my experience of burnout. And so what I did was I found a new way to be motivated, you know, find something else that's going to drive me a little bit because like, I don't know, I guess I just found myself in this place where I felt like I wasn't progressing and I wasn't going to progress that much. Like I'm not going to get significantly more lean. I could put on a little bit of muscle, but not significantly like a significant amount on this. I'm trying to juice up. So I was like, what am I doing? Like I'm not enjoying these workouts. I'm not going to get in much better shape. And then yeah, I was like, you know what, I'm going to do an Ironman. And I had no idea what I was getting myself into. And I had to like kind of dial it back a little bit. But yeah, that was my experience with burnout. Do your clients kind of go through that at all? Or what like would be any advice that you would give to somebody who's struggling with burnout or honestly just struggling with self doubt? Maybe they don't even get to that point. Right. Maybe they're just like struggling to believe that this is something that's going to work for them or that is going to that they're going to be able to stick to it or whatever. Well, I definitely see both burnout for my clients just because, you know, I'm not working with them for years. So they don't get to they don't experience that type of burnout that you talk about. But they do sometimes like the workouts feel so repetitive or the food plan feels repetitive. And I usually take a couple of different approaches. Some people just need to be reminded we can do variety. Like, OK, well, you can change up the meal plan like this. And they're like, oh, OK. And then they're good. But for some people, they're just like, you know, I'll do the workouts, but I'll be honest. I don't love going to the gym. I don't love doing this. And I'm like, OK, well, kind of like what you did. Let's switch it up. Like does your gym have group fitness classes or just like having them explore different ways of movement, even if it's just one day out of the week will really kind of help the mindset. Especially if especially if they really enjoy the community. I have one client. She she was like, you know, I got kind of tired of, you know, lifting weights. And I joined this dance class. I'm not good at it at all. But it's fun. So it's just giving them the idea of variety. So if that's Wendy's to happen. But that's I think that's easy. But then there's just some people kind of like either experience plateau or they are just like, I don't know how I'm going to do this for the rest of my life. This is just not the lifestyle that I'm used to. And then we can dive deeper into conversations and it's like, OK, well, what did you imagine a healthy lifestyle looking like? Or what did you do before? And I realized. Yeah, I realized that a lot of people think before they start working with me, they think that I'm going to have them eat salads all the time and just chicken and rice and the most boring thing. And then they get a meal plan. They're like, oh, OK, well, this isn't as bad, but it's still not what I envision. And sometimes it's really just having a conversation with them. And then I realized. And it's just like, I don't know. Sometimes you just have to dive deeper. Like I have one client, she filled out the questionnaire. And I think when some people fill out the questionnaire, they put in like healthy foods they like, but not the unhealthy foods, quote, unquote. And then we just had to have a conversation of we can still have those foods and we can actually do it this way. And then they're like, oh, well, now that makes more sense for my lifestyle. I thought I had to be strict with the foods. I because I thought I wasn't allowed and I'm like, oh, Lord, you're allowed to eat foods. We just have to put it in a certain way. But we can you can have ice cream and not have to worry. That's actually super interesting that the the human brain will hear what foods do you like on a diet plan questionnaire and immediately just talk about like the healthy foods that they like and not the unhealthy foods that they like, because I was literally about to ask you like what's like what advice you would give to somebody who is like struggling with nutrition and struggling with feeling overwhelmed by what they think they can and cannot eat. And and how that how how you change that belief system of what a diet, I guess, quote unquote diet looks like because like it's funny. I have obviously we have a ton of ads online where I'm eating donuts and pizza and everything and hamburgers and people are always like, they're either say like, they are they like wondering like, do you actually eat that food? Or they're saying like, oh, he doesn't actually eat this food. And it's like, no, I come come hang with me. You'll see that I eat this food like I order ice cream probably two nights a week. And that's that is loaded up with Reese's Cups. I'm a big fan of burgers and fries. And then I just find like healthy alternatives to foods that I like. Like I'm AI'm on a meta and I go through like phases too. So it's like right now I'm on this Mediterranean kick. And so I love like steak kebabs and chicken kebabs with like this, the Spanish styled rice and some pita and hummus. And so like, is it the healthiest I could possibly eat? Probably not. Like there is probably cooked in some oil. Like I order it from a store and it's probably cooked in some oil that is not the best. And I don't know how lean the chicken is or whatever. But it's a heck of a lot healthier than fast food. It's a heck of a lot healthier than heating up some frozen burrito from Costco or whatever. And so like, is it the healthiest thing I could possibly be eating? No, but is it realistic for my lifestyle? Like you talked about, I love what you said, where it's like people are working out and they think to themselves, oh, I don't know that I could do this forever. You know. And so it's about figuring out what they, I mean, there's a, I think there's a little piece of it where it's like, OK, well, you're going to have to make sacrifices. Like you're going to have to learn how to do the hard shit on the days you don't want to, you know. But there's also ways that you can make it more optimal for your life. There's or more efficient for your life or make it match your personal interests or your lifestyle better. So yeah, I was literally just about to ask you and get into like a nutrition side of things. Would you say that like that's probably the biggest setback that people have is like they think that their nutrition is going to be like super strict and bland and boring and restrictive. And then they come to you and they're like, oh, that's actually not that bad. Exactly. Yeah. And I think what helps more or maybe just as much when I finally do program those foods, I think it's also. Good to show them like a very human side of like myself as their trainer, because there's probably like, OK, like, sure, she's saying I can do this, but I don't believe I've had zoom calls where I've literally gone into my freezer and show them like I have ice cream. I have this stuff too. And they're like, oh, like you're not you're not lying. I have, you know, I'll have like funny conversations with clients. I'm like, you know, I actually really hate cooking chicken and I know I could cook it. It would be easier, like more healthier. But I'll just I've tried different rotisserie chickens. I'll say it on here. Central Market has the best rotisserie chicken. And I'll say I'll just have that and I'll shred it and I'll put it on whatever. And they're like, I also hate cooking chicken. And sometimes it's nice to have like a like AI think that's when they feel like, oh, you're not. Some psycho. Perfect. Right. Yeah. No, they're like, oh, you're not like some health person who feels like there's so much above me. Like, no, I'm like, I'm like, I'm right. I'm relatable. I yeah, I try to relate with them. They're like, oh, OK. Like there's days where I just could care less. Yep. And, you know, but again, it's just about balance. And I actually have came to a point where I enjoy exploring the healthy alternatives. Just because I know where things come from. And it's not so much a point. It's not so much. Oh, my gosh, I'm scared of the extra hidden calories anymore. It's just about a reframe. So I think relating to them helps a lot more than just sending them a plan that has all their favorite foods, because they all said I've had some people where I'll send them a plan with their favorite foods, and they still have like an apprehension to like eat them until I have like a call with them. So when it comes to like rest and recovery, like in burnout, we're talking a little bit about that right now. What strategies do you use to make sure that somebody is not burning themselves out? And how important do you think rest and recovery is? Because obviously, like there's the whole like no days off or whatever. And people like just watching people on social media who say that they work out every single day. And it's like people ask people like it's funny. Like I'll have like somebody who has no idea who I am and they'll just do that. But do how how how much do you work out every day? I'm like, I don't work out every day. Work out five days a week. Like how long are your workouts? It's like that that question that answer has changed since I started this triathlon stuff, because like I now have to do long, slow, easy cardio to build my like my my threshold. So like my workouts now, like if I'm doing like a long bike ride, that could be two hours, you know. But like my workouts to actually look good. 45 minutes hour tops. And so like so when they used to ask like how long are your workouts? I'm like two, three hours. Like now I work out 45 minutes a day, five days a week. And it's plenty versus now it's a little bit different. But yeah, when it comes to rest and recovery, what's your take? Yeah, I tell them to rest. I rarely I'll once in a blue moon have a client that wants to work out every single day. Just because they're really motivated and I'll have to explain, you know, like we can tell them like, you know, well, your body will only grow if you let it rest. But there's also things you can do if you really just have to do something. I'm like, okay, you can do yoga or you can do a mobility day. But really emphasizing how important rest is not just for recovery, but also to prevent injury. And also, you know, we could talk about like when it comes to overtraining, it's like, well, you're going to put yourself in too much of a deficit and all of this stuff. But mainly I just tell them to sit down, please. Like you don't need to do all of this. And like, I think the best rest days are just, you know, listening to your body. Okay, maybe I need to do some extra stretching or I want to go on a walk or, you know, there's so many of these things popping up in Dallas now, like some you go do like a sauna or a cold plunge or red light there or something. But it's all about being nice to your body. And I think maybe that's my biggest takeaway is to be nice to yourself, but being nice to your physical bodies to also let it rest while also appreciating the movement it can give you. Yeah, there's a guy that I know who I might kind of help and get shape, buddy of mine. And he's very, very like motivated, I should say, like super successful guy. Um, and he doesn't want to take rest days. He's like, I'll, I'll, I'll work out every single day. I do all my workouts and he just, but it's because he wants results is because he's, he's impatient about seeing progress and he wants to see the fastest progress possible. But I mean, I'm sure you share this view. You're literally going to get in better shape if you take rest days. Like building muscle. I think it's becoming more common knowledge now, but like, I feel like a couple of years ago, people didn't understand the concept of the fact that you actually break down muscle at the gym and then that muscle builds on your rest day. And so they don't take that into account. So they're constantly just, and I used to do this too. Like when I was a kid, 15, 16, 17, 18 year old Vince, he would just go to the gym for hour to out. I mean, I was there for a while back then by two hours and just not lifting very, with very good intent, um, bad form, weight that was too heavy. And no rest days. I would literally work out just every day. And even though I was working out all the time, I was rail thin, like could not put on muscle to save my life. And I know that's the opposite of probably what most people are listening and what they're experiencing. Most people are probably experiencing a struggle with losing weight, but it's the same thing. Like you, if you want to lose weight, you need to lift weights as well. Like that's, people do ask me, like, what's the best exercise for burning fat, for losing weight? But the answer is the same for whatever your goal is, whether your goal is to build muscle, get stronger, burn fat, lose weight, get healthier. It's resistance training. Like that's the best thing you can do. Are there other things that you can do in addition to that? Sure. But I'd say, I don't know, 60, 70% of your plan needs to be revolved around resistance. And that includes rest days. Do you ever find that people struggle with getting enough rest days in, or do you think it's kind of the opposite? And they kind of struggle with getting enough workouts in? No, they seem to be struggling with it. They seem completely fine with rest days, especially just how I work with a lot of, women that have families, they're like, okay, they're actually sometimes they're shocked. They're like, I saw my calendar and it has no workouts on some days. I'm like, yeah, you don't do anything on those. And they're like, really? So, they love the rest days. And then, okay, so actually the last thing I wanted to ask you, when we were chatting before we started recording, we chatted about like the spiritual side of things. I want to get your take and what ways you believe fitness impacts like a person's spiritual fulfillment and what part you think that has in the puzzle. That is a big question for the last question. I guess if I had to put it very cohesively, I think fitness, like so when you're going to the gym, you're taking care of your physical health, but you're also taking care of your mental health. And then there's a way that spirituality can play a role in it. I guess I can only speak for myself just because it's kind of hard to generalize a question like that. When I show up for myself and I kind of make a kind of like not like a pact, but like a commitment to myself to have this healthy body and take care of myself and have a healthy mind. It also just allows me to show up better in all aspects, especially spirituality. I consider myself spiritual non-religious, but I did grow up Christian. I grew up the same way, by the way. I grew up, I'm a confirmed Catholic, but I'm not really religious anymore. I would say definitely spiritual, believe in a higher power. I believe in the universe. Everything is energy. Energy doesn't disappear. And so it's like your energy is going somewhere. And I do believe in like the power of manifestation, the law of attraction. I believe in all that stuff as well. Yeah, I guess it's easier to tie into metaphysical stuff, but I try to keep it general just because I know I have a lot of clients that when they do talk to me about the religion, they're Christian. I think it's cool. They feel comfortable having those conversations with me. I think when you clear up issues that you're having like in the physical being, like in your physical state, you're having less like pains and aches and ailments and you're moving for a healthier body, it kind of clears up the energy for you to explore in that route, like more spiritual thing. Like new stuff, right. For me, it also lets me kind of clear my mind so I can engage in like meditation or prayer. I really think that if you have a lot of things going on physically, it's harder for you to kind of worry about the higher levels of stuff. Okay, it's coming back. So kind of like Maslow's my arc you need. You can't talk to someone who doesn't have food or water about reaching spiritual alignment, like enlightenment. That's kind of crazy, like going to like a homeless person and being like, have you thought about praying? It's like, I don't even know what I'm going to eat. So with that kind of concept in mind, taking care of the things kind of lower on the pyramid as you work your way up, now you have the freedom to explore that. So if you're waking up every day from pain and aches and you're not having the most energy and going through the day is hard enough, it is more difficult to access that side of things. And I've even, I haven't had like direct conversations with my clients because not everyone talks about the religion. But I have noticed that the more we progress through the program, the more they talk about more open they are, how they, yeah, how fulfilled they are, how more involved they are in the church or how much more energy they're able to present in those spaces. So I guess I'll leave it with that. Yeah. I mean, that's a great answer. Honestly, it's like telling somebody who is, like you said, waking up with back pain, neck pain, headaches, no energy, a body they hate, and telling them that they need to meditate and journal and like do all this like mindfulness stuff. It's like, I just want to feel better and I want to look better and I want to have more confidence and I want to stop feeling like I'm a piece of shit, you know? And so like fixing that piece, I think there's also, I mean, there's also different people, types of people, like some people are just going to be more spiritual by nature. Like that's just how they are and somebody will be getting into journaling and meditation before they even start a diet. But I think for most people who are not like that, it's like, yeah, it's like once you start working out a little bit or just getting activity and finding ways of moving, finding a sports league or going on those walks that we talked about and cleaning up your diet a little bit and getting better habits in place. Once you start feeling better, feeling more accomplished, feeling like you're more, you're more capable of stuff, then you can start, I guess, dipping your toe into the water of spirituality. Because like there's a lot of people who are, like I know a lot of people who aren't necessarily religious or spiritual, you know? Or yeah, there's a lot of obviously religion, like there's a Christianity is huge in America. And so like maybe they're not necessarily spiritual, but dipping, like getting back to the religion because like, am I religious? No, but do I love the idea or like the principles that people hold when they are religious? Yes, I think that's like the most beneficial part of it. Like, yeah, there's like shitty people who are religious, but for the most part, like it's people who are, they have good morals and they have good understandings of how they should treat other people and stuff like that. And I love that aspect of it. But yeah, if you're not happy with yourself, you're not going to be happy with others. And so fixing that fitness piece, if you're struggling with that other part would be a great way to make that spiritual part a lot easier. You agree? Exactly. We always talk about, you always say like you might be, have a spirit and a soul, but you're also a spirit having a human experience. And sometimes you have to really take care of the human experience. Interesting. To get deeper with that aspect. Like the... Like we're just, we're just in a body. We're in this vessel and we have to, sometimes we don't, we're not, we might not be a human. We're a soul in this vessel and you gotta live how, like if you were in a lion's body, you gotta live the lion body. You gotta live the lion's way sometimes, you know, as a very interesting way of thinking about it. I've never thought about it that way. Cool. Okay. So that's all I really have. Is there anything that you want to say before we hop off of here to anybody struggling with discipline, last words, wrap up anything? Sure. I would just have to say, remember to be nice to yourself. And there's, there's definitely a balance of being regimented and having a plan, being disciplined, but also being kind to yourself during the process. So yeah. Yeah. So I'll ask you to do that. Yeah. The people who think that you have to, if anybody out there thinks you have to go balls to the wall all the time and be 100% perfect, nobody's 100% perfect. Ever. I mean, maybe sometimes some people are like your David Goggins, but other than David Goggins, there's not really anybody else who's doing it hardcore 100% of the time. It's just not realistic. It's not fun. You're not going to enjoy life if you're doing that. So don't think you have to, but well, Shania, I appreciate you being on here with us. I think hopefully everybody listening learned a lot, learned some things that they can do, better ways of thinking. And hopefully this leads to them being a little bit more disciplined in their own fitness journey. And then I know we have another episode where we're going to be talking about prepping your mind for recovering from an injury. So everybody be on the lookout also for anybody out there who hasn't listened to any of our other podcasts. If this is your first time here, welcome. Thank you for stopping by. We have a ton of episodes. We drop episodes weekly going over all different types of stuff. So go check out the other episodes if you haven't yet, but Shania, thank you for being here. Thank you. But before we wrap up, if anybody out there is looking for some extra help with getting back on track and trying to lose weight or achieving whatever your fitness goals are, we do have certified personal trainers, certified coaches who are available and eager to create a customized plan for you based on your body. And our trainers have already helped hundreds of thousands of men and women to lose weight, tone up, build strength, get healthier, feel better, look better. And we're ready to work with you as well. And this is something where we'll figure out everything for you. We'll do all the calculations, figure out all the macros, the calories, what foods to eat, what foods to avoid, when to work out, what those workouts look like. And so if you guys want to get more details on that, just check out the link in the description below. I know you will absolutely love it. But thank you again for tuning in today and we will see you next time. Thanks for tuning in to today's episode of V-Shred's Better Body Better Life podcast. Whether you're doing one of our programs, taking our supplements, or just doing things on your own, tune in every week for exclusive content with bents, V-Shred trainers, and special guests as they share valuable tips around motivation, workout, food, and living a healthier lifestyle. See you next time.