 450 pounds, not being able to put on my seat belt, drinking alcohol every day, not being able to tie my shoes, not being able to do what I want to do, and be there for my kids and go shopping and feel comfortable in my own skin. I'm trying to get as far away from that person as I can. MUSIC Welcome to the V-Shred Better Body Better Life podcast, where we help you live your best life while working on your health and fitness goals. We're here to make your journey fun and inspiring. MUSIC What's going on, guys? Welcome back to another episode of the Better Body Better Life podcast. I'm your host, Vince, and today we have a very special guest, Jordan Leroylty from JkeepsMovement, if you want to check him out online. And he is here to talk to us about his personal transformation. He's lost over 200 pounds, I think, what, 213 pounds total in the past little over a year, which is absolutely mind-blowing. And so we're going to talk about what it's taken to get there and the struggles that he's experienced, the wins that he's experienced, and hopefully give you guys some insight into helping progress your own fitness journey, help you lose some extra weight, and show you that it's absolutely possible because it's been done. So, Jordan, welcome. Thank you. Happy to be here. Let's start out with who you are and the results that you've gotten in how long. My name is Jordan, and I lost 210 pounds in a year. Goddamn. I went from a size 54 pant and a 5X shirt to I'm in a size 40 and an XL. What advice? Well, okay, before you started, had you done stuff in the past? And what had you tried? I did. I tried a lot. I failed for years. I failed for many, many years before it finally clicked. And this was... My son is 11 years old, and I remember being in the gym the week he was born at 325 pounds before I even blew up even more. The pandemic was a big part of that. And for years and years and years, I failed. And then last October, it just finally clicked. Really? And so what were some of the things that you were doing in that time period when it wasn't working? Like, what did your regimen kind of look like? And how different is it now? Before I wouldn't... My eating wasn't under control. And alcohol, it wasn't under control. So what I would do wouldn't work because I would go to the gym at my apartments and get on the elliptical for 20 minutes and burn out or I would try to lift weights and I wouldn't know how. And it just wouldn't last more than a week, but also because my habits weren't good. I didn't have good eating life habits to allow me to be sustainable. And that's what ultimately made me fail time and time again. And were you doing it all alone at that point? I was, yeah. I mean, I've had workout partners and friends and stuff, and it's never been sustainable because they could never do it for me. Right? I'd be like, hey man, go to the gym, but it wasn't important for them as it is for me. Right? Just didn't... Different starting points you mean? Different starting points, right? Because I was always the big guy, right? My friends were always more in shape or even just not as excessively big as I was where I had to really do more than just getting to work out with my friend because I was on a different wavelength. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And then growing up, were you always on the larger side? Yeah, actually when I was... I remember being 10, 11, 12, and my mom took me to Old Navy to get Husky clothes. And I just remember like, you're a Husky, and this is 12 years old. So that's one of my first memories. And then I remember my dad taking me to Dodger games and baseball games and wearing an XL 2X. At my first job at 15, I was wearing a 3X. Wow, okay. And so from 9, 10, 11, 12 years old, all I remember is this. So you're in a smaller shirt now than when you were how old? 13, 14 years old, yeah. I haven't worn 20 in 22 years. This is the first... This is the smallest clothes I've worn in 20 plus years. Dang, that's badass. So what advice would you give your heaviest self if you could go back in time? First, I would tell him to keep moving, man, and I'm proud of you because you're gonna do it. I would say all of the failures brought me to where I am today and the habits and the things you do then aren't gonna define the rest of your life. That I'm going to... I'm gonna break through and I'm gonna do it. And I didn't know then that I was gonna do it, but looking back now, I could just say, keep going, man, you're on the right path. So there were times that struggles would pop up. What were some of those struggles? And how did you get through them? I struggled a lot with food addiction and eating for behavioral issues. And maybe not behavioral, but eating because I was depressed, eating because I was happy. Every emotional eating, yeah. Emotional eating was a huge part of it where I just used food as an outlet so everybody has their vice. And God gave me my vice with food. I didn't control it. I didn't think I had control of it, but I would just eat very poorly, like heavy meals, heavy, heavy. I was never really big into sweets, but like heavy, Roberto's big plates, pounds of food where it just wouldn't... It wasn't good and I would just keep falling back into that trap where no matter what I would do, I would just always result to food to handle every emotion. And you were always aware that you needed to stop that. And so what kept you from really stopping that long term? I think just not having the mental strength then and it was just continuing to build it and build it and build it until I said enough where I didn't really want it bad enough. But it was always a thought in my mind and it didn't get worse until after the pandemic when everybody put on a couple pounds. And then it just it got so out of control that I had to make the change. So you said you were three, what, 25 before the pandemic? Yeah. And then when the pandemic hit, what happened? I blew up to like 450, 450 pounds at my heaviest and I just kept eating and I was drinking alcohol and I just I didn't have control and I only was furloughed off of work for about three months. But I just I just kept spiraling. I kept spiraling with the food addiction and the problem to the point where I just I just had to make the change. And I got so tired of feeling the way that I felt that I had to. There was no other choice. And how did you feel? I felt miserable. I felt so unhappy in my own skin. I felt so ashamed of myself more than anybody would ever know where I would wake up and I would feel miserable because that's not who I wanted to be. There's people who, you know, enjoy it or not enjoy it. I can't say nobody would ever enjoy it, but I there's people who don't want to change. Yeah. And are comfortable and I was never comfortable with myself and I wanted to be better for myself and most importantly for my kids. And so bridging off of that, what role did wait? How many kids you have? I have two kids. Two kids. Yeah. How old are they? 11. My son is 11 and my daughter is seven. Okay. And what role in this did they play? Huge role. When I when I started my my first two reasons, I mean, I had four reasons. Two personal and two were my kids. Okay. You know, personal reasons were small things. I wanted to wear nice clothes and feel comfortable. I want to ride roller coasters, but my seven year old daughter is my princess and I need to walk her down the aisle. I need to be there for her. And if I don't do that, I I'm a failure and my son is powerful. Thank you, man. My my son is 11 and I got him into sports. He's playing baseball and no matter what he wants to do, I need to be there to support him. All the kids now they want to be YouTubers and be on social media, right? But I need to be there to guide him and to coach him and to give him the guidance that I mean, my dad gave me and my dad was a huge part of my life and he passed away in 2008, but he was always there for me. No matter how much my dad struggled, he was that guy in my life that to this day I look up to him like he led me on the right path and I need to do that for my kids. And so the the changes that you've made has that kind of rubbed off on them at all. Like the foods that you're eating, the workouts that you're doing, like have you noticed that like occasionally we'll hear and sometimes no, but occasionally we'll hear that like the kids start joining in on some workouts or they want to try the healthier meals and sometimes that's not the case because they're kids, you know, has that been the case for you at all? It has. My daughter, Morso, my princess, she's seven. My son is 11, about to be 12. And so he's starting to go through that phase, right? He's starting to mature and just whatever dad, you know, he's becoming too cool. Yeah, he's developing into his own his own self, right? But it does. And I could tell that my, you know, even so much is drinking sugar-free drinks or choosing healthier options or limiting the fast food. And I don't want to limit them 100% because they deserve to be kids. Right. Right. I buy them the happy meal occasionally, you know, and there's things because they deserve that and it's it's I don't want them to suffer. But even like my daughter, especially she, she, last night, I do pushups every day. And she's like, I'm in my room doing pushups and she comes in and she's like, oh, daddy, you're doing pushups as soon as I walk in. I could do them too. Watch, I'm getting better. And she knocked out 10 pushups, you know, and she's seven. And knowing that just living, leading them by example is the most important thing I can do. Yeah. And so she's becoming more, does she play sports? They're both in karate. They do. Okay. They do karate on the weekends and my son is in little league. And just they've been doing it for almost two years and just teaching them discipline, teaching them, you know, activity and whether she wants to get into some days, it's gymnastics, some days it's dancing, but she sees it. Yeah. And my son sees it. And I want to him as soon as he's a little bit older, I'm going to get him in the gym and like I'm training you. Yeah. And I want him, you know, because to play sports, he needs to be active. And so he's in sixth grade. He needs to get in there and I'm going to train him up too. That's awesome. And so, okay. Question. A lot of people, they are afraid to get started and I'm sure like you said that you've been through a bunch of things that you've tried and maybe it didn't work for you. Was there ever a time when you were afraid to get started because you didn't think it would work or you thought you would fail again? And if there's anybody else out there who is scared to get started because of the idea of failing at something again, what would you say to them? I failed a lot of times. I failed so many times and I think as long as you want it, don't ever give up on it. If there's a small inkling in you that says, I want this, then it's a part of you and that lives inside of you. And as long as that fire is lit, you have to bring out the passion to let it burn and the failures are going to happen. I failed for years. This is just the time that it worked. This is just me figuring it out now and I turn 35 tomorrow. Tomorrow. Tomorrow. I'll have a really birthday. Thank you, man. And people think 34, 35 is old, but no, that you could start 30, 40, 50, 60 years old. If you want it, you can do it. Don't be afraid of the failure. And it becomes even more important. It becomes and health is important. The older we get, the more important it is because I don't want to be the one and oh, I'm 30 and 40 in my back hurts and my bones hurt. No, I want to, there's people out there thriving 56 years old in the best shape of their life, living their best life and I want to do that. And so if you want it, whether it's to lose weight, to build muscle, to get healthy, I think keep that in the forefront of your mind and don't stop until you do it. And are there any like mental tricks or tips that you would have for the days where they don't feel the motivation, the days that you struggled? Cause like obviously everybody has those days where it's like, I feel good, I got good sleep. I want to work out today. I want to make good decisions and then there's days where you don't on those days. How did you push through discipline? Discipline over motivation and it's, it's wanting it so bad that nothing was going to stop me, that my mindset was made up. My mind was made up to the point where I could not be altered. And for the last year, that's where I've been, where I couldn't, I can't be faced in terms of the trajectory that I want to put myself on. And especially since I started your program, it's been just laser focused. And so the discipline day to day where I don't, I don't even want to sacrifice it. I don't want to give it up because it feels too good to feel good right now. I feel amazing and I, I could eat some junk or a little bit and it's not going to kill me, but I just feel so happy with the way I am and knowing that I don't need it. It's, I'm just locked in. Question. When did you actually start the journey? Like the successful journey? When was the beginning? October 10th, 2023. Wow. Okay. It was a year and 14 days ago. Wow. And we're at a reggae festival. Jovan was there and, and we were with my friends and we're at a festival and that's my, that's my happy place. I love concerts. I love going out. I love being active and doing things. I like to live a social life and we were there and one of our good friends was, was there and he had a booth and he was there with his wife and was like, I'm going to do a fitness plan starting on Tuesday. He said that he said it. Okay. Him and his wife just randomly. I'm going to, I'm going to start this challenge on Tuesday. Okay. And I said, I'm in and at that moment, I didn't know it. I was going to say, did you know what you were going to get into? I didn't know it. I didn't know it. Right. And I don't know if this is, it was 75 hard. I don't know. I don't know if, so Tuesday and I just, I locked in. It was, this was a Sunday night, the eighth. Okay. And then Monday happened and I said, I'm going to have my last drink, my last hurrah. And I, and I did, I had an alcoholic beverage and eight light crap. Okay. And then that Tuesday I locked in and, and I didn't look back since that Tuesday. I haven't looked back. Wow. And I just pushed through mentally and that was the biggest thing. And so what were the struggles in the very beginning? What, what was the hardest part? Every single day was, I guess was a challenge, especially for the first three to four weeks because I went cold turkey. I cut out added sugar. I cut out processed foods. I cut out alcohol and like 80% of carbs to start right at 450 pounds. I had a mentality where I said, I, I felt like a bear. I was like, if I could eat this much and bears hibernate for the winter, I have enough sort of fat to survive off of for a couple of weeks, right? And that wouldn't be deprived of my, but I'd wake up and I would just eat natural foods and I cut myself completely cold turkey short of all of those things for the first three to four weeks and had headaches and, and kind of felt, I felt, I felt it. Yeah. But I started to see some weight fall off. And for the first three months, it was just straight discipline and battling through how I felt because how I wanted to feel was more important. The decision that you made that day to join him on that program. Why hadn't you made that sooner? And what was like the, the, the switch inside you that was like, yes, I'm in. Was it the alcohol speaking or was it like something building to that moment where you had been frustrated or struggling or something happened? Like, was there a specific mental like turning point where you like, I'm ready or was it just kind of like this thing? Cause like it's funny. People ask me all the time, like how we like started like V shred, right? And really how it started was it was our now CEO's idea and he came to me and he was like, Hey, do you want to do like, do you want to make a fitness program? And I was like, sure. Had no clue. Well, I was getting into no clue, no clue. It'd be this big, no clue. Had no idea what it would even look like. And so for me, it was like, it wasn't like this thing that built for years where I was like, I know I want to be a fitness influencer and I want to build a big brand. I know I wanted to make an impact, but it was really just him saying, Hey, you want to do it? I was like, sure. Was it like that? Or was there like a buildup to that moment? And you were like, yes, this is, this is what I need. Internally, there was a big buildup on the, on the outside looking in. Maybe you couldn't see it because of my habits and just because the way I was living my life, but internally it was building and it was building to the point where I couldn't put on my seatbelt. I couldn't tie my shoes. I could barely get out of bed. You know, I couldn't, I remember being in the grocery store and a group of guys were like muttering to themselves. How could he get so fat? Wow. And it just killed me. And in, in, in it just, I was so done with myself that, you know, and, and concerts and music are my happy place. So I'm there trying to be happy, but so uncomfortable in my own skin that at that moment I didn't know. I didn't know that it would lead me, especially to here. I had zero idea, right? That it would take me to where I am today and just feeling good, feeling healthy. I had no idea, but I knew that I wanted it because of how I felt inside and how miserable I really was. So it was a culmination of me internally and just stepping out of my shoes and seeing myself and how other people perceive me in a grocery store. I said enough. I had to change. What would you call rock bottom for you? 450 pounds. Not being able to put on my seatbelt, drinking alcohol every day, not being able to tie my shoes, not being able to do what I want to do and be there for my kids and go shopping and feel comfortable in my own skin and just being so miserable internally that there was no other option than to go up. That's what I would think rock bottom is. And was it overwhelming to think about how far you had to go? It was. I didn't I didn't really realize it or process. You know, I it started off as I need to lose weight and to this point today. Now it's like I want to get shredded like that. And I didn't I couldn't have imagined that in a year. That's the dynamic would shift from a weight loss journey to AI want to look good and feel good journey. Right. And it was a little bit intimidating at first because I knew I had a big, a big load in front of me. Yeah. But I also know myself and I know I'm determined and I know that at any given point I want to be the hardest worker in the room and I am the hardest worker in the room and I need to do it for myself. And so I just put my head down and didn't give up. What do you say to somebody else who is at rock bottom right now who feels overwhelmed by the thought of all that's going to go into getting started? You just have to start. It's it's hard and there's there's going to be a lot of failures, but as long as you want it inside of as long as like I said that fire is burning inside of you to change to want to change, you have to do it. And whether it's with support, whether you have a friend who's like, Hey, I'm going to start a challenge or your spouse or your kids or however you can get support. It's great. But at the end of the day, it has to come from you internally and you have to be the one you have to want it. Right. And so as long as you want it, you can do it. And I hope to be an example for somebody to do that. And I don't expect anybody to do my transformation, which is kind of I'm realizing now it's kind of crazy to lose the amount of weight I did in a year. Right. But it just feels natural to me, but I don't expect anybody to see my progress and be like, wow, I can do that. But you can do it. If you wanted to, you just have to lock in and really want it more than the outside pressure. And then, yeah, and speaking of the outside pressure, like, did you have any kind of outside? Like, did you look online and see people like transforming? And did you feel like you were, um, what comparing yourself to other people during that journey? Like, was there any kind of comparison to social media, like seeing other people lose 50 pounds in two months or whatever? Like, did you experience that piece of it at all? Cause you lost weight super fast and continued to lose a lot of weight very fast. And so I think normally what happens is people are like slow to lose weight. Like they'll lose just a couple pounds in the first couple months and they're like, what's going on? And they see people honestly like you were losing a ton of weight and they're like, and they compare themselves and that just destroys all of their happiness. It's the comparison is the thief of joy. And so did you experience that at all? Or I'm obviously your story's pretty wild. And so maybe not. Well, I did though. I mean, I would look on, of course, on social media and in movies and things like that, we see people like there's actors Jonah Hill lost a bunch of weight. Ethan Supley, um, he lost a lot of weight and there was figures that, that I saw or like, wow, they're losing weight. It is possible. I saw that it was possible. But I mean, of course they have the money and that like all of that. Mine was a little bit, it had to be self, self, you know, driven. Yeah. But I like to stay in my own lane. I don't, I try not to compare myself to others and take other people's stories or success or there. I just, I'm an observer and I'm a learner and I like to learn and take different pieces from what they're doing that. It works. They're doing that. It works. They're doing that. It works. How can I adapt that to me? Yeah. And I just wanted to stay centered in myself, but learning everything and it just kind of, it had to come down to me internally, just doing it and finally it did it. Yeah. And you, you mentioned like seeing these pieces that other people are doing and then taking this piece and taking this piece and making it work for you. How, how important was it for you to find something that was really felt like it was meant for you? Cause obviously there's tons of programs that are like just kind of like one size fits all or just like different goals. Like if I gave you the clean bulk program when you were 450 pounds, you're going to be like, the hell are you doing? Why are you giving me this? And so like having that approach that is essentially, you're essentially customizing an approach to yourself. How important was that for you? Very important. I think in the three kind of staples I took into it were no sugar, no processed foods and no alcohol and cutting out those three things and carbs, a lot of carbs at first, right? It is very tough. At first, a lot of carbs until I learned that how to properly fuel myself, right? Cause at first you think, cause you do, you see it, you see, oh carnivore, keto, this diet, that you're like, where do I start? Social media through all of you. Like even when I first saw your workouts, I was intimidated. I told them, I was like, these are a lot of work. I had, how do I do this? Right. And then it just started to click where I knew that these three things were working for me, which I took was I don't need to eat processed food. Whole natural foods seem to be the best thing because they just come from the earth. Yeah, they're not. I, I didn't have a good metabolism then. And I think it was self-inflicted. Like your metabolism starts to work when you start feeding your body things that can be metabolized, right? And moving it in the right way. Yeah. Yeah. More junk that you eat, the slower your metabolism becomes. So cutting out processed foods, added sugar. That's, I think my biggest advice for anybody trying to lose weight now is cut out the sugar. Sugar is terrible in my opinion. Yeah. Like the added sugar and I know fake sugars are a huge thing where it comes to the aspartame and all of that, but there's a, there's a balance. Yeah. Right. And I think that like a Coke zero is a million times better than a regular Coke for weight loss. Yep. Right. In the long term, there may be controversy around that and that's a separate story. Yeah. But losing weight, cutting out sugar was huge. Okay. It was very important to me and alcohol and processed foods. When did you feel your motivation was the highest? Now. Really? Yeah. Now I'm more determined than ever. Now it just every day, just snowballs, the better I feel every day, I guess better. That's cool. The more, the more that I do and the better that I feel my motivation is the highest and as I see the results and I wake up and the scale goes down, not every day, but I'm so motivated now to continue this lifestyle because it feels good to feel good. And before you were this motivated. You talked about how like you had tried stuff and you had failed a bunch of different stuff, right? What made this different? Like why did this end that cycle of trying and failing stuff? What was it about October 10th? That made everything change. I just had to and I don't know. I don't know why and I didn't look back. It maybe it was just my timing. Maybe it was just part of my story. I don't, I can't really specify how it worked this time. Yeah, but I knew that every day I woke up with the mentality that I'm not going back and the further and maybe I'm running from that person, right? Maybe, maybe now that old person was here and I'm trying to get as far away from that person as I can. And I'm not afraid to like, oh, I can't have a cheat meal or this or that because I'll fall back into those habits. It's that I'm content and I'm happy. And so I don't know how it worked, but it did and I'm never looking back. It's awesome. You made the decision at that festival, October 10th to make the change. And you went to that same festival. This probably October 10th again to go to that same one, a completely different human. What was the difference in how you felt internally and how you, how you felt about yourself going to this same festival a year later? Night and day, night and day. I was confident this year. I felt I was happy to see my friends. I wasn't, I was embarrassed to see my friends before I didn't, I didn't even want to show up and see my friends because I was so embarrassed with myself that this time I was excited. I wanted my friends to see me and say, wow, like Jordan, you did that. Yeah, I did that. You know, everybody, right? Everyone's Jordan, you look so good. And it's like, thank you. Like finally I did it. Finally I have something to be happy about, right? We're there at these festivals. You're supposed to be happy listening to the music and then I'm in the crowd. There's people behind me. I'm taking up so much space and it's just like, it was, it was everything. It was everything in this, this month alone. I've went to nine concerts this month. I got two more coming this week, but festival three days of the festival to be then just to feel confident to when my friends snap a picture, right? When, you know, our friends that are musicians and they're, you know, I'm on stage with them and if I'm in a candid shot, like I'm happy with that person. Who I see, right? I don't want to be on stage just to blob like who's that guy just feels so good this year. Everything changed and I feel amazing. Did you ever find yourself shying away from pictures in the  amlodipine, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin I'm like, ooh, selfie today, selfie today, because I feel good You hear that a lot, you're like, you don't want to take the pictures in the beginning because you don't like how you look and then I mean, we hear it quite often with like the transformations, it's like they wish they would have because they could look back on it. Did you take progress pics throughout your journey? Oh yeah, so the, I mean, the last year I documented everything, like I have hours and hours of footage I have months, the first three months of my V-Shred plan, I have logged just on my camera because and it's cool now in retrospect that I could see, the last year You see every step of your progress? I could see it and I could look back and see day to day, I remember that day I started running up a hill in my neighborhood that was like 0.2 miles long, right? And now I'm running laps around it and so to see the progress that I've made in the last years, it's really cool and to have the footage now I cherish it. I wish I had some more, maybe for content back in the day, for transformation, right? To not recycle the same footage but yeah That's cool. Were there any specific moments that you wanted to give up over the past year? Not this time, not this time. I couldn't be phased. This time I feel like I couldn't look back. I can't give up now and there was a lot of pressures and things, social events and things that could have given up on, personal life situations that I could have given up on but I didn't. This time I haven't looked back. How did you manage those then? Like the social events, the personal stressors that you had, how did you manage to get through those while taking on such a daunting task? Transforming my outlet from food and alcohol and poison to healthier alternatives, not relying on food for For happiness. For happiness, right? Realizing that I want to use, to learn how to use food the proper way for fuel and to change my emotional behaviors into the gym, a walk, push-ups and constantly reminding myself that there are other ways to get through this than the old behaviors that I would do. The things that got you into the position that you hated. Yeah, yeah and that's changing my relationship with food was one of the biggest parts of that. That was probably the hardest part. Absolutely. And what were your, what did your meals look like back then versus what did it look like now? Man, what I would eat before I would... I don't want to say an average day because I feel like, and I could be wrong about this, correct me if so, that there was no average day. No. Because you're probably without, I've noticed in myself when I don't have my routine in place, my shit's all over the place. And so I assume it's this similar, like the foods that you're eating are kind of from anywhere and everywhere and it's just a bunch of crap. And so like, just walk us through like what you would call like a bad day. Man, well I would be probably skipping breakfast because I already felt like crap from the night before of overeating, binge eating at night. So thinking that, oh, I'm being healthy by skipping breakfast, but that means waking up, going to 7-Eleven, getting two energy drinks, getting four taquitos, getting a pizza because I'm going to bring it home and cook it for my kids. But it's really for me, right? And that's, or if I'm going to work, like I work at the airport and a food and beverage manager, I would be sneaking burgers. Like I'm a 34 year old man sneaking burgers to go gluttonous, gluttonously eat them. Downstairs I would. And that's like just because I had no control, then I would come home and I would, you know, I like to cook, I can cook, but I would be cooking terrible big portions of pasta and this and like I said, go into fast food places buying fast food on the way home to cook for my kids, right? For my family and just, there was no control. There was no control where there was no structure. It was just consuming and consuming and consuming thousands of calories and then soda and then alcohol. I got to a point where I could drink like heavy lot like dude, tanking like makers mark like 96% right at the normal. I would go to the liquor store and if it said like 30% 32% you know, 70 AB, I would be like, no, I need heavier like because I feel like it wouldn't get me drunk fast enough. That drunk just buzzed, right? Because I was still, you know, alcohol was a big problem, but I was always functional from, you know, my kids and my job and everything. So it never got to that point, but it was very abusive to where I was looking for the heavier and the harder stuff because I could drink a fifth of whiskey in a night. On top of like a six pack, I would buy IPAs and heavy beers because the ultra would like that's water, right? So it's like now I can't imagine. I can't imagine now that I have structure. Yeah. And I'm going to be 100% honest. V-Street gave me that structure 100% and now that I have that structure, I can never look back. And what's that structure look like? I learned how to eat. I learned how to properly fuel my body and the system, you know, the carb cycle system that I've been on for six months. And just now I could routinely, I could, I could routinely wake up, eat my breakfast, eat my lunch, eat my dinner and not have to worry about it. Having the structure to know what I'm going to eat every day and not think about it was so game changing for me because I didn't have to struggle. What am I going to eat today? How am I going to get these calories? Even the first six of the first six months of my journey, I didn't know what to do in the gym. I was lost. I didn't know what to eat for six months for six months from about five, October to March. Okay. When I started V-Street, I was just winging it. Yeah. Winging my nutrition, winging my workouts, but it was working because I was in a big deficit, you know, eating 1500 calories and moving every day. I prioritized exercising and it started walking. Yep. That's it. I prioritized that and for five, six months, it worked. And then once I got the structure, everything changed. So what's a day of meals look like today? And I know we're going to get into this later, but just walking through it. Yeah. Waking up breakfast. So I like to wake up and go to the gym. Fasted. I go to the gym, fasted. I drink my creatine and my pre-workout before the gym, fasted, get into the gym. I have a good structure now. And then I get home. I'll make breakfast. I have to eat. Like now I'm like, oh, I need to eat breakfast. Like I need this. And that'll be, you know, eggs, cottage cheese, different days, you know, protein pancakes, something like that. A nice balanced breakfast, sourdough bread, toast, you know, then going to work. I would have peanuts as a snack, a protein shake, maybe some fresh berries, you know, snacks throughout protein shake throughout the day, and then dinner, a solid protein. So no lunch. I like to, I don't like to eat lunch at work now, where I would kind of have a later lunch, where I would wake up, eat a good breakfast, fuel up on snacks throughout the day, whether it's like a protein bar or protein shake, couple things to get me through. And then after work, I like to eat just personally, I like to eat like one bigger meal, like a lunch or a dinner, you know, I'll cook up like 12 ounces of chicken and beans and you know, a cup of rice. Big nice, heavy, you know, yeah. Most of the time that sometimes I'll spread it out, but then that's where I just feel the best. And I feel like my body works more throughout the day. I feel a lot, because eating at night, I realized isn't the problem. It's all the other junk because I can eat like seven, eight o'clock at night, go for a little walk, get my push-ups in and go to bed and feel great. Nice. But just trying to sticking to that routine where it's, it changes. Yeah. Oh yeah. A little bit, you know, obviously, but that's pretty much the structure. That's cool. I think that's important for people to hear because that just goes to show there is no one size fits all. And that probably took you some time to find that structure that works for you. And now you found that structure and now you can stick to that and you kind of know what your next day is going to look like without even really thinking about it. And I think that's the switch that a lot of people are needing, but don't think like they've never experienced that. And so they don't know what it's like where it's like, I tell people like for me, for example, I don't wonder if I'm going to work out today. I know what my schedule is. And so like if today's a leg day, I know I'm hitting legs. It's just a matter of when, you know, it's not a matter of if. And so like for you, it's like, you know about what your day meals wise, workout wise is going to look like, it's going to change a little bit here and there, something pops up, you pop a tire, or you get sick, or you're going on a trip, or you're going to a festival, or whatever it is, little things will change. But for the most part, you got, let's say 80% of it locked in consistently. And I think that's super important is to have that, that 80 20. And it's also really cool for you to talk about like having that big meal late. Because that's a lot of that's something that a lot of people, they think they can't have, they think they can't have big meals. They also think they can't eat late. But I have my last meal of the day, pretty much every single night at like eight o'clock. And then I'll have like, I got these like protein muffins that I have that I absolutely love. I'm obsessed with right now. And I have like two or three of those that like nine ish, you know. And so love what you said about like, it's not that you can't eat late. That's not the problem. Like, can that be a problem for some people? Yes, can it affect your sleep? Yes. But is that's what is that what's causing you to gain 510 pounds month over month? Absolutely not. It's everything else that you're doing. So that's, that's a, that's a, I guess, just a cool realization that you said. Let's talk about plateaus. Did you ever hit a plateau? Several. Okay. Talk, talk me through them. Yeah. In the last, maybe talk me through the biggest one. The biggest one, I remember I've seen the scale stop and go a lot over the last year. Yeah. And it's a, it's a, I guess it's not, some would think I didn't plateau for very long, but in my mind when I was, I mean, he lost 200 pounds, right? So how many plateaus could I have really had in a year? But me internally, I did like where I could see, I mean, I started at 450. I remember seeing the scale at 420 at 395 at 340. Let me stop you there. When it got under 400, how did you feel? I felt good. Yeah. I did feel good, but there was more of a number victory. Yeah. As opposed to not a more feeling. Yeah. I wasn't feel, I saw it right. And of course I did though. It was starting to get better, but under 400 was huge. And then what about under 300? Under 300 was huge. I remember that day where I, I would, you know, and I would weigh myself first thing in the morning, fasted to try to get that lowest point of scale. And I hit under 300. I was happy. I was like, wow, 150 pounds. And when was that 300 was, I think April, because I started V shred in March and I was 318 when I started V shred. Okay. And so I think, yeah, April when I got under 300, it felt really good. And, but even now in the last 60 pounds, I've seen, I thought I was going to be 280 forever. I thought I was going to be 255 forever, right? And it's, there has been a lot of days where the scale wouldn't move. Yeah. And I just didn't give up. I didn't give up. And I knew that it eventually was going to move because it's just how life works. Yeah. It's, it's going to get better. If you stay the course, you're going to break through. Yeah. So the consistency. Yeah. Yeah. Just not giving up on myself and knowing that I didn't lose weight today. I'm going to go eat a cheeseburger. Yeah. You know, so actually that's a, that's a good thing to bring up a lot of people when they have these like victories and you had victory after victory after victory. How did you celebrate those without hurting your progress? Because that's something that a lot of people will do. They'll, they'll have a goal to lose 20 pounds or whatever. And then they lose those 20 pounds and they celebrate by going out to eat, you know, and that's just what they're doing is they're creating this reward cycle of food. Yeah. Like they're, they're, they're almost hurting their relationship with food because they're treating food as a reward, which is not how it's supposed to be done. You know, like, yes, I think, okay, like if you're going out for a birthday or something, you want to go have a, a fat steak and you want to have some wine, have a good time. Right. But like if you drink a gallon of water today and you're happy about that, don't go order a cheeseburger because you did good. How did you celebrate those victories? I guess I celebrated them in other ways. Okay. Yeah. By like, I like to go out and do things. I went to Formula one, the NBA, in season tournament, NASCAR, concerts, anything I could think of. That's how I celebrated. Nice. And what I enjoyed the most was going to those and not succumbing to the pressure. I would bring my bag of almonds like Jordan, how do you do it? I have my almonds at a concert right now because I'm so locked in and it feels good. Every day has been a victory for me because I'm not that person I was. And you know, even I've only had, I'm not going to lie, 100% on my kids. I've had one bite of cake and that was my one year anniversary. I had a little button cake and I had a bite of it and I said, I'm good. Really? Yeah. I said, I'm good just because I don't want it. Yeah. Every day is just such a victory for me where I don't, I don't want to go back. And I kind of now I like it. Now I want to, maybe I could be that guy who never eats fast food again. Maybe, you know, it just, could you imagine yourself a year and a half ago saying that? I think you're truly believing that too. No, I could never, right? And now part of the thing that keeps me motivated is wanting to turn fitness and motivation into my life. Yeah. I want this to be, there's something calling me where maybe, and I was thinking about it this morning, maybe this is part of my story. Maybe, maybe I was, I can't say, I mean, supposed to be that, you know, from where I was, like maybe it was God's plan to say, Hey, this is going to be your struggle. I'm going to show you this side. Yeah. And, and now just transform. But my whole life now is dedicated. I feel like this is where I want to be. That's cool. And I don't want to look back. That's really cool. I remember 10 years ago, yeah, right when my son was born, my friend took us to a Rebels game with the Thomas and Mack. And those nosebleeds, they're, they're thin, man. Chairs are small and couldn't fit into chairs would only look for aisle seats. I wouldn't, you know, I wouldn't, wouldn't fly. I wouldn't want to fly. I mean, I flew to New York to see my brother a couple of years ago and that was it. But I would plan everything around my size. I would strategically not. Yeah, I would still want to go. But I would like floor seats or aisle or I guess I'm not going. And just because I would feel so uncomfortable, I would feel so uncomfortable. And now that feels good to just, I want to sit here. I want to sit there, right? Not have to worry about it at all. And just feeling comfortable. Buying merchandise. I could wait in line and buy merch. Do you guys have a 4x? No, okay. But now you're just a single XL? Yeah, XL. That's crazy. Yeah. That's crazy. And you said that wasn't, that's what you wore when you were what, 10? Yeah, I don't even remember being an XL before. I was in my first job at 15. I was in a 3x. I remember. And that's, and then the Husky sizes. So I don't remember anything before 3x. Wow. That's crazy. So like we've talked about like victories, right? And a lot of your victories were obviously like scale victories because you lost over 200 pounds. Was there a moment that there was a non scale victory that stands out to you as like one of the biggest differences that you saw in yourself over the past couple of months? Just yesterday, I went hiking at Red Rock and I did calico tanks and just climbing the little, climbing calico tanks and being able to put my leg on a rock when I'm just trying to elevate and, you know, bringing my leg up to my stomach, going to festival on Sunday. I was at, as a festival and I was in circle pits, like running in circles, like all day long. And those, those to me are important. Yeah. Those type of things for me where it's the physical ability I have now is my favorite part. I could do pull ups. I could do push ups. I could run. I could, I just every day, I'm so grateful that I gave myself this opportunity and every day is a non scale victory for me where I'm not so consumed and I am a little bit. I do. I still want to lose. I thought I wanted to be, I was like, I want to be 250 and now I'm 240 and I'm like, how would 230 look? Right? How would 235 look? Yeah, but I want to do it because I'm 61 figure if I could be 61, 230, that sounds pretty good with some muscle, right? And so every day, every day is, is a good day for me now because I'm not who I was. I'm just happy with the person I am now. I'm happy with, with, with who I see in the mirror because every day when I wake up and every day when I go to bed, it's me who I look at in the mirror. Yeah. And I have to be happy for me and other people will love me and like me the way I am, but I have to be happy with myself. And so every single day, I feel happy to wake up and look in the mirror and see my little muscle sprouting and trying to, you know, I just every single day is, is, is so good now because I'm happy and I'm confident and it just feels good. We talked about your relationship with food in the beginning and how you had a very emotional relationship with food. How did you confront that and change that? Because that's it. Because that's a huge one. Like a lot of people, they'll have a extreme emotional relationship with food when they're bored, they eat when they're tired, they eat when they're stressed, they eat when they're lonely, they eat. And so like, we talked about how that was kind of you, food was your vice, right? Yeah. Where they're like certain triggers that you identified that you had to avoid or was there any kind of like, like how did you face, like how did you face these triggers or how did you face, like how did you change these habits to make the progress that you, that you have made? I faced them head on. I think that having the fortitude internally to not give up and go back to my old ways where I have to make a conscious decision every day. Still, to this day, it's a conscious decision that I have to make to make the right decision. I mean, it's an easier decision now, but I have to, I mean, I have to be intentional about it. Yeah, I could wake up today and I could have this and this and easily fall back into that path. It's knowing what I want every day. And I'm goal oriented and setting a goal. You know, first it was to lose weight. And then when it became a dire need that I need to lose weight, I had to really every day consciously just say, Hey, I'm not going to do this in that moment. When I can resort to this, I'm having a bad day. I'm not going to resort to food. I am not going to eat the I am not going to eat the fast food. I am not going to give up. I would get fast food before I got home from work and then go home and eat. And now it's like, I would rather be hungry and wait to go home and cook my proper nutrition. But it took a lot of time for me to get there. For sure. It took me a year, you know, more than a year, not more than a year, obviously, but it took me more than well, from the very first try. Oh, yeah, it's been years. Absolutely. Yeah. Absolutely. And so just knowing internally now that I have to do it and there's no looking back. And it's a decision every day that I need to make. And I do make the decision. And that's where that's where progress is made is by staying disciplined and not giving into what you want and doing what you need. That's cool. So let's talk a little bit about balance because the two sides of it are going to be being disciplined, but then also being compassionate with yourself. How did you handle the balance of pushing yourself hard enough, but also allowing yourself to take rest days when you needed to or to be kind to yourself if you weren't progressing as fast, or if you weren't, I don't know, lifting as much weight as you wanted to do? Like, how did you find that balance? Or how did you deal, confront that balance of being kind to yourself and also pushing yourself so that you can progress? Well, I've learned, I think I learned that being kind to myself is eating healthy and consuming healthiness. And just what I fuel my body with is how I'm kind to myself and pushing myself physically is the other component. So I feel like because I am kind to myself in terms of what I eat and what I put in my body, it allows me to push myself that I know that really one has to go with the other. I don't think I would make as much progress in the gym if I wasn't feeling myself properly. I wouldn't have the energy, I wouldn't just feel a thargic and it just wouldn't work. I think now because I consistently am good to myself, I wasn't good to myself for so long, that's the old habits was not being gentle to myself. And now I mean, if there's a lot of people are going to need a balance where you need to have the cheat meal, you need to have the little something and that's 100% okay. I think that as long as you can control it, you should never deprive yourself if you need to have this or else it's going to send you into a fritz and you're just going to lose all your progress, do that. But I just, I guess I'm different, right? I don't need that. I'm a little different. I don't know how to... Do you have a go-to cheat meal even if it's not super cheaty? Is there anything that maybe is just slightly off plan? The only thing I think would be cheese, like if I ever need something, I would just cook cheese. I'd take a little quarter cup of mozzarella cheese or something and I would just saute it and just cook it, just crispy cheese. But that's occasionally. But I don't need junk food. I don't need burgers. I don't need sweets. I don't need ice cream. I promise you, I haven't had any junk food in a year. I had a couple of beverages at the concerts because I feel like I owned it, man. If I earned it, I'm going to be at this festival, right? But I don't feel like I need it right now. And so balance is everything. I'm different. I'm different where I really got it into my head, where I don't need this and I don't want this. But I'm to the point now where if I did have it, I wouldn't be afraid to fall off. But I just don't want to feel bad. I think a piece of pizza right now would make me feel like crap and I don't want to do that. Like the grease and it's enough. If I have a little bit, little crispy cheese in a pan, that's as far as I'll go. But the bread and all of that. But now I just eat like healthy carbs and healthy things. I'm just so addicted to feeling good. That's crazy. That, yeah. I had no control. Like had I asked you about a cheat day a year and a half ago, it would be like, yeah, I mean a cheat day, you mean a day? Yeah. And if you would walk me through that day, I bet it would be crazy foods. A year ago, I wouldn't tell you. Oh really? I wouldn't tell you. I wouldn't tell anybody. Wow. People the closest to me. Wow. There's there. I wouldn't tell. I would. It was such an internal battle and secret like where I would. A lot of people who struggle with morbid obesity do it in private. Yeah. Gluttony, eating uncontrollable amounts of food and hiding it and hiding it. It's a problem. It's a real problem and it's hard and it's hard. Obesity. It's not just oh, eat less calorie deficit. No, there's an emotional and there's a big thing about it and it's mental. Have you ever looked into why you had that emotional eating habit? Have you ever thought about it? My mom was actually anorexic and really, yeah. Interesting. So question, the food that you grew up eating, was she like that then? Yeah. My mom was always, you know, bone thin, 110 pounds. I remember seeing my mom at 90 pounds. Wow. And so she went to a rehab, a women's eating disorder clinic. She struggled with addiction and other things also, but her husband at the time put her in Wickenburg, Arizona in a women's eating clinic. Right. And we went to visit her. It's 12 years old already, Husky. And she told me that she thought I was subconsciously eating for her because she wouldn't, she had a problem not eating. And my mom told me she thought that I ate to compensate for her not eating or having, and for her having a bad relationship with food also, where she would sneak food at night, but she would eat cucumbers and Italian dressing and tomatoes. And she cooked great. Like mom's spaghetti. It's everybody's mom has the best spaghetti, right? Like so, mom's spaghetti and all the chicken fried steak, she cooked great. My mom took care of us and cooked great food, but she struggled. Yeah. And hearing her say that I subconsciously ate for her was burned into my brain for a long time. Wow. And I thought that I was, and maybe I was, maybe I really was. And I still think about that. Wow. You ever done therapy? No. No, maybe I'm that prideful guy yet who hasn't, who hasn't, you know, it doesn't, I don't think I carry the weight anymore. I was also going to say like where you are now, like I'm a big advocate of therapy just because everybody's got childhood trauma. A year and a half ago, if I had to sell you, I'd have been like, you probably need therapy today, hearing everything you're saying. I'm like, you might have just there. What's the verb? Therapized, therapy, might have therapyed yourself, which is really cool. So yeah, I didn't want to get too deep. Yeah. In case that was a tough question. That was a big part. That was a big part of it. That was a really big part.  amlodipine, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin,