

=== FILE: 5 Ways to Start Your Day Right ｜ V SHRED Better Body, Better Life Podcast [txBDazdGO_I].txt ===

 Taking five minutes to do some gentle stretching in the morning can have a massive impact on your metabolism, your mobility, and just your overall well-being. It helps increase your blood flow throughout your body. It can mobilize you. It can help reduce soreness and inflammation. It can help wake up your muscles. To put it simply, the less stress you have, which is going to be caused by more stretching, the faster your metabolism will be. Live your best life while working on your health and fitness goals. We're here to make your journey fun and inspiring. Welcome to the Be Shred Better Body Better Life Podcast. What's going on, guys? I'm your host, Vince Sant. Welcome back to another episode of the Better Body Better Life Podcast. Today, we're going to be talking about some morning stuff. If you're a morning person, you'll love this. If you're not a morning person, you'll love this. We got some, I'm going to call morning metabolism boosters. That will help you if you are looking to speed up your weight loss. If you're looking to burn some fat, because obviously we've all heard them people say that breakfast is the most important meal of the day, right? And I would, for the most part, agree with that. It's also my favorite meal of the day. But I'd also argue that it's not just about what you eat in the morning, but it's also about how you kickstart your entire morning routine. Because what you eat in the morning is just part of that routine. And so I think there is something that's overlooked pretty often. And so I'm going to break down a few specific habits that I think you should incorporate into your morning routine. Some I do, some I admittedly don't and probably should do, but also something that I'm not interested in. So listen, listen up closely and see if there's any that you think that you could incorporate and that you would enjoy and that would help you a lot to help you wake up, be more routine and also to help get that skill moving in the right direction faster. So like I said, whether you're a morning person or you're not like myself and you hit that snooze button a couple of times for getting up. Let's just go ahead and jump right into five simple ways to fire up your body's metabolism and set yourself up for all day fat burning and just overall success. All right. So getting into this, the first morning metabolism booster is to hydrate before you caffeinate. Okay. And I get it for a lot of us that first cup of Joe or if you're an energy drink person feels like it's about the only thing that can get us out of bed in the morning or get us focused for work. But hear me out after a full night's sleep, your body naturally gets dehydrated and guess what dehydration seriously slows down your body's metabolic engine. And it makes sense. I mean, if you're not, if you're sleeping for eight hours, you're not drinking any water for those eight hours. And then also if you're not aware, every single time you take a breath, you're losing water. Every breath you lose water and all your bodily processes require water. And so when you wake up after a proper night's sleep, you're dehydrated. Even if you're not getting proper sleep, you're still probably going to be a little bit dehydrated because you haven't taken any water in the past couple of hours. And again, dehydration slows down your metabolism. You need to be hydrated to have an optimal metabolism. And so before you reach for that coffee, before you hit the gas station for an energy drink or the fridge for an energy drink, drink water. A nice tall glass of water as soon as you wake up. I personally have a shaker bottle next to me at all times. This literally is on my nightstand every single night when I go to bed. I typically don't try to chug it before I go to bed because I'm not trying to wet the bed. But when I wake up, I make sure that whatever's left in here, like I will fill it up like before I go upstairs to go to bed. And then I'll probably sip a little here and there. I'll take my night supplements and then whatever's left in the morning. I'm chugging that. I'm drinking that water. And so typically that's at least 10 to 14 ounces of water. I would love to probably get 18 to 20 ounces of water in the morning. So I'm not talking about just a couple sips. I'm talking about some water, like some chugging some water. So if you can name for 12 to 16 ounces of water first thing in the morning, it's going to help you a ton. It's going to help you feel better. If you're somebody who gets chronic headaches, that's going to help that a ton as well. And the crazy thing is, is that water is, I mean, it's, it's free. You can drink it from the tap. But it's also like one of the easiest tweaks that someone can make to kickstart their metabolism and to flush out toxins. And it also will give you a nice little natural energy boost. And also there's been studies done on caffeine that you shouldn't have caffeine within 90 minutes of waking up because it will make you more tired sooner. Versus if you allow your body to naturally wake up for an hour and a half, and then you have caffeine, it works way better and it stays in your system way better. And so multiple reasons you can do this. It can also help with curbing hunger a little bit. If you get really, really hungry in the morning and you don't really want to have a big breakfast, this can help to curb those hunger pangs. Or if you get like mid morning munchies that make you a little tempted to I don't know, grab a donut on your way to work. This will just, just water that you're chugging before that will help to hopefully cut that out. And you could also try to add a little bit of water to, or sorry, a little bit of lemon to your water. Not only adds a little refreshing flavor, I guess if you call it that. I don't personally like it, but it does add some flavor and it also gives you a nice little dose of vitamin C to support your immune system. I personally take vitamin C every day. I would recommend that to everybody out there. But yeah, that's a huge one. Okay. Metabolism booster, numero dose. Get your body moving with a morning walk. And this one is fantastic. Not only for your physical state, but I also think for your mental state. And I know what you're thinking. Vince, I can barely get out of bed and it's cold outside. I'm not going for a walk, but trust me, this habit, when I'm good about it, this is like I said in the beginning, there are some that I do and some that I don't water. I'm great about walking first thing in the morning. Not great about, but I would like to get better about it. And when I am good with this, it changes everything. It changes the game for me. Changes the game with my mood, my mindset, my energy levels. And I also have heard from a lot of people in our V-Share community how much of a game changer this has been for them. Literally a 10 to 15 minute walk first thing. You don't even really have to get ready. Just throw on clothes so you're not naked out there. And if it's cold, throw on some warm clothes and go for a little 10 minute walk and make it a brisk walk. Make it a little quicker than normal. And that's going to make you feel good. It's going to get the endorphins going. It's going to rev up your metabolism for hours. And walking is just phenomenal for you. Get your blood flowing, wakes up your muscles. It signals to your body that it's time to start burning calories. And the best part is that you don't have any excuses. You don't need any fancy equipment. You don't need a gym membership for this. Just put on some sneakers, head out to your front door and make sure you don't come back for a full 10 minutes. And if the weather isn't cooperating, walk in place. Walk around your house. Go up and down the stairs 30 times and do it while listening to your favorite podcast or maybe this podcast. But just do something. And, and a little bonus tip. If you can try to time those morning walks so that you catch morning sun. Sun in the morning is one of the best things that you can do for your body. The natural light helps to regulate your body's circadian rhythm, which can improve your metabolism and even help you sleep better at night. Like literally there's been studies done that if you get sunlight directly in your eyes, first thing when you wake up, you will get tired more naturally. You'll have more energy throughout the day and you'll get tired more naturally and sleep better at night. It's one of the best things that you could possibly do. And also you're going to get vitamin D, which is great for so many different things. So like a domino effect of goodness for your body. Okay. So those are two great ones. Third one, I want to talk about having a protein packed breakfast. Okay. And I'm not saying that you need to sit there and whip up some five course meal every morning and turn your kitchen to a Michelin star restaurant, but skipping breakfast or just grabbing something sugary like a donut or a or crepes or or banana bread. I don't know what people are having for breakfast, but just grabbing something sugary is like telling your metabolism to keep sleeping. It's like hitting the snooze button for your metabolism when in reality, your metabolism should, you should try to get your metabolism firing on all cylinders. First thing when you wake up between the water, the walk, the sun and now a protein packed breakfast, that's going to get your metabolism going. Why? Well, because your body actually has to work harder to digest protein, which means you burn more calories in the process of that digestion. Plus it helps you feel more full. It helps you feel more satisfied, helps fuel your muscles. And so you're less likely to reach for that greasy leftover takeout that you had last night, unfortunately, or sugary cereal. That's, that's, that's the one that people are having a lot and they think that, oh, because it's Wheaties, it's healthy. No. You need protein and some quick and easy high protein breakfast ideas could be yogurt with berries and a sprinkler of nuts or some eggs, maybe a couple of hard boiled eggs. You can prepare a bunch of those at once and not a lot of time and they're good for a while with maybe a side of a whole grain toast or a protein smoothie with a bunch of different types of berries in there to get your micronutrients, get a little bit of fiber, get some simple carbs with some high quality protein. That's if you're in a pinch, I guess. But the key is to find something that works for your schedule and tastes good to you. And that's huge because if you don't enjoy what you're eating, you're not, you're not going to stick with it. Let's be honest, willpower only lasts so long. Stop acting like you're a God and you can, and you're going to be the next Arnold and you're going to be able to stick to this diet that you absolutely hate for longer than a couple of weeks. It's not going to happen. It's not sustainable. Find something that you like to eat. And then you're built. You can be able to stick with it a lot easier. Okay. Fourth tip, fourth metabolism booster. This is one that I am not good about and I say that I would like to get better at it, but I don't think I ever really will because I have another form of doing this, but this is cold showers, cold showers are brutal. So don't be calling me crazy. Hear me out for a sec, but ending or starting your shower with a blast of cold water, even just for 30 seconds can have some pretty amazing effects on not only your brain, but also your metabolism because when your body is exposed to cold water, it has to work harder to maintain its core temperature. Right. This process is called thermogenesis and actually it burns calories while you do this and it can give your metabolism that little extra boost that it needs to wake up and stay fired up and, and, and that jolt of energy that you get from that cold water is guaranteed to wake you up better than any alarm clock and it might not be the most pleasant experience at the very beginning of it or while you're doing it and I've, and I've heard from people who do them religiously. It doesn't get easier. You just get better at doing them, but I promise because I have done them before I have a cold plunge at my house and that's actually what I prefer cause I like my warm showers in the morning, but cold plunges are equal. I mean, probably even more brutal cause you have to stay in them for a couple minutes and it's like 35 degrees, but I promise that if you do this, you will feel invigorated and you will feel ready to tackle your day. And if you're not quite ready for a cold plunge or maybe just a full on ice cold shower, I get it. I personally don't do them and I hate them and I'm bad about doing my cold plunges religiously, but if you're anything like me, just start small. You could try starting your shower or ending your shower with five or 10 seconds of cold water gradually work your way up or you get, I know my, my, my mom and dad actually, they just got this little like inflatable cold plunge thing. Um, and I mean, they live in Ohio, so it's cold there anyways. And so they just put like hose water in it and then they are working their way up. They're working their way down in temperature and working their way up in time. And so start where you got to start and just try to get better at it. And it's going to have incredible benefits for your brain and your body. Last, but not least, we have a really good one for again, getting that blood pumping, getting your metabolism going. And that is some morning stretching, taking just five minutes. And this is one that I could probably be better at. I don't typically ever stretch in the morning, but that's because I do about 20 minutes of mobility before every workout and I work out most days, but taking five minutes to do some gentle stretching in the morning can have a massive impact on your metabolism, your mobility and just your overall wellbeing. Cause stretching obviously is so good for you. It helps increase your blood flow throughout your body, um, which can help to kick your body's fat burning engine into gear. It can mobilize you. It can help reduce soreness and inflammation. It can help wake up your muscles to put it simply. Um, the less stress you have, which is going to be caused by more stretching, the faster your metabolism will be. The more cortisol you have in your body. I talk about this all the time, more cortisol you have in your body. The worst, the worst things are going to work. The slower your metabolism will be, the harder it'll be to burn fat, the harder it'll be to build muscle stretching is going to help reduce stress. And so the less stress you have, the faster your metabolism will be faster. A lot of stuff will work. The better a lot of stuff will work. And so I'm not, I'm not saying that you have to do, you have to be, go be, become a yogi or you have to do any kind of crazy poses that you can't do or that hurt or make you look like a human pretzel. Just reach your arms up over your head, do a couple of twists, maybe try to touch your toes if you're flexible enough or work your way towards being able to touch your toes, move around. The key is with yoga and mobility is to move in and out of positions. Slowly and mindfully focusing on your breath and how your body feels and also working into ranges of motion that hurt a little bit, but that you slowly open it up, you slowly open up your shoulders, you slowly open up your hips. You slowly work your mobility of your ankles. You warm up your knees a little bit, your elbows, your neck. Focusing on opening those up is going to help you in so many different ways. Not only will it help to boost your metabolism, but it'll also help to set a positive and calm tone for your entire day. And all of us could use a little bit more positivity and calmness to start our days in today's society. Um, and if you are looking for some like personalized guidance on how to optimize your mornings and the rest of your day for maximum fat burning, and positive mentality, our V-Shred coaches are ready to help you. They want to help you. Um, we can create completely customized meal plans, including all the healthy and delicious foods that you want and that you like and that are going to help you reach your weight loss goals. It's fully tailored to your lifestyle. We'll take out all the guesswork of your fitness journey of what you should be doing with your gym, help you with routines and our meal plans, our workouts have already gotten literally millions of people in great shape. And I'd love for you to be next. And so if you're ready to get back on track or just to get this weight loss going for the first time ever, just hit the link below or wherever it is. There should be a link somewhere, maybe down in the description and we'll get you matched with a coach right away. But that's all for today. Hopefully you learned something. Um, hopefully this was helpful. Thank you for tuning in and I will talk to you or see you in the next episode. Thanks for tuning in to today's episode of V-Shred's Better Body Better Life podcast. Whether you're doing one of our programs, taking our supplements or just doing things on your own, tune in every week for exclusive content with Vince, V-Shred trainers and special guests as they share valuable tips around motivation, workouts, food and living a healthier lifestyle. See you next time.

=== FILE: Achieving Balance Through Habits w⧸ Barbie Brown ｜ V SHRED Better Body, Better Life Podcast [DWk76msxeac].txt ===

 if you think of your body as like a car, if you don't put gas in the engine, it's not going to run. So by fueling your body appropriately, so we're talking fruits and veggies and whole grains and lean meats, cutting out carbs is not gonna do it. Going on a low-fat diet, that is not gonna do it. The carnivore diet is not gonna do it. It's about valves. Welcome to the V-Shred Better Body Better Life Podcast, where we help you live your best life while working on your health and fitness goals. We're here to make your journey fun and inspiring. What's going on, everyone? Welcome back to another episode of the Better Body Better Life Podcast. I'm your host and today we have a special guest with us, Barbie Brown, one of our V-Shred coaches. Been one of our coaches for a little while now. She's a certified personal trainer, certified nutritionist, she's an international presenter, been in the fitness industry for 15 years and today we're going to be talking about balance through habits and how important that can be in helping you get in shape, helping you stick to a plan, helping you not get overwhelmed. And so we're gonna, I got a bunch of questions for Barbie and she's just gonna be telling us about what has worked for her and her experience, what has worked for her clients the best and so hopefully you can get a lot out of this. So Barbie, welcome. Hi, hi, it's good to be here. Thank you for having me. Yeah, thanks for being on here. So I know I just gave a very simple intro, but go ahead and just kind of tell our listeners a little bit more about you, your background, what kind of got you into fitness, what made you wanna become a personal trainer. Oh, okay, sure. So for me, I graduated with a marketing degree from UT and I planned on going into corporate America but right after college, I got married, I had babies and decided to be a stay at home mom and so here it is, I'm at home with these babies and it was a struggle for me to lose the weight. I'd never been overweight and so I had no concept of, and I wasn't like an athlete when I was younger so I didn't know what to do, I didn't know how to eat, how to feel my body, even how to move. And so I joined the local YMCA and it's because of the members. I feel like that's where so many people start. I was going there when I was a kid, my parents were memberships, I had memberships there, my whole childhood, went to daycare there, played sports there. And let me tell you the real thing was, they had childcare. Yeah, that's why my parents loved it. I could leave my kids and as a stay at home mom, and that's tough, it's like you have nowhere to take them and so I would go and I would leave my kids and just started moving and I just fell in love with the process of moving my body and then seeing how I was able to lose the weight and to get stronger and to have confidence that I had never had before in my body. And the more I did it, the more I fell in love with it and I was always there. And so the aerobics instructors there were like, oh, you should do this. And of course there was a part of me that's like, well, I have every intention of going back into the workforce, it's like, this is not really what I wanna do, but it'll be something fun in the meantime. And then it just kind of snowballed. I fell in love with it and found out I had a net for it. I loved teaching group exercise and I loved sharing my passion for movement with people. And then it, then I got into personal training to where I could have an impact one-on-one. And then I wasn't doing that very long before, I realized that there's so much of gym that is overlooked because of a lack of knowledge of nutrition. So then I really did a deep dive into understanding nutrition and that's where like it all kind of morphed for me that the gym is just one part of it. It's the nutrition is the most important part. You know what they say is you eat well to look good, you work out to look good naked. I don't think I've ever heard that actually. And I love me some good quotes, but I'm about to add that one to my repertoire. There you go, that'll be like the subtitle of today. That's today's title. Eat, what was it? Eat to look good. You eat well to look good. You exercise to look good naked. To look good naked. Eating well also helps looking good naked, but. Oh, absolutely, absolutely for sure, for sure. So then, so growing up, what was your experience as far as like your, you said you didn't really play sports? Like what age I guess did you get into fitness and then like growing up? Were you generally skinnier? Were you generally more heavy set? So sadly, I am one of the many young ladies that really struggled with some disordered eating and I had some body dysmorphia. And even though I never was overweight in my brain, I was. And so this has really helped me to coach people through mindset because there's so much that people will just try to hate their bodies into submission and you know, that just doesn't work. And I know firsthand, because I've lived it. And even though I wasn't ever overweight, I struggled with the mindset and I struggled with that four body image and just trying to starve myself to unrealistic lengths. So once, this is where I would say honestly, working out saved my life was when I had those babies, I didn't have a healthy coping mechanism. My whole life, the way I would cope was I would just stop eating. That's how I controlled my life. Well, I was breastfeeding my daughter. So I had a toddler and then I was breastfeeding. And so I couldn't starve myself because literally her nutrition depended on me being healthy. So I had to find a healthier outlet to control myself, to control my environment and to manage my stress and to try to help build some confidence. And this is where, you know, working out was, I was overweight and I was really upset about it. It's like, well, I don't know much, but I know that going to the gym is what you're supposed to do. And so that is honestly what drove me to the gym. But no, I wasn't overweight, but I did struggle with disordered eating through my teens. I was never encouraged to do sports. I did academics, I excelled and I did choir and I did debate and UIL things. I started swimming when I was in college. So I would go like on my lunch break or our campus had an indoor pool and I love to swim. So I started swimming laps and that was kind of my first attempt at trying to be healthy and that was good for me. But it wasn't until I had my kids that I joined the gym and was trying to be intentional about being healthy. And so before that, you just kind of always struggled. It wasn't until you had your kids that you kind of got out of that disordered eating mindset. And then what did that disordered eating kind of look like for you if you don't mind me asking? I would just, I would starve myself. I would get like a bowl of cereal and I would stand on the scale and just for a frame of reference, I'm five foot six. And I hit this hype when I was in junior high, but I didn't get over a hundred pounds until my junior year of high school. So I was 80 to 90 pounds at five foot six, but I still fuck it was fat. And I would watch everything I ate and I would do the classic things, push food around my plate or say, oh, I'm not hungry. Oh, I just ate and so. Interesting. And again, answer what you feel comfortable answering. What do you think that mindset was attributed to? How do you think that was developed in such a young brain? Honestly, childhood trauma. So I'm one of those people, you know, the kids from hard places and, you know, had an abusive childhood. And this is one of those things that happens when you grow up in an abusive home is you look for ways to cope and you look for ways to gain control. And one of the hallmarks is disordered eating. So that's what I'm talking about. You sound like you've been through some self-work. And so. You know what? I've had so much therapy and so much counseling. That's good. I wholeheartedly believe in it. And it's not something I do consistently, but I'll find that, you know, I go through difficult times in my life and I go, you know what? I think I need a little perspective and I'll go to counseling for a little while and, you know, try to get, you know, a better perspective on things. Yep. I'm a huge advocate of therapy. I've done many, many, many hours of it. Couples and solo. I think everybody, I think it literally would benefit everybody. So I think for anybody listening, if you got some issues going on or if you don't got some issues going on, cause you probably do, you just don't realize it, just go talk to somebody. Anytime you're stressed out. And like you said, like it doesn't have to be something that's consistent. Sometimes I'm consistent with it. And sometimes I go a couple of months without it. And that's cause I'm feeling pretty good. I'm feeling in control. And then I'm getting stressed out about something or I'm feeling like I'm spiraling a little bit or whatever it might be. And then you go back in. And it's also important to find someone that you like. But that's not what this episode is about. We're trying to get you guys some advice on, just like balance with your fitness routine. And so tell me when did this balance, this better balance start for you and how did it get, how did it get started? Why did it get started? You said that it was because of your kids, but did you start studying for your personal training certification? How did, what was the first step to learning proper protocols? Are you talking about proper protocols for nutrition specifically or for just the healthier lifestyle? Are they different times? Well, sure. So I started off just going to group fitness classes. Okay. So it was just learning to move my body. And then through doing that consistently, then I became an aerobics instructor. So that was when I dipped my toes into, into being in the fitness industry. And I never intended for that to be a career. But I started because, cheap childcare. And because I needed to get out of the house and because I needed to lose weight. So that, that just seemed like an easy segue and going to group fitness classes, you know, that's a great way to start because you have somebody else who's kind of leading the group. You have the camaraderie, you have some accountability. It's all great things to start your fitness journey. After I had done that for a while, it was funny. It was actually my mom who was like, oh, you should be a personal trainer. And, you know, what's funny is I, I look at my body and it's not perfect. And so when she said that, you know, I like, I still like didn't feel like I looked the part. It's one thing to like lead group X, but to me like personal trainer was kind of on this pedestal. And I was like, oh, I'm, I'm, I am not like to that point. And she says, I think you are, I think you are. You have a passion for this and your people love you and you've been doing it a while and. Mom's always no best somehow. Right. And I was like, no, I don't think so. And she goes, well, here's what's happening. For your birthday, I am gifting you a personal training certification course. Oh wow. You are not. What a gift. Just as, but that's what you're getting for your birthday. I was like, you jerk. You're gonna maybe go to school as a birthday present. You're gonna force me to do something. But bitch, she was absolutely right. It was get a group group X group fitness is like my first love. But I really, I've come to really love the impact I can have one on one. Cause group fitness isn't for everyone. There are some people who they're not comfortable in a group setting. You have people who are more introverted and the thought of being confined in a room with, you know, 15 to 20 other people for an hour and sweat is just like their worst nightmare. That's me. So. And, you know, and in some people this, they, they want the one on one or they're looking for something that they can't quite achieve in a group fitness setting. They have, you know, more individualized goals that we need to work on. Yeah. And I came, I came to really, really love that of just having that opportunity. But it was after, even after being a personal trainer for a while, that I started doing research into like really understanding nutrition. And a big part of it was for me, I have, I come from a long line of people with high cholesterol. And I, every time I would go in for, you know, checkups and whatnot, they would always tell me that my cholesterol was too high, which didn't make any sense because I was so super active and I thought I was eating well. And so then I just kind of started really trying to understand about nutrition and trying to understand macros and understanding, you know, what my body needs and what that balance looks like. Because like everybody else, I was just going to the gym. I didn't understand the importance of fueling my body and it just threw a lot of research and a lot of trial and error and kind of playing with, with the factors on my own and spending a lot of time on Google. And then like I'm one of those like research nerds. I will Google things and then I will like buy textbooks and start learning things through textbooks. That's good. So that's a quality, that's a quality trait to have. And especially as a personal trainer, because when somebody comes to me and they may, what I remember, I've got this bursitis on my shoulder. You know, can you work around that? Absolutely. And then I go home, what is bursitis of the shoulder? My research is like, what are things that are contraindicated? What are things that are beneficial? You know, what kind of markers should I be looking for? Yeah. You know, how do I help my client to optimize, you know, growth and strength and mobility of the joint without doing any damage. So when did you get certified? And what did you get certified in first? Because you said you're certified personal trainer and certified nutritionist. It sounds like the nutritionist side of it came first, like the actual certification. Okay, so in terms of certifications, again, a third group back. So it would start off with YMCA step. Oh yeah. So wait, that's a certification? Mm-hmm. Oh, okay. It was 100 years ago. Okay. My cardio and step certification and just a general group fitness. And then Pilates and then Bootcamp. And then I got a body pump certification. I got a mashup certification. I can't think of all of them off the top of my head. So I had all of these group experts, I just remember that was my first love. But then it was my personal trainer because that's the one my mom gave me for my birthday. Okay. And after doing personal training for a while, I realized that I was having conversations with my clients about nutrition, but I wanted to make sure that I had the certification behind me, even though I felt like I had a really good grasp of nutrition, I wanted to make sure that I didn't amass any false information. So I went ahead and decided to invest in the education. I'm really big in investing in education. So that's when I got my nutritionist certification. And at this point, you were doing one-on-one coaching, right? Mm-hmm. Okay. And then what were some of the biggest roadblocks you saw your clients running into in the beginning? I will say the most common thing I see, number one, is I have clients who come to me literally every single day saying, well, I don't eat that much. And trying to find the most delicate way to say, you don't get overweight by not eating enough. Now, we do have issues where sometimes like with your BMR and what you're getting in and not eating quite enough to lose weight, but that's not most people. Most people, what they're eating more than they realize, either they're snacking throughout the day or even when people are trying to be healthy and they think things like, okay, I wanna have a snack and I know that I could have pretzels, oh, but those are carbs and carbs are bad, I'm gonna have a handful of nuts. It's like, well, what you don't realize is first of all, carbs are not bad, carbs are not the enemy, but you have this handful of carbs, these pretzels are 100 calories. This handful of almonds, while delicious and full of healthy fats and good things, like 400 calories. And so too much of a good thing is just too much. And there's a lot of those types of things that unless you are tracking everything you are eating, then you are getting in more calories than you realize. Then you combine that with the fact that people tend to overestimate how many calories they're burning when they're working out and they struggle to lose weight. And then what about exercise? That's it, because that's probably the best one I've ever heard when it comes to nutrition because I'll even have friends who come to me and they're like, I'm not, generally guys in my friend group are like, I can't put on muscle. I'm like, well, how much are you eating? And at the time of their eating, two meals or- If you're having trouble putting on muscle, for women generally, if they're having trouble putting on muscle, it's because they're not getting near enough protein. For men, if they're having trouble, it's because they are really, they are not dedicating the intensity to their workouts. They don't have a plan. They show up and they do chest. They, men work what we call the show muscles. They work the chest, the shoulders, the arms, the abs. Oh, all right, didn't have time to get to legs today. And they miss the go muscles and that's the back, the traps and the lats and glutes. Yep, no, I was, it's funny to say, I was literally having a conversation with my buddy last night and he's like, I'm stuck at 190. I want to lose like 10 more pounds, but I'm also not getting any stronger. And I'm like, show me what you're doing. And I was like, oh boy. I was like, I was like, I was like, this workout plan looks good, but if I were to come to the gym with you, or you came to the gym with me, my sets would murder you. Like, the, like, though, like, people don't realize that like the last, if you're doing 12 reps, it's rep 11 and 12 and maybe 13, even though you wanted to go for 12, that matter. The first 10 pretty much don't matter. You're just using the first 10 to get you to a point of overload so that you can actually challenge your muscles and actually build muscle. And that's what most people don't really, or they're talking between sets and now they're a rest rather than it being 60 to 90 seconds. Now it's four minutes, five minutes long. They completely lost their pump. They don't feel motivated anymore. So yeah, a couple things, but I digress. Okay, so, I'll go ahead. I was just gonna say to your point, something that I recommend is so like, I have my workouts in my notes, like in my iPhone, I just put them in my notes. And so I can copy and paste. And so what I will do is for, you know, for this set of exercises, I used this weight and I did this many reps. And then I can copy and paste it. So like when I go to do legs this week, I'm gonna look at what I did for legs last week. And I just copy and paste. And my goal is to either go up on weight or go up on reps. Cause let's say I'm trying to get to those, you know, those sets, we're going for four sets of 12, let's say, you know, the first set I was able to get 12, and then I got 10, and then I got 10, and then I got eight. So my goal is to get all of those sets up to 12. And then once I can do that, guess what? It's time to add some weight. And that's how you do that progressive overload. And it's being consistent. It's, you know, what is it? You know, really effective workouts are quite boring. Same shit, different shirt. It's the same workout over, over, over, over. Yeah, I'm full of those. Over, over, over, over. I get, I get, I get teased all the time about being a quote guy. They, they laugh every single time I bring up quotes on podcasts or videos and so on. I'm learning some new ones, which they absolutely probably hate. Maybe they love us. They don't hear the same ones anymore. But, um, so like with the progressive overload thing, and we'll get back to the, the balance through habits aspect of things in a sec. But that progressive overload doesn't happen weekly, you know, that progress won't happen every single week. You won't push more weight every single week. You want some weeks you're going to push less weight. Some weeks you're not going to get as many reps as you did the prior week. What do you do mentally to not overwhelm yourself or not get demotivated by your progress, kind of losing progress almost. You see, you feel like you're losing, you're not losing progress. It's just like maybe that day you didn't have enough carbs and your muscles don't have the fuel or you didn't get good sleep or you're stressed out or your mind's elsewhere, whatever it might be. How do you get over the fact that you're not progressing every single week? Well, first of all, I look at the fact that I've been doing this a long time. So I do competitive powerlifting. Oh, wow. And, and so I have been lifting heavy for years. And, and there are, there are times where I just feel like I am stuck at, at a certain number. So I'm 130 pounds. My dead lift right now is 310. I can only do simple at 275. You can only what? I can only do triples. I can do sets of three. Okay. At 275. And, and, and I can't seem to get past that. So I don't know, like every time I put 280 on there, I can't get to three. Now it doesn't make any sense because I can do it with 275. So doing with 280 I should be able to do. And so it's like, it's in my head. I was going to say. And what, right. It's a mental thing. And so what I have to tell myself is first of all, I have to get out on my head, but like that will come. And if it's a matter of, I just don't quite have the strength yet, then, okay, then I need to dig in. What could I have done better to set myself up for success? Because if you fail the plan, you plan to fail. So if I did not get a decent amount of sleep, if I did not get all of the carbs, I needed all of the food I needed. I'm one of those people, uh, when I get stressed, when I get overwhelmed, when I have deadlines, I go into deadline mode and I, like, I don't eat. And then the next day my gym has been a sufferer because I barely got what I needed. That's like, I grabbed a protein shake. I grabbed a bar. I, you know, grabbed, you know, a peanut butter sandwich. And it's like, I just kind of snapped throughout the day grabbing just a little things here and there, but did not feel my body near enough. If my body doesn't have the fuel, I can't work. You know, your, if you think of your, your body is like a car. If you don't put gas in the engine, it's not going to run. And here's the other thing. If you, if you have a high performance, you know, NASCAR, you're not going to take it to the local, you know, uh, Walmart gas station and put unleaded gasoline in it. Oh no. You are going to put the fuel in it. That is going to make it optimally run. Cause if you put the grocery store fuel in that NASCAR, I mean, what they drive, probably, is it going to do near what it's designed to? Absolutely not. So by fueling your body appropriately. So we're talking fruits and veggies and whole grains and lean meat, you know, maybe some dairy, depending on, you know, what, what you got going on, but fueling your body appropriately is going to help it run at its best. Cutting out carbs is not going to do it. Going on a low fat diet, that is not going to do it. The carnivore diet is not going to do it. It's, it's about balanced and, and you can either balance through balancing, you know, macros every day, getting a good amount, you know, of your carbs, your fastener proteins, or even doing something like we like to do here at V shrug where we do the carb cycling where it ends up balancing out, but because of the way we put it together, gets you a little bonus on that metabolism burn. But, and what do you say to people who get overwhelmed at everything you just said? Let's start small. Nice. One thing. Let's pick one thing. So what I will say, so for instance, if somebody joins V shred and they come to me, they're my client, I'm going to write them a custom meal plan and I'm writing a custom workout. If they look at this and they go, I can't do all of this. There's so much here. I'll go, okay, what can you do? Can we start with maybe doing the breakfasts and the lunches? Can we, can we start there? But, you know, maybe breakfast and snacks, what, what feels realistic for you? And then when it comes to workouts, you know, I have some people who come to me who, you know, they sit behind a desk all day long and they have no intentional movement in their day. So maybe step one for them is just to get some movement. I'll go, do you think that you could go on two 15 minute walks this week? You have to think of healthy as a spectrum. For you and I, gym is part of our life. So for you and I, this is part of the routine that we have built. When people first start, the reason that so often people will fail unless they have some kind of program or accountability in place is because motivation will only take you to so far. I find in my experience, it's about two weeks. You go to the grocery store, you buy the food and you're all amped up and you're super excited. And then at the end of two weeks, you're, you're, you're a little bit over your, your sore from maybe exercising. You've been eating healthy. You keep denying yourself cause I can't have this and I can't have this and I can't have this because I'm on a diet. I'm trying to lose weight. And then you decide to go out to eat with your girlfriends and you have the chips and the salsa and then you get, you know, the queso and then you top it off with a margarita and then you shame spiral. You're like, I failed. I failed. I fell off the wagon. I, I chopped up the wagon and I burned it and roasted tacos over it. You know, I totally failed. So then you go home and then you drown your sorrows and then Jerry's and you're like, I messed up. I failed. I can't do this. Well, yeah, because you tried to overhaul it. Lifestyle. The way that you see success longterm is by building healthy habits. When you first start a program like ours, or any program really, you have to change your habits. You know, if you come to me, you have created all kinds of shortcuts and habits in your life and none of them are really intentional, but you know, you have the things that you grab and go for breakfast and maybe you go out with your coworkers for lunch. Maybe you go for happy hour a couple of days a week. You know, these are things that you've just kind of built into your life. Maybe you're, you've got kids in various sports and so you're just picking up fast food. These are things that you didn't intend to make habits. You did not intend to become your lifestyle, but here you are. It's not a death sentence. It's just where you are right now. So then it's, we have to change that. And so when you first start and you get a meal plan, like I write to, then it's, oh my gosh, I have to go to the grocery store. And then I have to remember to eat this food and I have to pack my lunch and I have to prep these dinners and it requires so much bandwidth. Cause before you just kind of did what you did. You were on autopilot. So the more things that you can do to start building the healthy habits, the easier it is. Once you build the habits, it's so much easier to maintain. It is so much easier for me to maintain my weight where I am than for a person who is just now getting started to try to lose weight. Because this is how I've structured my lifestyle. I go to the grocery store. I usually go on Fridays. I go and I pick up the things that I know. I pick up snacks that are high protein that work for me. Like I, I love my high protein Greek yogurt and my, my protein granola. I buy like pork brimes for my kids. I get protein bars. So I always have something easy on hand. I have like four different types of protein powders on my countertop, depending on what flavor I want to go for and what I want to do with it. I even, I've even gotten like protein chips and dry roasted out of mommy. And so I have like high protein snacks. That's one thing that for grab and go, I always have. I have this water bottle.  and take it with me everywhere. And my goal is to drink at least three of these every single day, because being properly hydrated is good for you, and it's good for your digestion. It's good for your skin. It's good for helping you to have... Everything. ...pocus. It's good for helping to maintain your weight and helping to lose weight, as well as helping you to not overeat. Going to the gym is a part of my day. It's a part of my day. I go whether I'm not feeling good or I'm feeling great. I go no matter what my deadlines are, I... Whether it's raining, whether it's cold, whether I stayed up too late last night. And it's not because I'm just awesome. It's because that's a part of my daily grind. It is the things that I do every day. And because I have built these habits and I have established them, it makes it to where I... I don't have to think about what I am eating every day. I don't. I've got my snacks, and it's like... My breakfast items, we're all creatures of habit. I have the same basic stuff I eat every day for breakfast, and I have the same handful of things I do every day for lunch. And then dinner's just whatever I got from the store. I prep it ahead of time. I like to batch cook to where I'll cook something, and I eat on that for a few days, or maybe I'll do two meals, and then I've got two different things that I can cook. I made burritos the other day. I mean, I just pop one of those in the air fryer and reheat on 10 minutes while I'm doing something else. By the time I've sent like two emails, lunch is done. So, I love having things like that. But because I've established the habits, I can maintain my weight, and I can do it without much thought. But when you first get started, it is so, so hard because you have to keep focusing on it. And if you take your eye off the ball, and if you kind of forget, you go to grab a snack. For me, when I grab a snack, I'm going for some Greek yogurt. But if your normal thing of snacking is, I'm gonna grab a handful of chips, you're gonna be elbow deep in that bag of chips before you're like, oh yeah, I was supposed to be eating better. So, it's just about breaking the habits and learning new ones. It's replacing old, unhealthy ones that are not serving you and not helping you reach your goals in changing them. That doesn't mean you have to overhaul it overnight. It could start with having healthier snack options. Yep, and one thing I wanted to point out as you were talking through that, you mentioned how like working out is just a part of your day. And so like even when you're busy, you know that you're going to go to the gym. But then earlier you said that you used to be this, what'd you say? You said like basically deadlines. When deadlines happen, you just would stop eating. How did you make that shift to making sure that you're still prioritizing your health even when things are getting busy or hectic or stressful? What were like some of the beginner steps that you made to get there? I started with having good healthy snacks. Okay, nice. Because I may not, you know what, I didn't have a chance to make it to the grocery store. I haven't done like my full shopping. And I didn't have time to do full shopping. I've had deadlines, you know? So what I had done literally this week was I had, I had about 15 minutes before the grocery store closed on my way home last night. I stopped by the grocery store and I picked up a handful of things that I can have for healthy snacks that will tide me over today until I can get to the grocery store this evening. So that's one of like the easiest ways to start is having healthy snacks. And then looking for ways to get more intentional movement in your day. So like having most all of us have some kind of either a fitness watch or even most of our phones will track our steps. But, oh, there you go. You got one of those fancy rings. Some people have like an armband of some kind. Yeah. Oh, whoo, I think it's called. Anyway, a, logging your steps is a great one. And it's not because there's anything magical about the steps, but it's just, it's more activity throughout your day. And I'm a big, big believer in looking at your steps. And I know everyone's like, oh, 10,000 steps. Nope, look at where you are. I challenge you, look at the steps that you get over like three or four days. And if let's say you get, you know, 3,000 to 3,500 over the course of like three days. Okay, that's where we're gonna start, 3,500. That's your goal this week. And then next week, let's see if we can't make it, you know, 4,000 steps. And maybe not even every day. Maybe we say, all right, so we're gonna focus three days next week, we're gonna get 4,000 steps. And then maybe the week after trying to get it for every day that week, maybe giving yourself one day off, like for me, my day off is Sunday. Same. Like I don't answer messages. I don't usually go to the gym. I think if I feel like it, you know, I will. But I don't usually, like I'll walk my neighborhood. If I walk, I'm gonna tell you what, it is not uncommon for me to get like very, very few. You know, five hundred steps. I can come home. If I can just come home from church and just put on my pajamas and just slug like the rest of the day, it's a good day. It's like my son and I just this last week, we came home and he's like, mom, it's been a busy week. He says, jammy day, jammy day. We came home, really we put on our pajamas. We had a bowl of cereal for lunch. That's great. I got a dog that won't let me not get at least a walk in each night. So I'm actually not mad about that because there are days when I would just literally not go outside at all. But Sundays, you see like, I'll probably golf or something and that's like my activity. There's plenty of activities. You're walking a ton when you're golfing. And so yeah, I'm the same way. And that's the other thing is like people, when they think that they need to get in shape or they think what's required to get in shape is they think that like, like I have people all the time ask me like, oh, do you work out every day? I'm like not even close. Like sometimes I only work out four times a week. Like I aim for five. Sometimes it's six because I'm feeling it on the weekends. But most of the time it's five, sometimes it's four. You know, and sometimes those workouts aren't even that good but I'm still doing them. And so like, yeah, it goes back to like what you said of like making sure that it's a habit in your life rather than something that you negotiate with every single, like today I know I'm going to the gym. Yesterday I knew I was going to the gym. Tomorrow I know I'm going to the gym. Saturday, Sunday, up in the air, that's okay. Got my workouts in already. But like I'm not waking up and going, oh, I wonder if I'll be able to make it today. I'm going, huh, I got a busy day. I gotta go to the office, gotta film some videos. I have to go to physical therapy. I have to get some work done on my computer later. I want to play some video games at night, whatever it is. I'll be like, where am I gonna, where am I going to fit this in? Rather than if I'm going to fit this in. I just know I'm going to non-negotiable. I think that's my takeaway here is like, you gotta create non-negotiables. And you can't be too hard on yourself with them at first because if you get too hard on yourself, you're gonna get overwhelmed. You have to give yourself grace, but this is where again, you fail to plan. You plan to fail. In my day, I know, so for most days for me, like somewhere between 11 and one is kind of where my gap is between my morning classes and clients. And then I have a gap and then I have my VShred conference calls and writing plans and answering messages and all that stuff in the afternoon and the evening. So like that's my time. But then like today, for instance, this is my workout time, but I'm here with you. So that means that for today, and I've already planned it in my head, that after my conference calls, instead of getting to move into the living room and get to work out comfortably there, it's like, nope, I'm gonna have to take my tail to the gym and I have to get in my workout. And it's not that I have to, it's that I get to. And it's important to me. And this is part of what my goals are for my life. And I want to be strong and I want to be healthy. And I want to be a good example for my kids. And I wanna be a good example to my clients. And I feel like if I am here telling them, if I'm talking the talk, I'm gonna walk the walk. And even when it's uncomfortable, I'm shifting my gym time. Now, there are times where it just doesn't happen. And that's okay. But you shoot for that and to know which day. So on my typical weeks, it's like, I'll work out Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and then I have stacked clients on Thursday. So that's one of my days off from the gym. But then I'm gonna go on Friday. So that's at least four days in the week. And then if I miss one, then it's like I tell myself, I do want to make it up over the weekend. I don't have to. It's not the end of the world, but it's important to me. And it suits my goals. Muscle is the engine that drives your metabolism. So the best way, the only way to truly repair your metabolism is to build muscle. I gotta work out to make that happen. Yep. And I love what you said about, some days it just doesn't happen. I think that's the other important piece that people kind of forget about is that, even picture whoever you think is the perfect example of fitness, that person misses. That person slips up. That person skips. That person wakes up late, snoozes the alarm, misses their workout once in a while. It's okay. People don't realize that you don't have to be perfect. You just have to be consistent most of the time. And that's built through, like we've been talking about habits. If you don't have the right habits in place, you're not going to have the consistency that drives results over time, like consistent results over time, regardless of whether you worked out today or not, I guess. Well, and to your point, this is where it's about balance. If you tell yourself, you have to work out every single day and you have to get in all your steps every single day. And you have to eat super healthy every single meal, every single day, and you have to nail your macros and hit your caloricals. If you make it so strict, there is no way. It is not humanly possible to nail it every single day. And if that is your expectation, perfection is your expectation, you will never get there. You will fail your first week. It will happen, it will happen. You will, something will happen and you won't get your steps or your boss calls you during your gym time and you're like, dang it, I don't get to work out today. Your kid is home sick and that derails everything because now you've got a kid that's home sick. That is a part of life and our goal is progress, not perfection. And it's about consistency. If I could hammer anything, any point, it's consistency. I would rather have somebody who consistently shows up and gives whatever effort they can for the day and get a mediocre workout than somebody who says, I can only do it if it's perfect. You'll do it every day for a week and then you won't do it again for a month. And then another week and then I may not see you for three weeks and then you'll do it perfect for two weeks and then you'll be gone for six months. When you expect perfection, you set that bar so high that it feels unrealistic and that's not setting yourself up for success. So you have to think balance. This is our goal. I really like the 80-20 rule. It's not a hard and fast rule. It's kind of a general approach of you nail it 80% of the time. I go to the gym 80% of the time that I mean to and every once in a while I miss either the gym or the steps. My nutrition is on point most of the time but like last night I went to the movies with my daughter and I had already eaten everything for the day but we had some popcorn at the movie theater because I don't ever have the popcorn at the movie theater. I was like, you know, I'm gonna splurge. And you know, if I would have stepped on the scale today, by the way, I probably would have been up like a whole pound from that salty popcorn. Doesn't that mean I gained a pound by the way? Just throwing that out there. Just water retention from having eaten very, very salty popcorn. But am I gonna gain weight from that? Nope. Will my weight pop up for today? Yeah. And in two or three days as I'm living my life and being consistent with good, healthy choices, is it gonna go right back down? Absolutely. So am I stressing about it? Nope. And so if I go on vacation, same thing, go on vacation and I make good choices but I enjoy some splurges while I'm out and the weight may pop up a bit but then as soon as I get back into my routine of eating healthy and working out and being active at home then it's all good. What are those early habit changes you recommend for a beginner? Make a plan. Make a plan, decide what are your goals? So don't just say, I wanna lose 20 pounds. Awesome. How are you gonna do that? You need to have a plan. If you say, okay, I want to eat healthy and I wanna work out. Awesome. What does that look like? You have to be very specific. If you say, okay, so I wanna eat healthy. What does that mean? That means that I am never going out to eat. Well, is that realistic? If you go out to eat five days a week and now you're gonna all of a sudden not go out to eat at all, is that realistic for you? Or could you say, how about I will only go out to eat twice this week? Maybe start there. Healthy is a spectrum. It's not all completely healthy or all completely unhealthy. There's a big, big spectrum. I remember I had a lady who came to me who she drank like eight Dr. Peppers a day. That's a lot of Dr. Pepper every day. So for her, we set a goal to basically step it down. It's like, what about if we start with two Dr. Peppers a day? Now for me to go to two Dr. Peppers a day, that would not be a healthy change. Because I don't drink that throughout the day. Of course, that's not a moral judgment. This is just where I am in my life. I don't drink that. Adding two Dr. Peppers a day would not be good. But for her, going from eight to two, that's marked improvement. And then we got her to where she would have one as a treat twice a week. So she got two a week going from eight a day to two a week. And it took some weaning and it wasn't perfect. And then she would- Probably some headaches involved and some moodiness involved. And that's something else is you have to prepare to be uncomfortable. And that's, they're just saying comfort kills. And what I rather sit here on couch and do nothing or what I rather walk my neighborhood. Well, I don't wanna get up. I don't wanna put my shoes on. Maybe it like- It's cold outside. Maybe it's cold or maybe, yeah, maybe I'm not feeling the greatest or there's pollen, whatever. But no, I'm gonna get up and I'm gonna go. Yep. Trying, understanding that just because it's uncomfortable doesn't mean it's gonna be uncomfortable forever, but in order to change your habits and the change the way you think about things, it's gonna be a little uncomfortable at first. And it builds your inner resilience. Like I like doing hard stuff because it makes easy stuff even easier and it makes harder stuff much easier. And so there's plenty of habits in my life that are, that still occasionally are tough. Like waking up at certain times is still tough. I've never been an early riser. And so like waking up at seven for me is tough. Like some days it's easy, some days it's tough. Sometimes I'm snoozing till eight, you know? And then working out. Like that's a true, that's probably the most consistent habit I've had over the past 15 years of my life. And still it's tough sometimes. And still I miss sometimes. And so what I like to do is I like to challenge myself in other ways of my life that make that a little bit easier. And so for like anybody else who's struggling with doing certain things, it's like, I just got a cold plunge and I hate cold plunges. I hate cold, cold water immersion. It's the worst thing in the entire world. But I'm excited for it because I remember when I used to do, I used to do cold plunges just on the weekends. It was like one or two cold plunges a week, only on the weekends. And I found myself being able to do other things easier because I was building that mental fortitude that's required to continue lowering yourself down into this freezing cold water when you've already felt how cold it is on your feet. And then staying in it after you get that initial shock that takes your breath away and you sit there for another two to three minutes. Just doing that made little things like getting up when my alarm was going off easier. It made little things like getting into the shower in the morning when my room is freezing. Cause I turned my room down to like 66 degrees when I sleep because I like an ice box when I'm sleeping. And so getting out of bed, taking that blanket off, it's freezing in my room, but it's much easier when I am doing other things that are hard. When I'm building that like mental fortitude is an ongoing practice in my opinion. It's something that you constantly have to work on. Otherwise you're going to lose it and you're going to slip back into the confines of comfortable living. And so I loved that, what you said about like making sure that you are seeking out things that are uncomfortable because that is where you are going to grow. If you, you didn't get where you got by doing hard shit. You got where you got by doing easy stuff. Now it's time to change that so that you can actually start to see the progress that you want to see and many different areas of life. You know, and if you parallel the mindset of no pain, no gain in the gym, and of course we don't actually mean pain, but we know if I want bigger biceps, I have to go to the gym and I have to lift enough weight to make them burn. I have to be really uncomfortable. And it's short lived, but it's uncomfortable. And quite frankly, I don't like working my arms, but I want nice looking arms. I hate work, this is real life here. I hate working my arms, but I do it because it is good for me and it's going to make my other lifts better, which is part of my long-term goals, but I do it because I know there is benefit. We know, everyone agrees, you have to be uncomfortable in the gym to get the benefit, right? We all know this, whether you're doing cardio, whether you're doing heavy lifts, whether you're doing volume, whatever you're doing, it's going to be uncomfortable. And we accept it is going to be uncomfortable, but it's for the greater good. You have to, you know, you have to go through it to get to the goal. Yeah. Your lifestyle is no different. If you want to make better free choices, you know, would it be easier for me to, you know, swing by Chipotle for lunch? Yes. I could go, and instead of being in the kitchen and chopping all the veggies and roasting them and mixing up whatever sauce I'm going to do and planning ahead to make sure I've thawed the chicken and, you know, chop the veggies, you know, it would be way easier to just, you know, drive right down the road and pick up takeout. And sometimes you do that. That's another important piece of it. Sometimes, but for me, I try to keep that to a planned situation. I try not to just do that. So like tomorrow night, I'm going out with some girlfriends. So like I know I am going out. So if I were maybe tempted another time this week to go out, it's like, well, our tradition is we go out to dinner and then we go get ice cream. That is tradition. So I know I am going to go way over all my calories tomorrow. But that means that in other points of time, I'm going to make better choices, but it comes down to, we understand that we have to be uncomfortable in the gym to get the results that we want. Your eating, your lifestyle is no different. If I want to be healthier, I need to move throughout the day. So I need to keep an eye on my steps. If I want to lose weight, I have to make good, healthy choices. What does that look like? That looks like, you know, that looks like eating a good, healthy breakfast and not just grabbing iced coffee at, you know, one of the coffee shops on the way to work. That means being intentional to make sure that I'm not going over all my calories instead of just grabbing whatever I feel like eating, whatever snacks are in the break room. You have to walk past that plate of cookies. You have to walk past the tray of desserts. And that's uncomfortable. And nobody likes it. But that's what's required. Yeah. And so kind of working towards the end of this episode, which by the way, for everybody listening, we have another episode coming out. After this, what we're going to be talking about, more of the same stuff, but also about like progress versus, like aesthetics, like progress when it comes to aesthetics versus progress when it comes to just health and or like progress when it comes to just weight versus actual health. But for to wrap this up, what would be your final advice to somebody who is feeling overwhelmed and feeling maybe frustrated by the lack of results that they're seeing at the beginning of their fitness journey? They feel like they're doing most of the things right. They're not claiming perfection, which is a good first step. If you're claiming perfection, we need to accept that you're not going to be perfect. I'm not perfect. Nobody I know is perfect. But they feel like they're doing most of the things right. But they're not seeing the results that they want to see in the beginning. They're feeling overwhelmed by all these things that they're having to do and not getting results for. What is your advice for that person? Well, obviously, I'm partially a V-Shred as I am a coach with this. And so I love the idea of somebody coming to me at the very beginning of their fitness journey and having someone like me give them the tools and lead them through it. But if this is not something that you're prepared to do or able to do for whatever reason, accountability is good. Set a goal, maybe tell somebody about it, tracking your food. I like my fitness pal, but there's a lot of really great ones out there. And that's going to make sure that you are being really honest about what you are getting in. So you have to weigh and measure your food and you have to report it in the app. Yes, it's a pain. But it is the only way to truly see what you're doing. And then I would say start moving. Just start walking. Start small. You don't have to join a gym. You don't even have to start working out. Just start moving. Get getting in steps, getting in walks throughout your week. Start there. And I'll add to that because I was literally just talking to the, it's funny we're talking about this because I just had multiple of these conversations yesterday with one of my good friends. And I was like, well, what are you eating? And he like kind of broke it down. And I was like, okay, if you're not serious about this, just keep doing the same thing you've been doing. You're not going to get results. If you are serious about this, best thing I can say, and he's pretty accountable. So like, I think that's a fantastic piece of it. I think having some sort of accountability, whether that's generally I don't recommend holding yourself accountable because most people are pretty bad at that. And that includes me. I'm not the best at holding myself accountable for certain things. Some things I'm really good at. Some things I'm horrible at. So when it comes to something that you're bad at, for most people fitness, it's about finding an accountability partner. And so that's why I think having a gym partner is so important for people in the beginning of their journey because when you schedule a gym session at 6 a.m. with somebody, you are much more likely to go than if you just tell yourself, I'm just going to go work out at 6 a.m. because that alarm's going to go off. You're going to be cold in bed and you're going to be like, eh, I'll work out later today. And then that never happens. Versus if you know that your buddy is going to text you in a little bit being like, I'm on my way, and he's going to be like, where are you at? And you're going to be wondering why you're not there. And then you know you're going to get shit for it. You're much more likely to go. And so I think the accountability piece is huge. And then when it comes to tracking, yes, tracking, that's probably my best piece of advice to anybody who is wanting to take things to the next level. And it doesn't really matter what level you're at currently. Tracking will always get you to the next level if you are not doing it. But the other thing that I told him is that you don't have to track every single day. I said, start by tracking a couple days in a row, two, three days in a row. See where you're at. And then if it's too much, take a break and maybe get some help. But I think just a couple, because most people, like there's exceptions to this, but most people eat similar meals months at a time. Whether that's a total of five different meals or 20 different meals, nobody's having a different meal every single day. Like most people don't do that. People have food preferences. People, like you said, build habits unintentionally. And so like they're eating similar meals. So like for me, I have a total of probably 10 meals that I have for, I'll have this whole year. And so like. And so variations of chicken and rice. There's beef, there's some beef in there, but yeah, I mean, and eggs. But it's like, it's rice with most stuff. Lots of chicken, lots of beef, lots of eggs. That's the majority of it. But so I know, so what I say is like, what are those main meals for you? Track those main meals so that you have an idea of what's in those meals. That way, you like, for me, I don't track because I know my meals. And so I know if I have my breakfast in the morning, I know what that calorie count is. I know how much protein that has, the carbs that it has, the fats that it had, like loosely, same thing for what my typical lunch is. Same thing for my typical post-workout smoothie. Same thing for my typical dinners. And so like, I know that like, if I got this lunch today, or I missed this protein shake, then I need to have something instead of my normal dinner because I need to make up for that. And so just tracking a couple days and seeing what your trends look like and like a ballpark. Like, I think people, most people would be absolutely baffled if they just tracked their meals for a single day and looked at the numbers. Or sent the numbers to a nutritionist to tell them like, there'd be massive holes. There'd be massive problems with what their macros look like. Whether that's not enough protein, whether that's too many fats or not enough fats, whether that's not enough carbs because they're trying to cut carbs or maybe they're not trying to do anything and they're having way too many carbs. Whatever it is, there's gonna be these massive holes or maybe that's the times of certain foods because that is important too. This could be affecting your sleep. It could be making you tired midday. Like there's, or maybe you're not getting your micronutrients, like that's another huge piece of it. And so yeah, I loved what you said about getting accountability. I think that's huge. And then tracking. If you're somebody that can get on yourself and you and your partner, you can have an accountability partner for your tracking. And every single week you guys send each other screenshots that you tracked that week and you have a $100 bet per week where you're like, if someone doesn't do it, you gotta put a hundred bucks in the jar. And then that person's paying for our next dinner or whatever it might be. Figure out a way to make it fun. And then yeah, find what works for you. You don't have to do everything perfect. I think that's probably the main message here. It's like what you said, you gotta give yourself grace. You have to be kind. And something else with the accountability is you can have different goals. So I have a group chat with a couple of girlfriends of mine where I have... 查第一第一第一第一第一第一第一第一 her tracking at the end of the day. Good for you guys. So when you're looking for someone to be there, so in the three of us, we all actually live in the same town, but our schedules are also very different that we actually don't see each other very often. So we're not working out together. We're not getting our meals together. We're not actually even seeing each other face to face, but we have this little group chat and we have set the ground rules of what that's going to be and when are we going to redo our weigh-ins and how we're going to do this. And I can support my friends and their goals. Just because they're not my goals, I can say, hey, you've lost weight. Amazing, great job. And for my other friend, she's like, well, I maintained this week. I was like, okay, okay, I'm glad you maintained. She goes, okay, well, this is what I know I could have done better. It's awesome. We can celebrate successes. And that's like, okay, I did bad. I ate my feelings today. Okay, okay. What are you going to do tomorrow? Okay, well, tomorrow, tomorrow, I'm back at it, and I'm going to start this and I'm going to go to the gym first thing in the morning and I know that's going to make me feel better. That's awesome. That's very cool. And yes, I mean, I think, and that's the other thing is the community aspect, like who you surround yourself with. So, so crucial. If you're around a bunch of people who don't care about how they look or making progress, like, like saying like you are the average of your five closest friends, like that's the most true thing in the world. Like, or like the guy who forget his name, he was like, show me your five closest friends, I'm going to show you your future. And it's like, God damn, okay, maybe I need to change who I'm talking to and who I'm listening to and the content that I'm consuming. Because if I'm around, if I'm, if I'm somebody who is not in good shape, and I'm around a bunch of other people who don't who aren't in good shape and also don't care that they're in good shape and they're eating like shit every single day and they're not trying to be better and they don't care about health and they're, I need to change that. Does that does that align with me? Like, yes. And maybe they fill a certain bucket of yours. They don't like I have different friend groups that fill different buckets for me. Like I got I got friends who I look forward to talking about business with and talking about big goals with and talking about exciting shit. And then I have friends who I don't talk business at all. And we just talk about sports. And that's about it. And so like, and then I have friends who I just kind of talk about literally like nothing with, but it's just fun, you know. And so like, I have these different buckets. And so I think that's another thing that people can try to do in their own life is find people to fill their different buckets. Like, you can have your best friends, your best friends don't have to be the people that get in shape with you. But maybe it's worth being a little bit of an extrovert the next couple of weeks and finding somebody that does share that that that that desire to improve. And maybe you guys maybe maybe that person's looking for you without you even without even knowing it. And so you might spark up a conversation, you might be like, Hey, I'm trying to really I mean, shoot your shot, you know, doesn't shooting your shot doesn't have to be about just dating. I shoot your shot and be like, Hey, I'm looking for an accountability partner. I've seen you in the gym working out a bunch. And I like what you're doing. I like what you're about. And maybe you already have people in the gym that you loosely talk to. I know I do for sure. Absolutely. I'm positive. They would be like, Hey, if you were like, Hey, you want to get a workout in some time, as long as like, they'd actually like you and they don't like, like there's people that would ask me the gym if I wanted to work out with them, where I'd be like, I'm probably not. But then there's people that I probably would work out with. And so it really just comes down to like, yeah, the consistency, accountability, and then and finding that balance and really trying to focus on things that are going to drive results over time. Like I think the people that get in the mindset of getting results and now getting results fast, getting serious results for this vacation. It's like, I mean, it's good to be in the mindset of wanting to get results. But you also need to make sure that you're doing things that you're going to be able to do for the rest of your life. And, you know, and this is where, you know, people will miss the forest for the trees. When, when you are so focused on this like short term goal, like I want to lose, you know, a few counts for this vacation. It's like, this is where we run into like yo-yoing. Yeah. And where you're constantly gaining and losing weight, which will ruin your metabolism, by the way. Yeah. You're so much better off focusing on changing your habits. It's like, yes, I understand that maybe you want to lose that weight for that vacation. But as soon as you come back, like probably as soon as you get on that vacation, you're going to go back to eating the way you always have. And all of that weight is going to come back. And then you're going to come back and you will have gained the weight that you worked so hard to deprive yourself for however long you did to lose it. Also, also good habits will drive results for that vacation. Like if you're, if you're focusing on the proper methods, you're, you're still going to lose weight, probably just as fast or get in shape just as fast. But then like you said, when you're back, you're not going to rebound like crazy. And chances are you will, most all of us will gain a little bit of weight on vacation. And that's just part of it. It's okay. But, but, you know, it's the difference between maybe gaining, you know, a pound or two versus, you know, five or 10. Well, and then, and then continuing to gain weight long after because you just want when you come back from your vacation, never get back to it because that was, that was, that was too brutal. That, that two weeks of dieting was so brutal that you could never do that for the rest of your life. Well, that's just creating a worse and worse relationship with your personal health, with a worse relationship with food or worse relationship with your diet. And so if you start doing things that are actually beneficial to your body that actually feel good, that are actually sustainable. And now I was, then you go, well, during that two weeks, I lost seven pounds and it wasn't that bad. It was kind of nice. And generally people aren't going to be able to figure that out on their own. And that's why I always like you said that you're biased to V shred. I obviously very biased to V shred, but regardless of whether it's working with one of our coaches or working with a coach at your local gym or working with somebody else that you follow on social media, having somebody that can get you started in the right direction and answer questions for you along the way, make adjustments for you along the way is probably the biggest game changer somebody could have when it comes to getting in shape, especially in the beginning. And I would, I would say I'd like to kind of leave off with this is one of the most important things about changing your habits is that's going to change your lifestyle. We're talking about quality of life. What good is quantity of life and taking all of those drugs if you feel like shit and you can't do anything? What good is that? So when you focus on the healthy habits and you start wherever you are, I have clients who start this in their 20s. I have clients who started in their 60s, even 70s. It's like you still have life to live and by making the healthier choices and by building the healthy habits, that's going to take you on to where you realistically, within reason, can do whatever you want. You want to go on a trip and be able to walk up and down the stairs. You want to be able to get on the floor and play with your grandkids. You want to be able to walk your dog. You want to be able to, you know, walk by yourself down the aisle at your grandkids wedding. There are so many things that, you know, when you are younger, you don't think about, we take for granted where we are that we can get up and down off the floor. We take it for granted that, you know, I could go outside and I could run a couple of miles. It would suck because I don't like to run, but I could do it. And this is because of the choices I've made for where I am now. And it's not too late wherever you are to start doing that. And so it's not just about losing weight now or improving your health now, but it's where do you want to be in five years, 10 years, 20 years? Think about the things that you see other people doing, you know, you look at some of the older people around you and you're like, man, I don't want to do that. You know, I have a couple of clients who are both in their 60s, a husband and wife that I train. And, you know, I don't train them the same way I do when I've got people in their 20s and 30s. But you know what, these people, they literally just came back from a two week trip in Greece where they hiked and walked the whole time. And they talk about, like they go on these group trips and there's several other people kind of in their age that go with them. And they end up having to like sit out because they don't have the stamina to walk around. You know, or because they take all of these medications, they just feel kind of lousy and they only have so much energy. Whereas my clients, they have made a habit. It has been a lifestyle for them. They eat relatively well. It's not perfect. And they are consistent with their workouts, which aren't super hard core, but challenging and able to keep them going. But it allows them to have the quality of life that I think all of us, what we all want by the time we're that age, to be able to go around the world and to hike and to see all of the amazing things that this world has to offer to be able to play with their grandkids. They keep their grandkids for like a week at a time and do like grandparents can't. And they do that because they can. And walk their dogs, they walk their goats. They have an incredible life. And a big part of it is because they have taken good care of themselves and they've been intentional with their health for so long that, you know, it's like that's the quality of life I want. And people need to get started now for that too many times. Like we work with Dr. Drew closely, obviously, and he talks all the time about how he's always treating people in response to serious medical conditions. And by that time, it's impossible to be proactive about it. You have to rely on medications at that point. So if you're not that to that point yet, it's time to be proactive about this so that you don't get to that point when you're 15. You're not on blood pressure medicine and you're not pre-diabetic, or maybe you're already pre-diabetic and it's really time to get taken care of this like right now. And so, yeah, love, love all that. But we are, this is a pretty long episode, but I think we went over so much good stuff. And so I'm going to cut us off here. And for anybody listening, we have a ton of other episodes and we have another episode coming out with Barbie. And also, if you guys want to work with Barbie, we have coaching options where you guys can sign up here with us at VShred and then you can specifically request to work with her. So if you guys want to check that out or if you guys just want to work with a coach in general and you like what we're about, there should be a link somewhere around. Click that link and then just fill out the questionnaire and you'll get a coach assigned to you. And then you can start with like what we said, getting that beginning of your plan figured out so that you know that you're on the right track. The confidence that you get knowing that you're on the right path in the beginning is, it makes a night or day difference than if you do it yourself and then second guess yourself the whole time. So, yeah, check that out if you guys want. Check out the rest of the podcast. Subscribe to the podcast. But Barbie, thank you for being here. I think this is a really good informational episode and I appreciate it here and all your insight. Thank you for having me. Thanks for tuning in to today's episode of VShred's Better Body Better Life podcast. Whether you're doing one of our programs, taking our supplements, or just doing things on your own, tune in every week for exclusive content with Vince, VShred trainers and special guests as they share valuable tips around motivation, workout, food and living a healthier lifestyle. See you next time.

=== FILE: How To Prep Your Mind For Recovering From An Injury ｜ V SHRED Better Body, Better Life Podcast [1DxqmOW5_QQ].txt ===

 I think it is a lot to ask of someone who has an injury in the past and has never experienced lifting weights to throw them straight to the squar. We can just stick to machines. We can just stick to Smith machine. We can stick to the leg extension. We can still do something with that. That's better than nothing. Eventually, sometimes I feel fine trying free weights down the road. Welcome to the V-Shred Better Body Better Life Podcast, where we help you live your best life while working on your health and fitness goals. We're here to make your journey fun and inspiring. What's going on, everyone? Welcome back to another episode of the Better Body Better Life Podcast. I'm your host, Vince, and today we are welcome to buy one of our accelerator coaches, Shania Whitaker. She is a doctor of chiropractic, certified personal trainer, been working with us for a little while now. Today, we're going to be talking about something that I am very familiar with, that she's going to speak to very well as well, which is how to recover from an injury mentally, which I think is obviously the physical aspect of recovering from an injury is huge. You have to do that part. The mental side of things is also very big. If you're dealing with an injury or you have in the past and you still haven't recovered from it or you're in the middle of recovery right now, you're in the middle of rehab, this is going to be the episode for you. Stay tuned. Shania, welcome. Hello. So, go ahead and let's just start this same way. We actually did another episode with Shania. If you guys want to check that out where we talked about staying disciplined. But I know I just kind of introduced you a little bit. Why don't you go ahead and just continue that introduction and tell us why you want to get into an episode talking about recovering from an injury with the mental side of things. Of course. So, like Ben said, I am a chiropractor and part of the training that I went through with that, I realized helped me so much as a online coach that I didn't really think about too much. But one of those that we're going to talk about today is getting over injuries on the mental side. I think people forget that when you go through an injury, it's way more than just physically getting over it. Yeah, we learned a lot about that in school. I think because chiropractic just generally looks at the full body as a person as a whole and not just kind of pieces of as a puzzle, we also look at pain and injuries the same way. I saw that popping up a lot with my clients online, how injuries would still affect them. Ten, twenty years down the road. When you say affect them, you mean physically and mentally? Yeah, sometimes just mentally, but in any capacity. Yeah. And so, what is like, have you ever dealt with injuries? I know on the last episode we talked about how you grew up like an athlete, right? You played a bunch of different sports. Were there any times that you dealt with an injury and how did you personally process those emotions? And versus also, maybe that's one half of the question. And then if you had a really good mindset back then, maybe it hasn't changed. But if it has, how did you process the emotions back then versus how do you process the emotions now when you experience an injury? Yeah, I feel like I have some interesting injuries. So I did cross country in high school, hurt my knee and then track and they got me into hurdles, fell hurt my ankle or maybe it was truly, I don't know. But in, yeah, like 10 years ago, I got my first concussion. So that was a completely different injury. Very, I mean, of course it's been told, but like not so much like, oh, now I'm walking weird, that kind of effect cognitively. So I was dealing with very different injuries and the mindset of getting over those. And I will say I still can have lingering effects from all three. But when I was younger, I find it interesting, actually, when I was younger, I was more concerned about just getting back into the game or getting back to my normal self or you know, where I was before. Now, my mindset around it is, OK, I know I have these things going on. How do I make my life as easy as I can while keeping those in mind so it doesn't make them worse or doing something extra to improve upon those things? Yeah, no, it's funny you say that because like I talk about this all the time. It's like I love playing sports as well. I grew up playing sports. I grew up doing just crazy stuff and I love like extreme activities even to this day. But like the approach that I take or the approach that I took back in the day versus the approach that I take now and the things that I would have done back then versus the things that I do now. And if I had an injury back in the day, how I would recover from it versus how I recover now is completely different. And I can contribute that to my frontal lobe for the most part. I think that like everybody's frontal lobe. I think your frontal lobe doesn't fully develop until you're like what, 18 or 20 or something like that. And so like 25, 26, 25 or 26. So like until then you're like, I don't care. Like I'm sending this job. I'm trying to get back to whatever it is that hurts you as quickly as possible versus now I'm like, I should probably warm up before I go play pickleball. It's like, well, are you 50? It's like, no, I'm just, I know my body and I know I need to warm up a little bit. And so I approach it completely differently now. And I, I've had a bunch of injuries as well. And my injuries when I was a kid, like I broke my collarbone when I was like 14 years old and I got right back to it after doing, I was skiing. And yeah, I was like, I'm ready to go again, like as quickly as I could versus like now I'm like, okay, how do we make sure this never happens again? And I'm like a little more like it's funny. Like I broke my collarbone when I was 14 and I wanted to get right back out there. And then I dislocated my AC joint probably two years ago. And now when I go, and that was also snowboarding. And now when I go snowboarding, like that's like kind of in the back of my mind. And I'm like, should I be going this fast? I need to be a lot more careful with how I turn. I'm not really trying to send big jumps because I'm worried about getting hurt versus before I was like, I'm just going to send like I would BMX. I'm just going to send this jump as high and as far as and as fast as I can. It wouldn't care what happened. And that's changed a lot. How do you, how do you process those emotions differently now? Um, yeah, I think kind of the same way. Um, I mean, when I was injured, young, I was like, Oh, well, this sucks. Um, oh, well, let's keep going. Um, now. I. I definitely still have like my ups and downs, especially when it comes to my concussion, just because I think that particular like injuries very, um, very encompassing of how it affects my daily activities of life. Yeah. But, um, how does it affect your life? Yeah, that's a good question. Um, well, so I had, I got my first concussion 10 years ago, another one. When I was two leading, they dropped me four years after and then I just got one last year, so it's kind of just racking them up at this point. Wow. Um, and I think, I think the last one, it wasn't that bad. Um, because I did have a baseline of everything and it hasn't changed much after that, but for me, it affects how I read. Um, so if you, when you're reading a book, your eyes track, you know, left to right. Mine will kind of go up and down and all over the page. Whoa. Um, so, but I have, I have, I have ways to see it around it. I've been dealing with it for a decade. Um, what do you do to get around that? Do you go to therapy for it or? Um, yeah, I have like some rehab things to help with eye tracking. Funny enough, we were just talking about video games, but video games actually helps train my eye tracking. Uh-huh. And, um, then another one right after the concussion, I had really bad mood swings. Like I was really irritable. Um, I have the best group of friends because they dealt with that. I would just blow up out of nowhere. Um, and then, um, but I don't have that too much now. Um, and then sometimes I have problems with speech and like word recall. So I'll just like. Interesting. Or I'll forget a name of somebody that I'm very close to. Um, but when that happens, I just have grace for myself. Um, and I try not to, you know, get too worked up over it. Yeah. And it has that been something that has kind of improved like does, does it improve? I've never gotten a concussion before. Is it something that improves with time? Like in the beginning or what happens? It's really bad. And then after a couple of months, it's a little bit better. After a year, it's a little bit better. Like, how's that work? Um, it just depends on, you know, the severity, um, your rehab after it. And then if you do anything to help daily, um, I definitely have brain exercises that I could be doing daily, but, um, I don't do them as much as I should. Um, what's an example of a brain exercise? Um, so I have like two pages of numbers of one through 30 and they're all around the page scattered. And what I have to do is look at the left one, find the one, look at the other one, find the one on the other side and keep going until I reach 30. So it's just about. And that just helps what tracking. Okay. I was going to say tracking eye movement. Yes. Cause, um, the eyes, um, are really the window to the brain. So when you train your eyes, helping with the brain, um, so you're saying my video games help me mentally. That's what I'm hearing. They, they do help with tracking. Um, I'm not talking about girlfriend. I don't know. I don't know if you can go. I won't go side that, but it does help with certain, um, processes in the brain. And it makes you. Yeah. Helps with tracking. Definitely. So what other injuries have you had ankle from hurtling? Fell on the hurdles and, um, knee from cross country. That just was not my sport. I'm a, I'm a track person. That's my main thing. And I just tried out the cross country and just to stay in shape. That's kind of what I did as well. I hated cross country, but I ran in high school as well, just to stay in shape for volleyball. Just wanted to, I literally just wanted another varsity letter and I was only as good as I needed to be, to be the last person on varsity and didn't practice a second longer to even get like there was seven varsity spots. I was number seven and I didn't care about being number six. I just wanted a varsity letter because I did not care about being better at running. Funny. Now I am a runner, but, but yeah. So have you dealt with any injuries in your adult life? Well, yeah, the concussion I got last year, but, um, like no soft tissue injuries or anything like that. I mean, yeah, things that just come from, you know, lifting weights and, um, to be honest, probably lots of small injuries, just being in school as a chiropractor. We sacrifice our own bodies to help each other learn how to adjust and, um, students are not the best adjusters go figure. Oh wow. So like, definitely got injured from that. Oh wow. That's actually scary. Sorry. No, I mean, it's not even serious. Just like, okay, now I'm sore for a week. Okay. Okay. You're not like, there's a, so in the chiropractic world, are there more dangerous adjustments than others? I assume there are. Uh, and then you just, maybe I will start. Go ahead. No, I mean, definitely. That's what we could get into that. I mean, everyone talks about, Oh, I'm so afraid to get my neck adjusted as long as like, uh, adjusting your neck has to have a higher probability. Like even if it's a super low probability has to be somewhat higher than adjusting your ankle. You know, is that right? Yeah. Yeah. Cause there's more things going on up there, but it's so low. Um, we always kind of have a joke in, um, chiropractic world that our malpractice, malpractice insurance is like cheaper than like dentist and, you know, PTs, like, cause it doesn't happen. It rarely happens. And actually the most common, um, like malpractice, malpractice, um, thing that goes through is cause someone got burned from a hot towel. Really? Mm hmm. That's interesting. So, um, yeah. But, you know, things can happen with the neck, but that's why you just make sure you do a full, um, exam before and there's, you know, make sure the students, not a shitty student who's performing it on you is the first time students are students are not included in that stat. Okay. But we're practicing on each other and we're being, you know, supervised. And if, you know, someone hurts your neck, the teacher can come and fix it. But yeah. So, okay. Cause I, cause I've, like I've dealt with injuries as a kid and then I've dealt with actually more injuries since being an adult. Um, and my approach with my mindset has changed since I've just matured. Um, and my, like I said, my frontal lobe has developed, but it's also led to, um, I would say some anxiety around re-injury. And so getting into that, what would you say, um, to somebody who is, or what would you say there? Like are some, like tips for somebody who is worried that they are going to re-injure something? Well, I think it's important to take every case one, like one by one. Um, and it just really depends how anxious they are and also how they injured themselves. Um, obviously if I'm dealing with, you know, someone who had my injury of like for my ankle, like I got my ankle hurt from jumping hurdles. I'm not jumping hurdles every day. So I don't have to worry. I don't have as much anxiety around movement of my ankle versus if someone injured themselves doing something they do every day or, um, I think something common I run into is people injuring themselves from lifting weights. And that actually will keep them from doing that same lift ever again. Yep. Um, I've done that. So that's, yeah. So that's the first step. Um, and then either asking, well, for example, if you hurt yourself doing a squat, I'm like, okay, well show me how you're squatting. Yep. So it's, it's can be a period of like education. And then also validating them of saying, I understand why you don't want to do that again, cause that's how you hurt yourself. But now you have the guidance and now you have help and we'll make sure you don't. That doesn't happen again. Um, or, um, it's a little difficult, not difficult, but different, just online. Um, sometimes I just, you know, I'm like, you know what, we can just work around it. So you don't have to have that fear and, um, build their self, like their confidence around lifting weights, doing other similar lifts, like say, if they hurt themselves with squats, like, okay, well, would you feel comfortable just doing a squat and a chair? Like you sit down in a chair every day. Um, so once they feel comfortable with that, then they might want to try a squat. Yeah. It's, it's really individualized with that. Um, so. And then as far as like that journey towards improving. So you said, like, if they're, if they hurt themselves doing a squat, like for me, for example, I tore my pec bench pressing, it was just like a barbell bench press. Um, I had a good amount of weight on it, but it wasn't like my max or anything like that. It was just, I don't think I had rested enough leading up to that session. And then I think there's also probably a little bit of an imbalance in my shoulders. I mean, there definitely is. I broke this collarbone and dislocated this AC joint. And so like this, this shoulder is all jacked up. But, um, and so I think a lot of that goes into my left pec more than my right pec. And so that's, that's the pec that I tore when I was pushing this weight. Um, and it was quite a long recovery. There was another one where I, um, this, or I, uh, slipped a disc. Um, and my back or herniated one of my discs and that was the worst injury I've ever had. I think that was probably four or five months of just not being able to do anything. Um, just like sitting around doing like my physical therapy after like a month or two, so probably a month or two of doing nothing, then physical therapy. And then I finally like lightly got back into the gym at like six months, which was crazy for me. Um, how important is mindset when facing the reality of how long recovery might be? Because like, I know for myself, I, I lost, like we talked about like that sense of worth. Like when it comes to like, or like your purpose, like fitness is a huge part of my life. And when I lost the ability to do anything fitness related, I lost a huge piece of my life, you know? And so like I had to make sure that I was like staying on top of my mental health and I had to keep reminding myself of how long this journey was going to be. What are, so that I could like actually like keep doing these boring, hard exercises every single day to make my back a little healthier each day, so that eventually I could hopefully squat the, just the bar again, you know, or whatever. Um, and actually I only, I dislocated the, or I, so I herniated a disc picking up a 10 pound dumbbell. So like there was a little trauma involved with that as well. And so like anytime I'm going to pick up anything, there's like that little bit of anxiety in me where it's like, okay, we're going to make sure that we're picking this up the right way. Always. And so what are some steps somebody can take to mentally prepare for that journey or some strategies somebody can instill in themselves or habits or whatever that are going to help them get through that. I think, yeah, I guess I'm finding it difficult to answer that question just because it's so personalized and you really have to look at everything surrounding that person. But generally speaking, recognizing that your pain is, your pain in recovery is way more than just physical. I think sitting down and really understanding that can help with kind of understanding what's going on because someone who's dealing with other issues such as like financial or no support at home or whatever, they're going to experience more pain in a longer recovery time versus someone who has that support. So if there's ways to improve like the social factors surrounding surrounding that or even the motivation and self-talk that also can add to the pain. So it sounds so sad, but it's better to be aware of it so you can improve it than just kind of going in being like, oh, well, I injured my back. If I do these PT things or whatever, I just do these rehab, everything will be fine. When you're going down that road, you realize other things are popping up and feelings of shame or guilt or questions of self-worth pop up. Now it's not so much of a surprise. You kind of are equipped to deal with it. But so definitely seeing the whole picture of what pain is can help. And also just knowing that this is temporary. And also having some type of appreciation of your body helps. Like, yes, you might have slipped a disc or yes, you might have done this, but it's because you didn't. It was done to prevent an even worse injury. Like our bodies are very smart. And if that had to go out, it was because it was protecting something much more important. Interesting. So being like, OK, I am resilient. I have a great body that knows how to heal itself and it just needs some support and time and all of that. But things can get back to baseline or close to it. So are you a fan of like the exact those kind of sounded like affirmations? Are you a fan of that? I am. I wish I did them more. I wish I did them more. I wish I did them every day, but they do help. Because what you tell your mind, your body listens to. And sometimes it's, you know, when I kind of go back and forth from, you know, online trainer to working with patients as a chiropractor. And it's not the most wise to tell the person that comes in for the first visit. And they are like nine out of 10 pain to be like, have you practiced yourself, your meditation and your affirmations that you're actually OK? Like they will probably cut me out. I didn't come here for a spiritual lesson. Just crack me, doc. Yeah, exactly. People in pain are so, they can be so grumpy. So getting them out of that pain and then working with them at that level. But if you're someone who's not injured yet or recovering from an injury, that's, it's easier to tell them more about mindset and keeping positive during experience. But, you know, you don't really know until you're actually in the experience. Yeah. No, that helps with them. I think the biggest piece of it that's tough is being patient. I think like that was the hardest thing for me. I'm I think as humans, we're all very impatient by nature. Like if I gave you two options and one's faster than the other, you're going to pick that one, whether it's getting in shape, making money, falling in love, whatever it is, you're always going to pick the faster option because you want it now. When you try to, when you, when you injure yourself and you're recovering, you're going to want to recover fast. And so I think reminding yourself of what you said, like being mindful and having those like mindfulness practices to tell yourself, hey, like this is temporary. We're going to do what we need. Like the thing that I always say is like, like the most important step is the next one. Like if you have a thousand stairs to walk up, can you take one more step? If so, take that step. As like I saw, I listened to this, one of my buddies just ran a 100 mile ultra marathon. And he had never ran that far before. I think his furthest run before that was like a marathon. And so he's running four times as long. And he was basically just like, it was hard. And there were times that I felt like I needed to quit, but I just told myself, can you take one more step? And I took one more step. And I was like, can you take one more step? And I took one more step. And so somebody can have that mindset with their injuries. And I can speak from exempt from personal experience that if you can just get by the next day and keep focusing, keep your head down, you're eventually going to look up and you're going to be five years in the future. You're going to be all healed up and you're going to be all healthy again. As long as like you said, you had the right help. Because I think, yeah, this is a tough topic just because like, I can't, we can't talk to anybody individually right now because we don't know what somebody's individually going through. We don't know what caused their injury. We don't know how bad the pain is. We don't know what their limitations are. And so we have to speak super general right now. But in general, if you can teach yourself a little bit of patience, if you can be kind to yourself, then that's going to help you progress. And that's going to help you eventually heal, you know? But also we kind of mentioned at the beginning, like when you're helping somebody in person, like, and you can speak to this probably better than anybody because as you just said, you go from helping clients online to helping patients in person. And so when you are working with a client online, how do you help clients with injuries just through online training? Yeah, I think it'd be a good time to kind of introduce the, what we call it, the biopsychosocial model of pain. So first, there's the biological factor of like tissues, bones, whatever being injured. The psychological of like, you know, kind of what you discuss, like kind of avoiding certain things or causes emotional stress. But then also the social factors of what community support do they have? What's their cultural influences? How do, what's their personal ideas surrounding pain and injuries? So keeping in mind that all three of those things are in play when you're talking to someone about past injuries or current injuries or anything about pain is really important. So I try to get a feel for all three of those things. So when I'm talking to someone, you know, I'll be like, okay, well, like I could see, it's really interesting when I see the questionnaire and I'll say, okay, I have this between in my cervical spine blown, I have a dis in my thoracic spine, all of this, they can have all of these injuries, but when I talk to them, they're like, oh, I'm fine. I just thought you needed to know that, but it doesn't affect me and I'm, it's fine. Or you'll have someone who has like, okay, I have carpal tunnel and I'll get on a call with them and they're like, oh my gosh, I can't even do anything with my hands. It's so horrible. So yes, it matters what the injury is, but talking to them to see where they are, their minds that are around it, how they feel and how it affects them daily is really important. So that's always my first step. And then if it's, you know, an old injury, okay, how can we work around it in a way where you're not super uncomfortable? Cause you know, I can't be there in person to make sure they're not injuring themselves. So if anything, I'd rather take the safe bet of like avoiding the movement that calls the injury until they either feel comfortable or if they're working with a doctor or I actually had a call with one of my clients and their physical therapist was there to literally just about to ask you that like if you've ever had anybody who has the physical therapist on the side, help in a recovery from injury, if you work directly with that doctor or physical therapist to get them through something. Yeah, she was all the girls. So we were talking, it was kind of cool because I could like, okay, so we're not going to do this. And she's like, okay, so let's avoid, she's telling me like she can only do this much hip adduction or let's avoid these types of movements. And I'm like, okay, easy. She's like, okay. And then this is my care plan for her.  so... That's great. And I'm like, okay. Yeah, so I really, sometimes I can get that involved, or, you know, they give me what PT exercises they had from years ago, and then I can kind of get an idea of how can I structure a workout just based off of what they have for rehab. So I try to be as helpful as I can with as much information that's given, but sometimes it's just as simple as someone getting on a Zoom call and like raising their arm and saying, this is how much motion I have, and that's it. Interesting. And then, as far as like them seeing progress with that, like, I think most people who get injured don't see physical therapists. I think that's unfortunate, but I think that's the reality. And so, first, I'm assuming the average person who comes to you with an injury has just dealt with it themselves and kind of stayed away from the gym, stayed away from that exercise, and just kind of rested until they felt a little bit better. What advice do you give clients on like helping them set like realistic expectations when it comes to trying to get in shape while managing this injury or recovering from this injury? If they're recovering, I always say we'll work within the limitations that were given to you. Like, you know, I always go with whatever doctor's clearance because at the end of the day, I'm not seeing these people in person. I say I am a doctor, but I'm not your doctor. I was going to say, most people go, I'm not a doctor, but you can literally say I'm a doctor. But yeah, like I've got yours. I haven't assessed you physically. So trusting what was given to you by that doctor will go off of that. So sometimes they'll say, you know, my doctor said I can't lift weights for this long. And I'm like, well, ask them if bands are okay or just like giving them, sometimes it's just kind of prepping them for the conversation of what the clearance looks like. Okay, well ask them if bands are okay or if you can do walking or ask when to do this. It's like, oh, well, I never thought to even talk to them about that. So sometimes it's just being like an advocate when I'm not even, I didn't even think I would be in this situation, but it's nice to kind of help facilitate that type of conversation. But if it's an old injury, just seeing how much they can move, usually it doesn't affect them where they can't make the same amount of progress as someone without injuries. So that's usually not an issue. And then do you find like the approach or the challenges are different for somebody who is, let's say newer to working out versus somebody who is much more familiar with working out? Yes. Definitely if they are new to lifting weights and they have an injury and they might not feel super comfortable doing certain workouts just for form wise, they'll watch the video and they'll have the video of you doing like a ten second workout, like an example of how to do the exercise. And sometimes they still don't feel super confident in themselves. And I'm like, okay, well, how about we just do machine only? Like I know until you feel more confident. And then, or I've done it for some clients and if they're really having an issue, like I'll record a video of me going into detail of how to keep your back safe during a squat or here's how to properly do a deadlift. Because there's really only like what six or seven common movement patterns. And I feel like once you get that down, kind of understand how to brace yourself and stuff. So exactly. Exactly. So I'll talk about breathing and then how to do deadlift squat or push pool. And after that, they'll feel more comfortable, but still keeping the weight light and, you know, they'll share a picture or video of themselves doing it just for like form correction if really needed. But yes, it's really just making sure people feel confident in their form. So that you're not like, oh, no, I'm going to injure myself again or I don't feel like I'm doing this right. And sometimes sometimes it honestly looks like if you are this afraid of, you know, and you don't feel this comfortable at all, we can just stick to machines. We can just stick to Smith machine. We can stick to the leg extension. Like we can still do something with that. That's better than nothing. Eventually, sometimes they feel fine trying like free weights down the road. But I think it is a lot to ask of someone who has an injury in the past and has never experienced lifting weights to throw them straight to the squat rack. Yeah. No, the, and especially the squat rack, like I think that's probably the most intimidating exercises are squats because most people, most people hurt when they do squats. And then therefore they go, I don't do squats because they hurt my knees. And it's like, well, maybe you should figure out why they hurt your knees because everybody should be able to squat. You go to Asia and you got 90 year old people who are squatting down, like butt touching the grass just to hang out. Like they're just eating their lunch, sitting in a squat position. You're like, everybody has that ability. It's just you're so limited by sitting in a chair all day and not doing anything to keep your hips mobile, keep your knees mobile, keep your ankles mobile that you're not able to do it anymore. But you should be able to. It shouldn't be off limits for anybody. But I say that, but I also don't do barbell bench press anymore because that's how I tore my pec. And I advise against doing barbell bench press for anybody who is not trying to be a power lifter because I have experienced it now. And I know a bunch of other people who have experienced tearing their pec from barbell bench press because it is quite a dangerous exercise when you're going very heavy. And there are studies showing much lower risk of injury and much less number of injuries with dumbbell bench press. And you get a very, very, you get a better contraction because you have, it's not a fixed position with the bar. And so like that is an injury that I will say that I have completely eliminated from my training program, but everything else I will not like. Like I said, I herniated my disc in my back and I was really not back to the gym full time for nine months after that. And I did it picking up a 10 pound dumbbell. And then I think probably a year later, I think it was like a year on the dot. I was deadlifting. I deadlifted like 495 for the first time and then I was squatting 315. And so like I got back to full strength, but it took some mental resilience to can like build that confidence back up doing those movements. Like I didn't start super heavy. I started, I went through the proper physical therapy and then I started super light and then I built on top of that. And so yeah, that's why I asked like the difference in how you treat that recovery process or that mental, like the advice that you give to somebody who is really familiar with the gym, such as myself versus someone like maybe my mom who has been to the gym plenty in her life, but I wouldn't necessarily call her like a fitness guru by any means who absolutely she doesn't love going to the gym. She doesn't think of fitness as like her identity versus I do. And so like the mental hurdles that she goes through versus the mental hurdles that I go through are going to be pretty different. Would you agree with that? Definitely. Yeah. So if you make fitness, your identity. Yeah. No, that was. That was the toughest part, honestly. And then yeah, like now I have like anxiety around doing barbell bench press. Like I just, I just won't do it. And I have a little bit of anxiety when I go heavy with dumbbell bench press because I tore my pec and that was very painful and it was traumatizing. And I see it every single time I see my pec. I have that little indentation. And whenever anything feels a little bit weird, I'm like, oh, shit. Am I about to tear my pec again? And so it's like this thing that I still have yet to overcome. And so if anybody is dealing with that same similar trauma to injuries, it's OK. I think, but yeah, like we said, like most exercises we shouldn't avoid. There are going to be some exercises that are more dangerous than others, but most we want to try to get back to in squats or squats and deadlifts. I mean, I think like a hex bar deadlift is going to be a lot more safe than like a conventional deadlift just because it puts your back in a safer position. But I think everybody should be doing those big compound movements because those are going to be how you get the most bang for your buck. You know, and then the other thing I want to ask you. We talked a bit about a support system on our other episode, which if you guys haven't checked that out, make sure you do. But how important is having a support system during recovery and how can it influence your mental outlook? Yeah, so I think when people hear you need to support system recovering from an injury, it's really easy to just be like, oh, yeah, I need someone to help me do these things while I'm physically incapable of doing it, which yes, but you also need more support to kind of address the other two factors of the biopsychosocials of psycho and social. Just, you know, it's nice to have someone to help physically, but also when you're having those days of kind of, oh, my gosh, I don't know if I can do this ever again. It's nice to have someone to get you out of the echo chamber. Love that. Especially, you know, some injuries do just hit harder than others. Like I didn't really need much social support for my knee, but when it came to my concussions, I needed a lot of support. Thankfully, I had it. I don't know, especially when I was, especially my first one, that was tough. And having some group of people that understand what your limitations are, but not making you feel worse about it or I guess I'm still only talking from my experience of concussion. Because that might be a lot different than like, because yeah, I was, I'll be honest, I was being horrible for like one or two weeks, maybe even longer. It's not that bad, though. A couple of weeks. But no, no, like two of my friends, I the mood swings. Not nice. I was just, I remember one day, maybe I don't remember. I think someone told me this. I was just sitting in a room and I was staring at my keys and I needed my keys and I like screamed at my friend. I was like, can you my keys? And she's like, OK. And like, I think everyone understood they're like, she's just concussed, just let her be. I apologize afterwards. But it was, you know, maybe I wasn't just OK. I wasn't just angry. There was also a point where the first week after my concussion, the first week of my concussion, which is so interesting how fast research is because I was just 10 years ago and now it's completely understood that this is not how you deal with concussions. It's actually horrible. But I was sitting in a dark room, not doing anything for a week. Don't do that for, should not do that. Why are you not supposed to do that? Because so you think like, oh, I'm resting the brain, but. I'd have to look back into it. But that's just you want to do something to stimulate the brain. But just sitting in a dark room doing nothing. The exercises you talked about. Exactly. It's kind of like how we used to think you're almost feeding the injury if you do nothing. Is that kind of? Yeah, it's kind of like how we used to think that I see something and elevating it and then leaving alone was the best thing. But what's actually better is to slowly do mobility exercises and let it naturally inflame. Yeah, so same thing with the brain. So I was sitting in this dark room and they would let me color like 30 minutes out of the day and then I could see my friends for color. Another 30 minutes. Brands. You know, a cycle. I felt like it. It was horrible. So of course, my friends came. I was like so sad. They're like, what is wrong with her? Like, what is she? She's going through something horrible. So when I came out, I was so ecstatic to be out of, you know, what felt like jail. But. I really do attribute my like a lot of my recovery to my support group because they never made me feel worse about my healing recovery. Now I think, you know, 10 years now, they're like, yeah, remember when the nurses called your parents and they were talking about how things were going and you'd be like, oh, yeah, everything's fine and we would like interrupt and be like, no. Like you thought you were doing a lot better. Like, anyways, that's something we can laugh about now. But, you know, in another injury, such as like back and injury or whatever, like, you know, other parts of the body. Definitely. Having people, you know, say if you injured yourself at the gym and you can't necessarily do certain things with your, you know, your gym bro if you have one, maybe then be like, you know, well, let's do this. So like, let's switch up. So you still feel included in not like things are so different just because of my injury. It's really. Just having people that are what is the word, patient and understanding helps so much for morale. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, because yeah, I mean, I I generally work out alone, but like I have a good friend of mine is my physical therapist. And yeah, he kind of like reaffirms all the things that like I'm probably a little, um, I don't know, I guess in my head about where it's like, like I tore my pec and I immediately FaceTimed him. And I'm like, I think I just tore my pec or dislocated the AC joint. FaceTimed him immediately. I'm like, I think I broke my shoulder. And he's like, looks like AC joint dislocation. Go to the ER. And so like he was there to like, um, just help me really. And he was kind of my, now that I look back on it, like he was kind of my support system, um, and just like my friends around me were like the support system to like, let me know that like it's, it's like, I almost felt guilty for being injured because like for me, it's a little bit different. And I try not to talk too much about personal experience or like, like just personal stuff, just because like, I feel like a lot of people can't necessarily. I had to, I guess, relate to like the pressure that I put on myself to be in shape because it's my job. And so it's like, if I put pressure on a firefighter to be able to fight fires, he's like, it's my job, but like, I don't care about knowing how to fight fires. And so it's like, for me, I have to be in shape. And so I felt almost guilty sometimes for injuring myself and I had that support system to let me know that like basically it's okay. And it's going to take some time to get through this. And you have, and like, I think the important piece is like making sure that you have a road to go down. Like you have a plan in place. I think that's going to be huge. There's too many times I've heard about like, my dad is a perfect example. Like he was, I remember he, I found out just through the grapevine that he herniated three discs and I was like, when, how? Like, what are you doing? And he's like, I'm just, I'm just, I'm just not doing anything. And I hope, I don't know if I'll ever be able to golf again. And I'm like, dad, get help. I'm like, go figure out a recovery plan, like put something, go see it. And so I like, I called my physical therapist and I said, you'll find me a physical therapist in Ohio. He went to look at him. He's been seeing a chiropractor. He saw a physical therapist. And so like, he's been doing stuff and he's, he's fine now. But like, I was like, how are you just going to like not have a plan in place? So yeah, I guess, I guess my advice would be to, for anybody who's dealing with an injury is just to have somebody to go to, hopefully you have insurance and you can use that. If not, find a friend who knows a little bit, who's, if you're lucky enough to know somebody who's a physical therapist, amazing. Um, but just figure out a way to get better. Do not just like, yes, the body will heal itself, but you also are just going to continue to re-injure yourself if you don't figure out what the cause of the injury was. And so that would be my main piece of advice. Um, and so I guess before we hop off here, what's your last piece of advice before, uh, or for anybody who is dealing with an injury, um, and, and how they can, I guess like main takeaway, if somebody just tuned in right now, what would be the best thing that you could say to them? Yeah. Um, know that. Know that there's more pieces in play than just your physical and just more than the physical injury. And, um, you know, the best thing you do is get a support system. Um, and that it's temporary. Um, but the more work you do on the front end to make sure things are, you know, going to heal properly, the more work and more patience you have on the front and the better your outcome will be. And by the front end, you mean what exactly? Yeah. Just right after injury, either getting help or seeking out help or seeking out something to anything besides just sitting and accepting that you're injured. Like what my dad was doing. Yes. Yeah. All right. Well, um, I appreciate all of this. Uh, hopefully everybody listening got a feels a little, if you're, if you're dealing with an injury right now, hopefully this helped you a little bit. Um, give anything else you want to say before we hop off here. Uh, that's, that's it. Cool. I appreciate you being on here. Um, like I said, I hope everybody learned something and you are going to the, the approach that you take with a current injury or a past injury that you're recovered, that you already recovered from, or maybe didn't recover from the right way. Um, or if you, I mean, eventually we all get hurt. Um, that's just a part of being an active human. Um, nobody's going to be safe all the time. Stuff happens constantly. Accidents are a thing. And so the time is going to come. I always say you should prepare for a stormy day. Like the rain is coming. And so having a plan in place or being mentally prepared for when that happens and knowing the approach that you're going to take, hopefully this episode helped you get a little bit of a better understanding for that. So, and if you guys want to check out any of our other episodes, make sure you guys are checking out, um, we drop episodes every single week. Also, if you guys want to work with a coach like Shania, um, we have coaches who are ready to work with you. Um, there should be a link somewhere around here. If you guys want to click that, um, go sign up and we are happy to help you get through injuries. We're happy to help you get in shape, help you build more confidence, whatever it is that you're struggling with, we are ready. So Shania again, thank you for being here. I had a good time. Thank you. Now, if you are looking for some extra support and you aren't looking to spend a fortune, you should consider working with one of our V shred certified coaches. Um, we'll figure out your macros, we'll figure out your calories. We'll figure out what your custom meal plan will look like. And yes, we'll make sure that it contains your favorite foods. Um, and basically all you do is you let your coach know what you like, what you don't like, because when we say custom, we mean it. And you get unlimited emails, you get weekly check-ins, you get access to our brand new coaching app where you can message them at any time about anything with any questions. Uh, our coaches are here to help you reach your goals and they care about your success. Um, and so all the details about how it works is in the description down below. So check that out if you want to, but thank you again for tuning in until next time. Thanks for tuning in to today's episode of the shreds, better body, better life podcast. Whether you're doing one of our programs, taking our supplements, or just doing things on your own, tune in every week for exclusive content with Vince, B shred trainers and special guests as they share valuable tips around motivation, workout food and living a healthier lifestyle. See you next time.

=== FILE: How To Stay Disciplined In Your Fitness Journey ｜ V SHRED Better Body, Better Life Podcast [4nk61cVZvOw].txt ===

 the way that you think of yourself and talk about yourself is really just going to manifest into your reality. If you tell yourself, I can't do my workout today, you're probably not going to do it. You're going to find an excuse at some point. And then when you don't do it, you're just only confirming what you told yourself. Yeah. Versus, I'm going to have a great day and I'm going to do this workout. Welcome to the V-Shred Better Body Better Life Podcast, where we help you live your best life while working on your health and fitness goals. We're here to make your journey fun and inspiring. What's going on, everyone? Welcome back to another episode of the Better Body Better Life Podcast. I'm your host, Vince, and today we are welcomed by Shania, one of our accelerator coaches. She's also a doctor of chiropractic and a certified personal trainer. We're going to be talking about how to stay disciplined in your fitness journey. So if you're somebody who is struggling with that discipline piece of the puzzle, then today we're going to be talking about personal experiences, advice that Shania and I both give clients when we're asked about this and just some practices that you guys can use moving forward to improve your own discipline and hopefully make sticking to your plan a little bit easier. So, Shania, welcome. Thank you. Yeah. So I know I just kind of gave you a little bit of an intro, but why don't you just go ahead and tell me and our listeners just a little bit about yourself, your background, what got you into fitness, all that good stuff. I'll make it short, but like most people, I did a lot of sports in high school and before that, I was in sports year round from track, basketball, cross country, just kind of doing everything to stay active. And then when I went to undergrad, I probably was in the gym maybe five times the whole four years. And then I made my way to chiropractic school where I realized I have to be a lot stronger to do this. And so I kind of regained my passion for fitness in a different way. So before I was doing mostly cardio based, and then I moved to weightlifting. And that was a lot of fun. I think that kind of really got me in loving the fitness again. I gained about like 40 to 50 pounds, not all muscle, but mostly muscle. Wow. Yeah, just to be able to take care of my patients and do the adjustments and all of that. So while in chiropractic school, I got my certification to be a personal trainer. And funny enough, I did it just so I could train my friends for free. Because we had like a oh, like it's like a student work, what do you call like a work study. So staff and students, we get trained for free. And I was like, Oh, if I do this, I can train my friends. But then I actually really liked it. Started doing online and then graduated, started adjusting, working as a chiropractor. And then I found V shred about last February. So that's kind of where I am now. So you so you throughout you said undergrad, you didn't really work out at all. What do you think that what do you think the reason was I think that's a great starting point for this episode, because it's all about like the discipline behind it. And I think a lot of people especially, in the beginning, and it sounds like you said that you were doing a lot of cardio in the beginning versus then when you either started learning more about what you were doing or just got back into it, maybe had different goals or whatever, you started resistance training more. What do you attribute your your struggle during your undergrad years to work out to? That's a good question. Funny enough, I think first to start off with going from the motivation of having a team and having to show up for a team versus just being like, Okay, now I have to go to the gym by myself. And I really understand how that's like two completely different mindsets. So I just didn't really care to work out and undergrad. I was, you know, I was just like, whatever, I mean, we went on walks or whatever, but it wasn't anything regimented. And I think when people talk about, Oh, you can do whatever you want in your early 20s or 20s, and then you'll regret it later. I think it just wasn't a priority. And I didn't realize how much how important it was until I went to chiropractic school. And it's also a culture thing. So I went from liberal arts school where people were walking around barefoot, we had a horrible campus. And like, not to say like anything crazy, but like we just, like fitness wasn't really a thing. We actually were D three. Funny enough, we had the record of the most consecutive football losses. Oh, no, that's the wrong side of history right there. We really were not into sports there. And then going from that to where I went for chiropractic school where we had like the best gym, like even our president like loved our gym, you'd be in there working out and everyone was really into lifting weights and staying in shape. It was more of a culture. And then you're kind of like, Oh, okay, so maybe it was a little bit more of like the same type of motivation you get from like team sports. Yeah, when you have like a community that's really into it and that helped a lot. And then all of my friends were like, Well, we're going to the gym to lift weights. And I'm like, Well, I guess I'll go with you. Wow. That's actually pretty crazy to think about because like you like in my experience, like growing up in Ohio, in Ohio fitness is not like at the forefront of most people's daily priorities, I guess, but then you move to a bigger city like when I lived in LA and much, much more people are caring more about fitness and health and really more than anything how they look. And Vegas is a little bit like that too. And so that's super interesting that that community aspect impacted you like that. Do you is that something that you experience with your clients as well? Because I know there's a bunch of people who probably don't have that community around them to help motivate them to help like make good decisions to hold them accountable. When somebody comes to you and they don't have that community around them, what is usually a recommendation for them? I'll say this, I've noticed that if I'm working with a spouse, usually a wife, I usually work with women. One of two things will happen and thankfully it's mostly the first their their partner will start to work out more or they'll start to eat healthier or they'll join them on a workout or two. And that helps them so much or like the other person will stay the same and they've noticed it feels like an extra barrier of okay, well, he's not going to take the cookies out of the house. So I have to put in more effort to kind of resist it or right. Well, we used to sit and watch TV all the time and now I have to go do this workout and it feels it's like a little bit harder to get that support. So I try to provide as much support as I can from online either like, you know, saying yeah, I totally get it. I remember being in those places where especially like during COVID, I feel like that's kind of a time when we all felt really isolated and I was like, yeah, during COVID, it felt like it was just really me and having to do these home workouts. I'm very much a gym person. So home workouts were a little bit of a big time. It was kind of horrible for me, but it's okay. So trying to emphasize with them and talk to them more. Also, another thing I'll try to do is encourage them to find another community, whether it's, you know, a recreational sport or, you know, something like that. Some of my clients will go and find like adult volleyball or something else just to hang out with other like-minded people. It's it really, yeah, it really makes things so much easier when you have that community. I love that because I mean, obviously like working out and like going to the gym and lifting weights is if you want to get like the most bang for your buck, like that's what you need to do, right? And then there needs to be like at least a fraction of your training that needs to be revolved around resistance training. But at the same time, if you're not going to do that, the next best option is to go figure out if you don't have the discipline to work out necessarily right now. Because I think that will come as you get results, but a way to start getting those results is to find out ways of working out that don't feel like you're working out. You know, if you, yeah, if you think, if you look at fitness or working out as a chore, then it's going to be much harder to do that versus if you find something that you enjoy doing, like you said, like when you were an undergrad, you went for walks. Like my girlfriend goes for walks with her friends all the time. She doesn't necessarily love lifting weights, but she'll go to a Pilates class or she'll go on a walk with her girlfriends around the block or whatever it is. And she also plays sports. She plays a ton of sports. She plays in a flag football league. She plays in soccer league. She wants to play in a, we're going to find a pickle ball league and then a softball league. And so like she, she has these like two, three nights a week where she's just going and she's having fun, but she's burning a ton of calories. She's working her body. And it's just a way for her to work out without feeling like she's working out. So I absolutely love that. Is that something that you do as well? I know you said you grew up kind of playing a bunch of sports. Do you still do that? Um, I, I'm trying to join a flag football league. Where do you live? By the way? Yeah, I'm in Dallas. Um, you guys probably have that. And then there's also beach volleyball that meets our community every Wednesday. So that's fun, but definitely not as involved as your girlfriend. I need to find some. She doesn't, she doesn't work out. I mean, she, she does, she does Pilates all the time, but like she just wants something else that like she, when the sun goes down, like she likes having like a league that she can go do. Cause like she doesn't have like an evening hobby, I guess we're like, I could play video games or whatever, you know, versus she likes to go be outside. But then when the sun sets, she's like, I don't know what to do. And so that's why she's found that she also just loves competing. And so yeah, I think that's, I think that's awesome. Finding sports for anybody listening, go find a sports league of a sport that you grew up playing, do that once a week. And yeah, like the, the team aspect of it is also super fun. Like I used to play in like a wreck basketball league here in Vegas. I stopped because of injuries. I would recommend to everybody that you should try to find something that your risk of injury is the lowest. That's why I stopped because my knees and my ankles and I was just getting beat up all the time. And my job is being in shape. And so when I couldn't work out, I felt lost and I felt angry and I was mad that I kept getting hurt. But having a team that you're playing with, it's like something to look forward to every single week, get a little group chat going with your team. It's a lot of fun. So I love, I love that recommendation. So what would you, what are some, I kind of want to go into like some challenges that you've faced since getting into your fitness journey, pretty hardcore. What does your like current training look like? And what would you say is one of the bigger challenges that like physical challenges that has come up that you've had to overcome? Yeah. So right now I'm, I'm doing more pyometrics and cardio mixed in with weight lifting. I try to go four to five times a week. No, some athletic stuff. Yeah, I really miss sprinting. We don't, I've tried to find a track to just like sprint on, but that's been difficult. But I, I kind of got into a rut, not a rut, but like I would just only lift weights and then maybe walk on the treadmill for 10 minutes and be like, that's fine. But then my Apple watch kind of started roasting me about my cardio fitness level. So I had to get that. A walk was treating you like it was a run. Yeah, it was not good. It was not good. But well, almost a year ago. Yeah, last November, I was in a car accident and I just, I got a concussion and I couldn't really do much at all, let alone go to the gym for like a couple, like a month. And then I just really wasn't in the mindset of it. And plus it was winter and then like, you know, the sun's not out, you're just not feeling it. And I would just start off with like very small things at home, even though I hate held workouts, but it wasn't, I would make my goal less about, okay, I have a workout and I have to go do it, or else I didn't do anything at all. Instead, I had to shift to, let me just get some type of movement in for the day, even if it's like a couple of squats and the walking around with my dog or something a little bit more than what I usually do, just to get like some type of small wins. And I did that with my clients as well. Either if they're like just injured, or they're having a really stressful week. I try to emphasize, well, just let's just start with movement, like how can we move your body today, even if it's like, you're taking a phone call and you're, instead of just sitting in the house, you just go on a walk, or you fall along with like some yoga video. I don't care, just try to get into the daily habit of moving your body. And it's like, for that week, can we say that person had like the best like workout, like can we say they burn the most calories? Probably not. But it's more about long term of building up the habits and feeling comfortable of movement so that your baseline of when you have on your worst days, you can still put in some movement. I tell people, sometimes you're 100%. Today won't be as high as tomorrow's 100%. But as long as you're trying, that's better than nothing. Yeah. Yeah. Do you, are you like, do you ever like recommend like the obviously like non exercise activity thermogenesis is like a huge part of like the daily calories that we burn? Are you somebody that would recommend to a client to park further away from the entrance of a grocery store, or take stairs instead of elevators? Like is that something that you would recommend or something that you do recommend? Or do you think that you prefer them just getting into the habit? Because like, I'll be honest, personally, it's like there's people who are like doing all these extra things to get a little bit more activity. And personally, I'm like, I work out enough. I don't need to be taking the stairs. I don't need to be parking far away because I don't care about an extra 20 calories burn. But for somebody who is struggling with that and could use all that extra calorie burner movement as possible, would you recommend that? Or do you think it's kind of overblown? I've heard it and I'm not against it. I just, I can, I guess my version of that is if you're on the phone, just take it outside. Or if you find yourself sitting for a long time, like, well, I guess I just really care about people going on walks. That's what it seems like. But I'm not completely against having people park further away or taking the stairs. If that makes them feel better. But I also kind of agree with you where it's kind of like, sure, it's a couple extra steps. I guess I don't have like a hard and fast. What is your big passion of recommending walks? I agree, by the way. It's like one of the best things that you can do for like longevity. I kind of like what your girlfriend does, going on walks with friends. Friends, like getting neighbors or someone just will go on a walk with you. I say, go. I actually have one client. She just moved in with her sister and I think they have the sweetest smell. They are so sweet. Her sister works at a library two blocks away from their house and she'll walk to the library and then they'll walk back home together and they'll talk about the day. Like a little old couple. She gets, I think she laughs every time she's like, please don't, because I'm like, y'all are so cute. I kind of tear up a little bit because like, that's so adorable. But so they'll walk around town together, getting into the idea of moving and doing things with people instead of sitting down. I think especially as like, just in my own life and just being like women, we're really good at just sitting and talking for hours to try to read exactly. We're really good at that. So I'm like, well, how about we just walk and talk and I do see a shift in that culturally and there's more like, more like run clubs popping up. Run clubs, I mean like the hot girl walk clubs or whatever, like going on a hot girl walk, that's like a trend on social media, I think. And there's run clubs all over. There's a million rug clubs now. I feel like a year ago there were none or maybe I just wasn't getting fed those by the algorithm. I don't know. No, I, I've, yeah, there's, there's a really, really big one in Dallas called like run it up and they have, I just from the picture that I don't go because it's a bit out of my way, but they have like hundreds of people showing up every time and they still have walkers. So I think just making fitness more social is like the best way to go about it. So it feels less isolating and easier to do. Yeah. And then I know that when we were talking before, there was like a, obviously like when it comes to being disciplined, there's the mental or sorry, physical side of things, which is hugely important because like you want to make sure that you are doing the things that you need to do to put those habits in place so that you actually get your, your workout in or your activity in, but the mental side of things I think is probably just as important, if not more important, because if the mental side of things isn't handled, then you're probably not going to stick to it. Like I always say that I could hand somebody on a platter the blueprint to their dream body, but if they don't have the mental fortitude or the willpower or the discipline to actually stick to it, it don't matter. And so I would rather than like I get asked all the time, like what's the best way to get in shape? The best, the best plan is the one you'll do. So like I would rather somebody just like figure out something that's realistic for them. So when it comes to that mental aspect, the mental side of things, what role does like self talk play in like maintaining discipline and making sure that you stay focused? Like how you talk to yourself, what role does that play? I think it's pretty huge. And I try, I'll notice it actually in like the first zoom call, just the way that someone talks to them. I'll be like, okay, we have a lot of work to do in this area, but about how like they talk about themselves or yeah. So you can, what's an example verse and okay, yeah, an example would be if I get on the call with a client and they're saying, well, I signed up for this, but I don't feel like I'm able to do this. I've tried this for years. I'm not getting anywhere. I'm not really a person who works out or eats healthy, but I really need help versus someone who's saying I've tried it all. But I know I can do this. I just need guidance. I've never had a coach, but I'm ready. And there's so much science that we're not going to get into because I don't like to quote science without being able to directly quote it. But the way that you think of yourself and talk about yourself is really just going to manifest into your reality, not even to get too much into like, you know, too deep into it. But if you tell yourself, if you wake up telling yourself, I can't do my workout today, you're probably not going to do it because you're already telling yourself that you're going to find an excuse at some point. Right. Yeah. And then when you don't do it, you're just only confirming what you told yourself versus I'm going to have a great day and I'm going to do this workout. So it really just so it starts with yourself and how you yeah, how you talk to yourself. I tell people you have to be a lot nicer. Sometimes I sometimes I had a few clients that are kind of they'll, they'll, you know, be going through the plan and they'll have one day or one, you know, one meal, they go out or one day they miss a workout and they're like, Oh, I did so horrible. Like I give myself a five out of 10 this week. I just really went off the rails and I talked to them. I'm like, you only did one out of like, what, like the 21 meals you messed up on one. Like, I think that's good. You need to be nicer yourself. And I'll tell this to my friends too. I'm like, you need to be nicer to my friend and you can't talk me into my friend like that. Just like to kind of add humor, but yeah, yeah, yeah, that's good. Kind of reminding themselves, like, you know, you're trying your best and you're all human. You're still human, but just being nice to yourself is probably the first step. And do you see like a correlation between those who talk badly or talk down to themselves or talk negatively and them not being able to follow through as much as the people who come in talking more positively? Like, do you see a difference in the follow through as well? I would say yes, but then there's also the group of people that come in with the negative and then they have a complete turnaround. Like I work with them. So I will say that the ones either they start off talking positively or end up positive with the self talk, they always have like really great outcomes. Of course, it's easier for the people to start off with a positive mindset to get there, but it doesn't doesn't mean that you can't like still get benefits or we still can't work with you. Right. Yeah, actually, my favorite client that, yeah, when I first met her, she had like really low energy and I was like really trying to work with her and I really liked her and she like, we worked like we worked together pretty well, but she still had like these barriers to overcome and towards the end, I remember that last zoom call, I'm looking at her like, you look completely different. She's like, I know, like she looked and it's not just like physically, but the way she carried herself. I like those transformations too. So yeah. And then kind of bridging off of that, what's a way that you help somebody celebrate like their progress in a way that kind of reinforces the discipline and keeps them motivated and pushing forward. Yeah. So I mean, every week I try to get them to do the weekly check ins. And even if we, so I try to look at how this week went in comparison to the other week. And I know like, Oh, well, you might have like, still kind of struggling with the real plan or you missed a workout or two, but you're getting better on the water goals or, hey, like, you're feeling a lot less stress this week. And it's really just highlighting everything non scale and scale victories for them. Because for them, they're going through it. So they don't really see the changes as much. Right. And even if they're like, Oh, I sent in my photos, I don't see a big change. And then I'll scroll down and look at their first photos. I'm like, Have you seen where you started? Like, like, you know, sometimes you really have to be their biggest true leader, which is fun for me as well. But just trying to find like small improvements in their life. And if they're saying, you know, I'm doing this and I'm some, some people are on like a really long program, like six months, you know, 12 months. Then it's kind of like, Well, how much energy do you have this month compared to when you started, and then they'll have a moment of reflection, I think that's probably the main thing is just getting them to reflective. Oh, yeah, like, you know, when I did start, I this was hard, or I couldn't fit into the shirt or going upstairs was a little difficult. Kind of zoom out a little bit. Exactly. Yeah, the day to day can get, I mean, I experienced that too. It's like day to day. I'm not really nobody's really improving that much day to day. Sometimes you're not improving day to day. But then yeah, you look back at like, like right now, I'm, I'm in a triathlon journey where my plan is an Iron Man and like a year and a half. And I feel like I'm not getting faster sometimes. And then I look back at like the shape that I was in, not not not like physically, like the shape that I was in, like cardio wise, I guess, like the times that I was achieving and how easy those times were. And it's like, I'm like now, now compared to a week ago, I might be slower. Now compared to a year ago, I'm in significantly better shape and I can go much longer distances with much lower heart rate. And so like, I do the same thing, like I kind of get in my head a little bit where everybody, everybody wants progress to be linear, but it never will be. And so, exactly. Yeah, I love the zooming out part of it. And then what would you say that you do to help a client when they experience a setback? Like what's what's your advice then? Yeah, so, you know, setbacks, they can range from as minor as them being sore in the beginning of the program, which just happens. And I, you know, reminding them, you know, delayed on site onset, muscle soreness or doms is, you know, that's easy. We talk to them, okay, here's let them know, hey, things to do. Hey, one day you'll love this. Like I absolutely love when I get sore now. A lot of workouts I don't get sore just because I've been listening for so long. But then when I do like miss a week, like I just didn't work out for like a week and a half because I had a race. And so I wanted to like, carve up basically wanted to preserve my glycogen and not fatigue my body so that I was ready for race day. And I got back in the gym. And I was my I did like a push to work out the first day of pole workout, the second day in the legs and oh my God, like that Thursday and Friday, I was toasted like more sore than I've been in a very, very long time. And I absolutely loved every second of it. Versus in the beginning, like people are like, I hate being sore. I'm like, when you start looking at that soreness is like a like proof that you're improving. You might start liking it a little bit. So yeah, Dom's a good one. But I gotta go ahead. I digress. Yeah, no, they definitely are like, okay, I'm like, okay, well, you know, do the essence all bath, do some extra stretching, foam roller. That type of setback is easy. But when it comes to like bigger setbacks, like major life changes or, you know, new injuries, things like that, I'll talk about.  adresus, maybe that might be the lighter subject, like the lighter side of things. Way in common too. Super common. Yeah, pretty common. It's just like, okay, well, we can still going, we can still keep going, but it's just about kind of redirecting and trying to keep them out of the idea that, oh my gosh, everything, all of my progress is gone. I'm hopeless. Like, Noah's not. You still did all of those months of work. You're not, that's not going anywhere. Progress might be a little bit slower, but we can still make sure it's kind of trending the way we want it to. Or you can at least maintain until you get over that injury, right? Yeah, exactly. Or maybe another, not so much a setback, but when they go on vacation, I think that's the funniest. Like funny time for me because they'll be like, oh my gosh, I'm going to go on vacation. I'm going to try, but I'm going to, I don't know if I'll come back with 10 pounds more. And they come back and they're like, oh, well, I gained three pounds and then two days later I lost it in a waterway. I'm like, yeah, because you've been doing all this work. Got all this muscle on you now. You got better habits, better relationship with food, all of it. Yeah, your metabolism's all like way better. And so of course you can go on vacation and just jump back. They're like, I never thought I could do this. I haven't done that in X amount of years. So it's really just trying to keep them focused on the goal rather than feeling stuck again. Because if the quicker they get out of that kind of eat back loop of like negativity, the better, because you really don't want them to start going backwards to where it actually does like, okay. Now we're getting closer to day one just because, you know, but as long as they stay in contact and we keep talking, it's not too difficult. And do you experience like your clients dealing with like burnout? Because like, I know I've been there before where it's like, to be honest, that's like why I started my triathlon journey because I had burnout with weightlifting. Weightlifting for over 15 years and it's been like weightlifting. Yeah, there's new science coming out that like talks about like stretch, mediated hypertrophy and all this shit, you know, but it's like, it's the same exercises, the same similar set numbers, volume, rep ranges, same form, same gyms, same routines, same pre workouts, you know. And so like it got very like, I don't know, repetitive to me and I did experience burnout and I found myself struggling to get good work. I found myself struggling to want to go to the gym, which I had never really experienced before. And then when I was at the gym, I find myself struggling to get through a full workout. And even if I got through the full workout, it wasn't really that good of a workout. Like I wasn't really finding the motivation to push myself really hard. And when I'm about to hit failure, try to get two more reps and truly go to failure and actually get a sweat roll and like, I just wasn't getting the good workouts in. And so like that was my experience of burnout. And so what I did was I found a new way to be motivated, you know, find something else that's going to drive me a little bit because like, I don't know, I guess I just found myself in this place where I felt like I wasn't progressing and I wasn't going to progress that much. Like I'm not going to get significantly more lean. I could put on a little bit of muscle, but not significantly like a significant amount on this. I'm trying to juice up. So I was like, what am I doing? Like I'm not enjoying these workouts. I'm not going to get in much better shape. And then yeah, I was like, you know what, I'm going to do an Ironman. And I had no idea what I was getting myself into. And I had to like kind of dial it back a little bit. But yeah, that was my experience with burnout. Do your clients kind of go through that at all? Or what like would be any advice that you would give to somebody who's struggling with burnout or honestly just struggling with self doubt? Maybe they don't even get to that point. Right. Maybe they're just like struggling to believe that this is something that's going to work for them or that is going to that they're going to be able to stick to it or whatever. Well, I definitely see both burnout for my clients just because, you know, I'm not working with them for years. So they don't get to they don't experience that type of burnout that you talk about. But they do sometimes like the workouts feel so repetitive or the food plan feels repetitive. And I usually take a couple of different approaches. Some people just need to be reminded we can do variety. Like, OK, well, you can change up the meal plan like this. And they're like, oh, OK. And then they're good. But for some people, they're just like, you know, I'll do the workouts, but I'll be honest. I don't love going to the gym. I don't love doing this. And I'm like, OK, well, kind of like what you did. Let's switch it up. Like does your gym have group fitness classes or just like having them explore different ways of movement, even if it's just one day out of the week will really kind of help the mindset. Especially if especially if they really enjoy the community. I have one client. She she was like, you know, I got kind of tired of, you know, lifting weights. And I joined this dance class. I'm not good at it at all. But it's fun. So it's just giving them the idea of variety. So if that's Wendy's to happen. But that's I think that's easy. But then there's just some people kind of like either experience plateau or they are just like, I don't know how I'm going to do this for the rest of my life. This is just not the lifestyle that I'm used to. And then we can dive deeper into conversations and it's like, OK, well, what did you imagine a healthy lifestyle looking like? Or what did you do before? And I realized. Yeah, I realized that a lot of people think before they start working with me, they think that I'm going to have them eat salads all the time and just chicken and rice and the most boring thing. And then they get a meal plan. They're like, oh, OK, well, this isn't as bad, but it's still not what I envision. And sometimes it's really just having a conversation with them. And then I realized. And it's just like, I don't know. Sometimes you just have to dive deeper. Like I have one client, she filled out the questionnaire. And I think when some people fill out the questionnaire, they put in like healthy foods they like, but not the unhealthy foods, quote, unquote. And then we just had to have a conversation of we can still have those foods and we can actually do it this way. And then they're like, oh, well, now that makes more sense for my lifestyle. I thought I had to be strict with the foods. I because I thought I wasn't allowed and I'm like, oh, Lord, you're allowed to eat foods. We just have to put it in a certain way. But we can you can have ice cream and not have to worry. That's actually super interesting that the the human brain will hear what foods do you like on a diet plan questionnaire and immediately just talk about like the healthy foods that they like and not the unhealthy foods that they like, because I was literally about to ask you like what's like what advice you would give to somebody who is like struggling with nutrition and struggling with feeling overwhelmed by what they think they can and cannot eat. And and how that how how you change that belief system of what a diet, I guess, quote unquote diet looks like because like it's funny. I have obviously we have a ton of ads online where I'm eating donuts and pizza and everything and hamburgers and people are always like, they're either say like, they are they like wondering like, do you actually eat that food? Or they're saying like, oh, he doesn't actually eat this food. And it's like, no, I come come hang with me. You'll see that I eat this food like I order ice cream probably two nights a week. And that's that is loaded up with Reese's Cups. I'm a big fan of burgers and fries. And then I just find like healthy alternatives to foods that I like. Like I'm AI'm on a meta and I go through like phases too. So it's like right now I'm on this Mediterranean kick. And so I love like steak kebabs and chicken kebabs with like this, the Spanish styled rice and some pita and hummus. And so like, is it the healthiest I could possibly eat? Probably not. Like there is probably cooked in some oil. Like I order it from a store and it's probably cooked in some oil that is not the best. And I don't know how lean the chicken is or whatever. But it's a heck of a lot healthier than fast food. It's a heck of a lot healthier than heating up some frozen burrito from Costco or whatever. And so like, is it the healthiest thing I could possibly be eating? No, but is it realistic for my lifestyle? Like you talked about, I love what you said, where it's like people are working out and they think to themselves, oh, I don't know that I could do this forever. You know. And so it's about figuring out what they, I mean, there's a, I think there's a little piece of it where it's like, OK, well, you're going to have to make sacrifices. Like you're going to have to learn how to do the hard shit on the days you don't want to, you know. But there's also ways that you can make it more optimal for your life. There's or more efficient for your life or make it match your personal interests or your lifestyle better. So yeah, I was literally just about to ask you and get into like a nutrition side of things. Would you say that like that's probably the biggest setback that people have is like they think that their nutrition is going to be like super strict and bland and boring and restrictive. And then they come to you and they're like, oh, that's actually not that bad. Exactly. Yeah. And I think what helps more or maybe just as much when I finally do program those foods, I think it's also. Good to show them like a very human side of like myself as their trainer, because there's probably like, OK, like, sure, she's saying I can do this, but I don't believe I've had zoom calls where I've literally gone into my freezer and show them like I have ice cream. I have this stuff too. And they're like, oh, like you're not you're not lying. I have, you know, I'll have like funny conversations with clients. I'm like, you know, I actually really hate cooking chicken and I know I could cook it. It would be easier, like more healthier. But I'll just I've tried different rotisserie chickens. I'll say it on here. Central Market has the best rotisserie chicken. And I'll say I'll just have that and I'll shred it and I'll put it on whatever. And they're like, I also hate cooking chicken. And sometimes it's nice to have like a like AI think that's when they feel like, oh, you're not. Some psycho. Perfect. Right. Yeah. No, they're like, oh, you're not like some health person who feels like there's so much above me. Like, no, I'm like, I'm like, I'm right. I'm relatable. I yeah, I try to relate with them. They're like, oh, OK. Like there's days where I just could care less. Yep. And, you know, but again, it's just about balance. And I actually have came to a point where I enjoy exploring the healthy alternatives. Just because I know where things come from. And it's not so much a point. It's not so much. Oh, my gosh, I'm scared of the extra hidden calories anymore. It's just about a reframe. So I think relating to them helps a lot more than just sending them a plan that has all their favorite foods, because they all said I've had some people where I'll send them a plan with their favorite foods, and they still have like an apprehension to like eat them until I have like a call with them. So when it comes to like rest and recovery, like in burnout, we're talking a little bit about that right now. What strategies do you use to make sure that somebody is not burning themselves out? And how important do you think rest and recovery is? Because obviously, like there's the whole like no days off or whatever. And people like just watching people on social media who say that they work out every single day. And it's like people ask people like it's funny. Like I'll have like somebody who has no idea who I am and they'll just do that. But do how how how much do you work out every day? I'm like, I don't work out every day. Work out five days a week. Like how long are your workouts? It's like that that question that answer has changed since I started this triathlon stuff, because like I now have to do long, slow, easy cardio to build my like my my threshold. So like my workouts now, like if I'm doing like a long bike ride, that could be two hours, you know. But like my workouts to actually look good. 45 minutes hour tops. And so like so when they used to ask like how long are your workouts? I'm like two, three hours. Like now I work out 45 minutes a day, five days a week. And it's plenty versus now it's a little bit different. But yeah, when it comes to rest and recovery, what's your take? Yeah, I tell them to rest. I rarely I'll once in a blue moon have a client that wants to work out every single day. Just because they're really motivated and I'll have to explain, you know, like we can tell them like, you know, well, your body will only grow if you let it rest. But there's also things you can do if you really just have to do something. I'm like, okay, you can do yoga or you can do a mobility day. But really emphasizing how important rest is not just for recovery, but also to prevent injury. And also, you know, we could talk about like when it comes to overtraining, it's like, well, you're going to put yourself in too much of a deficit and all of this stuff. But mainly I just tell them to sit down, please. Like you don't need to do all of this. And like, I think the best rest days are just, you know, listening to your body. Okay, maybe I need to do some extra stretching or I want to go on a walk or, you know, there's so many of these things popping up in Dallas now, like some you go do like a sauna or a cold plunge or red light there or something. But it's all about being nice to your body. And I think maybe that's my biggest takeaway is to be nice to yourself, but being nice to your physical bodies to also let it rest while also appreciating the movement it can give you. Yeah, there's a guy that I know who I might kind of help and get shape, buddy of mine. And he's very, very like motivated, I should say, like super successful guy. Um, and he doesn't want to take rest days. He's like, I'll, I'll, I'll work out every single day. I do all my workouts and he just, but it's because he wants results is because he's, he's impatient about seeing progress and he wants to see the fastest progress possible. But I mean, I'm sure you share this view. You're literally going to get in better shape if you take rest days. Like building muscle. I think it's becoming more common knowledge now, but like, I feel like a couple of years ago, people didn't understand the concept of the fact that you actually break down muscle at the gym and then that muscle builds on your rest day. And so they don't take that into account. So they're constantly just, and I used to do this too. Like when I was a kid, 15, 16, 17, 18 year old Vince, he would just go to the gym for hour to out. I mean, I was there for a while back then by two hours and just not lifting very, with very good intent, um, bad form, weight that was too heavy. And no rest days. I would literally work out just every day. And even though I was working out all the time, I was rail thin, like could not put on muscle to save my life. And I know that's the opposite of probably what most people are listening and what they're experiencing. Most people are probably experiencing a struggle with losing weight, but it's the same thing. Like you, if you want to lose weight, you need to lift weights as well. Like that's, people do ask me, like, what's the best exercise for burning fat, for losing weight? But the answer is the same for whatever your goal is, whether your goal is to build muscle, get stronger, burn fat, lose weight, get healthier. It's resistance training. Like that's the best thing you can do. Are there other things that you can do in addition to that? Sure. But I'd say, I don't know, 60, 70% of your plan needs to be revolved around resistance. And that includes rest days. Do you ever find that people struggle with getting enough rest days in, or do you think it's kind of the opposite? And they kind of struggle with getting enough workouts in? No, they seem to be struggling with it. They seem completely fine with rest days, especially just how I work with a lot of, women that have families, they're like, okay, they're actually sometimes they're shocked. They're like, I saw my calendar and it has no workouts on some days. I'm like, yeah, you don't do anything on those. And they're like, really? So, they love the rest days. And then, okay, so actually the last thing I wanted to ask you, when we were chatting before we started recording, we chatted about like the spiritual side of things. I want to get your take and what ways you believe fitness impacts like a person's spiritual fulfillment and what part you think that has in the puzzle. That is a big question for the last question. I guess if I had to put it very cohesively, I think fitness, like so when you're going to the gym, you're taking care of your physical health, but you're also taking care of your mental health. And then there's a way that spirituality can play a role in it. I guess I can only speak for myself just because it's kind of hard to generalize a question like that. When I show up for myself and I kind of make a kind of like not like a pact, but like a commitment to myself to have this healthy body and take care of myself and have a healthy mind. It also just allows me to show up better in all aspects, especially spirituality. I consider myself spiritual non-religious, but I did grow up Christian. I grew up the same way, by the way. I grew up, I'm a confirmed Catholic, but I'm not really religious anymore. I would say definitely spiritual, believe in a higher power. I believe in the universe. Everything is energy. Energy doesn't disappear. And so it's like your energy is going somewhere. And I do believe in like the power of manifestation, the law of attraction. I believe in all that stuff as well. Yeah, I guess it's easier to tie into metaphysical stuff, but I try to keep it general just because I know I have a lot of clients that when they do talk to me about the religion, they're Christian. I think it's cool. They feel comfortable having those conversations with me. I think when you clear up issues that you're having like in the physical being, like in your physical state, you're having less like pains and aches and ailments and you're moving for a healthier body, it kind of clears up the energy for you to explore in that route, like more spiritual thing. Like new stuff, right. For me, it also lets me kind of clear my mind so I can engage in like meditation or prayer. I really think that if you have a lot of things going on physically, it's harder for you to kind of worry about the higher levels of stuff. Okay, it's coming back. So kind of like Maslow's my arc you need. You can't talk to someone who doesn't have food or water about reaching spiritual alignment, like enlightenment. That's kind of crazy, like going to like a homeless person and being like, have you thought about praying? It's like, I don't even know what I'm going to eat. So with that kind of concept in mind, taking care of the things kind of lower on the pyramid as you work your way up, now you have the freedom to explore that. So if you're waking up every day from pain and aches and you're not having the most energy and going through the day is hard enough, it is more difficult to access that side of things. And I've even, I haven't had like direct conversations with my clients because not everyone talks about the religion. But I have noticed that the more we progress through the program, the more they talk about more open they are, how they, yeah, how fulfilled they are, how more involved they are in the church or how much more energy they're able to present in those spaces. So I guess I'll leave it with that. Yeah. I mean, that's a great answer. Honestly, it's like telling somebody who is, like you said, waking up with back pain, neck pain, headaches, no energy, a body they hate, and telling them that they need to meditate and journal and like do all this like mindfulness stuff. It's like, I just want to feel better and I want to look better and I want to have more confidence and I want to stop feeling like I'm a piece of shit, you know? And so like fixing that piece, I think there's also, I mean, there's also different people, types of people, like some people are just going to be more spiritual by nature. Like that's just how they are and somebody will be getting into journaling and meditation before they even start a diet. But I think for most people who are not like that, it's like, yeah, it's like once you start working out a little bit or just getting activity and finding ways of moving, finding a sports league or going on those walks that we talked about and cleaning up your diet a little bit and getting better habits in place. Once you start feeling better, feeling more accomplished, feeling like you're more, you're more capable of stuff, then you can start, I guess, dipping your toe into the water of spirituality. Because like there's a lot of people who are, like I know a lot of people who aren't necessarily religious or spiritual, you know? Or yeah, there's a lot of obviously religion, like there's a Christianity is huge in America. And so like maybe they're not necessarily spiritual, but dipping, like getting back to the religion because like, am I religious? No, but do I love the idea or like the principles that people hold when they are religious? Yes, I think that's like the most beneficial part of it. Like, yeah, there's like shitty people who are religious, but for the most part, like it's people who are, they have good morals and they have good understandings of how they should treat other people and stuff like that. And I love that aspect of it. But yeah, if you're not happy with yourself, you're not going to be happy with others. And so fixing that fitness piece, if you're struggling with that other part would be a great way to make that spiritual part a lot easier. You agree? Exactly. We always talk about, you always say like you might be, have a spirit and a soul, but you're also a spirit having a human experience. And sometimes you have to really take care of the human experience. Interesting. To get deeper with that aspect. Like the... Like we're just, we're just in a body. We're in this vessel and we have to, sometimes we don't, we're not, we might not be a human. We're a soul in this vessel and you gotta live how, like if you were in a lion's body, you gotta live the lion body. You gotta live the lion's way sometimes, you know, as a very interesting way of thinking about it. I've never thought about it that way. Cool. Okay. So that's all I really have. Is there anything that you want to say before we hop off of here to anybody struggling with discipline, last words, wrap up anything? Sure. I would just have to say, remember to be nice to yourself. And there's, there's definitely a balance of being regimented and having a plan, being disciplined, but also being kind to yourself during the process. So yeah. Yeah. So I'll ask you to do that. Yeah. The people who think that you have to, if anybody out there thinks you have to go balls to the wall all the time and be 100% perfect, nobody's 100% perfect. Ever. I mean, maybe sometimes some people are like your David Goggins, but other than David Goggins, there's not really anybody else who's doing it hardcore 100% of the time. It's just not realistic. It's not fun. You're not going to enjoy life if you're doing that. So don't think you have to, but well, Shania, I appreciate you being on here with us. I think hopefully everybody listening learned a lot, learned some things that they can do, better ways of thinking. And hopefully this leads to them being a little bit more disciplined in their own fitness journey. And then I know we have another episode where we're going to be talking about prepping your mind for recovering from an injury. So everybody be on the lookout also for anybody out there who hasn't listened to any of our other podcasts. If this is your first time here, welcome. Thank you for stopping by. We have a ton of episodes. We drop episodes weekly going over all different types of stuff. So go check out the other episodes if you haven't yet, but Shania, thank you for being here. Thank you. But before we wrap up, if anybody out there is looking for some extra help with getting back on track and trying to lose weight or achieving whatever your fitness goals are, we do have certified personal trainers, certified coaches who are available and eager to create a customized plan for you based on your body. And our trainers have already helped hundreds of thousands of men and women to lose weight, tone up, build strength, get healthier, feel better, look better. And we're ready to work with you as well. And this is something where we'll figure out everything for you. We'll do all the calculations, figure out all the macros, the calories, what foods to eat, what foods to avoid, when to work out, what those workouts look like. And so if you guys want to get more details on that, just check out the link in the description below. I know you will absolutely love it. But thank you again for tuning in today and we will see you next time. Thanks for tuning in to today's episode of V-Shred's Better Body Better Life podcast. Whether you're doing one of our programs, taking our supplements, or just doing things on your own, tune in every week for exclusive content with bents, V-Shred trainers, and special guests as they share valuable tips around motivation, workout, food, and living a healthier lifestyle. See you next time.

=== FILE: How to Overcome Late-Night Snacking ｜ V SHRED Better Body, Better Life Podcast [7IH8gEEkc7g].txt ===

 clear your environment of tempting snacks. Whatever it is that you love snacking on, candy or muffins or cookies, if you got them in your pantry and your fridge or on your counter, the temptation is going to be too big. You're going to give in eventually. Welcome to the V-Shred Better Body Better Life podcast, where we help you live your best life while working on your health and fitness goals. We're here to make your journey fun and inspiring. What's going on, everyone? Welcome back to another episode of the Better Body Better Life podcast. I'm your host, Vince Sant. Hope you're having a great day. And today, we are going to be diving into an issue that a lot of people in our community and really just everyone typically struggles with, which is late night snacking. So let's start off with a little visualization. Okay, so I want you to picture. It's 10 p.m., maybe 11 p.m. You're on the couch, watching your favorite show, Netflix is on, HBO Max, or it's just Max now. Suddenly, you're halfway through a bag of chips or you're polishing off some leftover pizza and you haven't even realized that you've been eating this entire time. Well, if that is you, if that sounds somewhat familiar at all, I want you to understand that you're not alone and that probably most people listening to this have done that in the past week, if not last night. Or they're doing it right now, listen into this. But here's the thing, late night snacking can completely stall your fitness progress and any weight loss results you've gotten. But the good news is, is that with a few little tweaks, you can break this habit pretty easily, actually. And with the right approach, you can actually start seeing significant changes in, I'd say a week or two, for sure in the first month. So stick with me today, because we're gonna be talking about why late night snacking happens. We're gonna talk about the science behind it and then we're gonna talk about some actionable strategies that you can take to overcome late night snacking once and for all. Okay, so starting out, we'll call this chapter one, because there's gonna be, I think, we'll break this into like three chapters. The first one's gonna be about why late night snacking happens. Because first thing that you need to understand is why it's such a common struggle amongst so many people. And the first reason is emotion-based. It's because you're emotionally eating. Because, I mean, food isn't just fuel, even though we should try to approach it like that as much as possible, but it's also comfort. After a stressful day at work, after a stressful day or a fight with your wife or your husband or whoever, it's just easy to turn to food as a coping mechanism when you're not hungry. When you're stressed, when you're anxious, when your brain just craves quick comfort, what do you turn to? Well, you turn to sugary foods, you turn to high-fat greasy foods that release dopamine, which is the feel-good hormone that makes you happy while you're chewing it and eating it. But the downside is that emotional eating is a quick fix with long-term consequences, often leading to overeating and ultimately regret. So what do you do about this? Well, first, I would say you want to, and you do this with pretty much any time you have a problem or an addiction or you just struggle with something is you want to identify your triggers. Identifying your triggers is possibly one of the most important things to do when recovering from anything. And you want to replace eating with healthier stress relievers. For example, one of my favorite ones is just going for a walk. I got a dog, I'm sure a lot of you listening have a dog also. The next time that you're about to turn to a bag of chips, put the leash on your dog and go for a 15, 20 minute walk around the block. Another thing that I do before bed is I journal. Journaling I find is probably the greatest stress reliever in my life because stress is usually caused by overthinking. It's caused by what's going on between your ears. And when I journal, I can just dump out all my thoughts. And it makes it so that I'm less stressed after that. Another thing you can do is you can meditate. I'm not a huge person, I'm not a person who meditates a bunch. I've tried it in the past. It's something that I could probably practice. I could definitely practice and get better at. But if you are somebody who likes to meditate, 100% go for it. Or if you never tried it, try it out and see if, try it for two weeks and see if after a week or two, you don't actually really start liking it because it just clears your head and it helps you think clearly afterwards. Another thing you do is just call a friend. That's another great one. Catch up with somebody, catch up with your parents, your siblings. One of your best friends who lives across the country who haven't seen in years. These activities can provide the emotional relief that you get from comfort eating without the extra calories. Therefore, you're gonna make it a lot easier on yourself to continue to lose weight, continue to get in shape, continue to hit your fitness goals without slipping up. The second reason would be poor planning. And this is related to obviously your meals. Poor meal planning, we'll say. Because if you're not eating enough food during the day or you're skipping meals altogether, your body naturally craves more food at night. It's gonna crave those extra calories because you need those extra calories. So if you think about it, if you skip breakfast and then you barely eat lunch, your body is basically playing catch up during dinner time. And late night cravings often result from your body asking for what it missed earlier in the day. As long as it's not the comfort eating. Sometimes you can just eat all day and then you get to nighttime and you're still hungry. But for those of you who are not eating enough throughout the day, a lot of times you're hungry at night because you're just famished. And so what you can do is you can focus on balanced meals throughout the day. Focus on meal prepping a couple times a week. And with these meals, you wanna make sure that you're including a nice balance of types of foods. You want to have lean proteins. You wanna aim for healthy fats. You wanna aim for complex carbs to keep your energy levels pretty stable and also keep your nighttime hunger at bay. And if you do have high protein, high fat, that's also gonna make you more satiated. So you're not gonna be as hungry. You're gonna wake up less hungry. Making sure that you're not just reaching for the easy, quick, basically only carb snack which is what most like chips are that are just super high in sodium, super high in carbs, sometimes super high in sugar. And extremely processed. You don't wanna have these ultra processed foods. You wanna avoid those. At all costs, I'm not saying you have to avoid them all the time, but 80% of the time you want to avoid ultra processed foods. The third reason I'm gonna say is habitual behavior. Because sometimes snacking late at night is just a habit that's just been baked into your schedule from years and years and years of doing the exact same thing. Maybe you always make a little bucket of popcorn before you watch your nightly Netflix shows. Or you've associated bedtime with a sugary treat like ice cream. Well, over time, these habits create a conditioned response. You don't want to have this conditioned response. So what you wanna do is you want to break the association by replacing the habit with something new. So it's not always just about not doing something. It's about not doing something, but replacing that action with something else. That way you're still doing something, but you're working in the right direction. So instead of eating an open bag of Lays or Doritos and eating some chips during, you're watching, I don't know, Game of Thrones, try some nighttime tea. Try some, maybe some low calorie popcorn. There's, I forget the name of the popcorn, but there's like a low calorie, like skinny, is it skinny pop? Might be skinny pop. There's like a low calorie popcorn option. Try healthier alternatives or calorie free alternatives. Or you can even try tricking yourself into thinking that you're eating like chewing some sugar free gum or something like that. But trying different things rather than just going back, just always going back to what you've always done. Cause what you've always done has gotten you to the place where you're not happy with. And so you want to try to change things. And the first thing that you try might not be it. If you do try and make some tea for your evening show and you don't like tea, well, okay, tea's probably not the answer. So try something else. And you can Google a bunch of different types of, and I don't know what you specifically like, Google a bunch of different late night healthy snacking options, a million will come up and just work down the list. And eventually you will find something that you like doing that's a heck of a lot better than reaching for those chips or ordering ice cream. Okay, and reason number four is, and I was kind of hinting at this earlier when I was talking about like when I journal at night, which is your lack of a wind down routine, your lack of an evening routine, which is massive. Because without a structured evening routine, it's really easy just to wander into the kitchen out of boredom and grab for anything that you have available. So I mean, I guess another tip would be to keep your pantry kind of free from a ton of different unhealthy snacks that you could just reach for it in time. But yeah, you want to make sure that you have an intentional wind down routine because also, if you stay up late for no reason at all, staying up late increases your chances of snacking simply because you're just literally awake longer. And unhealthy snacking tends to be more prominent in the evening versus in the morning. So one thing you could even do is you could kind of change your routine a little bit to where you wake up a little bit earlier rather than stay up a little bit later. So if normally you're going to bed at midnight and you late night binge from 11 to 1130 or 10 to 11 or 11 to 12, well, what if you went to bed at 10? And you never really hit that late night binging cycle and you woke up two hours earlier. So before you were going to bed at midnight, waking up at seven, now what if you went to bed at 10 and woke up at five or six? Now, all of a sudden you got time for a morning workout. Now all of a sudden you're not tempted by food late at night. And one thing that you can do to help you get to sleep earlier or just get to sleep at the same time without relying on late night binging is to develop a wind down routine, like we said. Something that signals to your brain that it's time to sleep, not time to snack. This could mean you limit electronics, electronic usage, right? You're limiting the EMF waves that you get hit by. You're limiting blue light that your eyes get hit by. You're not just staring at your TV screen or your phone screen or your computer screen or your iPad. Again, I like to journal. I like picking the strings on my guitar. I like just kind of going on walks with my dog, something that's going to get me away from the stresses of daily life, away from the dopamine addiction cycle that you have when you open up Instagram or TikTok. Something that'll get you away from this is going to be much more healthy for you. And it's also going to signal your brain that it's time to start winding down and that sleep time is coming soon. And you probably want to start this at the same time every single night. Your body has this thing called a circadian rhythm. And your circadian rhythm basically is when your body naturally starts getting tired and when your body naturally wakes up. And if you can set your circadian rhythm to get tired naturally earlier, you're going to be less likely to binge eat at night. Set a fixed bedtime. Well, a consistent sleep schedule helps regulate your body's hunger hormones like grayling and leptin. And irregular sleep patterns throw these hormones off balance, which therefore increases your cravings. So your action step here would be to, like I said, aim for. And people say that you want to aim for six to eight hours of sleep per night. I say it's seven to nine. Because if you're in bed for six hours, that might only be five and a half hours of real sleep, which is not enough. If you're in bed for seven hours, that's probably six to six and a half hours of sleep, which is not really enough. If you're in bed for eight hours, well, okay, now you have seven to seven and a half hours of sleep. If you're in bed for nine hours, okay, now you've hit your eight to eight and a half hours of sleep. And on the weekends, if you're somebody who loves your sleep and you don't have much going on, then hey, use that time to catch up on some sleep and maybe sleep 10 to 12 hours on a Saturday night. But aiming for the seven to nine hours of sleep each night is going to work wonders for you and your body. And so you want to do that. And you also want to make it a consistent time that you're sleeping that every single night, even on weekends. I know I said that you can sleep longer on weekends. I mean, if your schedule allows it. But for the most part, you don't want to completely change what time you're waking up and what time you're going to bed because you want your circadian rhythm to, to in order for your circadian rhythm to remain steady, you have to be steady with what time you're going to bed. If you wake up at five AM on the weekdays and then you wake up at 10 AM on the weekends, your body's getting thrown for a loop weekly. So don't do that. Try to keep it consistent and try to make sure that you're getting seven to nine hours of sleep per night at the same times. Tip number two is relax with evening activities. Find evening activities that you enjoy that are going to help you wind down. And I'm talking about non-food related activities to unwind at the end of the day. Examples, dog walks, talked about that. Another example for all my bath lovers out there, a nice warm Epsom salt bubble bath. It's going to work wonders for your soreness and also probably just help you wind down and calm yourself and get ready for bed. Another thing is reading. For all the people that love reading out there, this is probably one of the best things you can do. And then for the people who don't love reading, this is probably one of the best things you can do because I'm not a huge like book reader. I'm more of a audible type person. I like listening more. But if I'm in bed and I can't sleep to save my life, pulling out a book and reading a book, all of a sudden makes me a little more tired. I don't know if you guys have ever tried to like read a book in the morning, but it kind of makes you want to go right back to sleep. Well, the same effect happens at night. If you're not that tired and you're in bed and the only thing to do, and you don't like reading and the only thing to do is read, you're going to read yourself to sleep. So reading a nice calming book or also another thing is listening to some sort of soothing music. Not talking about listening to rock or hip hop or EDM or anything like that. I'm talking about listening to like the sound of waves crashing or rainfall. And there's apps out there that have this or you can just go to YouTube and there's probably a four hour long video of waves crashing. Another thing that you can do right before bed that has tons of benefits is stretching. Stretching to ease tension, stretching to improve blood flow. That's going to help reduce soreness. It's going to help you sleep better. It's going to help you wake up feeling more refreshed. You could also just do yoga. If you're a yogi and you got some room in your bedroom, then yeah, go for a quick stretching session and you're going to wake up. You're going to sleep better. You're going to fall asleep faster. You're going to sleep better and you're going to wake up feeling better. Tip number three, and this one's a little more specific and weird, but it's just brush your teeth after dinner. Because, and like I said, it's weird and it's simple, but it can work for some people. Because obviously you get like this minty freshness from your toothpaste, right? That minty freshness can signal to your brain that eating time is over. Which is weird to think about, but kind of makes sense. Because after you get in bed, or after you brush your teeth and get in bed, your brain is used to not eating anything else because you're going to sleep. But if you just had dinner, and you kind of still have the taste of dinner in your mouth, and then, well, you're still kind of hungry and there's food around, and it's not inconvenient to eat it. And in fact, it's quite convenient to continue eating. And very easy to just grab for something in the pantry. Versus if you eat dinner, you go brush your teeth, and now all of a sudden, you just spent this time to brush your teeth. You might have this little placebo effect of, hey, I taste the toothpaste in my mouth right now that normally I taste right before I go to bed, which I don't think about eating when I'm right when I'm going to bed. And so it can literally be like a trick on your brain not to eat. And so, and also if you have that minty taste in your mouth, it makes food not taste quite as good enough because you've ever eaten right after you brush your teeth. But it's just not as tasty because you still have that taste in your mouth. And then also you'd have to brush your teeth again after you ate. So a couple of different reasons that could help. Again, it's not for everybody. Or if you don't want to brush your teeth, you can also just do mouthwash. Mouthwash is super handy for just a quick rinse if cravings hit. Another one that I have to mention because this one has so many studies backing it and it's something that I personally do. It's something that I personally recommend to pretty much everybody around when they say they're either, or clients, people who say that they eat too much, who say they're hungry, who say they have headaches, which is to drink more water. Making sure you stay hydrated is tip number four because thirst is often mistaken for hunger. So keeping, like literally sometimes when you are hungry, you're not actually hungry, you are thirsty. Or maybe you're a little hungry but you're not as hungry as you think you are. That seven out of 10 hunger would be a three out of 10 hunger if you were to drink 20, 30 ounces of water. So keeping a water bottle nearby can help you resist the urge to snack when it's not technically time to snack yet, or it's not technically time to eat yet, right? And if you're not a big fan of water, there's obviously a ton of different options out there for changing up the taste of your water. You can try infusing it with lemon or fruits or cucumber or mint. There's those little flavor things, like the powder flavors that you can put in them. There's like the little meo squirting things that you can put in them. There's a ton of different things that you can add flavor to your water. And also there's like the hydration packets that you can add to your water, which I'm a huge fan of. I take hydration packets literally every single day, every single morning. I drink salt with my water and it's a flavored salt, so it tastes nice. But I start my morning every single day with a big glass of water with salt in it so that I get the electrolytes, I get my hydration, and also I'm getting my metabolism rockin' with that water. And also I'm helping to curb hunger first thing in the morning and then I keep drinking water all day long. You want to avoid thirst, if that makes sense. Like you should aim to drink water before you get thirsty. And also aiming for a certain amount of water every single day is going to help curb your hunger as well. So there's a lot of benefits behind drinking more water every single day. If you're somebody who doesn't have a water bottle with you at least half of the day, change that right now. It'll be one of the best things that you ever did for helping curb your hunger, helping. Also your body's made up of over 80% water. Everything, every bodily function in your, in the human body needs water to be better at it. To optimize your body's processes, your body's systems, you need to be hydrated. So make sure you're drinking more water. It's gonna help you emit way more ways than one. Tip number five would be to prepare a snack-free zone. And this one's a little funny. But again, makes sense. If you have a bunch of candy in your pantry or muffins or cookies or whatever it is that you love snacking on, if you got them in your pantry and your fridge or on your counter, the temptation is going to be too big. You're going to give in eventually. Maybe not right now, maybe not tonight, but tomorrow probably, if not tomorrow the day after, probably, but honestly, it'd probably be tonight. So you want to clear your environment of tempting snacks and replace them with healthier options. Or don't just leave it so that you don't have them. I know for a fact, my parents, when I was growing up, we had all kinds of unhealthy foods in our pantry and in our fridge. And that's because us kids wanted unhealthy foods and as do most kids. But I know for a fact now, my parents are a lot more health conscious. They're obviously a lot older now than they were when I was growing up. And they want to, and they're both on like their own little fitness journeys, which is really cool to see. They're actually following our programs. They're both following our Move program. If anybody out there is following that. But they're snackers. My dad's a big salty snack kind of guy. My mom's a big sugary snack kind of gal. And they need to make sure that they limit the foods that they have in the pantry that they can grab for easily and snack on. Because if they're there, they will snack on them. My dad loves the pretzel mix. I forget what the name of them are. It's like a shiny gold bag and they have different flavors. He loves them. He's bags of them. My mom's a big Swedish fish kind of lady. Loves Swedish fish. If sugary or salty foods are in the house, they are going to snack on them. So they limit how much sugary and salty foods are in the house. They have them there sometimes. They have certain types of foods there. Sometimes they have a little bit healthier food, like fiber one bars now. But for the most part, they're trying to just limit what's around them so that it's easier to say no, or it's just not an option to eat something. All right, I'll call this section three now. We're gonna talk about healthy late night snack alternatives, which we've talked about a little bit throughout this entire thing. But fact of the matter is sometimes you just can't give up snacking altogether. And if that's you, that's okay. The key is really, I mean, the key is keeping your overall caloric intake lower so that you're in a deficit, so that you actually lose weight and keeping your foods a little bit healthier. But if you're going to snack, it's just about choosing something that's more nutritious and also something that's a little bit more portion controlled that doesn't have a ton of added sugars or added chemicals or that's ultra processed, right? Something that's gonna help out with your hunger, help maybe give you some micronutrients. And the first one that I'm gonna bring up, it does all of that. And it's gonna be a great high protein snack with healthy carbs and a bunch of micronutrients, which is gonna be Greek yogurt with berries. That's one of the best go-to snacks for me personally. I love, I like just like the Chobani, vanilla, Greek yogurt, I get a bowl, I'll put a little granola in the yogurt and then I'll put a little bit of berries on top, maybe put a little honey in it. But depending on like what your macros are, like I work out a ton guys and I train for triathlons, like I need those extra carbs. A lot of you guys don't need those extra carbs, so just some Greek yogurt with some berries is the berries are plenty of carbs. But yogurt and berries is a fantastic snack, because like I said, it's rich in protein, it's low in sugar, and the sugars that you do have in it are the good types of sugars, because it's from berries, it's a simple carb that's got a ton of micronutrients in it. It's also got fiber in it, which is great. And so Greek yogurt paired with fresh berries is both nutritious and also super satisfying. Like it's one of my go-tos because I don't have cravings after it because it's sweet. Like for me, there's really nothing worse than if I'm like really craving something sweet, and I have something that's the opposite of sweet. Because then it's like, okay, well now I just had these other calories that I didn't want, and I still want what I originally wanted. You wanna avoid that. And so that's why I like yogurt with stuff put in it because it is sweet, it gets me my fix, I guess. Another option would be some apples with some peanut butter or almond butter. Obviously the almond butter is probably gonna be a little bit healthier for you guys, it's a little bit of a healthier fat, probably a little lower in calories as well. But natural peanut butter is also great. You just wanna make sure that you're not going to the store and you're getting jiffy. Like jiffy's got all, I mean, take a look at, like next time you go to the store, look at the difference between like jiffy and whatever your natural peanut butter is, the one that has all the oil at the top, look at the difference in ingredients. That natural one with the oil at the top probably has four or five ingredients, jiffy probably got like 15, and half of them you can't pronounce. So avoid that, go for natural peanut butter. And I will, I'll be honest, if you've never had natural peanut butter, it takes some getting used to, but I like it way more now at this point because you just basically get a knife and mix that oil in all the way down to the bottom and it's tough, it's a tough little first mix. But after you get it mixed, it's really good, and you don't have to use a lot to feel like you're eating a lot because it's a lot thicker. The jiffy peanut butter, once you try natural peanut butter, you'll realize how sugary that jiffy peanut butter is and how good and more natural tasting that natural peanut butter is. So highly recommend that if you've never been one to go and get like the natural peanut butter because you kind of think like the oil on top is weird, mix that oil in and that peanut butter way better. And also, so like back to the apple slices, the apples are gonna have a fantastic amount of fiber in them. They're gonna have micronutrients in them. And then like I said, the healthy fats from the peanut butter or the almond butter make this just a great balanced alternative to an unhealthy snack. And it's also very filling because you're getting a little bit of fat, you're getting a little bit of protein, and you're also getting those simple carbs that are gonna give you the micronutrients and the fiber. Option three, which I actually mentioned a little bit ago, which is tea. I know there's a lot of people out there who absolutely love tea. I put this as number three because I don't personally love tea. I'm not a tea drinker. I'm also not really a coffee drinker. But, and I'm also talking about caffeine-free tea here because we're talking about late night snacking. If this is in the morning and you're one of the weirdos who gets morning cravings, which happens to a lot of people, then you could have some caffeine-filled tea, I guess, or tea with caffeine in it. But late at night, obviously, you wanna avoid caffeine. And I mean, I always recommend after 3, 4 p.m., you wanna avoid caffeine. But late at night, especially. A nice warm cup of caffeine-free herbal tea, like chamomile. If I am going to have tea, occasionally, I'll just, what I'll do sometimes before like I'm filming the next day or something, tea can be a great diuretic also.  it can help to de-blow you, especially if it's dandelion tea. Dandelion tea is one of my absolute go-tos. If I'm going to the beach the next day or I'm going on a boat the next day or something like that, dandelion tea is the go-to. But to help you get more tired, chamomile tea is a great one. Peppermint tea, maybe, I mean, it's depending on when you're listening to this. It's around the holidays and peppermint tea is just a great way to kind of get in the festive mood. Or if you're listening to this around Thanksgiving, obviously pumpkin spice is a big one. And this can just help to give you a nice little treat if you like the tea. It can help to soothe your mind and then, like I said, it can help to reduce those late night cravings and really replace them with a healthier alternative because tea is obviously zero calories. So that's great. Option four, this one's a little bit on the healthier side. If you're somebody who's been dieting for a little bit or just eating healthier for a little bit, this one's probably going to be a little easier for you. If you have not been eating good for a long time, this one might seem a little unreasonable. So take it with the grain of salt, which is veggies and hummus, which is actually a phenomenal snack if you actually try it. Like if you give it a fair chance, veggies and hummus is a great snack. The veggies are nice and crunchy, which I absolutely, that's the part I love about it. But then getting like a nice tasting hummus, which is super nutrient rich and also super low calorie and very filling is just a great alternative to eating chips or eating something else that you love eating because it's crunchy. Another option would be to make some hard boiled eggs and then eat it with a whole grain cracker. And I know that might sound a little weird again, great snack. If you're somebody who likes eggs and crackers, which I think most people do, but the combo is high in protein, it's high in fiber. It's depending on the type of cracker that you're eating, it could be nice good whole grains. So it's going to help you to curb your hunger and it's going to do it all without overloading on calories. So a bunch of good different options. Again, you could just Google late night healthy snacking options, but there's five for you that helpfully make it a little bit easier to say no to the Doritos, say no to the Oreos, say no to ordering ice cream and making better choices. And if you guys are struggling with this beyond just getting the help that you need from listening to a podcast and you guys want to break that late night snacking cycle or you want a custom plan that's tailored to your goals, we do have these red coaches that are here to help and they are wanting to help you and they create customized meal plans, customized workout plans that are designed just for you and you'll have ongoing support. So all the support that you need, whether it's asking questions, whether it's making adjustments to your plan, whether you're going on a work trip and you're going to be traveling and you're not sure what you should be eating or what the hotel gym is going to have, they're there for you all the way in your corner, helping you make this as least stressful as possible. And so if that sounds like something that you need, click the link below. There should be a link somewhere around. Click the link below for more details or go to our website and check out all the programs that we have to offer. But I know this one was a little bit of a longer solo episode, but I appreciate you guys sticking in there with me. Hopefully you guys found this super helpful and got some good actionable tips to take moving forward. And yeah, check out all the other episodes. If you have not yet, make sure you guys are subscribing and downloading the podcast and I will see you or talk to you in the next episode of Better Body Better Life. Thanks for tuning in to today's episode of the shreds, better body, better life podcast. Whether you're doing one of our programs, taking our supplements or just doing things on your own, tune in every week for exclusive content with Vince, V-Shred trainers and special guests as they share valuable tips around motivation, workouts, food and living a healthier lifestyle. See you next time.

=== FILE: Losing Over 200 pounds In 1 Year! w⧸ Jordan Larralde ｜ V SHRED Better Body, Better Life Podcast [9Gw9zR19DjE].txt ===

 450 pounds, not being able to put on my seat belt, drinking alcohol every day, not being able to tie my shoes, not being able to do what I want to do, and be there for my kids and go shopping and feel comfortable in my own skin. I'm trying to get as far away from that person as I can. MUSIC Welcome to the V-Shred Better Body Better Life podcast, where we help you live your best life while working on your health and fitness goals. We're here to make your journey fun and inspiring. MUSIC What's going on, guys? Welcome back to another episode of the Better Body Better Life podcast. I'm your host, Vince, and today we have a very special guest, Jordan Leroylty from JkeepsMovement, if you want to check him out online. And he is here to talk to us about his personal transformation. He's lost over 200 pounds, I think, what, 213 pounds total in the past little over a year, which is absolutely mind-blowing. And so we're going to talk about what it's taken to get there and the struggles that he's experienced, the wins that he's experienced, and hopefully give you guys some insight into helping progress your own fitness journey, help you lose some extra weight, and show you that it's absolutely possible because it's been done. So, Jordan, welcome. Thank you. Happy to be here. Let's start out with who you are and the results that you've gotten in how long. My name is Jordan, and I lost 210 pounds in a year. Goddamn. I went from a size 54 pant and a 5X shirt to I'm in a size 40 and an XL. What advice? Well, okay, before you started, had you done stuff in the past? And what had you tried? I did. I tried a lot. I failed for years. I failed for many, many years before it finally clicked. And this was... My son is 11 years old, and I remember being in the gym the week he was born at 325 pounds before I even blew up even more. The pandemic was a big part of that. And for years and years and years, I failed. And then last October, it just finally clicked. Really? And so what were some of the things that you were doing in that time period when it wasn't working? Like, what did your regimen kind of look like? And how different is it now? Before I wouldn't... My eating wasn't under control. And alcohol, it wasn't under control. So what I would do wouldn't work because I would go to the gym at my apartments and get on the elliptical for 20 minutes and burn out or I would try to lift weights and I wouldn't know how. And it just wouldn't last more than a week, but also because my habits weren't good. I didn't have good eating life habits to allow me to be sustainable. And that's what ultimately made me fail time and time again. And were you doing it all alone at that point? I was, yeah. I mean, I've had workout partners and friends and stuff, and it's never been sustainable because they could never do it for me. Right? I'd be like, hey man, go to the gym, but it wasn't important for them as it is for me. Right? Just didn't... Different starting points you mean? Different starting points, right? Because I was always the big guy, right? My friends were always more in shape or even just not as excessively big as I was where I had to really do more than just getting to work out with my friend because I was on a different wavelength. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And then growing up, were you always on the larger side? Yeah, actually when I was... I remember being 10, 11, 12, and my mom took me to Old Navy to get Husky clothes. And I just remember like, you're a Husky, and this is 12 years old. So that's one of my first memories. And then I remember my dad taking me to Dodger games and baseball games and wearing an XL 2X. At my first job at 15, I was wearing a 3X. Wow, okay. And so from 9, 10, 11, 12 years old, all I remember is this. So you're in a smaller shirt now than when you were how old? 13, 14 years old, yeah. I haven't worn 20 in 22 years. This is the first... This is the smallest clothes I've worn in 20 plus years. Dang, that's badass. So what advice would you give your heaviest self if you could go back in time? First, I would tell him to keep moving, man, and I'm proud of you because you're gonna do it. I would say all of the failures brought me to where I am today and the habits and the things you do then aren't gonna define the rest of your life. That I'm going to... I'm gonna break through and I'm gonna do it. And I didn't know then that I was gonna do it, but looking back now, I could just say, keep going, man, you're on the right path. So there were times that struggles would pop up. What were some of those struggles? And how did you get through them? I struggled a lot with food addiction and eating for behavioral issues. And maybe not behavioral, but eating because I was depressed, eating because I was happy. Every emotional eating, yeah. Emotional eating was a huge part of it where I just used food as an outlet so everybody has their vice. And God gave me my vice with food. I didn't control it. I didn't think I had control of it, but I would just eat very poorly, like heavy meals, heavy, heavy. I was never really big into sweets, but like heavy, Roberto's big plates, pounds of food where it just wouldn't... It wasn't good and I would just keep falling back into that trap where no matter what I would do, I would just always result to food to handle every emotion. And you were always aware that you needed to stop that. And so what kept you from really stopping that long term? I think just not having the mental strength then and it was just continuing to build it and build it and build it until I said enough where I didn't really want it bad enough. But it was always a thought in my mind and it didn't get worse until after the pandemic when everybody put on a couple pounds. And then it just it got so out of control that I had to make the change. So you said you were three, what, 25 before the pandemic? Yeah. And then when the pandemic hit, what happened? I blew up to like 450, 450 pounds at my heaviest and I just kept eating and I was drinking alcohol and I just I didn't have control and I only was furloughed off of work for about three months. But I just I just kept spiraling. I kept spiraling with the food addiction and the problem to the point where I just I just had to make the change. And I got so tired of feeling the way that I felt that I had to. There was no other choice. And how did you feel? I felt miserable. I felt so unhappy in my own skin. I felt so ashamed of myself more than anybody would ever know where I would wake up and I would feel miserable because that's not who I wanted to be. There's people who, you know, enjoy it or not enjoy it. I can't say nobody would ever enjoy it, but I there's people who don't want to change. Yeah. And are comfortable and I was never comfortable with myself and I wanted to be better for myself and most importantly for my kids. And so bridging off of that, what role did wait? How many kids you have? I have two kids. Two kids. Yeah. How old are they? 11. My son is 11 and my daughter is seven. Okay. And what role in this did they play? Huge role. When I when I started my my first two reasons, I mean, I had four reasons. Two personal and two were my kids. Okay. You know, personal reasons were small things. I wanted to wear nice clothes and feel comfortable. I want to ride roller coasters, but my seven year old daughter is my princess and I need to walk her down the aisle. I need to be there for her. And if I don't do that, I I'm a failure and my son is powerful. Thank you, man. My my son is 11 and I got him into sports. He's playing baseball and no matter what he wants to do, I need to be there to support him. All the kids now they want to be YouTubers and be on social media, right? But I need to be there to guide him and to coach him and to give him the guidance that I mean, my dad gave me and my dad was a huge part of my life and he passed away in 2008, but he was always there for me. No matter how much my dad struggled, he was that guy in my life that to this day I look up to him like he led me on the right path and I need to do that for my kids. And so the the changes that you've made has that kind of rubbed off on them at all. Like the foods that you're eating, the workouts that you're doing, like have you noticed that like occasionally we'll hear and sometimes no, but occasionally we'll hear that like the kids start joining in on some workouts or they want to try the healthier meals and sometimes that's not the case because they're kids, you know, has that been the case for you at all? It has. My daughter, Morso, my princess, she's seven. My son is 11, about to be 12. And so he's starting to go through that phase, right? He's starting to mature and just whatever dad, you know, he's becoming too cool. Yeah, he's developing into his own his own self, right? But it does. And I could tell that my, you know, even so much is drinking sugar-free drinks or choosing healthier options or limiting the fast food. And I don't want to limit them 100% because they deserve to be kids. Right. Right. I buy them the happy meal occasionally, you know, and there's things because they deserve that and it's it's I don't want them to suffer. But even like my daughter, especially she, she, last night, I do pushups every day. And she's like, I'm in my room doing pushups and she comes in and she's like, oh, daddy, you're doing pushups as soon as I walk in. I could do them too. Watch, I'm getting better. And she knocked out 10 pushups, you know, and she's seven. And knowing that just living, leading them by example is the most important thing I can do. Yeah. And so she's becoming more, does she play sports? They're both in karate. They do. Okay. They do karate on the weekends and my son is in little league. And just they've been doing it for almost two years and just teaching them discipline, teaching them, you know, activity and whether she wants to get into some days, it's gymnastics, some days it's dancing, but she sees it. Yeah. And my son sees it. And I want to him as soon as he's a little bit older, I'm going to get him in the gym and like I'm training you. Yeah. And I want him, you know, because to play sports, he needs to be active. And so he's in sixth grade. He needs to get in there and I'm going to train him up too. That's awesome. And so, okay. Question. A lot of people, they are afraid to get started and I'm sure like you said that you've been through a bunch of things that you've tried and maybe it didn't work for you. Was there ever a time when you were afraid to get started because you didn't think it would work or you thought you would fail again? And if there's anybody else out there who is scared to get started because of the idea of failing at something again, what would you say to them? I failed a lot of times. I failed so many times and I think as long as you want it, don't ever give up on it. If there's a small inkling in you that says, I want this, then it's a part of you and that lives inside of you. And as long as that fire is lit, you have to bring out the passion to let it burn and the failures are going to happen. I failed for years. This is just the time that it worked. This is just me figuring it out now and I turn 35 tomorrow. Tomorrow. Tomorrow. I'll have a really birthday. Thank you, man. And people think 34, 35 is old, but no, that you could start 30, 40, 50, 60 years old. If you want it, you can do it. Don't be afraid of the failure. And it becomes even more important. It becomes and health is important. The older we get, the more important it is because I don't want to be the one and oh, I'm 30 and 40 in my back hurts and my bones hurt. No, I want to, there's people out there thriving 56 years old in the best shape of their life, living their best life and I want to do that. And so if you want it, whether it's to lose weight, to build muscle, to get healthy, I think keep that in the forefront of your mind and don't stop until you do it. And are there any like mental tricks or tips that you would have for the days where they don't feel the motivation, the days that you struggled? Cause like obviously everybody has those days where it's like, I feel good, I got good sleep. I want to work out today. I want to make good decisions and then there's days where you don't on those days. How did you push through discipline? Discipline over motivation and it's, it's wanting it so bad that nothing was going to stop me, that my mindset was made up. My mind was made up to the point where I could not be altered. And for the last year, that's where I've been, where I couldn't, I can't be faced in terms of the trajectory that I want to put myself on. And especially since I started your program, it's been just laser focused. And so the discipline day to day where I don't, I don't even want to sacrifice it. I don't want to give it up because it feels too good to feel good right now. I feel amazing and I, I could eat some junk or a little bit and it's not going to kill me, but I just feel so happy with the way I am and knowing that I don't need it. It's, I'm just locked in. Question. When did you actually start the journey? Like the successful journey? When was the beginning? October 10th, 2023. Wow. Okay. It was a year and 14 days ago. Wow. And we're at a reggae festival. Jovan was there and, and we were with my friends and we're at a festival and that's my, that's my happy place. I love concerts. I love going out. I love being active and doing things. I like to live a social life and we were there and one of our good friends was, was there and he had a booth and he was there with his wife and was like, I'm going to do a fitness plan starting on Tuesday. He said that he said it. Okay. Him and his wife just randomly. I'm going to, I'm going to start this challenge on Tuesday. Okay. And I said, I'm in and at that moment, I didn't know it. I was going to say, did you know what you were going to get into? I didn't know it. I didn't know it. Right. And I don't know if this is, it was 75 hard. I don't know. I don't know if, so Tuesday and I just, I locked in. It was, this was a Sunday night, the eighth. Okay. And then Monday happened and I said, I'm going to have my last drink, my last hurrah. And I, and I did, I had an alcoholic beverage and eight light crap. Okay. And then that Tuesday I locked in and, and I didn't look back since that Tuesday. I haven't looked back. Wow. And I just pushed through mentally and that was the biggest thing. And so what were the struggles in the very beginning? What, what was the hardest part? Every single day was, I guess was a challenge, especially for the first three to four weeks because I went cold turkey. I cut out added sugar. I cut out processed foods. I cut out alcohol and like 80% of carbs to start right at 450 pounds. I had a mentality where I said, I, I felt like a bear. I was like, if I could eat this much and bears hibernate for the winter, I have enough sort of fat to survive off of for a couple of weeks, right? And that wouldn't be deprived of my, but I'd wake up and I would just eat natural foods and I cut myself completely cold turkey short of all of those things for the first three to four weeks and had headaches and, and kind of felt, I felt, I felt it. Yeah. But I started to see some weight fall off. And for the first three months, it was just straight discipline and battling through how I felt because how I wanted to feel was more important. The decision that you made that day to join him on that program. Why hadn't you made that sooner? And what was like the, the, the switch inside you that was like, yes, I'm in. Was it the alcohol speaking or was it like something building to that moment where you had been frustrated or struggling or something happened? Like, was there a specific mental like turning point where you like, I'm ready or was it just kind of like this thing? Cause like it's funny. People ask me all the time, like how we like started like V shred, right? And really how it started was it was our now CEO's idea and he came to me and he was like, Hey, do you want to do like, do you want to make a fitness program? And I was like, sure. Had no clue. Well, I was getting into no clue, no clue. It'd be this big, no clue. Had no idea what it would even look like. And so for me, it was like, it wasn't like this thing that built for years where I was like, I know I want to be a fitness influencer and I want to build a big brand. I know I wanted to make an impact, but it was really just him saying, Hey, you want to do it? I was like, sure. Was it like that? Or was there like a buildup to that moment? And you were like, yes, this is, this is what I need. Internally, there was a big buildup on the, on the outside looking in. Maybe you couldn't see it because of my habits and just because the way I was living my life, but internally it was building and it was building to the point where I couldn't put on my seatbelt. I couldn't tie my shoes. I could barely get out of bed. You know, I couldn't, I remember being in the grocery store and a group of guys were like muttering to themselves. How could he get so fat? Wow. And it just killed me. And in, in, in it just, I was so done with myself that, you know, and, and concerts and music are my happy place. So I'm there trying to be happy, but so uncomfortable in my own skin that at that moment I didn't know. I didn't know that it would lead me, especially to here. I had zero idea, right? That it would take me to where I am today and just feeling good, feeling healthy. I had no idea, but I knew that I wanted it because of how I felt inside and how miserable I really was. So it was a culmination of me internally and just stepping out of my shoes and seeing myself and how other people perceive me in a grocery store. I said enough. I had to change. What would you call rock bottom for you? 450 pounds. Not being able to put on my seatbelt, drinking alcohol every day, not being able to tie my shoes, not being able to do what I want to do and be there for my kids and go shopping and feel comfortable in my own skin and just being so miserable internally that there was no other option than to go up. That's what I would think rock bottom is. And was it overwhelming to think about how far you had to go? It was. I didn't I didn't really realize it or process. You know, I it started off as I need to lose weight and to this point today. Now it's like I want to get shredded like that. And I didn't I couldn't have imagined that in a year. That's the dynamic would shift from a weight loss journey to AI want to look good and feel good journey. Right. And it was a little bit intimidating at first because I knew I had a big, a big load in front of me. Yeah. But I also know myself and I know I'm determined and I know that at any given point I want to be the hardest worker in the room and I am the hardest worker in the room and I need to do it for myself. And so I just put my head down and didn't give up. What do you say to somebody else who is at rock bottom right now who feels overwhelmed by the thought of all that's going to go into getting started? You just have to start. It's it's hard and there's there's going to be a lot of failures, but as long as you want it inside of as long as like I said that fire is burning inside of you to change to want to change, you have to do it. And whether it's with support, whether you have a friend who's like, Hey, I'm going to start a challenge or your spouse or your kids or however you can get support. It's great. But at the end of the day, it has to come from you internally and you have to be the one you have to want it. Right. And so as long as you want it, you can do it. And I hope to be an example for somebody to do that. And I don't expect anybody to do my transformation, which is kind of I'm realizing now it's kind of crazy to lose the amount of weight I did in a year. Right. But it just feels natural to me, but I don't expect anybody to see my progress and be like, wow, I can do that. But you can do it. If you wanted to, you just have to lock in and really want it more than the outside pressure. And then, yeah, and speaking of the outside pressure, like, did you have any kind of outside? Like, did you look online and see people like transforming? And did you feel like you were, um, what comparing yourself to other people during that journey? Like, was there any kind of comparison to social media, like seeing other people lose 50 pounds in two months or whatever? Like, did you experience that piece of it at all? Cause you lost weight super fast and continued to lose a lot of weight very fast. And so I think normally what happens is people are like slow to lose weight. Like they'll lose just a couple pounds in the first couple months and they're like, what's going on? And they see people honestly like you were losing a ton of weight and they're like, and they compare themselves and that just destroys all of their happiness. It's the comparison is the thief of joy. And so did you experience that at all? Or I'm obviously your story's pretty wild. And so maybe not. Well, I did though. I mean, I would look on, of course, on social media and in movies and things like that, we see people like there's actors Jonah Hill lost a bunch of weight. Ethan Supley, um, he lost a lot of weight and there was figures that, that I saw or like, wow, they're losing weight. It is possible. I saw that it was possible. But I mean, of course they have the money and that like all of that. Mine was a little bit, it had to be self, self, you know, driven. Yeah. But I like to stay in my own lane. I don't, I try not to compare myself to others and take other people's stories or success or there. I just, I'm an observer and I'm a learner and I like to learn and take different pieces from what they're doing that. It works. They're doing that. It works. They're doing that. It works. How can I adapt that to me? Yeah. And I just wanted to stay centered in myself, but learning everything and it just kind of, it had to come down to me internally, just doing it and finally it did it. Yeah. And you, you mentioned like seeing these pieces that other people are doing and then taking this piece and taking this piece and making it work for you. How, how important was it for you to find something that was really felt like it was meant for you? Cause obviously there's tons of programs that are like just kind of like one size fits all or just like different goals. Like if I gave you the clean bulk program when you were 450 pounds, you're going to be like, the hell are you doing? Why are you giving me this? And so like having that approach that is essentially, you're essentially customizing an approach to yourself. How important was that for you? Very important. I think in the three kind of staples I took into it were no sugar, no processed foods and no alcohol and cutting out those three things and carbs, a lot of carbs at first, right? It is very tough. At first, a lot of carbs until I learned that how to properly fuel myself, right? Cause at first you think, cause you do, you see it, you see, oh carnivore, keto, this diet, that you're like, where do I start? Social media through all of you. Like even when I first saw your workouts, I was intimidated. I told them, I was like, these are a lot of work. I had, how do I do this? Right. And then it just started to click where I knew that these three things were working for me, which I took was I don't need to eat processed food. Whole natural foods seem to be the best thing because they just come from the earth. Yeah, they're not. I, I didn't have a good metabolism then. And I think it was self-inflicted. Like your metabolism starts to work when you start feeding your body things that can be metabolized, right? And moving it in the right way. Yeah. Yeah. More junk that you eat, the slower your metabolism becomes. So cutting out processed foods, added sugar. That's, I think my biggest advice for anybody trying to lose weight now is cut out the sugar. Sugar is terrible in my opinion. Yeah. Like the added sugar and I know fake sugars are a huge thing where it comes to the aspartame and all of that, but there's a, there's a balance. Yeah. Right. And I think that like a Coke zero is a million times better than a regular Coke for weight loss. Yep. Right. In the long term, there may be controversy around that and that's a separate story. Yeah. But losing weight, cutting out sugar was huge. Okay. It was very important to me and alcohol and processed foods. When did you feel your motivation was the highest? Now. Really? Yeah. Now I'm more determined than ever. Now it just every day, just snowballs, the better I feel every day, I guess better. That's cool. The more, the more that I do and the better that I feel my motivation is the highest and as I see the results and I wake up and the scale goes down, not every day, but I'm so motivated now to continue this lifestyle because it feels good to feel good. And before you were this motivated. You talked about how like you had tried stuff and you had failed a bunch of different stuff, right? What made this different? Like why did this end that cycle of trying and failing stuff? What was it about October 10th? That made everything change. I just had to and I don't know. I don't know why and I didn't look back. It maybe it was just my timing. Maybe it was just part of my story. I don't, I can't really specify how it worked this time. Yeah, but I knew that every day I woke up with the mentality that I'm not going back and the further and maybe I'm running from that person, right? Maybe, maybe now that old person was here and I'm trying to get as far away from that person as I can. And I'm not afraid to like, oh, I can't have a cheat meal or this or that because I'll fall back into those habits. It's that I'm content and I'm happy. And so I don't know how it worked, but it did and I'm never looking back. It's awesome. You made the decision at that festival, October 10th to make the change. And you went to that same festival. This probably October 10th again to go to that same one, a completely different human. What was the difference in how you felt internally and how you, how you felt about yourself going to this same festival a year later? Night and day, night and day. I was confident this year. I felt I was happy to see my friends. I wasn't, I was embarrassed to see my friends before I didn't, I didn't even want to show up and see my friends because I was so embarrassed with myself that this time I was excited. I wanted my friends to see me and say, wow, like Jordan, you did that. Yeah, I did that. You know, everybody, right? Everyone's Jordan, you look so good. And it's like, thank you. Like finally I did it. Finally I have something to be happy about, right? We're there at these festivals. You're supposed to be happy listening to the music and then I'm in the crowd. There's people behind me. I'm taking up so much space and it's just like, it was, it was everything. It was everything in this, this month alone. I've went to nine concerts this month. I got two more coming this week, but festival three days of the festival to be then just to feel confident to when my friends snap a picture, right? When, you know, our friends that are musicians and they're, you know, I'm on stage with them and if I'm in a candid shot, like I'm happy with that person. Who I see, right? I don't want to be on stage just to blob like who's that guy just feels so good this year. Everything changed and I feel amazing. Did you ever find yourself shying away from pictures in the  amlodipine, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin I'm like, ooh, selfie today, selfie today, because I feel good You hear that a lot, you're like, you don't want to take the pictures in the beginning because you don't like how you look and then I mean, we hear it quite often with like the transformations, it's like they wish they would have because they could look back on it. Did you take progress pics throughout your journey? Oh yeah, so the, I mean, the last year I documented everything, like I have hours and hours of footage I have months, the first three months of my V-Shred plan, I have logged just on my camera because and it's cool now in retrospect that I could see, the last year You see every step of your progress? I could see it and I could look back and see day to day, I remember that day I started running up a hill in my neighborhood that was like 0.2 miles long, right? And now I'm running laps around it and so to see the progress that I've made in the last years, it's really cool and to have the footage now I cherish it. I wish I had some more, maybe for content back in the day, for transformation, right? To not recycle the same footage but yeah That's cool. Were there any specific moments that you wanted to give up over the past year? Not this time, not this time. I couldn't be phased. This time I feel like I couldn't look back. I can't give up now and there was a lot of pressures and things, social events and things that could have given up on, personal life situations that I could have given up on but I didn't. This time I haven't looked back. How did you manage those then? Like the social events, the personal stressors that you had, how did you manage to get through those while taking on such a daunting task? Transforming my outlet from food and alcohol and poison to healthier alternatives, not relying on food for For happiness. For happiness, right? Realizing that I want to use, to learn how to use food the proper way for fuel and to change my emotional behaviors into the gym, a walk, push-ups and constantly reminding myself that there are other ways to get through this than the old behaviors that I would do. The things that got you into the position that you hated. Yeah, yeah and that's changing my relationship with food was one of the biggest parts of that. That was probably the hardest part. Absolutely. And what were your, what did your meals look like back then versus what did it look like now? Man, what I would eat before I would... I don't want to say an average day because I feel like, and I could be wrong about this, correct me if so, that there was no average day. No. Because you're probably without, I've noticed in myself when I don't have my routine in place, my shit's all over the place. And so I assume it's this similar, like the foods that you're eating are kind of from anywhere and everywhere and it's just a bunch of crap. And so like, just walk us through like what you would call like a bad day. Man, well I would be probably skipping breakfast because I already felt like crap from the night before of overeating, binge eating at night. So thinking that, oh, I'm being healthy by skipping breakfast, but that means waking up, going to 7-Eleven, getting two energy drinks, getting four taquitos, getting a pizza because I'm going to bring it home and cook it for my kids. But it's really for me, right? And that's, or if I'm going to work, like I work at the airport and a food and beverage manager, I would be sneaking burgers. Like I'm a 34 year old man sneaking burgers to go gluttonous, gluttonously eat them. Downstairs I would. And that's like just because I had no control, then I would come home and I would, you know, I like to cook, I can cook, but I would be cooking terrible big portions of pasta and this and like I said, go into fast food places buying fast food on the way home to cook for my kids, right? For my family and just, there was no control. There was no control where there was no structure. It was just consuming and consuming and consuming thousands of calories and then soda and then alcohol. I got to a point where I could drink like heavy lot like dude, tanking like makers mark like 96% right at the normal. I would go to the liquor store and if it said like 30% 32% you know, 70 AB, I would be like, no, I need heavier like because I feel like it wouldn't get me drunk fast enough. That drunk just buzzed, right? Because I was still, you know, alcohol was a big problem, but I was always functional from, you know, my kids and my job and everything. So it never got to that point, but it was very abusive to where I was looking for the heavier and the harder stuff because I could drink a fifth of whiskey in a night. On top of like a six pack, I would buy IPAs and heavy beers because the ultra would like that's water, right? So it's like now I can't imagine. I can't imagine now that I have structure. Yeah. And I'm going to be 100% honest. V-Street gave me that structure 100% and now that I have that structure, I can never look back. And what's that structure look like? I learned how to eat. I learned how to properly fuel my body and the system, you know, the carb cycle system that I've been on for six months. And just now I could routinely, I could, I could routinely wake up, eat my breakfast, eat my lunch, eat my dinner and not have to worry about it. Having the structure to know what I'm going to eat every day and not think about it was so game changing for me because I didn't have to struggle. What am I going to eat today? How am I going to get these calories? Even the first six of the first six months of my journey, I didn't know what to do in the gym. I was lost. I didn't know what to eat for six months for six months from about five, October to March. Okay. When I started V-Street, I was just winging it. Yeah. Winging my nutrition, winging my workouts, but it was working because I was in a big deficit, you know, eating 1500 calories and moving every day. I prioritized exercising and it started walking. Yep. That's it. I prioritized that and for five, six months, it worked. And then once I got the structure, everything changed. So what's a day of meals look like today? And I know we're going to get into this later, but just walking through it. Yeah. Waking up breakfast. So I like to wake up and go to the gym. Fasted. I go to the gym, fasted. I drink my creatine and my pre-workout before the gym, fasted, get into the gym. I have a good structure now. And then I get home. I'll make breakfast. I have to eat. Like now I'm like, oh, I need to eat breakfast. Like I need this. And that'll be, you know, eggs, cottage cheese, different days, you know, protein pancakes, something like that. A nice balanced breakfast, sourdough bread, toast, you know, then going to work. I would have peanuts as a snack, a protein shake, maybe some fresh berries, you know, snacks throughout protein shake throughout the day, and then dinner, a solid protein. So no lunch. I like to, I don't like to eat lunch at work now, where I would kind of have a later lunch, where I would wake up, eat a good breakfast, fuel up on snacks throughout the day, whether it's like a protein bar or protein shake, couple things to get me through. And then after work, I like to eat just personally, I like to eat like one bigger meal, like a lunch or a dinner, you know, I'll cook up like 12 ounces of chicken and beans and you know, a cup of rice. Big nice, heavy, you know, yeah. Most of the time that sometimes I'll spread it out, but then that's where I just feel the best. And I feel like my body works more throughout the day. I feel a lot, because eating at night, I realized isn't the problem. It's all the other junk because I can eat like seven, eight o'clock at night, go for a little walk, get my push-ups in and go to bed and feel great. Nice. But just trying to sticking to that routine where it's, it changes. Yeah. Oh yeah. A little bit, you know, obviously, but that's pretty much the structure. That's cool. I think that's important for people to hear because that just goes to show there is no one size fits all. And that probably took you some time to find that structure that works for you. And now you found that structure and now you can stick to that and you kind of know what your next day is going to look like without even really thinking about it. And I think that's the switch that a lot of people are needing, but don't think like they've never experienced that. And so they don't know what it's like where it's like, I tell people like for me, for example, I don't wonder if I'm going to work out today. I know what my schedule is. And so like if today's a leg day, I know I'm hitting legs. It's just a matter of when, you know, it's not a matter of if. And so like for you, it's like, you know about what your day meals wise, workout wise is going to look like, it's going to change a little bit here and there, something pops up, you pop a tire, or you get sick, or you're going on a trip, or you're going to a festival, or whatever it is, little things will change. But for the most part, you got, let's say 80% of it locked in consistently. And I think that's super important is to have that, that 80 20. And it's also really cool for you to talk about like having that big meal late. Because that's a lot of that's something that a lot of people, they think they can't have, they think they can't have big meals. They also think they can't eat late. But I have my last meal of the day, pretty much every single night at like eight o'clock. And then I'll have like, I got these like protein muffins that I have that I absolutely love. I'm obsessed with right now. And I have like two or three of those that like nine ish, you know. And so love what you said about like, it's not that you can't eat late. That's not the problem. Like, can that be a problem for some people? Yes, can it affect your sleep? Yes. But is that's what is that what's causing you to gain 510 pounds month over month? Absolutely not. It's everything else that you're doing. So that's, that's a, that's a, I guess, just a cool realization that you said. Let's talk about plateaus. Did you ever hit a plateau? Several. Okay. Talk, talk me through them. Yeah. In the last, maybe talk me through the biggest one. The biggest one, I remember I've seen the scale stop and go a lot over the last year. Yeah. And it's a, it's a, I guess it's not, some would think I didn't plateau for very long, but in my mind when I was, I mean, he lost 200 pounds, right? So how many plateaus could I have really had in a year? But me internally, I did like where I could see, I mean, I started at 450. I remember seeing the scale at 420 at 395 at 340. Let me stop you there. When it got under 400, how did you feel? I felt good. Yeah. I did feel good, but there was more of a number victory. Yeah. As opposed to not a more feeling. Yeah. I wasn't feel, I saw it right. And of course I did though. It was starting to get better, but under 400 was huge. And then what about under 300? Under 300 was huge. I remember that day where I, I would, you know, and I would weigh myself first thing in the morning, fasted to try to get that lowest point of scale. And I hit under 300. I was happy. I was like, wow, 150 pounds. And when was that 300 was, I think April, because I started V shred in March and I was 318 when I started V shred. Okay. And so I think, yeah, April when I got under 300, it felt really good. And, but even now in the last 60 pounds, I've seen, I thought I was going to be 280 forever. I thought I was going to be 255 forever, right? And it's, there has been a lot of days where the scale wouldn't move. Yeah. And I just didn't give up. I didn't give up. And I knew that it eventually was going to move because it's just how life works. Yeah. It's, it's going to get better. If you stay the course, you're going to break through. Yeah. So the consistency. Yeah. Yeah. Just not giving up on myself and knowing that I didn't lose weight today. I'm going to go eat a cheeseburger. Yeah. You know, so actually that's a, that's a good thing to bring up a lot of people when they have these like victories and you had victory after victory after victory. How did you celebrate those without hurting your progress? Because that's something that a lot of people will do. They'll, they'll have a goal to lose 20 pounds or whatever. And then they lose those 20 pounds and they celebrate by going out to eat, you know, and that's just what they're doing is they're creating this reward cycle of food. Yeah. Like they're, they're, they're almost hurting their relationship with food because they're treating food as a reward, which is not how it's supposed to be done. You know, like, yes, I think, okay, like if you're going out for a birthday or something, you want to go have a, a fat steak and you want to have some wine, have a good time. Right. But like if you drink a gallon of water today and you're happy about that, don't go order a cheeseburger because you did good. How did you celebrate those victories? I guess I celebrated them in other ways. Okay. Yeah. By like, I like to go out and do things. I went to Formula one, the NBA, in season tournament, NASCAR, concerts, anything I could think of. That's how I celebrated. Nice. And what I enjoyed the most was going to those and not succumbing to the pressure. I would bring my bag of almonds like Jordan, how do you do it? I have my almonds at a concert right now because I'm so locked in and it feels good. Every day has been a victory for me because I'm not that person I was. And you know, even I've only had, I'm not going to lie, 100% on my kids. I've had one bite of cake and that was my one year anniversary. I had a little button cake and I had a bite of it and I said, I'm good. Really? Yeah. I said, I'm good just because I don't want it. Yeah. Every day is just such a victory for me where I don't, I don't want to go back. And I kind of now I like it. Now I want to, maybe I could be that guy who never eats fast food again. Maybe, you know, it just, could you imagine yourself a year and a half ago saying that? I think you're truly believing that too. No, I could never, right? And now part of the thing that keeps me motivated is wanting to turn fitness and motivation into my life. Yeah. I want this to be, there's something calling me where maybe, and I was thinking about it this morning, maybe this is part of my story. Maybe, maybe I was, I can't say, I mean, supposed to be that, you know, from where I was, like maybe it was God's plan to say, Hey, this is going to be your struggle. I'm going to show you this side. Yeah. And, and now just transform. But my whole life now is dedicated. I feel like this is where I want to be. That's cool. And I don't want to look back. That's really cool. I remember 10 years ago, yeah, right when my son was born, my friend took us to a Rebels game with the Thomas and Mack. And those nosebleeds, they're, they're thin, man. Chairs are small and couldn't fit into chairs would only look for aisle seats. I wouldn't, you know, I wouldn't, wouldn't fly. I wouldn't want to fly. I mean, I flew to New York to see my brother a couple of years ago and that was it. But I would plan everything around my size. I would strategically not. Yeah, I would still want to go. But I would like floor seats or aisle or I guess I'm not going. And just because I would feel so uncomfortable, I would feel so uncomfortable. And now that feels good to just, I want to sit here. I want to sit there, right? Not have to worry about it at all. And just feeling comfortable. Buying merchandise. I could wait in line and buy merch. Do you guys have a 4x? No, okay. But now you're just a single XL? Yeah, XL. That's crazy. Yeah. That's crazy. And you said that wasn't, that's what you wore when you were what, 10? Yeah, I don't even remember being an XL before. I was in my first job at 15. I was in a 3x. I remember. And that's, and then the Husky sizes. So I don't remember anything before 3x. Wow. That's crazy. So like we've talked about like victories, right? And a lot of your victories were obviously like scale victories because you lost over 200 pounds. Was there a moment that there was a non scale victory that stands out to you as like one of the biggest differences that you saw in yourself over the past couple of months? Just yesterday, I went hiking at Red Rock and I did calico tanks and just climbing the little, climbing calico tanks and being able to put my leg on a rock when I'm just trying to elevate and, you know, bringing my leg up to my stomach, going to festival on Sunday. I was at, as a festival and I was in circle pits, like running in circles, like all day long. And those, those to me are important. Yeah. Those type of things for me where it's the physical ability I have now is my favorite part. I could do pull ups. I could do push ups. I could run. I could, I just every day, I'm so grateful that I gave myself this opportunity and every day is a non scale victory for me where I'm not so consumed and I am a little bit. I do. I still want to lose. I thought I wanted to be, I was like, I want to be 250 and now I'm 240 and I'm like, how would 230 look? Right? How would 235 look? Yeah, but I want to do it because I'm 61 figure if I could be 61, 230, that sounds pretty good with some muscle, right? And so every day, every day is, is a good day for me now because I'm not who I was. I'm just happy with the person I am now. I'm happy with, with, with who I see in the mirror because every day when I wake up and every day when I go to bed, it's me who I look at in the mirror. Yeah. And I have to be happy for me and other people will love me and like me the way I am, but I have to be happy with myself. And so every single day, I feel happy to wake up and look in the mirror and see my little muscle sprouting and trying to, you know, I just every single day is, is, is so good now because I'm happy and I'm confident and it just feels good. We talked about your relationship with food in the beginning and how you had a very emotional relationship with food. How did you confront that and change that? Because that's it. Because that's a huge one. Like a lot of people, they'll have a extreme emotional relationship with food when they're bored, they eat when they're tired, they eat when they're stressed, they eat when they're lonely, they eat. And so like, we talked about how that was kind of you, food was your vice, right? Yeah. Where they're like certain triggers that you identified that you had to avoid or was there any kind of like, like how did you face, like how did you face these triggers or how did you face, like how did you change these habits to make the progress that you, that you have made? I faced them head on. I think that having the fortitude internally to not give up and go back to my old ways where I have to make a conscious decision every day. Still, to this day, it's a conscious decision that I have to make to make the right decision. I mean, it's an easier decision now, but I have to, I mean, I have to be intentional about it. Yeah, I could wake up today and I could have this and this and easily fall back into that path. It's knowing what I want every day. And I'm goal oriented and setting a goal. You know, first it was to lose weight. And then when it became a dire need that I need to lose weight, I had to really every day consciously just say, Hey, I'm not going to do this in that moment. When I can resort to this, I'm having a bad day. I'm not going to resort to food. I am not going to eat the I am not going to eat the fast food. I am not going to give up. I would get fast food before I got home from work and then go home and eat. And now it's like, I would rather be hungry and wait to go home and cook my proper nutrition. But it took a lot of time for me to get there. For sure. It took me a year, you know, more than a year, not more than a year, obviously, but it took me more than well, from the very first try. Oh, yeah, it's been years. Absolutely. Yeah. Absolutely. And so just knowing internally now that I have to do it and there's no looking back. And it's a decision every day that I need to make. And I do make the decision. And that's where that's where progress is made is by staying disciplined and not giving into what you want and doing what you need. That's cool. So let's talk a little bit about balance because the two sides of it are going to be being disciplined, but then also being compassionate with yourself. How did you handle the balance of pushing yourself hard enough, but also allowing yourself to take rest days when you needed to or to be kind to yourself if you weren't progressing as fast, or if you weren't, I don't know, lifting as much weight as you wanted to do? Like, how did you find that balance? Or how did you deal, confront that balance of being kind to yourself and also pushing yourself so that you can progress? Well, I've learned, I think I learned that being kind to myself is eating healthy and consuming healthiness. And just what I fuel my body with is how I'm kind to myself and pushing myself physically is the other component. So I feel like because I am kind to myself in terms of what I eat and what I put in my body, it allows me to push myself that I know that really one has to go with the other. I don't think I would make as much progress in the gym if I wasn't feeling myself properly. I wouldn't have the energy, I wouldn't just feel a thargic and it just wouldn't work. I think now because I consistently am good to myself, I wasn't good to myself for so long, that's the old habits was not being gentle to myself. And now I mean, if there's a lot of people are going to need a balance where you need to have the cheat meal, you need to have the little something and that's 100% okay. I think that as long as you can control it, you should never deprive yourself if you need to have this or else it's going to send you into a fritz and you're just going to lose all your progress, do that. But I just, I guess I'm different, right? I don't need that. I'm a little different. I don't know how to... Do you have a go-to cheat meal even if it's not super cheaty? Is there anything that maybe is just slightly off plan? The only thing I think would be cheese, like if I ever need something, I would just cook cheese. I'd take a little quarter cup of mozzarella cheese or something and I would just saute it and just cook it, just crispy cheese. But that's occasionally. But I don't need junk food. I don't need burgers. I don't need sweets. I don't need ice cream. I promise you, I haven't had any junk food in a year. I had a couple of beverages at the concerts because I feel like I owned it, man. If I earned it, I'm going to be at this festival, right? But I don't feel like I need it right now. And so balance is everything. I'm different. I'm different where I really got it into my head, where I don't need this and I don't want this. But I'm to the point now where if I did have it, I wouldn't be afraid to fall off. But I just don't want to feel bad. I think a piece of pizza right now would make me feel like crap and I don't want to do that. Like the grease and it's enough. If I have a little bit, little crispy cheese in a pan, that's as far as I'll go. But the bread and all of that. But now I just eat like healthy carbs and healthy things. I'm just so addicted to feeling good. That's crazy. That, yeah. I had no control. Like had I asked you about a cheat day a year and a half ago, it would be like, yeah, I mean a cheat day, you mean a day? Yeah. And if you would walk me through that day, I bet it would be crazy foods. A year ago, I wouldn't tell you. Oh really? I wouldn't tell you. I wouldn't tell anybody. Wow. People the closest to me. Wow. There's there. I wouldn't tell. I would. It was such an internal battle and secret like where I would. A lot of people who struggle with morbid obesity do it in private. Yeah. Gluttony, eating uncontrollable amounts of food and hiding it and hiding it. It's a problem. It's a real problem and it's hard and it's hard. Obesity. It's not just oh, eat less calorie deficit. No, there's an emotional and there's a big thing about it and it's mental. Have you ever looked into why you had that emotional eating habit? Have you ever thought about it? My mom was actually anorexic and really, yeah. Interesting. So question, the food that you grew up eating, was she like that then? Yeah. My mom was always, you know, bone thin, 110 pounds. I remember seeing my mom at 90 pounds. Wow. And so she went to a rehab, a women's eating disorder clinic. She struggled with addiction and other things also, but her husband at the time put her in Wickenburg, Arizona in a women's eating clinic. Right. And we went to visit her. It's 12 years old already, Husky. And she told me that she thought I was subconsciously eating for her because she wouldn't, she had a problem not eating. And my mom told me she thought that I ate to compensate for her not eating or having, and for her having a bad relationship with food also, where she would sneak food at night, but she would eat cucumbers and Italian dressing and tomatoes. And she cooked great. Like mom's spaghetti. It's everybody's mom has the best spaghetti, right? Like so, mom's spaghetti and all the chicken fried steak, she cooked great. My mom took care of us and cooked great food, but she struggled. Yeah. And hearing her say that I subconsciously ate for her was burned into my brain for a long time. Wow. And I thought that I was, and maybe I was, maybe I really was. And I still think about that. Wow. You ever done therapy? No. No, maybe I'm that prideful guy yet who hasn't, who hasn't, you know, it doesn't, I don't think I carry the weight anymore. I was also going to say like where you are now, like I'm a big advocate of therapy just because everybody's got childhood trauma. A year and a half ago, if I had to sell you, I'd have been like, you probably need therapy today, hearing everything you're saying. I'm like, you might have just there. What's the verb? Therapized, therapy, might have therapyed yourself, which is really cool. So yeah, I didn't want to get too deep. Yeah. In case that was a tough question. That was a big part. That was a big part of it. That was a really big part.  amlodipine, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin,

=== FILE: Mindful Eating on a Budget ｜ V SHRED Better Body, Better Life Podcast [s9kJyiAWckM].txt ===

 cook-at-home. Huge one. You have to do it. And I get it. Eating out is convenient. You're also probably going to be paying $30 for that meal, which is way more than what you'd be paying if you bought in bulk and then prepared this for yourself. And you don't know what all ingredients are used. You don't know what oils they're using, if they're using seed oils or what they're adding to it, or where they're sourcing their foods. You don't know any of that stuff. Cooking-at-home gives you the power to control exactly what's going into your meals. Plus, it's a great way to stretch your dollar. Welcome to the V-Shred Better Body Better Life podcast, where we help you live your best life while working on your health and fitness goals. We're here to make your journey fun and inspiring. What's going on, everyone? Welcome back to another episode of the Better Body Better Life podcast. I am your host, Vince Sant, and I hope you're having a great day and a great week. Today, I've got something that has been requested from a lot of you guys. For anybody out there who wants to see that number go down on a scale, and you want to get in great shape, and you want to live your best life, but you don't want to break the bank doing it, this is for you. Truth is, there is a big misconception that eating healthy has to cost a fortune. I've seen pictures comparing what a burger and fries from McDonald's is versus what an organic burger and sweet potato fries is from the grocery store. People hype it up to be like, I don't know, five times more than what the McDonald's meal is, and that's just not the case. It doesn't have to be like that. Yes, if you're buying one burger, one beef patty at a time, and you're buying in these small amounts, sure. But today, I'm going to go over some ways to be more practical on eating healthy, but also mindfully so that if you're on a tight budget, it doesn't really mess you up. And so we'll cover everything from meal planning and bulk buying to whipping up affordable, yet really nutritious meals. So we're going to go over quite a few things, and I think this is going to help a lot of you guys. So let's dive in. All right, so to kick things off, I'm just going to jump right into tip number one, which is going to be to plan your meals ahead of time. And the reason that this is number one is because meal planning is going to be your secret weapon for not only getting in shape, but also for staying on a budget while trying to get in shape. Because when you take the time to plan your meals for the week, you're creating a blueprint, and that blueprint is for success, right? And you start by jotting down what you want to eat for breakfast and lunch and dinner and then what your snacks are, right? And then you use that plan to build a focused shopping list. Okay. Why does this work so well? This works so well because when was the last time you went to the grocery store without a shopping list? Or while you were hungry. That's probably another just side tip. Don't go to the grocery store when you're hungry. But this works so well is because it keeps you from getting distracted by that family size bag of Doritos that's conveniently on sale and low fat. Or those chocolate covered granola bars or candy bars that are tempting you from the checkout line because they're conveniently placed right there by the checkout line. And so pick a day, Sunday, let's say, to plan your meals. And what you're going to do is you're going to look for recipes that use overlapping ingredients so that you can buy in bulk and you can also reduce waste. For example, let's say you are making chili chili and in tacos in the same week. Well, you can use the same ground turkey, the same beans, the same spices for both dishes. And so you can buy in bulk when ordering those foods and then you can prep them really all at once if you'd like to and be set up for the entire week with less prep and less ingredients needed to be bought. And speaking of buying in bulk, that's actually tip number two, which is to buy in bulk because I mean, obviously buying in bulk is going to be cheaper regardless of what you're buying for. And it's just a total game changer, especially for staples. Like that's I think that's where people end up spending the most money is when they're buying like a little bit of rice or they're buying a little bag of lentils. If you buy in bulk of staples like your grains, your beans, your lentils, your nuts, these items are cost effective. They have a long shelf life and they can be used in so many different dishes. Like if instead of buying a small bag of quinoa for one or two meals, grab a massive bag of quinoa that will last you for weeks, if not months and just find a place in a side pantry where you can keep that and then find a little jar and pour it in that jar so that you have a little bit that you can take and prepare rather than having to haul around this five pound bag of quinoa. But it's going to be way more cost effective. And so yeah, obviously that storage is probably another great side tip for any of you guys having airtight containers to keep them fresh and also to prevent waste. Waste is a big piece, which I'll touch on on a second. But moving on to tip number three, this one's pretty straightforward, but also, I mean, this is probably one of the most important things that you could do when you are trying to get in shape, which is to focus on whole foods. Processed foods are often more expensive. They're also packed with additives that don't do your body any favors, but they're meant to like extend their shelf life, but they're again horrible for you. And so instead of going for these big brand names of ultra processed foods that yes, might taste pretty good because they're loaded with a bunch of additives, stick to whole foods. Go to the produce section, get fresh foods, fruits, get fresh vegetables, get whole grains, go over to the butcher and get lean proteins, or you can get fatty proteins too, but don't be going and getting pre packaged, pre cooked chicken. That's going to be loaded with sodium, going to be loaded with preservatives so that it stays alive on their shelves longer. And when it comes to that produce shop in season, whenever possible, I think that's something that people don't really do because it's going to be fresher. Obviously, if it's in season for avocados, then you're going to have fresher avocados are going to taste better, and it's almost always cheaper. And so you could even litter you could literally like plan your meals around what season it is. And so that's just a few of also if you have a nice little like a farmer's market nearby, fantastic place to find high quality fruits and veggies at a lower price, you'll be supporting small businesses. It's a win-win all around. Okay, tip number four, huge one. You have to do it cook at home. And I get it. Eating out is convenient. And there are a lot of places now that are offering healthier options these days, which is awesome. But the truth is, is that those menu items are overpriced and you also have less control over the ingredients that are used in them and also portion sizes. And so you might get this meal that's a pretty big that is technically probably two portion sizes for you. Like it's probably double what you should be eating. You're also probably going to be paying 30 bucks for that meal, maybe 20, 30 bucks for that meal, which is way more than what you'd be paying if you bought in bulk and then prepared this for yourself. And you don't know what all ingredients are used. You don't know what oils they're using, if they're using seed oils or what they're adding to it or where they're sourcing their foods. You don't know any of that stuff. Cooking at home gives you the power to control exactly what's going into your meals. Plus, it's a great way to stretch your dollar because, like I said, the cost of one takeout meal could cover the ingredients for several home cooked meals, especially if you're ordering on like Dordash or Uber Eats or something like that, because you got all them extra fees that somehow your meal is your meal that you're actually ordering is 15 bucks, but the meal comes out to $34. Like how did this happen? And if you're new to cooking, by the way, start with simple recipes. There are recipes like actually my sister just got my girlfriend a recipe book of simple recipes because she doesn't love cooking, but she does occasionally. And I eat like a 15 year old. I'll eat very simple basic foods. So it was great for us. And so if you're new to cooking, start with those simple recipes. Go get yourself a simple recipe cookbook and then use or make recipes that only use a handful of ingredients. And then as you get more confident in the kitchen, you can try to experiment with new flavors and new techniques of cooking. And also don't forget that home cooked meals usually means you're going to have leftovers. And this is huge. If you're trying to not break the bank and stick to a diet, you got to use you got to eat your leftovers. I, I will admit, am not the best at eating leftovers. That's something I need to work on. But if you are trying to save money, you stretch that dollar, then you want to make sure that those leftovers are tomorrow's lunch or tomorrow's quick dinner, because it's basically like getting two or three or four meals for the price of one. Now on to tip number five, make the most affordable or make the most of affordable proteins. And what does that mean? Protein doesn't have to break the bank protein is yes, going to be probably your most expensive food that you're purchasing. Right. But there are budget friendly options. Eggs, for example, can be quite cheap. You can get a dozen eggs for three bucks. Can tuna also super cheap. If you're a tuna fan, beans, lentils, even frozen fish. If you prefer poultry, you can get chicken thighs. Those are usually going to be cheaper than the chicken breast and just as nutritious. And some people like them more. Ground turkey or lean ground beef are also great options for meal prepping multiple dishes without spending a fortune that goes back to what we're talking about with the tacos versus the chili. And then, and then another big one tip, tip number six, I think, avoid. Food waste. I said we were going to mention this a little bit later. I've mentioned a couple of things related to food waste leftovers. But there was a crazy statistic that the average household throws out about 32% of the food they buy. That's crazy. That's all. That's a lot of wasted money if you're trying to diet on a budget. And so to avoid this, get creative with leftovers. For example, roast chicken from dinner can be shredded and turned into chicken salad or added to a stir fry. Vegetables that are starting to kind of go bad and starting to wilt a little bit can be tossed into a soup or blended up into a smoothie, a nice protein smoothie. And always keep an eye on expiration dates. I know some people are a little bit more lenient with what they consider a proper expiration date. And I know for a fact, my mom will, she does the smell test. If it don't smell too bad, she'll eat it. But basically you just want to rotate older items to the front of your fridge or the front of your pantry so that they get used up before the bad ones. Pretty simple. Next, let's talk about embracing meal prep. And this is more of a, I think a mindset one because meal prep is it's if you're serious about getting in shape and you're serious about making drastic changes, you got to meal prep. That's just, it's just, you can't rely on cooking every single day. You can't rely on eating out all the time. Now you don't have to meal prep every meal for every day of the week, but meal prepping, like I always say when people are starting out meal prep, just cook like three or four dinners at a time and then work your way up. Because meal prep is a lifesaver for, for, for getting in shape, but also just if you're busy and also if you're on a budget. Because by prepping those meals in advance, you'll always have healthy options ready to go, which means you're less likely to cave and order takeout or hit the fat. Food line on the way home from work when you're hungry and don't know what you're going to be eating for dinner. So dedicate one day a week. Sunday works great to cook a big batch of rice, cook some vegetables, prepare some protein chicken. If you're vegan tofu, store everything in proportioned containers airtight so that you can mix and match throughout the week and then you're good to go. And again, you don't have to have that for every single meal of the week, but the majority of the time you have an out, you have a healthy option right there ready to go. So you don't have to, like I said, order some Dora dash or hit some McDonald's on the way home. You don't want to be doing that failure to prepare prepares you to fail. Tip number eight, shop smart. Being a savvy shopper makes a huge difference. So keep an eye out for sales. Keep an eye out and use coupons. Don't overlook generic brands. I mentioned you not buying a name brand just because of the name brand. Those are usually going to be marked up just because they're the name brand. Like I mentioned Doritos earlier, there's probably an off brand Doritos right next to the Doritos that have everything the exact same, but they're $2 cheaper. And they're often just as good as the name brands, but like I said, they cost less. And a pro tip is never shop when you're hungry. I mentioned this earlier as well. This is the best tip I can give to anybody who's grown grocery shopping because it is a recipe for impulse buys, which really will blow your budget if you're trying to do this on a budget. So even if you're not doing this on a budget, I think everybody should avoid going to the grocery store hungry because every single time I've done it, I've come home with a big deal. I've come home with two or three things that I absolutely did not need and I probably don't eat or if I do eat, I'm mad that I even bought them and I did eat them. So it's just a lose, lose all around. And then finally tip number nine I think we're on now is to you could also try growing your own food below homesteader. If you got a little time, you got a little space, growing your own herbs, growing your own vegetables, even your own fruits can be a very fun and also cost effective way to eat fresh. And again, if you're not a gardener, I'm not a gardener. I'm not going to sit here and act like I am. One day I would like to have a ranch and I would like to grow some of this, but start with easy to grow plants, a couple easy to grow plants. I had to look this up, but I got you basil, parsley, lettuce, tomatoes, all easy to grow. Even even a small little window sill herb garden can help save a little bit money while adding flavor to your meals. It's just less that you have to buy at the store. And again, if you like gardening, it's a win-win too. Now, if you are looking for a little extra help with creating a budget friendly meal plan that's both healthy and taste good and don't break the bank, we got you covered. We got V-Shred certified coaches that are experts at designing meal plans that fit your individual goals, your body type and your budget. And they'll handle all the planning, they'll handle all the organization for you so that all you have to do is focus on enjoying your journey without feeling overwhelmed. And so if that sounds like something that you'd be interested in, there should be a link somewhere around here, maybe down below in the description. You can click that link to get started. But if you just came here to listen to the episode, amazing. And I hope you enjoyed it. I hope these tips help you save some cash while staying on track with your health and fitness goals. But thank you for tuning in and I will catch you in the next episode. Thanks for tuning in to today's episode of V-Shred's Better Body Better Life podcast. Whether you're doing one of our programs, taking our supplements or just doing things on your own, tune in every week for exclusive content with V-Shred trainers and special guests as they share valuable tips around motivation, workouts, food and living a healthier lifestyle. See you next time.

=== FILE: Strength Training, Bodybuilding and Stretching ｜ V SHRED Better Body, Better Life Podcast [8UFwhgui4ns].txt ===

 you need to know your starting point. Take a few days to track certain things. You gotta know how much calories you're putting in your body. You have to know how much non-exercise activity you're doing, typically in the form of steps. What I tell all my clients is 7,000 steps. 7,000 is the baseline, 10,000 is the goal. Food. If you ask a normal person who is even seeking help, how many calories are you eating a day? I can guarantee you they have absolutely no idea. Welcome to the V-Shred Better Body Better Life Podcast, where we help you live your best life while working on your health and fitness goals. We're here to make your journey fun and inspiring. What's going on, everyone? Welcome back to another episode of the Better Body Better Life Podcast. I'm your host, Vince Sant, and today we have one of our coaches here with us, a special guest, to talk about just bodybuilding, talk about resistance training, talk about strength training. I want everybody to welcome Alex Loudon. He's a certified personal trainer. He's a certified nutritionist, certified corrective exercise specialist, certified bodybuilding specialist. He has his master's degree in business. He played sports grown-up. He's been in the sports world for a long time, so everybody welcome. Alex, thanks for having me, Vince. What's going on? How are you doing? Go ahead and just give our listeners and myself a proper intro of yourself. I know I just went over a bunch of random stuff about you. You've got a ton of different certifications, and you're in the bodybuilding space, or at least used to be in the bodybuilding space, and then you also grew up in the sports area, and you're in the sports industry now. So just tell us a little bit about you, what got you into fitness, and we'll go from there. Yeah, absolutely. So growing up, I was always into sports, multi-sport athlete, played at a pretty high level through high school. I have the kind of, you know, the prototypical story of, you know, athlete gone wrong, unfortunately. I was a baseball player, tore my labrum, the backside of my shoulder, and so that kind of derailed my sports career in high school. I was always active enough to where I could stay lean, fit. When I stopped playing sports, fell off the wagon, man. Unfortunately, fell off the wagon. Got really big. You know, I ballooned up to 270, and, you know, at one point stepped on the scale, and a light bulb just went off in my head, and I was like, I can't do this anymore. And I was only 19 or 20. So I kind of hit that, you know, rock bottom, if you will, at a young enough age to where I was able to, you know, pick myself up, recover, and, you know, get on the straight and narrow. And ironically enough, I kind of just fell into it. I fell into doing it the right way. To where my philosophy on wellness, we'll call it, is there are three main pillars, nutrition, strength training, and cardio. And honestly, in that order. So, you know, what did I do? So I went from 270 to 185 in like a six or seven month span. You know, cut out, thank you. I cut out sodas, fast foods, was eating grilled chicken salads, right? But at this point in time, I was not knowledgeable or educated in the nutrition realm. I just knew sodas and fast foods were bad, right? Stop doing those things. Started strength training, started doing cardio, and kind of turned my life around. All while this is happening, I'm going to school for business, right? So, you know, through the midst of all this, you know, my body is transforming. People are asking me what I'm doing. And so I start helping people little by little, you know, not monetizing in any way, shape, or form. But I've always been in sports, so I understood the value of coaching. I understood the value of teamwork, helping others, the value of having, you know, being fit and active. And so, you know, fast forward a few years, I get a business degree. I go to graduate school for sport and entertainment management, because I love the sports industry. So, fast forward four or five years, I now have two master's degrees in business. I'm a very fit and functional person, and I work in the sports industry for a few years. And then, unfortunately, I kind of just fall out of love for that industry for the reason that from the outside looking in, it seems very glamorous. It's just new. Overworked, underpaid, working weekends, working holidays. And after about three or four years of doing that, I just, I had it. So, I decided to, you know, go a different route. And at that point, call it, I'm 24, 25 at this point, I'm 31 now. So, I pursue my personal training certificate. I get that. I, you know, become an in-person personal trainer for about two years. I start my own online business, coaching people virtually. I started with just like a few people in my neighborhood, someone that my mom referred me to. And then, I did a little bit of online marketing and gathered somewhat of a slightly larger following. Had a few people out on the West Coast, a few people out of state. And so, that was a good supplemental, you know, revenue stream for me. And then, I was the general manager of a gym for about two years, while also being the lead strength and conditioning coach at a baseball academy locally to me, and also coaching baseball. So, I've had a lot of different experiences that has kind of led me to where I am now. And I'm very thankful and very happy with where my career has led me. And, you know, I plan to be here for a long time. And so, you truly have, like if, I mean, everybody jokes about like, oh, if I hadn't had this bum knee, I'd be in the league. You could kind of say it about your shoulder if you were playing at a high level, which is cool and a bummer. But it's cool that it led you down that path of getting into fitness where you, and you said that you hit rock bottom when you were 270 pounds. When you hit 270 pounds, what was your like immediate go to? You said that you were cutting out fast food, cutting out, what do you say, energy drinks and poppin' stuff. And so, did you just do that? You said you didn't really have an understanding of nutrition yet. And so, how did you drop, what was it, 90 pounds? Something like that, yeah. And in half a year, because most people, I mean, most people can't do that, you know, or that, or, I mean, a lot of it comes down to willpower, I think. And, I mean, it sounds like from your background, I mean, playing sports takes a lot of, like, dedication, getting two masters of degrees takes a lot of willpower to stick through all that. And then starting like a new career at 24, 25 again. And so, what made you want to, I guess, like, what was the mindset you had when you were ready to make a change? Because you said you stepped on the scale 270, that was your rock bottom. What was your mindset going into that new transformation journey? I don't want to be fat. Yeah. So, like, look, and you're absolutely right. Mindset willpower discipline, they all, you know, play a big role. But for me, it was more personal fulfillment. But then I also have, again, the background of discipline, day in and day out to get good at your craft. You got to stay consistent. And that's the biggest thing, right? You know, I'd be lying to you if I said, you know, I have a lot of clients who are like, you know, my father died at a young age. I have children that I want to be here for a long time for. You know, I didn't have that lie, right? That wasn't that wasn't my reason. It was confidence issues. It was depression. It was complacency. So there was a lot of different things that. Drove me to just it was like a shock because, you know, as most people as it happens to most people, it's gradual, right? It took a year or two for me to get from a healthier way of 210 to then 270. And nobody was telling me. I had a girlfriend and she didn't say anything. And it was just, it just happened. And, you know, it just, it creeped up on me. And then one day I stepped on the scale and again, it was just my jaw dropped. And I was like, nope, can't do this anymore. Wow. And so, you know, going back to your original question, kind of what I did outside of just cutting out soda and fast food. And I don't want this to sound jarring to the novice person who's trying to get, you know, more fit and into the fitness space. I ran a lot. So I would go to the gym and I would run essentially if I could, I would run three, I would go at least three to three and a half miles. Right. So I'd run about a mile, walk, catch my breath, then run three quarters of a mile, walk, catch my breath, then run a half of a mile. And that was just me warming up. Then I would go and strength train for 45 minutes to an hour and then do core at the end. So it truly was a culmination of fixing my diet, strength training and cardio. And again, you know, your jaw dropped and you said, wow, to the fact that I lost 80 some odd pounds in, in six months. I also had a lot of things going for me. I had more flexibility. I was young. So again, I don't want to make it sound impossible to the person who has a family of five and a and a stressful work life and things of that nature. It's, you know, it really is all about finding your why staying consistent and, you know, improving 1% every day. And what did you see bigger benefits from the cardio aspect of it or the strength training aspect of it? And what did you enjoy more? Did you enjoy the running? No. Yeah. Yeah. No, I think it takes a fairly special kind of person to truly enjoy running. I just, I knew that it was, um, you know, as most people think right, right off the bat, how do you lose weight? You stop eating food and you do long bouts of cardio. Yep. And so sure that was, uh, at the front and center of my mind at that point in time. And that will definitely get you the quicker results that will not give you the longer sustainable results. And why not? Well, because of the way that it can negatively affect your hormones, your metabolism. And again, I would never tell somebody to not do something that they enjoy doing. If you enjoy running or you enjoy playing basketball, things like that, phenomenal. But there's a balance to everything. Right. I would say strength training is more important than cardio because strength training is the fountain of youth. Strength training in the short term will improve your mood, your energy, your libido, your, uh, and a lot of times your mindset. Mm hmm. In the long term, it's going to help to speed up the metabolism. It's going to build stronger bones. It's going to make you a more functional person. So with all of those benefits, I just feel as if it outweighs the benefits of, you know, long distance cardio. And don't get me wrong. I still even to this day get my 10,000 steps in a day. Right. It's not high intensity, long steady state cardio, but that's not, you know, but I'm still getting cardio. Right. I still play sports in men's league. I play soccer and I play baseball. So two days a week, I am getting my hit style or longer, steady state cardio in there. Um, so it truly is a balance. Um, but laying the pros and cons of everything, I would definitely say strength training is slightly above cardio. Um, when it comes to, you know, results. Yeah. No, a couple of things I love what you said right there. The main one being like, Hey, I'm never going to tell somebody who loves doing, who loves running that they shouldn't run. Or if somebody was a swimmer in high school or in college and they want to go swim a couple of times a week for their cardio. Like people, I mean, obviously we have tons of videos out there where we're kind of like bashing cardio, but we're only bashing cardio because it's not sustainable or enjoyable for most people long term. And there are negative effects if you're that, if that's all you're doing. And so I love that you clarify all of that. Um, also men's soccer league sounds like the craziest cardio ever. I know, like softball leagues, baseball leagues, they're like not too tough. I've played softball a couple of times since being an adult and it's like, occasionally you got a sprint to base or you got to run for a play or something like that. But soccer, I can't even imagine the cardio with that. It'd be like, I've played basketball since being an adult in a league and that's enough. I don't know how soccer, I don't even know how I would be able to keep up with that. But I wanted to ask you, you mentioned how if you have a client who's got five kids, um, and a full time job, like you had that, that flexibility and a little bit more time. You were also, you said you started working at a gym too. So that kind of opened up like the accessibility that you needed to kind of work out. If you had a break, you go work out lunch, you could work out before work going early when the gym's not even open. Maybe I don't know if that's allowed, but like you were, you were around it all day. Right. Most people are not. And so like as you get older and since you've been working with people and helping people get in shape, how does that change a little bit? Like how does, how does, um, the approach to strength training change? Yeah. Well, number one, it's trying to get to understand their lifestyle. Right. It is so difficult without speaking to somebody face to face, um, to understand what a day in their life looks like. Yeah. Right. And I just read a very inspiring, um, you know, a story we'll call it of a gentleman who wakes up at 3 30 in the morning to strength train for about an hour and a half. Well, then kind of, you know, take a shower, get his lunch prepared and things like that. And then go back to bed at six o'clock in the morning because he has a six year old autistic son who will join him in bed. And if the dad isn't there, it's already a bad day for the shot. Then to get up again for a second time around seven 30, because he has, he's a, he's a, uh, he's a store owner. So he has to open up his shop at nine o'clock, close at seven, get home at eight, bath time, sorry time for, for the son again. So I mean, that is a packed, stressful life. And this gentleman is making it work. So, you know, there's no one best response to this answer. Um, I mean, it really just comes down to you, you got to do what you got to do. You know, I'm not a very crude person. I'm a little more of the empathetic coach, but some people will literally just say, like, if you're not doing it, if you're not prioritizing your health, you just don't want it bad enough. Right. And that, that, that is a little more, uh, you know, direct than, than I am with most of my clients. But at the end of the day, there are ways to make it work. I mean, a few tips that I share with a lot of my clients is number one, write your longer term goals down. Right. If you have a whiteboard, maybe it's words of affirmation in your bathroom that you go to, you know, multiple times a day. Maybe it's smack dab on your refrigerator. Write your longterm goals down and you can literally kind of like speak them into existence. Right. As long as you have a structured game plan in place to help get you there. Right. A second, a second approach, um, you know, on the same topic is a daily planner right next to me. I have my daily planner that breaks things down by the 15 minute from seven o'clock in the morning. Wow. Till like a nice, I write in everything. I write in the time that I'm going to the gym. I write in the times I'm walking my dog. I write in, you know, my when I'm, when I'm making and prepping food exactly. So that just creates almost non-negotiable. Right. It is very easy to work a long day, get home at six. And in the back of your mind in the morning, you're like, oh, I'm going to go to the gym. I'm going to get a good workout in and then you get home and you're tired and you don't do it. But guess what? If you have it written in pen and stone, if you will, it's really just another level of accountability. Yep. I love that. And that's, that's actually some motivation that I needed to get back to doing that. Cause I used to be really good. Like I go through phases, you know, I think most people go through phases and lots of areas of life. And that's one thing that I would do is I would write down every night before I went to bed. That's when I would do it. Cause that's like, sometimes I'll just sit in bed and I'll just like sit there with my eyes open or my eyes close. And just like my mind will just race. I'd be like, what, what, what did I do today? Or I'll be thinking about something that I said or that I should have done or I'm thinking about what I have to get done tomorrow or whatever. And so like one of the best things that I do for myself is I journal and one of the things that I would do in addition to that journaling, which I'm better about the journaling at night. And that helps me with that stress. But like the daily planner I would write down, like I wake up probably seven, seven 30. I'm not a super early riser. And so I'd wait, I'd write down like what time I want to wake up seven, eight, nine. I'd break it down by hour or a half hour. It's 15 minutes is like next level. But I would, it would be super useful cause I would, I would know like, and I would, I would write down like a lot of it would be like, I'd have work blocks and I would write down what I'm doing during those work blocks so that I also don't have to, cause that's the thing is like, I have, like right now I could do a million different things. But sometimes because I have a million different things to do, I forget about most of them and I only do a couple of them. And then someone hits me up and they're like, Hey, did you check out this? I'm like, Oh, shit. No, I forgot about that completely versus if I'm writing down a deal. So I love that. But back to the weightlifting aspect of it, were there, what, what mistakes did you make in the beginning with your fitness and what would you say are some of the common misconceptions when it comes to weightlifting? Um, I would say that the two most overlooked aspects of just this whole thing of trying to get in shape because I am a big strength training advocate. I would say number one over training people, especially at the beginning, put the pedal to the metal, have all of this motivation and they neglect. The bigger picture. So over, you know, what happens when you over train is that number one, you could actually take a half step back. Um, if you don't recover properly, um, as in, if your muscles are not recovered and you break them down, you're damaging them more than you're helping them. So over training, especially if you're under nourished, right? Because here's the thing, when you're trying to lose weight, there's such a balance to everything. You need to be in a cork deficit, but it should be a slight cork deficit. Like I mentioned before, people are always like, I'm going to stop eating food. I'm going to law. I'm going to run long distances. That's not the way to do it. You need to figure out what your metabolic rate is. And then you need to figure out approximately how much exercise calories you're burning. So your base, your basal metabolic rate is essentially just how many calories you're burning on a daily basis outside of exercise. Right. For most people, it's in the high teens. We'll call it 1800 on average, right? Maybe a little bit higher. If you're, you know, if you've been doing this for a long time, call it 18. And then you work out and you burn 400 calories. So now your total caloric expenditure for the day is 2200 calories or your maintenance calories. Right. So now to be in a cork deficit, you only want to be. Two to 500. 500 is high. I say two to 300 in a cork deficit. So if you're burning 2200 calories a day, you want to eat 1900 2000 calories a day, you will slowly and steadily lose the fat or the weight obviously. And then through strength training, you help speed up the metabolism. And build more muscle. Here's the thing. Over training will slow that down, especially because you're undernourished to a certain degree, which is necessary to lose the weight. Yep. So that's one. And then one thing I'll add to that is like injury is a real risk. If you're overtraining, we were literally just talking about this before you hopped on. One of the guys here is he's like a power lifter and he's super fucking strong. And he's like talking to me about like some of the numbers that he's pushing on bench and he's like getting his bench back up. And I tore my pec, benching like probably a year ago, like recently, and it wasn't even going super heavy. The issue was I had gone super heavy recently. I hit like 315 for the first. I hit like 315 for the first. I just for some reason, I was like, I'm going to get strong now while I'm like training for a triathlon, which was, I don't know what I was thinking. But I was getting strong. And I tried it was the first time I had ever tried benching 315 and it moved pretty easily. And then and then a couple of days later, I was like, OK, I'm not going to go big today. But I mean, it was still on 260 and I had a proper warm up. But I went up to 265, which I had just pushed 50 pounds, 60 pounds heavier than this, like 50 pounds. I'm a sped three days prior. I had pushed much more weight than this. I should be fine. But my body hadn't recovered from that fully yet. And I tore my pec on much lower weight than I just had pushed. So then over over training can also lead to more injuries. So sorry to stop you. No, you're all good. And piggybacking on overtraining being number one, recovery was number two. And that was the second part of the original question was, you know, essentially, what are the most overlooking at what are the most overlooked aspects of this? You know, pushing too hard too soon and not recovering. Yeah. Right. And to your point, you know, if you want to stick to the basics and if you'd like, I mean, you're leading the conversation, obviously, but we can get more into it more in depth into some higher level recovery stuff. But it really does start with sleep. Yep. Water. Yep. High quality food. Mm hmm. Limiting stress, if possible. Yeah. Right. I had this one client. Hmm. Been working with for a long time now. He actually recently just hit his hundred pound weight loss marker. Damn. But this has been like a year. Right. So we've been training together for a while. 100 pounds is crazy. Yeah. 100 pounds is 100 pounds, no matter. Yeah. No matter how you split it. Right. But nonetheless, he's hit plateaus along the way. And those are to be expected. And I definitely communicated that with him. A big way how we overcame those hurdles was he has a very stressful job. So he was one of those people who wanted to train seven days a week because it's his stress relief. And I'm like, dude, let's take a half step back. Because I don't think you're recovering enough. Let's do something to help. Number one, your mental health. And then number two, to literally help the body relax. So on Sundays, he now does yoga. I and I gave him other ideas like, dude, go get a massage. Have a self care day. Yeah. One day a week. Guys are so against that. I don't know why. Girls are all about it. Spa day, massages. They're all about it. Getting their nails done, something that's going to relieve stress. Guys, I feel like, yeah, it's the opposite. It's like it's almost like being like hardwired into our brains that like the harder you work, the more manly you are. And that no days off is more respected when in reality, that's hurting you more than it's. I mean, it helps you in plenty of ways. And I would say like in your younger years, I do recommend that. Like, yeah, when I was 18, I mean, when we started the business, I was 20 years old and for the first five years, it was Adderall and energy drinks and not much sleep and lots of stress. But like I was young and I could afford to do that. I could, I was fine, not sleeping very much. My hormones were okay. And I had, and then I spent some time the last couple of years correcting that by getting good sleep and, and making sure that my hormones are correct and everything like that and getting my blow work done consistently. But yeah, for some reason, guys have just been convinced that like the harder you work and the less time you take off, the more respected as a man you are, which is something that we, I think we need to shift the narrative on. Yeah, 100%. And you hit the nail on the head when you said it's just been ingrained in our mind. But quite frankly, like time has changed, you know what I mean? And there has been more talk about, you know, mental health awareness and things like that, which is great. But you're right. Just like with every other social issue in the world, it's going, hopefully it will continue to evolve and, and, and help people in the long term. Yeah. And then so now that shift over to women, because a lot of our listeners are women, what are some of the misconceptions around weightlifting when it comes to women? This is one of my favorite questions, especially stemming back to being a personal trainer in a gym, because when I was there, we did not have anybody handing clients, right? In certain gym settings, there are a fitness manager, the fitness manager signs people up and places them with who they think the best. Right. Trainer would be, right. For me, I needed to find all my own clients. So I would go out on the floor, talk to people, and we would set up what we're, what we call consultations. Okay. 99 times out of 100. When I sat down with a woman and I was trying to explain to her what my philosophy would be if we were to train together. It's either too intimidating or they don't want to get too bulky. And I'm here to tell you, you will not get too bulky. Because quite honestly, it takes so long. Like I, I'm a man with testosterone. I have a higher muscle building, um, effects than women do. I've been working for a very, very, very long time to build as much muscle, eat as much food as I possibly can. And I mean, I, I, I'm a, I'm a pretty muscular person, but I do not look like Arnold Schwarzenegger. That is just a whole, you know, that, that's a whole nother level. With 15 times as much testosterone as a woman. Yeah. Literally. Exactly. Exactly. Um, so, you know, when it comes to strength training for women, do it as often as possible, lift pretty much as heavy as possible, because there are so many things that have to go right for them to become too bulky to wear again for the average person out there. It's just simply not going to happen. What actually will happen is, um, they will build lean tissue and they will be a lot more aesthetically, they'll burn the fat that most women want to burn. Most people generally speaking, but you know, women, women as well. Um, and they will get lean and more cut versus bulky. Yep. The long, the long lean.  amlodipine, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin,  naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin,

=== FILE: The Role of Water in Weight Loss and How to Stay Hydrated ｜ V SHRED Better Body, Better Life Podcast [Rc4L8NXhcwE].txt ===

 Question. Did you know that drinking water actually makes your body work harder? Drinking 16 ounces of water can increase your metabolic rate by 24 to 30% for about an hour. And cold water, by the way, gives you an extra edge. Why? Because your body has to expend even more energy to heat the water up to your body's core temperature, which burns even more calories. Welcome to the V-Shred Better Body Better Life Podcast, where we help you live your best life while working on your health and fitness goals. We're here to make your journey fun and inspiring. What's going on, everyone? Welcome back to another episode of the Better Body Better Life Podcast. I'm your host, Vince, and today we are diving into a topic that's simple, but very underestimated in the world of weight loss. And so I want to start this episode off with a question for you. And that question is, could the missing link in your fitness journey be as simple as water? And I know it sounds too easy to be true, but stick with me because today I'm going to show you how hydration can supercharge your weight loss goals, can help you boost your health and help your energy levels and weight loss. And I'm going to start it off with a pretty wild stat, which is that about 75% of Americans are chronically dehydrated. That means most of us are walking around every day feeling tired, feeling sluggish, feeling hungry when really we just need to drink more water. And it's funny, there's like literally trending videos going around of the Water Boy audio where it's like it's the Water Boy Adam Sandler talking to saying something about like, oh, that's high quality H2O. And then it's like a meme of like somebody's girlfriend who has a headache and she don't need ibuprofen, she don't need Tylenol, she needs water because that's what most headaches are caused by. Dehydration. And so by the end of this episode, you're not only going to understand why water is such a game changer, but you'll also understand or have practical tips to drink more of it and tools to also track your hydration levels. Okay, let's get into it because it's going to be one of those episodes is very simple, but it could also truly help transform your fitness journey and how you feel on a day to day basis. Okay. And so let's start with the why. Why is drinking enough water such a big deal for weight loss because that's obviously going to be super helpful for you to be motivated enough to drink water. This is the reason number one water helps you control your caloric intake. And here's here's the reason. Your brain often confuses thirst for hunger. So this means that when you feel the urge to snack, especially at random times or during times when you probably shouldn't even be hungry, it could be your body just crying out for water, not more food. There was a study published in obesity where they looked at people who drank 16 ounces of water 30 minutes before meals. Those people lost about 44% more weight over 12 weeks than those who didn't, which is huge. So actionable tip here. Next time you're hit with a craving. I want you to just drink a full glass of water and then I want you to wait 15 minutes. This one simple habit can help you avoid unnecessary snacking and reduce your overall caloric intake throughout the day. Reason number two, water boosts your metabolism. Question. Did you know that drinking water actually makes your body work harder? Research from the Journal of Clinical Endocrinology and Metabolism found that drinking 16 ounces of water can increase your metabolic rate by 24 to 30% for about an hour. So cold and cold water, by the way, gives you an extra edge. Why? Because your body has to expend even more energy to heat the water up to your body's core temperature, 98.6, which burns even more calories. And it might not seem like much. Drinking more water is not going to be the reason that you lose 100 pounds. Obviously the whole picture, but water can help and these small things over time add up. So my tip here would be make it a habit to drink a cold glass of water, cold glass, first thing in the morning and before each meal. It's a very easy way to kickstart your metabolism, to keep it humming all day long, to get you a little kickstart for being hydrated. And I even like to throw in a little hydration packet to my water so that I'm also getting electrolytes and a little sneak peek depending on when you're listening to this. We do have some, a new supplement coming out called V-Shred Hydrate. So depending on when you're listening to this, we might have a nice little hydration packet that you can throw in your water that gets you hydrated all day long. Reason number three, water supercharges your workouts. If you're serious about hitting the gym, what you should be hydration is a non-negotiable. Because water is essential for muscle function, joint lubrication and endurance and also not cramping, which is the worst thing ever. If you're halfway through a workout, you start cramping, your workout is pretty much done. Or you're doing, or like let's say you're a runner, halfway through your run. I just ran my first marathon a couple weeks ago. If I was cramping halfway through that marathon, I'm done. I'm not going to be able to run that much longer with cramps. So the same thing goes. And people sometimes experience cramps even when they're sleeping. Like I know my dad, for example, he started taking magnesium and salt before he went to bed because he would get cramps in the middle of the night. And that's caused by dehydration. And even mild dehydration can cause your performance to drop by as much as 10%. That's just mild dehydration. So that means if you're working out without being optimally hydrated, you're not getting the most out of your efforts. You're essentially wasting time. Plus staying hydrated reduces the risk of muscle strains. I said cramps, muscle strains also. And then obviously fatigue, which makes recovery, well, if you have the hydration, it makes the recovery faster and it makes the recovery less painful and less risk of injury. So actionable tip here would be to aim to drink at least 16 ounces of water about an hour or two before your workout. And then also sip regularly during exercise to stay on top of your game. And then another piece of advice I would give is maybe try to find a pre-workout powder that has salt in it. The pre-workout that I take has salt in it. But if I'm taking one that is not that one, I'll also have a little bit of salt with my pre-workout. And then reason number four, detox and digestion, which is a huge one. Water is your body's natural detox tool. It helps flush out toxins. It supports kidney function, which is huge. And then it keeps your digestion running smoothly. If you're not drinking enough water, your body holds on to fluids, leading to bloating, leading to puffiness, and dehydration can slow digestion, leading to constipation and other digestive issues. Think of water as like your broom for your digestive system. It sweeps away waste and keeps everything moving efficiently. And so action tip here is to add a splash of lemon to your morning glass of water to help kickstart your digestion and support your body's natural detox processes. Again, in the morning, drinking cold water right when you wake up with a little bit of lemon and maybe a little bit of salt. Okay, now I want to get into some hacks of how to increase your water intake. Because now that you know, I mean, we've all known that water matters, right? But let's talk about how to drink more of it. And the first tip is going to be very obvious and very easy, but something most people don't do, which is to carry a water bottle, a refillable water bottle everywhere. If you are watching this right now, I have a water bottle with me all the time, literally 24 seven. I got about 10 of these things in my cabinet because I leave them everywhere. And I can just grab the next one. Like it's literally like a game with my friends whenever I go anywhere. There's like a bet on whether or not I lose. I leave my shaker there. And usually I win that bet, but I always have a water bottle with me. Having a water bottle with you is the easiest way to make water a constant part of your day. If you're struggling with drinking enough water and you don't have a water bottle, if you don't struggle with getting enough water and you're chugging, and you have certain times of the day where you chugging a bunch of water, you don't need one. But if you're struggling to get your water, you need one. And there's tons of different bottles out there. Find one that you like the look of something that's big enough to last you. I mean, something that's big enough to carry. I'd say, I don't know, 20 to 30 ounces of water, but also small enough to carry around. And my personal recommendation would be to find one that fits in cup holders. Everybody's all big on like the big, like the big ones. And like if I'm driving in the car with one of them big water bottles, I got to put it on the seat next to me or on the floor, which is just not convenient for me. I like one that fits in any cup holder. That way, anywhere, if I'm taking it on a plane, taking it in the car, taking it anywhere, I can just put it in a cup holder right next to me. Because most places have cup holders wherever you sit. But just make it a habit to have it. And also to refill it at specific times. And so I make sure that it's filled. So what I'll do is when I wake up, I'm drinking whatever's left in it. I fill it up before I go to bed. And then I'll probably drink a little bit of it as I'm like falling asleep. I try not to drink too much water at night because I don't want to pee the bed. But then when I wake up, I drink whatever's left. And then I'll refill it in the morning before I either get to work or before I leave for the office. And so I'll fill it up in the morning and then I'll fill it up. I'll try to drink that within the next two hours. And then I'll fill it up mid early, late morning, early afternoon. I'll do it again mid to late afternoon. I'll fill it up before the gym. I'll drink a full one at the gym. I'll drink another one after I fill it up after the gym. And then I'll drink probably one more between gym and bedtime, which I fill it up again at bedtime. So I'm having like what, six, seven, eight of these a day? I'm having a, I'm having, I'm getting, I'm truly getting a gallon of water every single day. And if you can get a gallon of water, great. If not, aim for at least a half gallon, if not three fourths of a gallon. And then use, if it helps, use time markers. This is, this would be pro tip. Use time markers on your bottle as a guide. There's literally like water bottles that have six AM, nine AM, 12 PM, 3 PM, 6 PM. And it's a, it's a, it's a gallon jug, which is not going to fit in a cup holder, but it's a gallon jug that if it's 3 PM and you're not at the line that says 3 PM, you got to chug till you get to the line says 3 PM. And so these little props on this water bottle make it much easier and as sets, like it works as a reminder to hit your hydration goals. And so tip number two would be to set reminders because maybe you don't have a bottle that has the time stamps on it. You could literally just pull up Siri or if you have a home Alexa, like, hey Alexa set reminders every two hours to drink water. And every two hours you're getting a little reminder to drink some water because life gets busy. It's easy to forget to drink water. That's where technology can help. We got technology all around us. Let's use it. So set those two hour reminders, maybe set hourly reminders and set it on your phone. You can set it on your phone. You can set it on your smartwatch or you can download an app. There's an app called it's plant nanny. There's another one called my water to make tracking your water intake more fun, more engaging, more of a game for the hardcore planners out there set daily water deadlines. So say, for example, I'm going to drink 20 ounces of water by 10 AM and then another 20 by noon and another 20 by 2 PM and so on. Tip number three is to infuse your water. And I can use my dad as an example here. My dad has always kind of worked out. Never really been good about his diet. The gym workouts he used to do probably weren't the best either now that I look back at it. But one thing he always struggled with was water intake. And he actually used one of our programs, our move program. If you guys haven't checked out our move program, great program 30 day at home workout program, no equipment, every workouts less than 20 minutes. He did that nine months in a row. He lost, I think 40 or 50 pounds, got off blood pressure medicine, but always struggled with drinking water. So what did he do? He got those little meows that squirt into your water that flavor it with raspberry, blueberry, grape, lemon, apple, whatever you want it to be. So if you're not a fan of plain water, add a little burst of flavor. You can use one of those flavorings. You can infuse it with, there's literally like water machines now that you put fruit in a part of it. And then it makes you water infused, or fruit infused water. You can do it with herbs, you can do it with vegetables, lemon, cucumber, mint, berries, all popular options. And then like I said, yeah, if you're feeling fancy, you got the money to spend grabbing infusion bottle that's designed to make flavored water on the go. Because it's a very easy way to keep things interesting, make it flavorful while staying hydrated. Once you got the drinking water part down, now it's time to tip number four, which is to eat your water. Because yes, you can eat your water. Food's like watermelon. Shocker, watermelon has water in it. It's also got some melon in it. Oranges, cucumbers, lettuce, all packed with hydration and also micronutrients. So try adding these types of foods to your meals, or make them snacks throughout your day to boost your water intake even further without even thinking about it. Get a nice little sweet snack, but you're also hydrating yourself. What we're doing right now is trying to find hydration habits for you to create, which is tip number five, which is to create those hydration habits and be intentional about it. Like I said, I start my day by drinking water. I want you to start your day. This is a habit that I have every single day. Start your day with an eight ounce glass of water. It wakes up your metabolism. It gets your digestive system moving. And like I said, kick starts your hydration. Then at night, drink another glass somewhat before you go to bed. You don't have to chug water right before you go to sleep. Like I said, don't want to pee the bed. But at night, drink another glass of water to support overnight recovery and detoxification. So whether that's an hour before bed, so that you have time to pee before you go to bed. If you can just do these two things and then also like remind yourself to just sip water throughout the day, you're going to be well on your way to staying consistently more hydrated than you probably have been in a while. Also, I want to touch on really quickly knowing how much water you drink is great, but how much should you drink and how do you know if the amount of water that you're drinking is enough. And so I've been talking a little bit about pee. It might sound a little weird, but check your pee. The color of your urine is a reliable indicator of hydration. So if you're, if you go pee, take a look down there after you pee. If it's pale yellow, you're probably pretty hydrated. If it's clear, you're hydrated. But if it's the color of yellow Gatorade or even darker and it stinks, you need to drink more water. Also, I will say I mentioned if it's clear, you're hydrated. If it's completely clear, you might be over hydrated, by the way, which is definitely a thing. Because you want to make sure that you're not flushing out all the salt in your system by drinking too much water. So aiming for a light, like a, like a straw like color is the sweet spot for proper hydration. Another way is to monitor your thirst. Thirst is your body's way of telling you that it's running low on fluids. And so the key is to drink steadily throughout the day so you never feel parched. Right? A good rule of thumb. If you feel thirsty, you're already mildly dehydrated. If water sounds good, you're dehydrated. If you take a sip of water and it's extremely refreshing, you're dehydrated. You want to be proactive about drinking water, not reactive. If you wait to drink water until you need some water, it's too late already. You're going to die. No kidding. But you need to drink more water. So the action step is to sip water consistently, be proactive about it, especially during meals or after or during physical activity to stay ahead of thirst. And number three, listen to your body. Dehydration can show up in surprising ways. I mentioned at the beginning, headaches. That's a huge one. If you have a headache and you got decent sleep and you're not overly stressed out, you're not sick, you're probably dehydrated. If you're experiencing fatigue, dry skin, irritability, if you notice these signs consistently, take it as a sign that your body is telling you to drink. So pay attention to how you feel, especially after exercise or during long periods without drinking water. Tune in to how you actually feel. And then make sure tomorrow or right now you start drinking more water and then pay attention to how you feel. And the last part I want to talk about is how to take it to the next level. Because if you're looking for that extra support with your fitness journey, including hydration and an accountability partner, and then also nutrition and workouts, we have V-Shred coaches that can help you. They will create personalized plans tailored to your day, your routine, your lifestyle, your goals, and guide you every step of the way and be there in your corner to help you when things get tough. And if you guys want to check that out, there's more details down in the description below. There should be a link somewhere. Check it out. But hopefully this was helpful as far as understanding the importance of water, how it can be beneficial, how it can negatively impact you, and then ways of drinking more water and how much water to drink without feeling like you're some H2O scientist. So thank you for tuning in to this episode of Better Body Better Life. I hope you are walking away with a deeper understanding of how powerful something as simple as water can be. And remember, small changes like staying hydrated can lead to massive results. So, I hope you had a good time here with me today. I know I did, and I will see you or talk to you in the next one. Thanks for tuning in to today's episode of V-Shred's Better Body Better Life podcast. Whether you're doing one of our programs, taking our supplements, or just doing things on your own, tune in every week for exclusive content with Vents, V-Shred trainers, and special guests as they share valuable tips around motivation, workouts, food, and living a healthier lifestyle. See you next time.

=== FILE: Training for Aesthetics vs Wellness w⧸ Barbie Brown ｜ V SHRED Better Body, Better Life Podcast [PZoBw_CaJKg].txt ===

 when you look at the scale and that number is higher than you want it to be, you instantly are disappointed. I've been working so hard and I've been doing this, I have absolutely nothing to show for it, but that doesn't necessarily mean anything. It doesn't tell us how hydrated you are. It doesn't tell us what your body fat percentage is. It doesn't tell us how much muscle that you have. The scale only says it's your relationship with gravity. Live your best life while working on your health and fitness goals. We're here to make your journey fun and inspiring. Welcome to the Beeshred Better Body Better Life Podcast. What's going on, everyone? Welcome back to another episode of the Better Body Better Life Podcast. I'm your host, Vince, and today we have a guest back with us, Barbie, one of our coaches, who we just filmed a episode talking about just habits and health on a spectrum. That was a great episode. If you haven't listened to it, go listen to it. But today we're going to be talking about not focusing on aesthetics and why to stop focusing on that, why to stop focusing on what the scale says or your progress when it comes to how much you weigh. Barbie's a certified personal trainer, certified nutritionist. She's an international presenter and she's been in this industry for 15 years, so has a bunch of knowledge around this. Barbie, welcome. Hello, thank you. Thank you for having me back. Yeah, of course. So for all of our listeners who didn't listen to the last one, I'll just go ahead and kind of intro yourself. Why you love fitness, what got you into fitness, what made you want to become a personal trainer, all that good stuff. Okay. Well, I started like a lot of people. I'd always been relatively in shape, and then I had babies. And after having those babies, then I struggled with losing the weight and went over to my local YMCA with a team membership and child care included and started doing group fitness classes and just fell in love with challenging my body. And it kind of morphed into wanting to share that with other people. And so I got into teaching group fitness and then it's as a personal trainer and then seeing that there was a piece missing, the nutrition component, which is so, so important. And just incorporating that into my clients. And that's kind of my journey. It's started with just wanting some place to take my kids. Nice. And I know that you were kind of talking about your experience with body image issues growing up, which I think is a great place to start. If you don't mind for this one, just because we are going to be talking about the aesthetics side of fitness, which is what a lot of people focus on. And generally, why a lot of especially younger people get started, I think, as you get a little bit older, your reasons change a little bit. Your what you want to achieve changes a little bit. But in the beginning, when you're a little bit younger, is you're usually like, I don't like how I look. I don't like how this shirt fits me. I don't like that I don't fit into any of my suits anymore. I don't like that I don't feel comfortable. And a bikini or in a bathing suit at the pool, whatever it might be. Take us through your experience with your own struggles and kind of walk us through how you got out of that. All right. So for me, the reason I looked to the gym was because, yes, I did have weight to lose after having two children back to back. I was in my early 20s. And so, you know, that's the first one the weight came off relatively quickly. But it didn't all come off because I had those babies back to back. So I still had some from the first one. And then, you know, here comes baby number two. In the last episode, I had shared about having body image issues growing up and struggling with disordered eating. And it wasn't that I was overweight. It's just I had body dysmorphia. And this is where, like, when I look in the mirror, I see something that does not exist. And even to this day, I still have to struggle with that of feeling like I look fat, even though I know, I know, I know in my head that I'm not, but it's easy for me to look and go, oh, look, I've got a little jiggle here. I'm a little soft here. And it's like that's real life Barbie. Everybody has that. Everybody experiences this. We all have cellulite. We all have stretch marks. And that's that is the human condition. And no, no one is perfect. But I had shared that, that, you know, having two small children and being a stay at home mom and money was really, really tight. And it was hard. It was just hard. And I really, really struggled with feeling out of control. And my coping mechanism, which was very, very unhealthy, was just to stop eating. And so I was breastfeeding at the time. So that was not an option. My daughter's, my daughter literally her life and who nutrition depended on me being healthy. So I had to find a new coping mechanism. And since I did also need to lose weight, the gym seemed like a great place for me. And going to the gym, I gained so much than I would have ever thought. Losing weight, yes, it was important. But what I gained from that was so much more important. I will tell you, two of the people who I am closest to in the whole world, and I love with my whole heart, I met in the gym, my two best girlfriends from the gym. I gained such confidence in myself, in my abilities. And I fully believe there's not much that I can't do. And a lot of that starts from just challenging myself and moving my body in the gym. I've watched myself build muscle. I've watched myself become an athlete as an adult. I was not an athlete in my youth. I was not an athlete in high school. I was not an athlete in college. So as an adult, you feel like, well, I missed out on my chances of being an athlete. But that's not true. Since I've been an adult, I've done lots of different races. I've actually been even sponsored for different events. I'm a competitive power lifter. And I'm going to tell you, I dominate the old lady genre. And I love being strong. And that was one of the best things about weightlifting, was it helped me to shift. Like so many women, when I first joined, I was a cardio bunny. And I was all about getting that heart rate up. And I wanted to burn all those cowlikes. And I didn't really understand that there is more to your figure and there is more to fitness than just lifting. Like so many women, I was like, well, I don't want to go in the gym. I don't want to be bulky. So I don't want to lift weights. I'm going to stay in the room over here with the other ladies and bounce around. Now, if that's what you like, and that's what you enjoy, no judgment. There are so many different facets of fitness that there's no one right or wrong way. Just because it doesn't work for you or it's not your thing doesn't mean that it's not amazing for someone else. And personally, Zumba is not my thing. But there are so many women who do men and women who do it and love it. And if it weren't for Zumba, they wouldn't do any fitness activities at all. So I will never, ever, ever hate on any format as long as it's safe and effective, go for it. It's about having fun and moving your body and challenging yourself. But so much of going to the gym. And I say going to the gym because that was my experience, maybe for other people it's working at a home or in a garage. But what I gained from working out and from getting in shape is so much better than just numbers on a scale. And unfortunately, so many people like that become so focused and they can miss so many of the benefits of working out because they're chasing numbers. Why do you think that is? Why do you think people just solely focus on their appearance or what the scale says rather than the whole approach? So for the scale, OK, good question. For the scale, I would say now from the ladies point of view, there is this societal push to be small. There's this push to weigh less. And so they get it in their minds that if the scale says this, that it's more. Then if it's higher than whatever arbitrary number is in your mind, then I'm fat. And there are women, especially, attribute a lot of their self-worth to the number on that scale. Men, not as much. Men, not as much. Men are better at how they look and going from that. But for women, they are very much tied to that number. But in terms of aesthetics, there are people who think I just need to lose weight to look better. And they will go about that in a lot of different ways that are not healthy and not sustainable because they are just aiming to look better, not realizing that if you take a more healthy approach and you focus on the lifestyle factors and being more holistic about it, that the aesthetics will follow. And just as a perfect example for you is I was that cardio bunny and I just wanted to burn all those calories because I just wanted to be smaller. And I will tell you at my so I'm five foot six at my smallest. I was about 123 pounds for talking as an adult after babies about 123 pounds about 16% body fat. So I was really lean and I was really small. And back to that body dysmorphia, I still could could look in there and I could still see cellulite and stretch marks. And oh, I look a little thing big here and oh, look, I can still pinch that on my side. Now when I look back at those pictures on like girl, you need a cheeseburger. So so, you know, the mirrors align how sometimes just just throw that out there. But how let me stop you. How did you how did you make that shift to from thinking that being being maybe a little underweight and and still struggling with thinking that you might be. Fat or chunky or whatever you classified yourself as to now looking back at those pictures and saying eat something like how did you make that shift? So OK, so for me, I had I had decided I wanted to get down to 123. I don't know where that number came from again as women. We give that number entirely too much power. But that's like where I wanted to be. And so I started tracking my macros like a boss, like like it was my job. And that's actually really good, though. Right. I did not waiver from it. And I was super, super, super strict. And I had to bring those calories down and I had to be super strict. So I did it in a healthy way and I didn't like a really exercise. But to your point, I was underweight and I look at those pictures now and I'm like, yeah, that's not sexy. No, not even close. But but I got there and I was proud of myself into the state. I am proud of myself that I I set a goal and I worked my butt off to get there. And I did. But I realized that I wasn't willing to do what it took to stay there. Because in order for me to be that lean and that small, that meant that meant no popcorn when I go out to the movies with, you know, the kids. That means no brownies. That's no birthday cake. No grabbing a handful of chips at the cookout. That's no splurges at the church potluck. And those old ladies can cook. So like there was not like I had to bring my own food with me everywhere I went. And it was just it was so restrictive that it kind of sucked the joy of life being really honest. But at that same time, at that same time, I was doing a class called Body Pump. And. And that was the first time that there was any sense of pride with being able to lift heavy. Because up until then it was all cardio and we would do like five and eight pound dumbbells like you do in a standard group fit class. We would, you know, do some bicep curls. And you're doing lots of reps and you're doing it quickly. You're doing it like on the beat of the music. So you have to stick with the lighter weight. But in body pump, that's a little less mils format. You you have a barbell and it's a small one. It weighs, you know, five pounds. So it's a small one. And then you, you know, you put weights on there. Well, as the instructor, there's this there's this push of instructors that you have to use what they call model weight, meaning I have to use something that is respectable and something for my members to aim for. So then there was this push for me to start getting stronger. And I will never forget the day I was doing an exercise and somebody commented on how amazing my arms looked. I'm like, my arms. And I turn around in the mirror and I was doing, we were doing bent over rows and I could see the definition in my shoulders and down my arm. And never seen that before. And I was like, hot damn. I have muscles. And the more I did that class and the heavier the weight became, the more I started seeing muscle. And then it wasn't even about the muscle, but it's like, how much weight can I move? And so then it started this, this trend of like really, really enjoying being strong. I love what I saw in my body. And that's what it was. It was seeing the change in my body, going from being super lean to now being muscular. And, you know, and at the point like I am now, so I am about 130 pounds and I said about 18% body fat, which is really healthy for someone my size. But I love that I am strong. I have got muscle definition and like I've been working really hard on my shoulders and you can even see I have like some, some baby cats. I've been, I've worked so hard for that. It's like, I got biceps and I've been working on doing like the whole like the way. And I love that. And, and, and it's not even just about how I look, but it's like, I love being strong and I love focusing on like the weight I can move in the gym. But of course, I have to lift it safely. And this is where like, I really encourage my clients. It's like, yes, we, we want to look good. Yes, we all do. And that's, I get that that's an important part of your identity. And I'm not trying to minimize that. But there is so much more to working out and eating better that, that, that overshoots how you look. Think about like how you feel, like the confidence that you have, the energy that you have. How about your digestion? How much better you feel when everything is working the way it should, as opposed to being bloated, being backed up, having the runs, you know, all of these things are affected by what we put in our bodies. You know, the food that we eat, you have so much better mental health. There are so many studies that show that being consistent in exercising in any form, in any form at all, but being consistent in that you have that regular release of endorphins, you know, the feel good hormones. And because of that regular release of those hormones, it helps balance out brain chemistry. And of all the studies that are done, they are showing that there is a drastic reduction in the amount of antidepressants and anti-anxieties and mood stabilizers, either in the need to take them or in the dosage overall from people who exercise regularly. It's been shown to be amazing for stress management, you know, for men, you know, you get that that, you know, you have all that testosterone. It's like, and you have to get it out. Going to the gym is a great way to channel that, that male aggression. You've got to get it out somewhere. It's a great place to go for that. And, you know, I'm sorry. Go ahead. Well, I was going to say, like, what are some, like, effective strategies for somebody to use in the beginning to adopt this mindset? Because obviously, in the beginning, most people, like we said at the beginning of this are starting because they want to look better. They are tired of looking how they look and going down and going in the continuously going in the wrong direction. How do they, what are like some ways that somebody can shift their focus from losing 20 pounds really quickly because they want to look a little bit better versus truly making lifestyle changes that are going to, yes, eventually make them lose 20 pounds, but then probably lose another 20 pounds on top of that. And then probably put on a little bit of muscle and have a really healthy metabolism and feel really good and promote a healthy lifestyle to their kids. Like, what are some strategies somebody can use to shift that focus in the beginning? Because that's going to be the most important part. Okay. So right at the very beginning, you know, you don't have to overhaul your lifestyle, but start by making some healthier food choices. You will be amazed at how much better you feel by getting in enough water. You know, start, start getting your water in, you know, some people go for the gallon. The quick and dirty measurement is to take your body weight, divide it in half and that's how many ounces. So if you are a 200 pound individual, half of that is 100. So 100 ounces, that's like your minimum requirement for water. Like that, that's an easy one to start with. Be amazed at how much better you feel. Yes, at first you will pee all the time. Yes, it goes with the territory. Your body does adapt, but as any person who has a healthy lifestyle will tell you IP all the time, it's just part of it. It goes with the territory. And your body does adapt. Like your body works as like a water fountain. So if you don't drink any water today and then you drink and it works on like a 24 hour cycle. So if you don't drink any water today and then you drink a ton of water tomorrow, your body is still responding to the lack of water you drink yesterday. So you're going to pee a ton versus if you drink a bunch of water today and then you don't drink any water or you drink a bunch of water tomorrow, you're going to pee less because your body. is already used to how much water you've been drinking. So like you said, yes, you yes, like we got off our last episode, we both like I got to the bathroom. That happens. But whatever. And also it's just a way to get more steps in. So it's like, and also when when your pee is clear, it just makes you feel good because you're like, well, I'm hydrated. I know. That's it for any of you who don't like look at your pee and you're not really proud. It's one of those things when you are eating, you are hydrated and you're like, hey, that's like really pale yellow. Water almost. Yeah, right. Yeah. So some things. So making making some healthy changes and start with setting some small goals. So like getting in enough water is a good one. Looking for healthy steps that you can incorporate in your day. Looking for making some better food choices. They don't have to be perfect, but look for better. Maybe instead of buying your lunch every day at work, maybe you pack your lunch a couple of days straight there. We're small attainable goals. And then once somebody starts doing that, what are ways that they can measure progress without looking at the scale? How do you feel? Listen to your body. How is your sleep? You know, a lot of people who struggle with sleep, first of all, they are not active during the day. So it's one of those things. Your body, you need to do things to actually make your body tired. So get getting in steps. So so look at look at how you're sleeping. Look at what your appetite is doing. If you have no appetite all day long, you're probably not feeling your body very well. Look at your energy levels. If your energy levels are in the toilet, if you're constantly having to grab a cup of coffee or you're grabbing an energy drink regularly throughout the day, my friend, your body is hollering for some more fuel. And that doesn't necessarily mean you need more calories. It means you need more nutrients. And that's the thing is looking, when we're talking about making better choices, look for nutrient dense food as opposed to calorie dense food. So we're talking fruits and veggies. We're talking whole grains, lean meats, even dairy. You know, you think cottage cheese and fruit, Greek yogurt, like those are great. You can grab a string cheese. We want to grab things that are going to fuel our body to give us protein, to give us some good, healthy carbohydrates and to give us fat. But the other thing is being more active. So that's a really easy one to measure is marking your progress. So like for me, my lap around my neighborhood is three fourths of a mile. Okay, I've clocked it. So three fourths of a mile. Let's say I'm just now getting started in my fitness journey. I can walk this neighborhood in 25 minutes. Well, I've made a goal to walk it one time around three times a week. You better believe that the more times you walk it, you're going to shave off a little bit of time every time. And so at the end of two weeks, instead of it taking 25 minutes, maybe it takes 20 minutes. And you'll notice that your your your stamina is going to slowly improve. And then you're going to get to where it's like, well, heck, I can like I walk around this. Let me go for another loop. I do it. It takes me 10 minutes to make it all the way around one time. So it's no thing. That's fast. Four times. Three or four times. I have long legs. I walk real fast. I'm going to say I feel like for me, I'm just a competitive person. And so like if I were doing that by the end of two months, I'd be sprinting. I'd be like, OK, I got to get this down to six minutes now. Well, you see, and there's that, but I hate to run. I do. And so like I will run it and like I'll do I'll do wind sprints around it because it's three fourths of a mile. So I'll be like mailbox to mailbox, you know. OK. But it will hit work out there. And I got an old dog, so I can't run on walks. Anyways, he's he's a slow walker and really, really, I'm on this. The other thing is like it's all about finding like what's right for you, you know, like I'm super active. I work out five times a week minimum. I train for I just did a marathon two weekends ago, did a triathlon six weekends ago. And so like I'm constantly like prepping for those. So I swim, I bike, I run. I lift, I golf, I play pickleball. I'm a super active. I walk my dog every single night. And so it's like I'm not necessarily one who's looking for ways to be more active, you know. And so like my nightly walk with my dog is for my dog. It's not even for me. I enjoy it for the mental health benefits because I think that's another big piece of this that we haven't really touched on is like the mental health side of things is is huge. Like the difference in how I feel, if I've been cooped up, maybe it's a rest day and I've been cooped up all day and then just getting outside and watching my dog just like sniff around and piss on different things and just enjoy being outside, you know, and it's a little cold in Vegas at night right now. So like I'm kind of bundled up, but it still feels nice to be out there, you know, or if I go a little bit earlier because the sun sets at like noon now. But like getting sun on my skin feels good. Getting sun in my eyes feels good. And it also helps with hormones. And so, yeah, I mean, it's I'm digressing a little bit, but it's about figuring out what you like to do. Sure. And a point I want to make about the walking outside. So yes, there's, there's, there's a lot of research that shows that getting outside, getting the sun on your skin, it boosts your, your, your happy hormones. Getting out of circulated air, out of the air conditioning, out of an indoor space and getting outside and getting that fresh air has a lot of benefits. But here's actually an article I recently read. So there is a therapeutic approach called EMDR. It's the rapid eye movement. And if you've, if you've never done it in counseling, your, your, your counselor will like hold like a pen or something and they'll do like this. And you're supposed to shift your eyeballs back and forth. Do you do any tests? Well, they're looking for different things. Okay. They're looking, they're looking for different things. That is what I do for DUI tests, but I'm kidding. Yeah. In the DUI, they're looking for something like shaking. Yeah. Exactly. Whereas, whereas with this, you follow it back and forth and back and forth. And what that's doing is, okay, if you're, if you're a therapist and I, and I, and I box this, I apologize, please don't come for us with comments. But basically it has something to do with making your eyes go back and forth and making like the, the hemispheres of your brain talk to one another. Okay. And so what, what it does is it helps you process. It helps you process through trauma. Okay. And there was this, the, the, the technique was developed because there was this psychologist, I don't know who it was. They were walking outside with their patients. It was a beautiful day or a beautiful area of the country and they were walking outside and they noticed that when the, when they're, when their clients were out and one of the things to do is they're constantly panning the horizon. Right. And they noticed that when clients were going on these walks and going through their therapy sessions, that they were able to process through their trauma more efficiently. It was more effective. And so they did a lot of studies and it shows that, that scanning back and forth of the horizon as you walk is a great way for your brain to process things. So not only is there the health benefits and not only just the feel good hormones, but now we're also talking about the mental health benefit of processing through whatever it is you're going through, especially if you can do it without, you know, without music and just kind of think about what's going on in your life, anything that you're kind of stressing about and just let your brain like ponder on it as your eyeballs go side to side. And it, it helps you process things. Like a form of meditation almost. Yes. So it's like, how cool is that? Yeah. I love the sauna for that reason because like, like I, I got, I have my own sauna at my house now, which is a game changer. And so I would run into issues when I would use the gym sauna because people do chat you up a little bit in there, which is if you're listening and you use a public sauna, don't talk to people. Leave them alone. They're in there to, to sweat it out and be in their thoughts. Every time I would have someone come up to me, like, are you the guy I see? And I'm like, uh, he just ruined this. Um, but now that I got my own sauna, it's like, that's why I love it because like I'm going in there and I'm, I'm just, it's a form of meditation for me. I go in and sometimes, sometimes I go in there and I'm listening to a podcast or sometimes like, I don't, I can't be, I can't, I can't be, I can't be trying to meditate. I'm just not in the mood for it. And so I want to go in there and I want to listen to happy music or whatever it is. But it's like sometimes I'm going in there and I just go in there with silence and I let my brain run. And then I slowly turn off certain thought processes and eventually I get to a moment of like, of peace, of like mental clarity, or I have an idea that I wouldn't have normally had because my day is just go, go, go, go, go. And the same thing on my dog walks. And in one thing that, I forget who told me, but they were, I was on this walk and they were like, Hey, and the other thing I will say is like, if you're going on these walks, leave your phone at home. Like, because that's, that's probably like one of the biggest mistakes that I make on dog walks is I'll realize that, damn, I've been walking for 20 minutes. And I've been on Instagram just doom scrolling this whole time. I'm like, what am I doing? I'm not here to walk my dog. I'm not here to be outside. You know? And so like what someone told me was like, when you're outside walking, make sure that you're looking above your eye line, like look up and then you'll and it, and it makes you, and it must be the same. It must be a similar concept because like if you just look up and you like, look at like the top half of what you can see, your walks, it feels, it feels better, like literally feels better. And it's even the difference. Maybe you're not even on your phone, but you just like, kind of look down at the sidewalk, look up and it makes a huge difference. So it's pretty interesting that you bring that up because I've always kind of done that on my walks. And when I remember to do it, it always feels good. It always feels better than if I'm looking down or especially if I'm looking at my phone, getting that hidden dopamine that is so bad for you. Yeah. But, and, and so, you know, back to your other question about like, how can you tell, like how can you focus on things? You know, and I mentioned looking at.  subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected table. Now I can do push-ups on my knees on the floor. So looking at those progressions as proof of you getting stronger, you know, when you first started, you know, maybe you're doing one of the V-Shred follow-along workouts and that's like the first time you did it, you were dying by the end of the warm-up and you didn't make it more than five minutes into the actual workouts. Whereas like, it's like, hey, I made it through the whole thing. I felt like I might die, but I made it through the whole thing. Like those are excellent markers to look for, to see that you are getting stronger. You are getting more fit. You are building your stamina. You know, things like that. Yeah, and I was gonna, I was, it's interesting you say that because I was literally just about to ask like, how does this shift of focus of like what you, what you, what you, what you, what you, what you focus on, how does that help somebody's relationship with what they eat? How does that help someone's relationship with exercise? Because we live in a society of really bad relationships, especially in the U.S. with food, with the gym, with just personal exercise. And so like most people are going to have that quick fix mindset where, because, because I mean, we all want fast results. If you, if somebody had two options where they could lose 20 pounds in a month or 20 pounds in a year, they're going to pick a month, every single person, you know? And so, and that's okay to have that. Like, and we should all have, like I always talk about like goal setting. Like I think it's important to have these big goals, but it's not, but it's also important to not get lost in those goals that you get down on yourself when you don't progress. And so how does, I was going to ask, how does shifting someone's focus to these lifestyle fixes rather than these quick fixes help with the relationship that you have with your food and your exercise? Okay, that's a great question. So it's being more rather than being less. When you look at the scale and that number is higher than you want it to be, you instantly are disappointed. You instantly feel deflated and you don't see or you're like, I've been working so hard and I've been doing this and it's just, you know, I have absolutely nothing to show for it or that's like, well, that doesn't mean you could just be really well hydrated. You could have had Chinese food last night. It was extra salty and now your weight's fluctuating because you're retaining a little water because you had a little extra salt in your meal last night. It doesn't mean that you failed and that's such, it's such an arbitrary number. You know, a great example just of the have a scale isn't the end all be all. When I was, when I was in high school, I graduated at about 125 pounds. Same weight or same thing, right? You know, 125 pounds. I was a size eight. I'm 130 pounds now. So I'm heavier, but I'm a size four. Wow. It's because I have a lot more muscle than I did then. So I am more dense. Yep. And because I am more dense, I am smaller. So you sink in water now. I do. I do. But when we just focus on the numbers on the scale, if I let that 125 be the standard of where I should be, that that's not a very good standard to be at because I was a size eight as opposed to the size four that I am now. I was not healthy then I was not exercising. I was not eating healthy. I was a teenager and I was eating teenager food, which is just barely better than a toddler. Right. So yeah, eating garbage and not being intentionally active versus now living a really healthy lifestyle that I'm heavier. But that doesn't necessarily mean anything. So the scale only says it's your relationship with gravity. It doesn't tell us how hydrated you are. It doesn't tell us what your body fat percentage is. It doesn't tell us how much muscle that you have, you know, and a lot of guys, you probably will fall in the category that your BMI probably puts you as obese. Yeah, I've actually never, I've actually never had my measure. So BMI, for those of you who don't know, this is a quick and dirty measurement. They will often do it doctors offices and it's absolute shit. Okay. It is garbage. It is useless, but it's something that they use. I don't know why they still use it, but it's just your relationship with your height and your weight. And you look at, you look at two different men, both at, you know, let's say right at six feet tall, 200 pounds. But this guy, he's got a beer belly and he's very, very soft and he does not work out. Whereas you have this guy who's sitting at 8% body fats and very, very lean, but boom, big inject. Their BMI is exactly the same. Yeah. And they may tell both of these guys, Hey, you're technically, you need to lose about 10 pounds to be healthy. That doesn't make any sense at all. Yeah. Yeah. That's only looking. My doctor goes off of blood work. And so I got a, I got a very health conscious hormone specialty type doctor, which I recommend most people get because I, one thing I've realized about the medical field is that most of these doctors don't know much about health. They know about diseases. They know about medications. They know how to, they know what to prescribe. But when it comes to like proper nutrition and exercise, they don't really know that much. I have had several physicians as clients over the years. I have had people who have hired me to help them understand nutrition because they don't need anything about it. Cause you have to think for doctors for part of their part of their met, their, their training. And please know, I'm not saying that I know more than any doctor. But I will say on nutrition, I do. On nutrition. Yeah. Yeah. Because this, this is my lane. Whereas doctors, you know, they, they get this great big, you know, great big training. They get one course on nutrition. Just one, one course on nutrition. That is not their main focus. That's not what they do. And if we're, if we're going to be really honest about it, the pharmaceutical companies are the ones that are backing it. So they're learning far more about pushing pills to cure diseases than to coach healthy lifestyle factors and to push, you know, resizing and eating better. One, because they don't know much about it too, because insurance doesn't pay for that. Well, and three, we kind of briefly touched on this on the last episode. Sometimes it is necessary. Like I talk with Dr. Drew is a good friend and he talks all the time about how a lot of the patients that come to him, they do need medication because they are already diabetic and they do need to be taking insulin or they already have or they, whatever they have, like they should have gotten proactive about it 20 years prior, but they didn't. And so now they have to treat this thing that's so far down the, like they're, they're, they're, they're too far gone, essentially at this point. And that's not saying that that's for everything. Like my dad's a perfect example. My dad got on blood pressure medicine when he, I think turned 52 or something like that. And he was always kind of heavier set. And then he started following our move program and it's just a 30 day program. And he followed it like, I think like nine months in a row, just kept redoing it, redoing it, redoing it, redoing it and just like getting better at it and do, and doing the exercises more intensely or doing them faster, doing more reps or being better about the rest or whatever. And just did it nine times in a row and got off blood pressure medicine. And so it's not to say that you can't reverse these things. But yeah, sometimes those, I mean, I agree completely like the doctors, I mean, the farm, big pharma controls a lot. And so doctors are supposed to push that, but sometimes they do have to push that too. Well, no, and, and, and to your point, this is not to say that you shouldn't be on blood pressure medications or you shouldn't be on your cholesterol meds or whatever it else is, like if it's medically necessary, it's medically necessary. And you, you take care of your, your health, you know, with, with meds as you need to, while you work to make yourself healthier. And yes, that's, that's the important part. While you make yourself healthier. Right. The trend is what we would like to see is, sure, come to me on your blood pressure meds, come to me on your cholesterol meds, whatever it is that you need to take. Absolutely. And then what we're going to do is we're going to work to make you healthier. And hopefully as you get healthier, as we bring the weight down, as we bring the muscle up and we get, we get you healthier, then your dosing will go down and your thyroid support. And you might be able to get off and maybe not. Maybe you have to stay on a really low dose and that's okay. If that's what your body needs, that's all right. But the idea is to come down. Yeah. Let me tell you, there was a study done many years ago. So I used to do lifestyle coaching with the YMCA. They specifically have a program for diabetes prevention because it's this like something like 70% of all adults are considered pre-diabetic. That's crazy. They did, they did a study and this was a massive study and we're talking millions of dollars. Several different agencies were in on it where they were looking at metformin versus lifestyle factors. They were looking at what? Metformin. That is a medication that they give to those who are pre-diabetic to help prevent them from developing full-blown diabetes. Okay. Okay. So one group got metformin and one group, it was lifestyle factors. So they were encouraged to eat a diet that was no higher than, it was like 30 grams of fat a day. Like that's where they started. Like make it super simple. And to get 150 minutes of intentional activity every week. So they didn't even say what kind. It could be gardening. It can be walking. It'd be anything. So those two factors versus metformin. And it was a massive, not even close. Most, the metformin only reduced their risk of developing diabetes by like 30%. So these people on the medication, 30%. That was it. The people who changed their lifestyle just by those two things, reducing the fat in their diet and getting in more activity, they dropped their chances of developing type 2 diabetes by like 70%. Wow. Not even close. Hmm. Did they do, I wonder if they did, did they do a, of, also a group where they did both? I'd be interested to see that. I wonder if they compliment each other at all. Not that I, I want to say they wanted to look strictly at the efficacy of pharmaceutical intervention versus lifestyle factors. And they just wanted to compare. Wow. That's crazy. So yeah, that goes to show. There is a massive, massive difference. And so going back to like, so like touching on like the longevity piece of this, because I think that's what this really all boils down to. Because like, like we said in the beginning, like aesthetics is usually a goal for a younger minded person at the beginning of their journey. Like that might be one of the reasons they get started. But like at this point in my life, I mean, I don't really love using myself as an example because my life is fitness and most people can't relate to that. Right. But I think as most people get further into their journey, their reasons change drastically. It's no longer about looking better. Like I'm, I know for a fact that I'm not ever going to look significantly better than I look right now. I can't, I'm not going to cut my body fat in half. I don't want to even do that because that would be extremely unhealthy for my body. And also it would, it would not be fun. It would be the worst. I don't want to put on twice as much muscle because that's just going to result in either I would have to take steroids or I would just be carrying so much muscle that I lose my mobility. I lose my ability to do certain athletic things. Right. And so like at this point, like my, my why in the beginning was because I was skinny and I hated how I looked and I was insecure and I had body image issues and I kind of got, I don't want to say bullied. I didn't get bullied, but I got picked on a little bit because of my size and I would get beat up a little bit in sports because of my size. And I wanted to change that and I did change that. And now I'm bigger than all my friends. And so like the difference is like the, like that's not my reasoning anymore. My reasoning now is like, again, I don't like using myself as an example because most people can't relate to this, but my reasoning now is to motivate people. It's to inspire people. It's to teach people what they need to do. And I hold myself to a high standard because it's like what you said, I think on the last episode, it's like, if I'm gonna sit here all day and people are going to see my ads online, me talking to talk and being like, you need to get in shape. You don't need to do this. And I'm not in shape. Why would I wouldn't trust me if I was in somebody's face all day telling them they need to get in shape and I wasn't in shape. And I was kind of not practicing what I preach. I'd either be like, this guy's full of shit. Doesn't know what he's talking about because clearly he's out of shape. Or he's just a, he's just a, he's just doing it for the clicks. He doesn't really care about this at all. He's doing it for money. You know, I truly have a passion for this. And so when it comes to the longevity piece of this, what does training for longevity or dieting for longevity look like compared to training or dieting for aesthetics? Oh, that's a good question. When you are going for longevity, you're going smart. It's setting smart goals. What is sustainable? What can I maintain forever? You know, it's not about dropping, you know, five or 10 pounds for the cruise that I want to go on in three months. This is about being able to move and be healthy to lose those, those five, 10 pounds, maybe 20 pounds, whatever it is to lose that weight, but then keep it off. That's one of the things that I probably instill most in my clients is do you want to lose the weight fast? Or do you want to keep it off for good? Cause you can't help those. There are no shortcuts to success. So of course, it's like, yes, but we want it all fast. Yes, of course, of course, but that's not realistic. Not if you want to maintain it. So this is where we have the slog for the last episode. We talked about building the habits and its sustainability. Yeah. And why can't people maintain that? Explain the reasoning behind why these quick fixes, these yo-yo diets, or I shouldn't call them yo-yo diets, it's the yo-yo effect caused by crash diets. Why do they cause that yo-yo effect? Why do they, why don't they work? Oh, I can tell you that one. All right. So let's say, let's say, Vince, you have a cruise coming up and you want to lose 10 pounds. Okay. So you go on the potato diet and you eat potatoes. That's all you eat. Great diet. Sounds phenomenal. Potatoes in all forms. All right. So you go on the potato diet, you lose the 10 pounds, you go on the cruise, and you are so happy. However, is eating potatoes only potatoes realistic for their whole life? No, absolutely not. So what's going to happen is chances are when you go on vacation, you're going to gain it all back because you're going to eat like you normally do. But when you come back from vacation, let's say you're able to maintain it while you were gone, you, you lost 10 pounds as soon as you come back. If you don't go right back into the potato diet, you're going to go back to eating the way you always do. Right? Eating the way you always do is going to put you right back to where you were before. You didn't make any real change. And here's the real danger of that. You ruin your metabolism because what happens is when you drop weight quickly, your body cannot shed fat quickly. When your body has to drop weight quickly, it's going to get rid of whatever is burning the most calories. This is part of the survival mode of the body. It does not care how you look. Zero fucks how you look. It is all about keeping you alive. So when there is a drastic reduction in your calories, your body's like, holy shit, we're starving. So what it's going to do is it's going to drop whatever burns the most calories, which is muscle. That's your muscle. Yes. So it's going to drop muscle. Well, guess what? You're still left with all this fat and you've dropped muscle. Well, then once you are off the potato diet and you're eating your food, just like you always do, your body's like, Oh, we feel better now. And that weight comes back. However, if you aren't lifting, you just gain it back. Guess what you gain back? Fat. So not only do you have the same weight that you did before, but now you lost part of your muscle. And the reason that's bad is because that muscle is the engine that drives your metabolism. So now you have less of that fat burning tissue in your body because your muscle is the most metabolically hungry, meaning it burns the most calories of everything in your body. This is why people who have big, big muscles, they eat a lot, a lot, a lot of food because their body needs it. Their body burns it. You know, where I am in my journey now versus before, before I was on like 1200 calories a day. I didn't have a whole lot of muscle. Now I'm at like 1800 calories a day. And that's if I'm gearing up for a competition, it's more like 2000 or 2200, even on my smaller frame, because I have a lot of muscle. And that's just what it is. Muscle is what, what is basically what we call metabolism. So you want to fix your metabolism. You say your metabolism is broken. Your metabolism is not broken. It is the result of the choices that you have made. And you don't have enough muscle to support the calories that are coming in. You build the muscle, you repair the metabolism. Yep. No, it's how I get jokes from my friends all the time, where they're like Vince eats the most food of anybody I know. Or like, or I also like, I only really see my friends like on the weekends, if I see them, I'm a homebody. And so like on the weekends is when I'm a lot more relaxed with what I eat. And so like on the weekends, I'm having burgers and fries and ice cream and stuff like that. Going after pizza, having some beers. And they're like, they're like, they also say like Vince eats the worst of any of our friends. And he's in the best shape. It's like, well, first off, most of the time, you're not seeing what I'm eating. 80, it's the 80, 20 rule. But then the other part of it is, I've been lifting for 15 years, I got a good amount of muscle on my body now. It's super metabolically active. I work out every single day to keep on top of that. I'm burning a ton of calories anyways, doing a 20 minute mobility routine followed by A-50 minute lift followed by a 45 minute endurance session. I'm burning, I don't know, 2000 calories during that, like a ton. And so it's like, I struggle to eat enough. And that's a quality problem that most people don't experience. Most people struggle with overeating. And they don't know how to get out of that. And so, yeah, no, it's, it's, it's, so it's funny to me when I hear people, especially women, saying that they don't want to put on muscle. And I'm like, Do you know how hard, any, any ladies that are out there, do you know how hard it is to put on muscle? I want you to look at these arms, look at these arms. Okay. I am not bulky. You would never, ever look at me and go, man, she's bulky. Do you know I did lift over 300 pounds? Yep. With, with, with these arms, with these arms, you can't see my legs, but you know, they're, they're proportional. I am, I am, I am strong and I am fit and I am trying. I was telling you this earlier, it's like, like I'm working on like building my little baby caps and my biceps and I'm working really, really hard. I lift a lot of weight and I do so many reps and I eat so much food and I am trying to put on some, what we call it's hypertrophy, what you would call bulk, but, and you think, well, I just want to tone, I promise you, if you were to lift as if you were trying to get bulky, you would be amazed and astounded and incredibly proud at how those muscles would show up. And then you have pretty sculpted arms and not, you know, they're, they're not skinny, they're not jiggly, they're strong and they look strong. They look fit, not bulky. We don't have the hormones for it. We just don't. And guys do have the hormones for it yet still. It's hard. It is. And, and so for, for men, you, you still have to lift heavy and you have to lift with intention. It's very hard still. And even with the hormones. Now, now I will say like one of the differences, like my son, I finally got him in the gym with me when he was like 18 years old. He was six foot three and a buck 50. Yeah. Yeah. Stiff breeze below that boy right over. So I got him it now. Keep in mind at that point in time, I'd already been lifting for years. I've been a trainer for years. I've been a competitive power lifter for years. That boy 18 years old comes in the gym and starts lifting. And we're talking like starting with like goblet squats with like a 25 pound dumbbell. Okay. That is where he started because he was brand new with this, right? And within about nine months of consistent working out. Now, just imagine the teenage version of this, you know, so he's still, he's still quite lean, but he is at this point, he's about 185. Okay. Still at 63. But he outlifts me. He outlifts me in everything in nine months, but he's bigger than that now. And he's off in the army now, but, but nine months teenage boy, nine months, and he could outlift the work I had been doing for years. And you're a power lifter. So that's even crazier. Yes. Because I was lifting specifically for strength. That typical female weight lifter is not lifting for strength. She's lifting for hypertrophy in specific areas of her body. And so that might be super like somewhat like people like, I get comments all the time at the gym where people are like, they're like, they're like joking. Like, they know that I know my shit and it'll be like a trainer and I'll be like using, I don't know, 60 pound dumbbells on like a flat dumbbell press, which is not heavy for me at all. He'll be like, oh, going heavy today, huh? Like joking. But it's like people get shocked at how light I lift to put on muscle. And so like that's what most women are going to be doing, you know? And so with the fact that you don't do that, you actually do lift for strength. And he's still did that. That just goes to show like the difference in hormones. It's crazy. But the difference in hormones is absolutely stunning. And you're right. And that's, and that's something so fun fact for those of you who aren't super sure about what he was just saying. So there is two very different styles of weightlifting. There is weightlifting for strength. And then there is weightlifting for size. And so when you see someone like Vincent, he's got very big, well-defined muscles. He is going for size. I have always been going for strength. Now I have recently kind of switched up my program and to try to, because I'm wanting to try to build something in my arms. I want to actually look like I can kick ass instead of like you got the go muscles. I got the show muscles. Yeah. So, so I'm actually, I have pulled back on the weight so that I am doing a lot more reps. So when you are trying to build muscles, like for size, you do a shit ton of reps, like so, so many reps. And slow, not super explosive. Whereas for me, for powerlifting, I'm doing sets of like three. And I was mentioning in an earlier episode, like for my deadlift was like 275 three times. And I only do three sets of that. And then that's all of the deadlift. With a super long rest. Yeah. I'm like five minutes in between. But it's because the way that the muscles are, the explosiveness and the way you pull them out in the ATP cycle, and there's a whole lot of science behind it. There's two very different methods of lifting. But I promise you in either way, ladies, in either way that you lift, you will not get bulky. If, if, if I couldn't press anything upon the ladies out there is, I challenge you, lift like you're going to get bulky, do it and see at how your body transforms. And you would be so proud because we're not going to get bulky. Just when you're like, Oh, let me get bulky, just remember these arms. Okay. Just just remember that. There's so much work that has gone into. You talk so badly about your arms. Your arms look great. Look at that. I'm just really proud of that. Yeah. I mean, you're lean. You got actual muscle definition. You got some size. You talk so poorly about them, but they got great arms. Well, but, but here's the thing. Thank you for that. It's for as hard as I work, I would like them to be bigger and more defined. But this is another thing of, of like the aesthetics that people don't realize is I, I have freakishly long arms. I think they are, they are much longer. Not good for power lifting. No, it's actually terrible. I'm not built for power lifting. So no, not at all. But I have, I have weirdly long limbs. So I know it looks like I'm a lot taller than my five foot six, but I'm not, I'm just, I am all limbs. That being said, the length of the muscles is different. You have what are called short belly muscles and long belly muscles. And so, because I am so long, my muscles are long. So I will never have that being glorious. Boom. That's not how you see like this right here. Like that, that's just probably, but I, I mean, I could get a little thicker, but I won't get much more than that because my muscles are so long, which is why if you ever notice like, like shorter guys, shorter gals, shorter limbs, like people who don't even work out and they do this and it's like, wow, it's like way up there. You know, like, how was that for you? You look like you're hiding a freaking baseball in there. This is where like the aesthetics will get you if you're trying to lift for aesthetics instead of just lifting for health and lifting for strength and, you know, trying to make yourself the best is you could be chasing a standard that is not even attainable for your size. If you think about six pack abs, you know, Vince and I, we are smaller framed people. So we can rock the six pack abs because we, we eat well, we have the lifestyle factors, but we also like frame wise, we are not the genetics people. Right. Whereas you have other people who they're going to have a bigger frame. They're naturally going to be a little bit bigger people and six pack abs are not healthy for them. That's, that's not a thing that is not a factor of how healthy or how fit or how strong you are. It's how lean are you and what are your genetics look like? Truly. And I know some of you are thinking, oh, well, that's easy for you to say because you have a friend. I have been in this game a long time and I have trained a lot of people and I've trained a lot of range of, you know, athletes to senior citizens and everything in between. And, and I have way more people who don't have the six pack abs who are crazy strong, crazy fits. They just, they're not built that way. And that's okay. Don't force yourself into some kind of box or into some time, some kind of standard that is not realistic. And then you beat yourself up and you hate on yourself for not meeting a standard that's not even possible for you to reach or healthy or sustainable. Yeah. No, that's, that's a great point for the aesthetics topic of this because like genetics do play a large role. Like that's something that I talk about quite a bit, but they're not, they're not the, they're not the deciding factor of whether or not you're going to look a certain way or you're going to be able to get in shape or whatever. Like if someone's always been overweight, they're going to have to take a different approach than somebody who's always  alfalfa, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, n was realistic don't try to overhaul your whole life at once start small start with with You know, I think we talked about earlier instead of saying I'm never ever going to out to eat ever if you go out to eat Five nights a week. That's not realistic. Maybe whittling it down to two Maybe you're gonna say alright. I'm gonna start packing my lunch a couple of days a week Maybe I'm going to be intentional to eat a good healthy breakfast getting in some protein getting in some good healthy carbohydrates because carbs are not the enemy Carbs fuel your body your brain runs on glucose. You need carbs. I don't care what everybody else is that? I'm not trying to sell you anything you need carbs low carb is not the way to go Sorry, so box anyway Focus on on on on getting in plenty of protein protein is really really important It is the golden child of the fitness industry for a reason so making sure that you're getting in plenty of protein Making healthier food choices They don't have to be perfect just aim to do better and then be challenging yourself figure out What what type of movement you want to start including it doesn't have to be the gym? It can be walking, you know It maybe starting with a lap around your neighborhood or walking 15 minutes And then maybe you can up that time to 20 minutes and building your stamina that way look for markers that That you can start with and improve upon or maybe you can start with saying you know what I want to I want to be able To do a push-up on my toes Okay, you start where you are and you work towards that goal Just make sure that you're not hating on yourself along the way because this is this is trial and error It's it's it's trial and a whole lot of error so much error, and it's okay mess up today start over tomorrow It's about consistency. It doesn't have to be perfect. It's being consistent. That's where your results are Consistency and how big do how big how much does goal setting? Play into this if you're gonna come over to my house fence, but I don't give you my address. How are you gonna find me? Hmm? Nice You know I live in Texas well you can hop in your car and head to Texas is a big damn state. Mm-hmm So if you don't know where you're going You you you can have a general direction as to how to get there. Hey, I'm in Texas come visit me Okay, okay, you can get to Texas. Do you have no idea where I live? Mm-hmm, so Having having a general idea of what you want is good But having an actual goal is going to help you with the roadmap to get there. Mm-hmm and then I would add on top of that if you are not necessarily Capable or willing to build the knowledge base to Create a proper plan to get to that to achieve that goal Working with somebody who does Absolutely, you know I'm partial to be shred, you know, that's who I work for However, you know going to see a trainer at your at your local gym You know trainers are a wealth of information and they may not be certified nutritionists But they can they can get you at least on the right road They can give you some direction you can find a nutritionist you can either plenty of platforms online You know these shreds one, but there are plenty out there There's a lot of really great places to go and you can find find someone you could hire a registered Dietitian to help you as well. That's another route to go There's resources out there consider it an investment in your health and not an expense And it doesn't have to be I think a lot of people assume that it's going to be way more expensive than it actually can be I think it can be very expensive Oh, it can also be very affordable lots of options out there depending on you know What you what you find and where you're looking and what you are willing to do on your own versus what you want someone else to do for you Yeah, yeah, and like the one thing I always say like if somebody says that they're trying to do something or they're struggling with doing not being able to do something My go-to question is well, how much time are you putting in every single day to fixing that problem? if you say that Personal training is too expensive. How much time have you spent today? Finding a cheaper solution for personal training because it goes for any anything you want to do absolutely Absolutely, if you're putting in work every single like how much like it's like people who are like, oh, I'm I'm gonna be single forever I can't find I can't find a partner. It's like How much time a day are you putting in to finding a quality partner? What are the actions that you're taking to find somebody are you going to places that you like where you'll find people? Are you on dating sites? Are you trying to go on like me? We're gonna be single forever because you go home you go to the gym you go to the girl total body Because well, I work from home Vince you make me work from home You know I will to your point I won't find anybody just going to those three places So it's like once I'm willing maybe the grocery store if you got super lucky But no you got to put yourself out there You got to put time in every day or every week to Accomplishing whatever it is that you want to do so if you want to get better at something or you want to achieve something How much time and effort are you putting in every single day? I don't I don't want to hear from somebody that they can't do something if they're not spending time every day to try to do it You're just not doing it I would and I would say this if you if you're gonna come at me and say well, I don't have the time I'm too busy. Guess what? We are all busy. We are all busy That is the adult version of saying the dog ate my homework If you don't have enough time in the day to figure out some way to Make some healthy food or to get in a short workout somewhere my friends you have a time management problem Yeah, and it's a matter of priorities And I'm not trying to be ugly and I'm not gonna be one of those We all have the same 24 hours because like Vince said earlier our lives revolve around Fitness and you know this this is what we do so I realized that we are in a different camp Yep, but we are also very busy people and we put in a lot of hours at our job And we make time for being intentional with our workouts and our meal prep because it's important Cool, I know you gotta be out here in two minutes So I'm gonna wrap this up if anybody wants to check out our coaching plans if you want to work with Barbie directly Or you just want some help getting started make sure you guys are checking out There's links probably around or just go to our website check it all out, but Barbie. Thank you I know this was a lot of time out of your day and you're gonna have to go to the gym at a different time today But I appreciate you being here. All right. Thank you so much for having me. It was fun. Yeah, have a good one now if you are looking for some extra support and You aren't looking to spend a fortune. You should consider working with one of our V shred certified coaches We'll figure out your macros will figure out your calories will figure out what your custom meal plan will look like and yes We'll make sure that it contains your favorite foods And basically all you do is you let your coach know what you like what you don't like because when we say custom We mean it and you get unlimited emails you get weekly check-ins You get access to our brand new coaching app where you can message them at any time about anything with any questions Our coaches are here to help you reach your goals and they care about your success So all the details about how it works is in the description down below So check that out if you want to but thank you again for tuning in until next time Thanks for tuning in to today's episode of the shreds better body better life podcast Whether you're doing one of our programs taking our supplements or just doing things on your own Tune in every week for exclusive content with vents V shred trainers and special guests as they share valuable tips around Motivation workout food and living a healthier lifestyle. See you next time
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:58.471791Z ===
