 cook-at-home. Huge one. You have to do it. And I get it. Eating out is convenient. You're also probably going to be paying $30 for that meal, which is way more than what you'd be paying if you bought in bulk and then prepared this for yourself. And you don't know what all ingredients are used. You don't know what oils they're using, if they're using seed oils or what they're adding to it, or where they're sourcing their foods. You don't know any of that stuff. Cooking-at-home gives you the power to control exactly what's going into your meals. Plus, it's a great way to stretch your dollar. Welcome to the V-Shred Better Body Better Life podcast, where we help you live your best life while working on your health and fitness goals. We're here to make your journey fun and inspiring. What's going on, everyone? Welcome back to another episode of the Better Body Better Life podcast. I am your host, Vince Sant, and I hope you're having a great day and a great week. Today, I've got something that has been requested from a lot of you guys. For anybody out there who wants to see that number go down on a scale, and you want to get in great shape, and you want to live your best life, but you don't want to break the bank doing it, this is for you. Truth is, there is a big misconception that eating healthy has to cost a fortune. I've seen pictures comparing what a burger and fries from McDonald's is versus what an organic burger and sweet potato fries is from the grocery store. People hype it up to be like, I don't know, five times more than what the McDonald's meal is, and that's just not the case. It doesn't have to be like that. Yes, if you're buying one burger, one beef patty at a time, and you're buying in these small amounts, sure. But today, I'm going to go over some ways to be more practical on eating healthy, but also mindfully so that if you're on a tight budget, it doesn't really mess you up. And so we'll cover everything from meal planning and bulk buying to whipping up affordable, yet really nutritious meals. So we're going to go over quite a few things, and I think this is going to help a lot of you guys. So let's dive in. All right, so to kick things off, I'm just going to jump right into tip number one, which is going to be to plan your meals ahead of time. And the reason that this is number one is because meal planning is going to be your secret weapon for not only getting in shape, but also for staying on a budget while trying to get in shape. Because when you take the time to plan your meals for the week, you're creating a blueprint, and that blueprint is for success, right? And you start by jotting down what you want to eat for breakfast and lunch and dinner and then what your snacks are, right? And then you use that plan to build a focused shopping list. Okay. Why does this work so well? This works so well because when was the last time you went to the grocery store without a shopping list? Or while you were hungry. That's probably another just side tip. Don't go to the grocery store when you're hungry. But this works so well is because it keeps you from getting distracted by that family size bag of Doritos that's conveniently on sale and low fat. Or those chocolate covered granola bars or candy bars that are tempting you from the checkout line because they're conveniently placed right there by the checkout line. And so pick a day, Sunday, let's say, to plan your meals. And what you're going to do is you're going to look for recipes that use overlapping ingredients so that you can buy in bulk and you can also reduce waste. For example, let's say you are making chili chili and in tacos in the same week. Well, you can use the same ground turkey, the same beans, the same spices for both dishes. And so you can buy in bulk when ordering those foods and then you can prep them really all at once if you'd like to and be set up for the entire week with less prep and less ingredients needed to be bought. And speaking of buying in bulk, that's actually tip number two, which is to buy in bulk because I mean, obviously buying in bulk is going to be cheaper regardless of what you're buying for. And it's just a total game changer, especially for staples. Like that's I think that's where people end up spending the most money is when they're buying like a little bit of rice or they're buying a little bag of lentils. If you buy in bulk of staples like your grains, your beans, your lentils, your nuts, these items are cost effective. They have a long shelf life and they can be used in so many different dishes. Like if instead of buying a small bag of quinoa for one or two meals, grab a massive bag of quinoa that will last you for weeks, if not months and just find a place in a side pantry where you can keep that and then find a little jar and pour it in that jar so that you have a little bit that you can take and prepare rather than having to haul around this five pound bag of quinoa. But it's going to be way more cost effective. And so yeah, obviously that storage is probably another great side tip for any of you guys having airtight containers to keep them fresh and also to prevent waste. Waste is a big piece, which I'll touch on on a second. But moving on to tip number three, this one's pretty straightforward, but also, I mean, this is probably one of the most important things that you could do when you are trying to get in shape, which is to focus on whole foods. Processed foods are often more expensive. They're also packed with additives that don't do your body any favors, but they're meant to like extend their shelf life, but they're again horrible for you. And so instead of going for these big brand names of ultra processed foods that yes, might taste pretty good because they're loaded with a bunch of additives, stick to whole foods. Go to the produce section, get fresh foods, fruits, get fresh vegetables, get whole grains, go over to the butcher and get lean proteins, or you can get fatty proteins too, but don't be going and getting pre packaged, pre cooked chicken. That's going to be loaded with sodium, going to be loaded with preservatives so that it stays alive on their shelves longer. And when it comes to that produce shop in season, whenever possible, I think that's something that people don't really do because it's going to be fresher. Obviously, if it's in season for avocados, then you're going to have fresher avocados are going to taste better, and it's almost always cheaper. And so you could even litter you could literally like plan your meals around what season it is. And so that's just a few of also if you have a nice little like a farmer's market nearby, fantastic place to find high quality fruits and veggies at a lower price, you'll be supporting small businesses. It's a win-win all around. Okay, tip number four, huge one. You have to do it cook at home. And I get it. Eating out is convenient. And there are a lot of places now that are offering healthier options these days, which is awesome. But the truth is, is that those menu items are overpriced and you also have less control over the ingredients that are used in them and also portion sizes. And so you might get this meal that's a pretty big that is technically probably two portion sizes for you. Like it's probably double what you should be eating. You're also probably going to be paying 30 bucks for that meal, maybe 20, 30 bucks for that meal, which is way more than what you'd be paying if you bought in bulk and then prepared this for yourself. And you don't know what all ingredients are used. You don't know what oils they're using, if they're using seed oils or what they're adding to it or where they're sourcing their foods. You don't know any of that stuff. Cooking at home gives you the power to control exactly what's going into your meals. Plus, it's a great way to stretch your dollar because, like I said, the cost of one takeout meal could cover the ingredients for several home cooked meals, especially if you're ordering on like Dordash or Uber Eats or something like that, because you got all them extra fees that somehow your meal is your meal that you're actually ordering is 15 bucks, but the meal comes out to $34. Like how did this happen? And if you're new to cooking, by the way, start with simple recipes. There are recipes like actually my sister just got my girlfriend a recipe book of simple recipes because she doesn't love cooking, but she does occasionally. And I eat like a 15 year old. I'll eat very simple basic foods. So it was great for us. And so if you're new to cooking, start with those simple recipes. Go get yourself a simple recipe cookbook and then use or make recipes that only use a handful of ingredients. And then as you get more confident in the kitchen, you can try to experiment with new flavors and new techniques of cooking. And also don't forget that home cooked meals usually means you're going to have leftovers. And this is huge. If you're trying to not break the bank and stick to a diet, you got to use you got to eat your leftovers. I, I will admit, am not the best at eating leftovers. That's something I need to work on. But if you are trying to save money, you stretch that dollar, then you want to make sure that those leftovers are tomorrow's lunch or tomorrow's quick dinner, because it's basically like getting two or three or four meals for the price of one. Now on to tip number five, make the most affordable or make the most of affordable proteins. And what does that mean? Protein doesn't have to break the bank protein is yes, going to be probably your most expensive food that you're purchasing. Right. But there are budget friendly options. Eggs, for example, can be quite cheap. You can get a dozen eggs for three bucks. Can tuna also super cheap. If you're a tuna fan, beans, lentils, even frozen fish. If you prefer poultry, you can get chicken thighs. Those are usually going to be cheaper than the chicken breast and just as nutritious. And some people like them more. Ground turkey or lean ground beef are also great options for meal prepping multiple dishes without spending a fortune that goes back to what we're talking about with the tacos versus the chili. And then, and then another big one tip, tip number six, I think, avoid. Food waste. I said we were going to mention this a little bit later. I've mentioned a couple of things related to food waste leftovers. But there was a crazy statistic that the average household throws out about 32% of the food they buy. That's crazy. That's all. That's a lot of wasted money if you're trying to diet on a budget. And so to avoid this, get creative with leftovers. For example, roast chicken from dinner can be shredded and turned into chicken salad or added to a stir fry. Vegetables that are starting to kind of go bad and starting to wilt a little bit can be tossed into a soup or blended up into a smoothie, a nice protein smoothie. And always keep an eye on expiration dates. I know some people are a little bit more lenient with what they consider a proper expiration date. And I know for a fact, my mom will, she does the smell test. If it don't smell too bad, she'll eat it. But basically you just want to rotate older items to the front of your fridge or the front of your pantry so that they get used up before the bad ones. Pretty simple. Next, let's talk about embracing meal prep. And this is more of a, I think a mindset one because meal prep is it's if you're serious about getting in shape and you're serious about making drastic changes, you got to meal prep. That's just, it's just, you can't rely on cooking every single day. You can't rely on eating out all the time. Now you don't have to meal prep every meal for every day of the week, but meal prepping, like I always say when people are starting out meal prep, just cook like three or four dinners at a time and then work your way up. Because meal prep is a lifesaver for, for, for getting in shape, but also just if you're busy and also if you're on a budget. Because by prepping those meals in advance, you'll always have healthy options ready to go, which means you're less likely to cave and order takeout or hit the fat. Food line on the way home from work when you're hungry and don't know what you're going to be eating for dinner. So dedicate one day a week. Sunday works great to cook a big batch of rice, cook some vegetables, prepare some protein chicken. If you're vegan tofu, store everything in proportioned containers airtight so that you can mix and match throughout the week and then you're good to go. And again, you don't have to have that for every single meal of the week, but the majority of the time you have an out, you have a healthy option right there ready to go. So you don't have to, like I said, order some Dora dash or hit some McDonald's on the way home. You don't want to be doing that failure to prepare prepares you to fail. Tip number eight, shop smart. Being a savvy shopper makes a huge difference. So keep an eye out for sales. Keep an eye out and use coupons. Don't overlook generic brands. I mentioned you not buying a name brand just because of the name brand. Those are usually going to be marked up just because they're the name brand. Like I mentioned Doritos earlier, there's probably an off brand Doritos right next to the Doritos that have everything the exact same, but they're $2 cheaper. And they're often just as good as the name brands, but like I said, they cost less. And a pro tip is never shop when you're hungry. I mentioned this earlier as well. This is the best tip I can give to anybody who's grown grocery shopping because it is a recipe for impulse buys, which really will blow your budget if you're trying to do this on a budget. So even if you're not doing this on a budget, I think everybody should avoid going to the grocery store hungry because every single time I've done it, I've come home with a big deal. I've come home with two or three things that I absolutely did not need and I probably don't eat or if I do eat, I'm mad that I even bought them and I did eat them. So it's just a lose, lose all around. And then finally tip number nine I think we're on now is to you could also try growing your own food below homesteader. If you got a little time, you got a little space, growing your own herbs, growing your own vegetables, even your own fruits can be a very fun and also cost effective way to eat fresh. And again, if you're not a gardener, I'm not a gardener. I'm not going to sit here and act like I am. One day I would like to have a ranch and I would like to grow some of this, but start with easy to grow plants, a couple easy to grow plants. I had to look this up, but I got you basil, parsley, lettuce, tomatoes, all easy to grow. Even even a small little window sill herb garden can help save a little bit money while adding flavor to your meals. It's just less that you have to buy at the store. And again, if you like gardening, it's a win-win too. Now, if you are looking for a little extra help with creating a budget friendly meal plan that's both healthy and taste good and don't break the bank, we got you covered. We got V-Shred certified coaches that are experts at designing meal plans that fit your individual goals, your body type and your budget. And they'll handle all the planning, they'll handle all the organization for you so that all you have to do is focus on enjoying your journey without feeling overwhelmed. And so if that sounds like something that you'd be interested in, there should be a link somewhere around here, maybe down below in the description. You can click that link to get started. But if you just came here to listen to the episode, amazing. And I hope you enjoyed it. I hope these tips help you save some cash while staying on track with your health and fitness goals. But thank you for tuning in and I will catch you in the next episode. Thanks for tuning in to today's episode of V-Shred's Better Body Better Life podcast. Whether you're doing one of our programs, taking our supplements or just doing things on your own, tune in every week for exclusive content with V-Shred trainers and special guests as they share valuable tips around motivation, workouts, food and living a healthier lifestyle. See you next time.