 you need to know your starting point. Take a few days to track certain things. You gotta know how much calories you're putting in your body. You have to know how much non-exercise activity you're doing, typically in the form of steps. What I tell all my clients is 7,000 steps. 7,000 is the baseline, 10,000 is the goal. Food. If you ask a normal person who is even seeking help, how many calories are you eating a day? I can guarantee you they have absolutely no idea. Welcome to the V-Shred Better Body Better Life Podcast, where we help you live your best life while working on your health and fitness goals. We're here to make your journey fun and inspiring. What's going on, everyone? Welcome back to another episode of the Better Body Better Life Podcast. I'm your host, Vince Sant, and today we have one of our coaches here with us, a special guest, to talk about just bodybuilding, talk about resistance training, talk about strength training. I want everybody to welcome Alex Loudon. He's a certified personal trainer. He's a certified nutritionist, certified corrective exercise specialist, certified bodybuilding specialist. He has his master's degree in business. He played sports grown-up. He's been in the sports world for a long time, so everybody welcome. Alex, thanks for having me, Vince. What's going on? How are you doing? Go ahead and just give our listeners and myself a proper intro of yourself. I know I just went over a bunch of random stuff about you. You've got a ton of different certifications, and you're in the bodybuilding space, or at least used to be in the bodybuilding space, and then you also grew up in the sports area, and you're in the sports industry now. So just tell us a little bit about you, what got you into fitness, and we'll go from there. Yeah, absolutely. So growing up, I was always into sports, multi-sport athlete, played at a pretty high level through high school. I have the kind of, you know, the prototypical story of, you know, athlete gone wrong, unfortunately. I was a baseball player, tore my labrum, the backside of my shoulder, and so that kind of derailed my sports career in high school. I was always active enough to where I could stay lean, fit. When I stopped playing sports, fell off the wagon, man. Unfortunately, fell off the wagon. Got really big. You know, I ballooned up to 270, and, you know, at one point stepped on the scale, and a light bulb just went off in my head, and I was like, I can't do this anymore. And I was only 19 or 20. So I kind of hit that, you know, rock bottom, if you will, at a young enough age to where I was able to, you know, pick myself up, recover, and, you know, get on the straight and narrow. And ironically enough, I kind of just fell into it. I fell into doing it the right way. To where my philosophy on wellness, we'll call it, is there are three main pillars, nutrition, strength training, and cardio. And honestly, in that order. So, you know, what did I do? So I went from 270 to 185 in like a six or seven month span. You know, cut out, thank you. I cut out sodas, fast foods, was eating grilled chicken salads, right? But at this point in time, I was not knowledgeable or educated in the nutrition realm. I just knew sodas and fast foods were bad, right? Stop doing those things. Started strength training, started doing cardio, and kind of turned my life around. All while this is happening, I'm going to school for business, right? So, you know, through the midst of all this, you know, my body is transforming. People are asking me what I'm doing. And so I start helping people little by little, you know, not monetizing in any way, shape, or form. But I've always been in sports, so I understood the value of coaching. I understood the value of teamwork, helping others, the value of having, you know, being fit and active. And so, you know, fast forward a few years, I get a business degree. I go to graduate school for sport and entertainment management, because I love the sports industry. So, fast forward four or five years, I now have two master's degrees in business. I'm a very fit and functional person, and I work in the sports industry for a few years. And then, unfortunately, I kind of just fall out of love for that industry for the reason that from the outside looking in, it seems very glamorous. It's just new. Overworked, underpaid, working weekends, working holidays. And after about three or four years of doing that, I just, I had it. So, I decided to, you know, go a different route. And at that point, call it, I'm 24, 25 at this point, I'm 31 now. So, I pursue my personal training certificate. I get that. I, you know, become an in-person personal trainer for about two years. I start my own online business, coaching people virtually. I started with just like a few people in my neighborhood, someone that my mom referred me to. And then, I did a little bit of online marketing and gathered somewhat of a slightly larger following. Had a few people out on the West Coast, a few people out of state. And so, that was a good supplemental, you know, revenue stream for me. And then, I was the general manager of a gym for about two years, while also being the lead strength and conditioning coach at a baseball academy locally to me, and also coaching baseball. So, I've had a lot of different experiences that has kind of led me to where I am now. And I'm very thankful and very happy with where my career has led me. And, you know, I plan to be here for a long time. And so, you truly have, like if, I mean, everybody jokes about like, oh, if I hadn't had this bum knee, I'd be in the league. You could kind of say it about your shoulder if you were playing at a high level, which is cool and a bummer. But it's cool that it led you down that path of getting into fitness where you, and you said that you hit rock bottom when you were 270 pounds. When you hit 270 pounds, what was your like immediate go to? You said that you were cutting out fast food, cutting out, what do you say, energy drinks and poppin' stuff. And so, did you just do that? You said you didn't really have an understanding of nutrition yet. And so, how did you drop, what was it, 90 pounds? Something like that, yeah. And in half a year, because most people, I mean, most people can't do that, you know, or that, or, I mean, a lot of it comes down to willpower, I think. And, I mean, it sounds like from your background, I mean, playing sports takes a lot of, like, dedication, getting two masters of degrees takes a lot of willpower to stick through all that. And then starting like a new career at 24, 25 again. And so, what made you want to, I guess, like, what was the mindset you had when you were ready to make a change? Because you said you stepped on the scale 270, that was your rock bottom. What was your mindset going into that new transformation journey? I don't want to be fat. Yeah. So, like, look, and you're absolutely right. Mindset willpower discipline, they all, you know, play a big role. But for me, it was more personal fulfillment. But then I also have, again, the background of discipline, day in and day out to get good at your craft. You got to stay consistent. And that's the biggest thing, right? You know, I'd be lying to you if I said, you know, I have a lot of clients who are like, you know, my father died at a young age. I have children that I want to be here for a long time for. You know, I didn't have that lie, right? That wasn't that wasn't my reason. It was confidence issues. It was depression. It was complacency. So there was a lot of different things that. Drove me to just it was like a shock because, you know, as most people as it happens to most people, it's gradual, right? It took a year or two for me to get from a healthier way of 210 to then 270. And nobody was telling me. I had a girlfriend and she didn't say anything. And it was just, it just happened. And, you know, it just, it creeped up on me. And then one day I stepped on the scale and again, it was just my jaw dropped. And I was like, nope, can't do this anymore. Wow. And so, you know, going back to your original question, kind of what I did outside of just cutting out soda and fast food. And I don't want this to sound jarring to the novice person who's trying to get, you know, more fit and into the fitness space. I ran a lot. So I would go to the gym and I would run essentially if I could, I would run three, I would go at least three to three and a half miles. Right. So I'd run about a mile, walk, catch my breath, then run three quarters of a mile, walk, catch my breath, then run a half of a mile. And that was just me warming up. Then I would go and strength train for 45 minutes to an hour and then do core at the end. So it truly was a culmination of fixing my diet, strength training and cardio. And again, you know, your jaw dropped and you said, wow, to the fact that I lost 80 some odd pounds in, in six months. I also had a lot of things going for me. I had more flexibility. I was young. So again, I don't want to make it sound impossible to the person who has a family of five and a and a stressful work life and things of that nature. It's, you know, it really is all about finding your why staying consistent and, you know, improving 1% every day. And what did you see bigger benefits from the cardio aspect of it or the strength training aspect of it? And what did you enjoy more? Did you enjoy the running? No. Yeah. Yeah. No, I think it takes a fairly special kind of person to truly enjoy running. I just, I knew that it was, um, you know, as most people think right, right off the bat, how do you lose weight? You stop eating food and you do long bouts of cardio. Yep. And so sure that was, uh, at the front and center of my mind at that point in time. And that will definitely get you the quicker results that will not give you the longer sustainable results. And why not? Well, because of the way that it can negatively affect your hormones, your metabolism. And again, I would never tell somebody to not do something that they enjoy doing. If you enjoy running or you enjoy playing basketball, things like that, phenomenal. But there's a balance to everything. Right. I would say strength training is more important than cardio because strength training is the fountain of youth. Strength training in the short term will improve your mood, your energy, your libido, your, uh, and a lot of times your mindset. Mm hmm. In the long term, it's going to help to speed up the metabolism. It's going to build stronger bones. It's going to make you a more functional person. So with all of those benefits, I just feel as if it outweighs the benefits of, you know, long distance cardio. And don't get me wrong. I still even to this day get my 10,000 steps in a day. Right. It's not high intensity, long steady state cardio, but that's not, you know, but I'm still getting cardio. Right. I still play sports in men's league. I play soccer and I play baseball. So two days a week, I am getting my hit style or longer, steady state cardio in there. Um, so it truly is a balance. Um, but laying the pros and cons of everything, I would definitely say strength training is slightly above cardio. Um, when it comes to, you know, results. Yeah. No, a couple of things I love what you said right there. The main one being like, Hey, I'm never going to tell somebody who loves doing, who loves running that they shouldn't run. Or if somebody was a swimmer in high school or in college and they want to go swim a couple of times a week for their cardio. Like people, I mean, obviously we have tons of videos out there where we're kind of like bashing cardio, but we're only bashing cardio because it's not sustainable or enjoyable for most people long term. And there are negative effects if you're that, if that's all you're doing. And so I love that you clarify all of that. Um, also men's soccer league sounds like the craziest cardio ever. I know, like softball leagues, baseball leagues, they're like not too tough. I've played softball a couple of times since being an adult and it's like, occasionally you got a sprint to base or you got to run for a play or something like that. But soccer, I can't even imagine the cardio with that. It'd be like, I've played basketball since being an adult in a league and that's enough. I don't know how soccer, I don't even know how I would be able to keep up with that. But I wanted to ask you, you mentioned how if you have a client who's got five kids, um, and a full time job, like you had that, that flexibility and a little bit more time. You were also, you said you started working at a gym too. So that kind of opened up like the accessibility that you needed to kind of work out. If you had a break, you go work out lunch, you could work out before work going early when the gym's not even open. Maybe I don't know if that's allowed, but like you were, you were around it all day. Right. Most people are not. And so like as you get older and since you've been working with people and helping people get in shape, how does that change a little bit? Like how does, how does, um, the approach to strength training change? Yeah. Well, number one, it's trying to get to understand their lifestyle. Right. It is so difficult without speaking to somebody face to face, um, to understand what a day in their life looks like. Yeah. Right. And I just read a very inspiring, um, you know, a story we'll call it of a gentleman who wakes up at 3 30 in the morning to strength train for about an hour and a half. Well, then kind of, you know, take a shower, get his lunch prepared and things like that. And then go back to bed at six o'clock in the morning because he has a six year old autistic son who will join him in bed. And if the dad isn't there, it's already a bad day for the shot. Then to get up again for a second time around seven 30, because he has, he's a, he's a, uh, he's a store owner. So he has to open up his shop at nine o'clock, close at seven, get home at eight, bath time, sorry time for, for the son again. So I mean, that is a packed, stressful life. And this gentleman is making it work. So, you know, there's no one best response to this answer. Um, I mean, it really just comes down to you, you got to do what you got to do. You know, I'm not a very crude person. I'm a little more of the empathetic coach, but some people will literally just say, like, if you're not doing it, if you're not prioritizing your health, you just don't want it bad enough. Right. And that, that, that is a little more, uh, you know, direct than, than I am with most of my clients. But at the end of the day, there are ways to make it work. I mean, a few tips that I share with a lot of my clients is number one, write your longer term goals down. Right. If you have a whiteboard, maybe it's words of affirmation in your bathroom that you go to, you know, multiple times a day. Maybe it's smack dab on your refrigerator. Write your longterm goals down and you can literally kind of like speak them into existence. Right. As long as you have a structured game plan in place to help get you there. Right. A second, a second approach, um, you know, on the same topic is a daily planner right next to me. I have my daily planner that breaks things down by the 15 minute from seven o'clock in the morning. Wow. Till like a nice, I write in everything. I write in the time that I'm going to the gym. I write in the times I'm walking my dog. I write in, you know, my when I'm, when I'm making and prepping food exactly. So that just creates almost non-negotiable. Right. It is very easy to work a long day, get home at six. And in the back of your mind in the morning, you're like, oh, I'm going to go to the gym. I'm going to get a good workout in and then you get home and you're tired and you don't do it. But guess what? If you have it written in pen and stone, if you will, it's really just another level of accountability. Yep. I love that. And that's, that's actually some motivation that I needed to get back to doing that. Cause I used to be really good. Like I go through phases, you know, I think most people go through phases and lots of areas of life. And that's one thing that I would do is I would write down every night before I went to bed. That's when I would do it. Cause that's like, sometimes I'll just sit in bed and I'll just like sit there with my eyes open or my eyes close. And just like my mind will just race. I'd be like, what, what, what did I do today? Or I'll be thinking about something that I said or that I should have done or I'm thinking about what I have to get done tomorrow or whatever. And so like one of the best things that I do for myself is I journal and one of the things that I would do in addition to that journaling, which I'm better about the journaling at night. And that helps me with that stress. But like the daily planner I would write down, like I wake up probably seven, seven 30. I'm not a super early riser. And so I'd wait, I'd write down like what time I want to wake up seven, eight, nine. I'd break it down by hour or a half hour. It's 15 minutes is like next level. But I would, it would be super useful cause I would, I would know like, and I would, I would write down like a lot of it would be like, I'd have work blocks and I would write down what I'm doing during those work blocks so that I also don't have to, cause that's the thing is like, I have, like right now I could do a million different things. But sometimes because I have a million different things to do, I forget about most of them and I only do a couple of them. And then someone hits me up and they're like, Hey, did you check out this? I'm like, Oh, shit. No, I forgot about that completely versus if I'm writing down a deal. So I love that. But back to the weightlifting aspect of it, were there, what, what mistakes did you make in the beginning with your fitness and what would you say are some of the common misconceptions when it comes to weightlifting? Um, I would say that the two most overlooked aspects of just this whole thing of trying to get in shape because I am a big strength training advocate. I would say number one over training people, especially at the beginning, put the pedal to the metal, have all of this motivation and they neglect. The bigger picture. So over, you know, what happens when you over train is that number one, you could actually take a half step back. Um, if you don't recover properly, um, as in, if your muscles are not recovered and you break them down, you're damaging them more than you're helping them. So over training, especially if you're under nourished, right? Because here's the thing, when you're trying to lose weight, there's such a balance to everything. You need to be in a cork deficit, but it should be a slight cork deficit. Like I mentioned before, people are always like, I'm going to stop eating food. I'm going to law. I'm going to run long distances. That's not the way to do it. You need to figure out what your metabolic rate is. And then you need to figure out approximately how much exercise calories you're burning. So your base, your basal metabolic rate is essentially just how many calories you're burning on a daily basis outside of exercise. Right. For most people, it's in the high teens. We'll call it 1800 on average, right? Maybe a little bit higher. If you're, you know, if you've been doing this for a long time, call it 18. And then you work out and you burn 400 calories. So now your total caloric expenditure for the day is 2200 calories or your maintenance calories. Right. So now to be in a cork deficit, you only want to be. Two to 500. 500 is high. I say two to 300 in a cork deficit. So if you're burning 2200 calories a day, you want to eat 1900 2000 calories a day, you will slowly and steadily lose the fat or the weight obviously. And then through strength training, you help speed up the metabolism. And build more muscle. Here's the thing. Over training will slow that down, especially because you're undernourished to a certain degree, which is necessary to lose the weight. Yep. So that's one. And then one thing I'll add to that is like injury is a real risk. If you're overtraining, we were literally just talking about this before you hopped on. One of the guys here is he's like a power lifter and he's super fucking strong. And he's like talking to me about like some of the numbers that he's pushing on bench and he's like getting his bench back up. And I tore my pec, benching like probably a year ago, like recently, and it wasn't even going super heavy. The issue was I had gone super heavy recently. I hit like 315 for the first. I hit like 315 for the first. I just for some reason, I was like, I'm going to get strong now while I'm like training for a triathlon, which was, I don't know what I was thinking. But I was getting strong. And I tried it was the first time I had ever tried benching 315 and it moved pretty easily. And then and then a couple of days later, I was like, OK, I'm not going to go big today. But I mean, it was still on 260 and I had a proper warm up. But I went up to 265, which I had just pushed 50 pounds, 60 pounds heavier than this, like 50 pounds. I'm a sped three days prior. I had pushed much more weight than this. I should be fine. But my body hadn't recovered from that fully yet. And I tore my pec on much lower weight than I just had pushed. So then over over training can also lead to more injuries. So sorry to stop you. No, you're all good. And piggybacking on overtraining being number one, recovery was number two. And that was the second part of the original question was, you know, essentially, what are the most overlooking at what are the most overlooked aspects of this? You know, pushing too hard too soon and not recovering. Yeah. Right. And to your point, you know, if you want to stick to the basics and if you'd like, I mean, you're leading the conversation, obviously, but we can get more into it more in depth into some higher level recovery stuff. But it really does start with sleep. Yep. Water. Yep. High quality food. Mm hmm. Limiting stress, if possible. Yeah. Right. I had this one client. Hmm. Been working with for a long time now. He actually recently just hit his hundred pound weight loss marker. Damn. But this has been like a year. Right. So we've been training together for a while. 100 pounds is crazy. Yeah. 100 pounds is 100 pounds, no matter. Yeah. No matter how you split it. Right. But nonetheless, he's hit plateaus along the way. And those are to be expected. And I definitely communicated that with him. A big way how we overcame those hurdles was he has a very stressful job. So he was one of those people who wanted to train seven days a week because it's his stress relief. And I'm like, dude, let's take a half step back. Because I don't think you're recovering enough. Let's do something to help. Number one, your mental health. And then number two, to literally help the body relax. So on Sundays, he now does yoga. I and I gave him other ideas like, dude, go get a massage. Have a self care day. Yeah. One day a week. Guys are so against that. I don't know why. Girls are all about it. Spa day, massages. They're all about it. Getting their nails done, something that's going to relieve stress. Guys, I feel like, yeah, it's the opposite. It's like it's almost like being like hardwired into our brains that like the harder you work, the more manly you are. And that no days off is more respected when in reality, that's hurting you more than it's. I mean, it helps you in plenty of ways. And I would say like in your younger years, I do recommend that. Like, yeah, when I was 18, I mean, when we started the business, I was 20 years old and for the first five years, it was Adderall and energy drinks and not much sleep and lots of stress. But like I was young and I could afford to do that. I could, I was fine, not sleeping very much. My hormones were okay. And I had, and then I spent some time the last couple of years correcting that by getting good sleep and, and making sure that my hormones are correct and everything like that and getting my blow work done consistently. But yeah, for some reason, guys have just been convinced that like the harder you work and the less time you take off, the more respected as a man you are, which is something that we, I think we need to shift the narrative on. Yeah, 100%. And you hit the nail on the head when you said it's just been ingrained in our mind. But quite frankly, like time has changed, you know what I mean? And there has been more talk about, you know, mental health awareness and things like that, which is great. But you're right. Just like with every other social issue in the world, it's going, hopefully it will continue to evolve and, and, and help people in the long term. Yeah. And then so now that shift over to women, because a lot of our listeners are women, what are some of the misconceptions around weightlifting when it comes to women? This is one of my favorite questions, especially stemming back to being a personal trainer in a gym, because when I was there, we did not have anybody handing clients, right? In certain gym settings, there are a fitness manager, the fitness manager signs people up and places them with who they think the best. Right. Trainer would be, right. For me, I needed to find all my own clients. So I would go out on the floor, talk to people, and we would set up what we're, what we call consultations. Okay. 99 times out of 100. When I sat down with a woman and I was trying to explain to her what my philosophy would be if we were to train together. It's either too intimidating or they don't want to get too bulky. And I'm here to tell you, you will not get too bulky. Because quite honestly, it takes so long. Like I, I'm a man with testosterone. I have a higher muscle building, um, effects than women do. I've been working for a very, very, very long time to build as much muscle, eat as much food as I possibly can. And I mean, I, I, I'm a, I'm a pretty muscular person, but I do not look like Arnold Schwarzenegger. That is just a whole, you know, that, that's a whole nother level. With 15 times as much testosterone as a woman. Yeah. Literally. Exactly. Exactly. Um, so, you know, when it comes to strength training for women, do it as often as possible, lift pretty much as heavy as possible, because there are so many things that have to go right for them to become too bulky to wear again for the average person out there. It's just simply not going to happen. What actually will happen is, um, they will build lean tissue and they will be a lot more aesthetically, they'll burn the fat that most women want to burn. Most people generally speaking, but you know, women, women as well. Um, and they will get lean and more cut versus bulky. Yep. The long, the long lean.  amlodipine, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin,  naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin,