 Question. Did you know that drinking water actually makes your body work harder? Drinking 16 ounces of water can increase your metabolic rate by 24 to 30% for about an hour. And cold water, by the way, gives you an extra edge. Why? Because your body has to expend even more energy to heat the water up to your body's core temperature, which burns even more calories. Welcome to the V-Shred Better Body Better Life Podcast, where we help you live your best life while working on your health and fitness goals. We're here to make your journey fun and inspiring. What's going on, everyone? Welcome back to another episode of the Better Body Better Life Podcast. I'm your host, Vince, and today we are diving into a topic that's simple, but very underestimated in the world of weight loss. And so I want to start this episode off with a question for you. And that question is, could the missing link in your fitness journey be as simple as water? And I know it sounds too easy to be true, but stick with me because today I'm going to show you how hydration can supercharge your weight loss goals, can help you boost your health and help your energy levels and weight loss. And I'm going to start it off with a pretty wild stat, which is that about 75% of Americans are chronically dehydrated. That means most of us are walking around every day feeling tired, feeling sluggish, feeling hungry when really we just need to drink more water. And it's funny, there's like literally trending videos going around of the Water Boy audio where it's like it's the Water Boy Adam Sandler talking to saying something about like, oh, that's high quality H2O. And then it's like a meme of like somebody's girlfriend who has a headache and she don't need ibuprofen, she don't need Tylenol, she needs water because that's what most headaches are caused by. Dehydration. And so by the end of this episode, you're not only going to understand why water is such a game changer, but you'll also understand or have practical tips to drink more of it and tools to also track your hydration levels. Okay, let's get into it because it's going to be one of those episodes is very simple, but it could also truly help transform your fitness journey and how you feel on a day to day basis. Okay. And so let's start with the why. Why is drinking enough water such a big deal for weight loss because that's obviously going to be super helpful for you to be motivated enough to drink water. This is the reason number one water helps you control your caloric intake. And here's here's the reason. Your brain often confuses thirst for hunger. So this means that when you feel the urge to snack, especially at random times or during times when you probably shouldn't even be hungry, it could be your body just crying out for water, not more food. There was a study published in obesity where they looked at people who drank 16 ounces of water 30 minutes before meals. Those people lost about 44% more weight over 12 weeks than those who didn't, which is huge. So actionable tip here. Next time you're hit with a craving. I want you to just drink a full glass of water and then I want you to wait 15 minutes. This one simple habit can help you avoid unnecessary snacking and reduce your overall caloric intake throughout the day. Reason number two, water boosts your metabolism. Question. Did you know that drinking water actually makes your body work harder? Research from the Journal of Clinical Endocrinology and Metabolism found that drinking 16 ounces of water can increase your metabolic rate by 24 to 30% for about an hour. So cold and cold water, by the way, gives you an extra edge. Why? Because your body has to expend even more energy to heat the water up to your body's core temperature, 98.6, which burns even more calories. And it might not seem like much. Drinking more water is not going to be the reason that you lose 100 pounds. Obviously the whole picture, but water can help and these small things over time add up. So my tip here would be make it a habit to drink a cold glass of water, cold glass, first thing in the morning and before each meal. It's a very easy way to kickstart your metabolism, to keep it humming all day long, to get you a little kickstart for being hydrated. And I even like to throw in a little hydration packet to my water so that I'm also getting electrolytes and a little sneak peek depending on when you're listening to this. We do have some, a new supplement coming out called V-Shred Hydrate. So depending on when you're listening to this, we might have a nice little hydration packet that you can throw in your water that gets you hydrated all day long. Reason number three, water supercharges your workouts. If you're serious about hitting the gym, what you should be hydration is a non-negotiable. Because water is essential for muscle function, joint lubrication and endurance and also not cramping, which is the worst thing ever. If you're halfway through a workout, you start cramping, your workout is pretty much done. Or you're doing, or like let's say you're a runner, halfway through your run. I just ran my first marathon a couple weeks ago. If I was cramping halfway through that marathon, I'm done. I'm not going to be able to run that much longer with cramps. So the same thing goes. And people sometimes experience cramps even when they're sleeping. Like I know my dad, for example, he started taking magnesium and salt before he went to bed because he would get cramps in the middle of the night. And that's caused by dehydration. And even mild dehydration can cause your performance to drop by as much as 10%. That's just mild dehydration. So that means if you're working out without being optimally hydrated, you're not getting the most out of your efforts. You're essentially wasting time. Plus staying hydrated reduces the risk of muscle strains. I said cramps, muscle strains also. And then obviously fatigue, which makes recovery, well, if you have the hydration, it makes the recovery faster and it makes the recovery less painful and less risk of injury. So actionable tip here would be to aim to drink at least 16 ounces of water about an hour or two before your workout. And then also sip regularly during exercise to stay on top of your game. And then another piece of advice I would give is maybe try to find a pre-workout powder that has salt in it. The pre-workout that I take has salt in it. But if I'm taking one that is not that one, I'll also have a little bit of salt with my pre-workout. And then reason number four, detox and digestion, which is a huge one. Water is your body's natural detox tool. It helps flush out toxins. It supports kidney function, which is huge. And then it keeps your digestion running smoothly. If you're not drinking enough water, your body holds on to fluids, leading to bloating, leading to puffiness, and dehydration can slow digestion, leading to constipation and other digestive issues. Think of water as like your broom for your digestive system. It sweeps away waste and keeps everything moving efficiently. And so action tip here is to add a splash of lemon to your morning glass of water to help kickstart your digestion and support your body's natural detox processes. Again, in the morning, drinking cold water right when you wake up with a little bit of lemon and maybe a little bit of salt. Okay, now I want to get into some hacks of how to increase your water intake. Because now that you know, I mean, we've all known that water matters, right? But let's talk about how to drink more of it. And the first tip is going to be very obvious and very easy, but something most people don't do, which is to carry a water bottle, a refillable water bottle everywhere. If you are watching this right now, I have a water bottle with me all the time, literally 24 seven. I got about 10 of these things in my cabinet because I leave them everywhere. And I can just grab the next one. Like it's literally like a game with my friends whenever I go anywhere. There's like a bet on whether or not I lose. I leave my shaker there. And usually I win that bet, but I always have a water bottle with me. Having a water bottle with you is the easiest way to make water a constant part of your day. If you're struggling with drinking enough water and you don't have a water bottle, if you don't struggle with getting enough water and you're chugging, and you have certain times of the day where you chugging a bunch of water, you don't need one. But if you're struggling to get your water, you need one. And there's tons of different bottles out there. Find one that you like the look of something that's big enough to last you. I mean, something that's big enough to carry. I'd say, I don't know, 20 to 30 ounces of water, but also small enough to carry around. And my personal recommendation would be to find one that fits in cup holders. Everybody's all big on like the big, like the big ones. And like if I'm driving in the car with one of them big water bottles, I got to put it on the seat next to me or on the floor, which is just not convenient for me. I like one that fits in any cup holder. That way, anywhere, if I'm taking it on a plane, taking it in the car, taking it anywhere, I can just put it in a cup holder right next to me. Because most places have cup holders wherever you sit. But just make it a habit to have it. And also to refill it at specific times. And so I make sure that it's filled. So what I'll do is when I wake up, I'm drinking whatever's left in it. I fill it up before I go to bed. And then I'll probably drink a little bit of it as I'm like falling asleep. I try not to drink too much water at night because I don't want to pee the bed. But then when I wake up, I drink whatever's left. And then I'll refill it in the morning before I either get to work or before I leave for the office. And so I'll fill it up in the morning and then I'll fill it up. I'll try to drink that within the next two hours. And then I'll fill it up mid early, late morning, early afternoon. I'll do it again mid to late afternoon. I'll fill it up before the gym. I'll drink a full one at the gym. I'll drink another one after I fill it up after the gym. And then I'll drink probably one more between gym and bedtime, which I fill it up again at bedtime. So I'm having like what, six, seven, eight of these a day? I'm having a, I'm having, I'm getting, I'm truly getting a gallon of water every single day. And if you can get a gallon of water, great. If not, aim for at least a half gallon, if not three fourths of a gallon. And then use, if it helps, use time markers. This is, this would be pro tip. Use time markers on your bottle as a guide. There's literally like water bottles that have six AM, nine AM, 12 PM, 3 PM, 6 PM. And it's a, it's a, it's a gallon jug, which is not going to fit in a cup holder, but it's a gallon jug that if it's 3 PM and you're not at the line that says 3 PM, you got to chug till you get to the line says 3 PM. And so these little props on this water bottle make it much easier and as sets, like it works as a reminder to hit your hydration goals. And so tip number two would be to set reminders because maybe you don't have a bottle that has the time stamps on it. You could literally just pull up Siri or if you have a home Alexa, like, hey Alexa set reminders every two hours to drink water. And every two hours you're getting a little reminder to drink some water because life gets busy. It's easy to forget to drink water. That's where technology can help. We got technology all around us. Let's use it. So set those two hour reminders, maybe set hourly reminders and set it on your phone. You can set it on your phone. You can set it on your smartwatch or you can download an app. There's an app called it's plant nanny. There's another one called my water to make tracking your water intake more fun, more engaging, more of a game for the hardcore planners out there set daily water deadlines. So say, for example, I'm going to drink 20 ounces of water by 10 AM and then another 20 by noon and another 20 by 2 PM and so on. Tip number three is to infuse your water. And I can use my dad as an example here. My dad has always kind of worked out. Never really been good about his diet. The gym workouts he used to do probably weren't the best either now that I look back at it. But one thing he always struggled with was water intake. And he actually used one of our programs, our move program. If you guys haven't checked out our move program, great program 30 day at home workout program, no equipment, every workouts less than 20 minutes. He did that nine months in a row. He lost, I think 40 or 50 pounds, got off blood pressure medicine, but always struggled with drinking water. So what did he do? He got those little meows that squirt into your water that flavor it with raspberry, blueberry, grape, lemon, apple, whatever you want it to be. So if you're not a fan of plain water, add a little burst of flavor. You can use one of those flavorings. You can infuse it with, there's literally like water machines now that you put fruit in a part of it. And then it makes you water infused, or fruit infused water. You can do it with herbs, you can do it with vegetables, lemon, cucumber, mint, berries, all popular options. And then like I said, yeah, if you're feeling fancy, you got the money to spend grabbing infusion bottle that's designed to make flavored water on the go. Because it's a very easy way to keep things interesting, make it flavorful while staying hydrated. Once you got the drinking water part down, now it's time to tip number four, which is to eat your water. Because yes, you can eat your water. Food's like watermelon. Shocker, watermelon has water in it. It's also got some melon in it. Oranges, cucumbers, lettuce, all packed with hydration and also micronutrients. So try adding these types of foods to your meals, or make them snacks throughout your day to boost your water intake even further without even thinking about it. Get a nice little sweet snack, but you're also hydrating yourself. What we're doing right now is trying to find hydration habits for you to create, which is tip number five, which is to create those hydration habits and be intentional about it. Like I said, I start my day by drinking water. I want you to start your day. This is a habit that I have every single day. Start your day with an eight ounce glass of water. It wakes up your metabolism. It gets your digestive system moving. And like I said, kick starts your hydration. Then at night, drink another glass somewhat before you go to bed. You don't have to chug water right before you go to sleep. Like I said, don't want to pee the bed. But at night, drink another glass of water to support overnight recovery and detoxification. So whether that's an hour before bed, so that you have time to pee before you go to bed. If you can just do these two things and then also like remind yourself to just sip water throughout the day, you're going to be well on your way to staying consistently more hydrated than you probably have been in a while. Also, I want to touch on really quickly knowing how much water you drink is great, but how much should you drink and how do you know if the amount of water that you're drinking is enough. And so I've been talking a little bit about pee. It might sound a little weird, but check your pee. The color of your urine is a reliable indicator of hydration. So if you're, if you go pee, take a look down there after you pee. If it's pale yellow, you're probably pretty hydrated. If it's clear, you're hydrated. But if it's the color of yellow Gatorade or even darker and it stinks, you need to drink more water. Also, I will say I mentioned if it's clear, you're hydrated. If it's completely clear, you might be over hydrated, by the way, which is definitely a thing. Because you want to make sure that you're not flushing out all the salt in your system by drinking too much water. So aiming for a light, like a, like a straw like color is the sweet spot for proper hydration. Another way is to monitor your thirst. Thirst is your body's way of telling you that it's running low on fluids. And so the key is to drink steadily throughout the day so you never feel parched. Right? A good rule of thumb. If you feel thirsty, you're already mildly dehydrated. If water sounds good, you're dehydrated. If you take a sip of water and it's extremely refreshing, you're dehydrated. You want to be proactive about drinking water, not reactive. If you wait to drink water until you need some water, it's too late already. You're going to die. No kidding. But you need to drink more water. So the action step is to sip water consistently, be proactive about it, especially during meals or after or during physical activity to stay ahead of thirst. And number three, listen to your body. Dehydration can show up in surprising ways. I mentioned at the beginning, headaches. That's a huge one. If you have a headache and you got decent sleep and you're not overly stressed out, you're not sick, you're probably dehydrated. If you're experiencing fatigue, dry skin, irritability, if you notice these signs consistently, take it as a sign that your body is telling you to drink. So pay attention to how you feel, especially after exercise or during long periods without drinking water. Tune in to how you actually feel. And then make sure tomorrow or right now you start drinking more water and then pay attention to how you feel. And the last part I want to talk about is how to take it to the next level. Because if you're looking for that extra support with your fitness journey, including hydration and an accountability partner, and then also nutrition and workouts, we have V-Shred coaches that can help you. They will create personalized plans tailored to your day, your routine, your lifestyle, your goals, and guide you every step of the way and be there in your corner to help you when things get tough. And if you guys want to check that out, there's more details down in the description below. There should be a link somewhere. Check it out. But hopefully this was helpful as far as understanding the importance of water, how it can be beneficial, how it can negatively impact you, and then ways of drinking more water and how much water to drink without feeling like you're some H2O scientist. So thank you for tuning in to this episode of Better Body Better Life. I hope you are walking away with a deeper understanding of how powerful something as simple as water can be. And remember, small changes like staying hydrated can lead to massive results. So, I hope you had a good time here with me today. I know I did, and I will see you or talk to you in the next one. Thanks for tuning in to today's episode of V-Shred's Better Body Better Life podcast. Whether you're doing one of our programs, taking our supplements, or just doing things on your own, tune in every week for exclusive content with Vents, V-Shred trainers, and special guests as they share valuable tips around motivation, workouts, food, and living a healthier lifestyle. See you next time.