 when you look at the scale and that number is higher than you want it to be, you instantly are disappointed. I've been working so hard and I've been doing this, I have absolutely nothing to show for it, but that doesn't necessarily mean anything. It doesn't tell us how hydrated you are. It doesn't tell us what your body fat percentage is. It doesn't tell us how much muscle that you have. The scale only says it's your relationship with gravity. Live your best life while working on your health and fitness goals. We're here to make your journey fun and inspiring. Welcome to the Beeshred Better Body Better Life Podcast. What's going on, everyone? Welcome back to another episode of the Better Body Better Life Podcast. I'm your host, Vince, and today we have a guest back with us, Barbie, one of our coaches, who we just filmed a episode talking about just habits and health on a spectrum. That was a great episode. If you haven't listened to it, go listen to it. But today we're going to be talking about not focusing on aesthetics and why to stop focusing on that, why to stop focusing on what the scale says or your progress when it comes to how much you weigh. Barbie's a certified personal trainer, certified nutritionist. She's an international presenter and she's been in this industry for 15 years, so has a bunch of knowledge around this. Barbie, welcome. Hello, thank you. Thank you for having me back. Yeah, of course. So for all of our listeners who didn't listen to the last one, I'll just go ahead and kind of intro yourself. Why you love fitness, what got you into fitness, what made you want to become a personal trainer, all that good stuff. Okay. Well, I started like a lot of people. I'd always been relatively in shape, and then I had babies. And after having those babies, then I struggled with losing the weight and went over to my local YMCA with a team membership and child care included and started doing group fitness classes and just fell in love with challenging my body. And it kind of morphed into wanting to share that with other people. And so I got into teaching group fitness and then it's as a personal trainer and then seeing that there was a piece missing, the nutrition component, which is so, so important. And just incorporating that into my clients. And that's kind of my journey. It's started with just wanting some place to take my kids. Nice. And I know that you were kind of talking about your experience with body image issues growing up, which I think is a great place to start. If you don't mind for this one, just because we are going to be talking about the aesthetics side of fitness, which is what a lot of people focus on. And generally, why a lot of especially younger people get started, I think, as you get a little bit older, your reasons change a little bit. Your what you want to achieve changes a little bit. But in the beginning, when you're a little bit younger, is you're usually like, I don't like how I look. I don't like how this shirt fits me. I don't like that I don't fit into any of my suits anymore. I don't like that I don't feel comfortable. And a bikini or in a bathing suit at the pool, whatever it might be. Take us through your experience with your own struggles and kind of walk us through how you got out of that. All right. So for me, the reason I looked to the gym was because, yes, I did have weight to lose after having two children back to back. I was in my early 20s. And so, you know, that's the first one the weight came off relatively quickly. But it didn't all come off because I had those babies back to back. So I still had some from the first one. And then, you know, here comes baby number two. In the last episode, I had shared about having body image issues growing up and struggling with disordered eating. And it wasn't that I was overweight. It's just I had body dysmorphia. And this is where, like, when I look in the mirror, I see something that does not exist. And even to this day, I still have to struggle with that of feeling like I look fat, even though I know, I know, I know in my head that I'm not, but it's easy for me to look and go, oh, look, I've got a little jiggle here. I'm a little soft here. And it's like that's real life Barbie. Everybody has that. Everybody experiences this. We all have cellulite. We all have stretch marks. And that's that is the human condition. And no, no one is perfect. But I had shared that, that, you know, having two small children and being a stay at home mom and money was really, really tight. And it was hard. It was just hard. And I really, really struggled with feeling out of control. And my coping mechanism, which was very, very unhealthy, was just to stop eating. And so I was breastfeeding at the time. So that was not an option. My daughter's, my daughter literally her life and who nutrition depended on me being healthy. So I had to find a new coping mechanism. And since I did also need to lose weight, the gym seemed like a great place for me. And going to the gym, I gained so much than I would have ever thought. Losing weight, yes, it was important. But what I gained from that was so much more important. I will tell you, two of the people who I am closest to in the whole world, and I love with my whole heart, I met in the gym, my two best girlfriends from the gym. I gained such confidence in myself, in my abilities. And I fully believe there's not much that I can't do. And a lot of that starts from just challenging myself and moving my body in the gym. I've watched myself build muscle. I've watched myself become an athlete as an adult. I was not an athlete in my youth. I was not an athlete in high school. I was not an athlete in college. So as an adult, you feel like, well, I missed out on my chances of being an athlete. But that's not true. Since I've been an adult, I've done lots of different races. I've actually been even sponsored for different events. I'm a competitive power lifter. And I'm going to tell you, I dominate the old lady genre. And I love being strong. And that was one of the best things about weightlifting, was it helped me to shift. Like so many women, when I first joined, I was a cardio bunny. And I was all about getting that heart rate up. And I wanted to burn all those cowlikes. And I didn't really understand that there is more to your figure and there is more to fitness than just lifting. Like so many women, I was like, well, I don't want to go in the gym. I don't want to be bulky. So I don't want to lift weights. I'm going to stay in the room over here with the other ladies and bounce around. Now, if that's what you like, and that's what you enjoy, no judgment. There are so many different facets of fitness that there's no one right or wrong way. Just because it doesn't work for you or it's not your thing doesn't mean that it's not amazing for someone else. And personally, Zumba is not my thing. But there are so many women who do men and women who do it and love it. And if it weren't for Zumba, they wouldn't do any fitness activities at all. So I will never, ever, ever hate on any format as long as it's safe and effective, go for it. It's about having fun and moving your body and challenging yourself. But so much of going to the gym. And I say going to the gym because that was my experience, maybe for other people it's working at a home or in a garage. But what I gained from working out and from getting in shape is so much better than just numbers on a scale. And unfortunately, so many people like that become so focused and they can miss so many of the benefits of working out because they're chasing numbers. Why do you think that is? Why do you think people just solely focus on their appearance or what the scale says rather than the whole approach? So for the scale, OK, good question. For the scale, I would say now from the ladies point of view, there is this societal push to be small. There's this push to weigh less. And so they get it in their minds that if the scale says this, that it's more. Then if it's higher than whatever arbitrary number is in your mind, then I'm fat. And there are women, especially, attribute a lot of their self-worth to the number on that scale. Men, not as much. Men, not as much. Men are better at how they look and going from that. But for women, they are very much tied to that number. But in terms of aesthetics, there are people who think I just need to lose weight to look better. And they will go about that in a lot of different ways that are not healthy and not sustainable because they are just aiming to look better, not realizing that if you take a more healthy approach and you focus on the lifestyle factors and being more holistic about it, that the aesthetics will follow. And just as a perfect example for you is I was that cardio bunny and I just wanted to burn all those calories because I just wanted to be smaller. And I will tell you at my so I'm five foot six at my smallest. I was about 123 pounds for talking as an adult after babies about 123 pounds about 16% body fat. So I was really lean and I was really small. And back to that body dysmorphia, I still could could look in there and I could still see cellulite and stretch marks. And oh, I look a little thing big here and oh, look, I can still pinch that on my side. Now when I look back at those pictures on like girl, you need a cheeseburger. So so, you know, the mirrors align how sometimes just just throw that out there. But how let me stop you. How did you how did you make that shift to from thinking that being being maybe a little underweight and and still struggling with thinking that you might be. Fat or chunky or whatever you classified yourself as to now looking back at those pictures and saying eat something like how did you make that shift? So OK, so for me, I had I had decided I wanted to get down to 123. I don't know where that number came from again as women. We give that number entirely too much power. But that's like where I wanted to be. And so I started tracking my macros like a boss, like like it was my job. And that's actually really good, though. Right. I did not waiver from it. And I was super, super, super strict. And I had to bring those calories down and I had to be super strict. So I did it in a healthy way and I didn't like a really exercise. But to your point, I was underweight and I look at those pictures now and I'm like, yeah, that's not sexy. No, not even close. But but I got there and I was proud of myself into the state. I am proud of myself that I I set a goal and I worked my butt off to get there. And I did. But I realized that I wasn't willing to do what it took to stay there. Because in order for me to be that lean and that small, that meant that meant no popcorn when I go out to the movies with, you know, the kids. That means no brownies. That's no birthday cake. No grabbing a handful of chips at the cookout. That's no splurges at the church potluck. And those old ladies can cook. So like there was not like I had to bring my own food with me everywhere I went. And it was just it was so restrictive that it kind of sucked the joy of life being really honest. But at that same time, at that same time, I was doing a class called Body Pump. And. And that was the first time that there was any sense of pride with being able to lift heavy. Because up until then it was all cardio and we would do like five and eight pound dumbbells like you do in a standard group fit class. We would, you know, do some bicep curls. And you're doing lots of reps and you're doing it quickly. You're doing it like on the beat of the music. So you have to stick with the lighter weight. But in body pump, that's a little less mils format. You you have a barbell and it's a small one. It weighs, you know, five pounds. So it's a small one. And then you, you know, you put weights on there. Well, as the instructor, there's this there's this push of instructors that you have to use what they call model weight, meaning I have to use something that is respectable and something for my members to aim for. So then there was this push for me to start getting stronger. And I will never forget the day I was doing an exercise and somebody commented on how amazing my arms looked. I'm like, my arms. And I turn around in the mirror and I was doing, we were doing bent over rows and I could see the definition in my shoulders and down my arm. And never seen that before. And I was like, hot damn. I have muscles. And the more I did that class and the heavier the weight became, the more I started seeing muscle. And then it wasn't even about the muscle, but it's like, how much weight can I move? And so then it started this, this trend of like really, really enjoying being strong. I love what I saw in my body. And that's what it was. It was seeing the change in my body, going from being super lean to now being muscular. And, you know, and at the point like I am now, so I am about 130 pounds and I said about 18% body fat, which is really healthy for someone my size. But I love that I am strong. I have got muscle definition and like I've been working really hard on my shoulders and you can even see I have like some, some baby cats. I've been, I've worked so hard for that. It's like, I got biceps and I've been working on doing like the whole like the way. And I love that. And, and, and it's not even just about how I look, but it's like, I love being strong and I love focusing on like the weight I can move in the gym. But of course, I have to lift it safely. And this is where like, I really encourage my clients. It's like, yes, we, we want to look good. Yes, we all do. And that's, I get that that's an important part of your identity. And I'm not trying to minimize that. But there is so much more to working out and eating better that, that, that overshoots how you look. Think about like how you feel, like the confidence that you have, the energy that you have. How about your digestion? How much better you feel when everything is working the way it should, as opposed to being bloated, being backed up, having the runs, you know, all of these things are affected by what we put in our bodies. You know, the food that we eat, you have so much better mental health. There are so many studies that show that being consistent in exercising in any form, in any form at all, but being consistent in that you have that regular release of endorphins, you know, the feel good hormones. And because of that regular release of those hormones, it helps balance out brain chemistry. And of all the studies that are done, they are showing that there is a drastic reduction in the amount of antidepressants and anti-anxieties and mood stabilizers, either in the need to take them or in the dosage overall from people who exercise regularly. It's been shown to be amazing for stress management, you know, for men, you know, you get that that, you know, you have all that testosterone. It's like, and you have to get it out. Going to the gym is a great way to channel that, that male aggression. You've got to get it out somewhere. It's a great place to go for that. And, you know, I'm sorry. Go ahead. Well, I was going to say, like, what are some, like, effective strategies for somebody to use in the beginning to adopt this mindset? Because obviously, in the beginning, most people, like we said at the beginning of this are starting because they want to look better. They are tired of looking how they look and going down and going in the continuously going in the wrong direction. How do they, what are like some ways that somebody can shift their focus from losing 20 pounds really quickly because they want to look a little bit better versus truly making lifestyle changes that are going to, yes, eventually make them lose 20 pounds, but then probably lose another 20 pounds on top of that. And then probably put on a little bit of muscle and have a really healthy metabolism and feel really good and promote a healthy lifestyle to their kids. Like, what are some strategies somebody can use to shift that focus in the beginning? Because that's going to be the most important part. Okay. So right at the very beginning, you know, you don't have to overhaul your lifestyle, but start by making some healthier food choices. You will be amazed at how much better you feel by getting in enough water. You know, start, start getting your water in, you know, some people go for the gallon. The quick and dirty measurement is to take your body weight, divide it in half and that's how many ounces. So if you are a 200 pound individual, half of that is 100. So 100 ounces, that's like your minimum requirement for water. Like that, that's an easy one to start with. Be amazed at how much better you feel. Yes, at first you will pee all the time. Yes, it goes with the territory. Your body does adapt, but as any person who has a healthy lifestyle will tell you IP all the time, it's just part of it. It goes with the territory. And your body does adapt. Like your body works as like a water fountain. So if you don't drink any water today and then you drink and it works on like a 24 hour cycle. So if you don't drink any water today and then you drink a ton of water tomorrow, your body is still responding to the lack of water you drink yesterday. So you're going to pee a ton versus if you drink a bunch of water today and then you don't drink any water or you drink a bunch of water tomorrow, you're going to pee less because your body. is already used to how much water you've been drinking. So like you said, yes, you yes, like we got off our last episode, we both like I got to the bathroom. That happens. But whatever. And also it's just a way to get more steps in. So it's like, and also when when your pee is clear, it just makes you feel good because you're like, well, I'm hydrated. I know. That's it for any of you who don't like look at your pee and you're not really proud. It's one of those things when you are eating, you are hydrated and you're like, hey, that's like really pale yellow. Water almost. Yeah, right. Yeah. So some things. So making making some healthy changes and start with setting some small goals. So like getting in enough water is a good one. Looking for healthy steps that you can incorporate in your day. Looking for making some better food choices. They don't have to be perfect, but look for better. Maybe instead of buying your lunch every day at work, maybe you pack your lunch a couple of days straight there. We're small attainable goals. And then once somebody starts doing that, what are ways that they can measure progress without looking at the scale? How do you feel? Listen to your body. How is your sleep? You know, a lot of people who struggle with sleep, first of all, they are not active during the day. So it's one of those things. Your body, you need to do things to actually make your body tired. So get getting in steps. So so look at look at how you're sleeping. Look at what your appetite is doing. If you have no appetite all day long, you're probably not feeling your body very well. Look at your energy levels. If your energy levels are in the toilet, if you're constantly having to grab a cup of coffee or you're grabbing an energy drink regularly throughout the day, my friend, your body is hollering for some more fuel. And that doesn't necessarily mean you need more calories. It means you need more nutrients. And that's the thing is looking, when we're talking about making better choices, look for nutrient dense food as opposed to calorie dense food. So we're talking fruits and veggies. We're talking whole grains, lean meats, even dairy. You know, you think cottage cheese and fruit, Greek yogurt, like those are great. You can grab a string cheese. We want to grab things that are going to fuel our body to give us protein, to give us some good, healthy carbohydrates and to give us fat. But the other thing is being more active. So that's a really easy one to measure is marking your progress. So like for me, my lap around my neighborhood is three fourths of a mile. Okay, I've clocked it. So three fourths of a mile. Let's say I'm just now getting started in my fitness journey. I can walk this neighborhood in 25 minutes. Well, I've made a goal to walk it one time around three times a week. You better believe that the more times you walk it, you're going to shave off a little bit of time every time. And so at the end of two weeks, instead of it taking 25 minutes, maybe it takes 20 minutes. And you'll notice that your your your stamina is going to slowly improve. And then you're going to get to where it's like, well, heck, I can like I walk around this. Let me go for another loop. I do it. It takes me 10 minutes to make it all the way around one time. So it's no thing. That's fast. Four times. Three or four times. I have long legs. I walk real fast. I'm going to say I feel like for me, I'm just a competitive person. And so like if I were doing that by the end of two months, I'd be sprinting. I'd be like, OK, I got to get this down to six minutes now. Well, you see, and there's that, but I hate to run. I do. And so like I will run it and like I'll do I'll do wind sprints around it because it's three fourths of a mile. So I'll be like mailbox to mailbox, you know. OK. But it will hit work out there. And I got an old dog, so I can't run on walks. Anyways, he's he's a slow walker and really, really, I'm on this. The other thing is like it's all about finding like what's right for you, you know, like I'm super active. I work out five times a week minimum. I train for I just did a marathon two weekends ago, did a triathlon six weekends ago. And so like I'm constantly like prepping for those. So I swim, I bike, I run. I lift, I golf, I play pickleball. I'm a super active. I walk my dog every single night. And so it's like I'm not necessarily one who's looking for ways to be more active, you know. And so like my nightly walk with my dog is for my dog. It's not even for me. I enjoy it for the mental health benefits because I think that's another big piece of this that we haven't really touched on is like the mental health side of things is is huge. Like the difference in how I feel, if I've been cooped up, maybe it's a rest day and I've been cooped up all day and then just getting outside and watching my dog just like sniff around and piss on different things and just enjoy being outside, you know, and it's a little cold in Vegas at night right now. So like I'm kind of bundled up, but it still feels nice to be out there, you know, or if I go a little bit earlier because the sun sets at like noon now. But like getting sun on my skin feels good. Getting sun in my eyes feels good. And it also helps with hormones. And so, yeah, I mean, it's I'm digressing a little bit, but it's about figuring out what you like to do. Sure. And a point I want to make about the walking outside. So yes, there's, there's, there's a lot of research that shows that getting outside, getting the sun on your skin, it boosts your, your, your happy hormones. Getting out of circulated air, out of the air conditioning, out of an indoor space and getting outside and getting that fresh air has a lot of benefits. But here's actually an article I recently read. So there is a therapeutic approach called EMDR. It's the rapid eye movement. And if you've, if you've never done it in counseling, your, your, your counselor will like hold like a pen or something and they'll do like this. And you're supposed to shift your eyeballs back and forth. Do you do any tests? Well, they're looking for different things. Okay. They're looking, they're looking for different things. That is what I do for DUI tests, but I'm kidding. Yeah. In the DUI, they're looking for something like shaking. Yeah. Exactly. Whereas, whereas with this, you follow it back and forth and back and forth. And what that's doing is, okay, if you're, if you're a therapist and I, and I, and I box this, I apologize, please don't come for us with comments. But basically it has something to do with making your eyes go back and forth and making like the, the hemispheres of your brain talk to one another. Okay. And so what, what it does is it helps you process. It helps you process through trauma. Okay. And there was this, the, the, the technique was developed because there was this psychologist, I don't know who it was. They were walking outside with their patients. It was a beautiful day or a beautiful area of the country and they were walking outside and they noticed that when the, when they're, when their clients were out and one of the things to do is they're constantly panning the horizon. Right. And they noticed that when clients were going on these walks and going through their therapy sessions, that they were able to process through their trauma more efficiently. It was more effective. And so they did a lot of studies and it shows that, that scanning back and forth of the horizon as you walk is a great way for your brain to process things. So not only is there the health benefits and not only just the feel good hormones, but now we're also talking about the mental health benefit of processing through whatever it is you're going through, especially if you can do it without, you know, without music and just kind of think about what's going on in your life, anything that you're kind of stressing about and just let your brain like ponder on it as your eyeballs go side to side. And it, it helps you process things. Like a form of meditation almost. Yes. So it's like, how cool is that? Yeah. I love the sauna for that reason because like, like I, I got, I have my own sauna at my house now, which is a game changer. And so I would run into issues when I would use the gym sauna because people do chat you up a little bit in there, which is if you're listening and you use a public sauna, don't talk to people. Leave them alone. They're in there to, to sweat it out and be in their thoughts. Every time I would have someone come up to me, like, are you the guy I see? And I'm like, uh, he just ruined this. Um, but now that I got my own sauna, it's like, that's why I love it because like I'm going in there and I'm, I'm just, it's a form of meditation for me. I go in and sometimes, sometimes I go in there and I'm listening to a podcast or sometimes like, I don't, I can't be, I can't, I can't be, I can't be trying to meditate. I'm just not in the mood for it. And so I want to go in there and I want to listen to happy music or whatever it is. But it's like sometimes I'm going in there and I just go in there with silence and I let my brain run. And then I slowly turn off certain thought processes and eventually I get to a moment of like, of peace, of like mental clarity, or I have an idea that I wouldn't have normally had because my day is just go, go, go, go, go. And the same thing on my dog walks. And in one thing that, I forget who told me, but they were, I was on this walk and they were like, Hey, and the other thing I will say is like, if you're going on these walks, leave your phone at home. Like, because that's, that's probably like one of the biggest mistakes that I make on dog walks is I'll realize that, damn, I've been walking for 20 minutes. And I've been on Instagram just doom scrolling this whole time. I'm like, what am I doing? I'm not here to walk my dog. I'm not here to be outside. You know? And so like what someone told me was like, when you're outside walking, make sure that you're looking above your eye line, like look up and then you'll and it, and it makes you, and it must be the same. It must be a similar concept because like if you just look up and you like, look at like the top half of what you can see, your walks, it feels, it feels better, like literally feels better. And it's even the difference. Maybe you're not even on your phone, but you just like, kind of look down at the sidewalk, look up and it makes a huge difference. So it's pretty interesting that you bring that up because I've always kind of done that on my walks. And when I remember to do it, it always feels good. It always feels better than if I'm looking down or especially if I'm looking at my phone, getting that hidden dopamine that is so bad for you. Yeah. But, and, and so, you know, back to your other question about like, how can you tell, like how can you focus on things? You know, and I mentioned looking at.  subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected table. Now I can do push-ups on my knees on the floor. So looking at those progressions as proof of you getting stronger, you know, when you first started, you know, maybe you're doing one of the V-Shred follow-along workouts and that's like the first time you did it, you were dying by the end of the warm-up and you didn't make it more than five minutes into the actual workouts. Whereas like, it's like, hey, I made it through the whole thing. I felt like I might die, but I made it through the whole thing. Like those are excellent markers to look for, to see that you are getting stronger. You are getting more fit. You are building your stamina. You know, things like that. Yeah, and I was gonna, I was, it's interesting you say that because I was literally just about to ask like, how does this shift of focus of like what you, what you, what you, what you, what you, what you focus on, how does that help somebody's relationship with what they eat? How does that help someone's relationship with exercise? Because we live in a society of really bad relationships, especially in the U.S. with food, with the gym, with just personal exercise. And so like most people are going to have that quick fix mindset where, because, because I mean, we all want fast results. If you, if somebody had two options where they could lose 20 pounds in a month or 20 pounds in a year, they're going to pick a month, every single person, you know? And so, and that's okay to have that. Like, and we should all have, like I always talk about like goal setting. Like I think it's important to have these big goals, but it's not, but it's also important to not get lost in those goals that you get down on yourself when you don't progress. And so how does, I was going to ask, how does shifting someone's focus to these lifestyle fixes rather than these quick fixes help with the relationship that you have with your food and your exercise? Okay, that's a great question. So it's being more rather than being less. When you look at the scale and that number is higher than you want it to be, you instantly are disappointed. You instantly feel deflated and you don't see or you're like, I've been working so hard and I've been doing this and it's just, you know, I have absolutely nothing to show for it or that's like, well, that doesn't mean you could just be really well hydrated. You could have had Chinese food last night. It was extra salty and now your weight's fluctuating because you're retaining a little water because you had a little extra salt in your meal last night. It doesn't mean that you failed and that's such, it's such an arbitrary number. You know, a great example just of the have a scale isn't the end all be all. When I was, when I was in high school, I graduated at about 125 pounds. Same weight or same thing, right? You know, 125 pounds. I was a size eight. I'm 130 pounds now. So I'm heavier, but I'm a size four. Wow. It's because I have a lot more muscle than I did then. So I am more dense. Yep. And because I am more dense, I am smaller. So you sink in water now. I do. I do. But when we just focus on the numbers on the scale, if I let that 125 be the standard of where I should be, that that's not a very good standard to be at because I was a size eight as opposed to the size four that I am now. I was not healthy then I was not exercising. I was not eating healthy. I was a teenager and I was eating teenager food, which is just barely better than a toddler. Right. So yeah, eating garbage and not being intentionally active versus now living a really healthy lifestyle that I'm heavier. But that doesn't necessarily mean anything. So the scale only says it's your relationship with gravity. It doesn't tell us how hydrated you are. It doesn't tell us what your body fat percentage is. It doesn't tell us how much muscle that you have, you know, and a lot of guys, you probably will fall in the category that your BMI probably puts you as obese. Yeah, I've actually never, I've actually never had my measure. So BMI, for those of you who don't know, this is a quick and dirty measurement. They will often do it doctors offices and it's absolute shit. Okay. It is garbage. It is useless, but it's something that they use. I don't know why they still use it, but it's just your relationship with your height and your weight. And you look at, you look at two different men, both at, you know, let's say right at six feet tall, 200 pounds. But this guy, he's got a beer belly and he's very, very soft and he does not work out. Whereas you have this guy who's sitting at 8% body fats and very, very lean, but boom, big inject. Their BMI is exactly the same. Yeah. And they may tell both of these guys, Hey, you're technically, you need to lose about 10 pounds to be healthy. That doesn't make any sense at all. Yeah. Yeah. That's only looking. My doctor goes off of blood work. And so I got a, I got a very health conscious hormone specialty type doctor, which I recommend most people get because I, one thing I've realized about the medical field is that most of these doctors don't know much about health. They know about diseases. They know about medications. They know how to, they know what to prescribe. But when it comes to like proper nutrition and exercise, they don't really know that much. I have had several physicians as clients over the years. I have had people who have hired me to help them understand nutrition because they don't need anything about it. Cause you have to think for doctors for part of their part of their met, their, their training. And please know, I'm not saying that I know more than any doctor. But I will say on nutrition, I do. On nutrition. Yeah. Yeah. Because this, this is my lane. Whereas doctors, you know, they, they get this great big, you know, great big training. They get one course on nutrition. Just one, one course on nutrition. That is not their main focus. That's not what they do. And if we're, if we're going to be really honest about it, the pharmaceutical companies are the ones that are backing it. So they're learning far more about pushing pills to cure diseases than to coach healthy lifestyle factors and to push, you know, resizing and eating better. One, because they don't know much about it too, because insurance doesn't pay for that. Well, and three, we kind of briefly touched on this on the last episode. Sometimes it is necessary. Like I talk with Dr. Drew is a good friend and he talks all the time about how a lot of the patients that come to him, they do need medication because they are already diabetic and they do need to be taking insulin or they already have or they, whatever they have, like they should have gotten proactive about it 20 years prior, but they didn't. And so now they have to treat this thing that's so far down the, like they're, they're, they're, they're too far gone, essentially at this point. And that's not saying that that's for everything. Like my dad's a perfect example. My dad got on blood pressure medicine when he, I think turned 52 or something like that. And he was always kind of heavier set. And then he started following our move program and it's just a 30 day program. And he followed it like, I think like nine months in a row, just kept redoing it, redoing it, redoing it, redoing it and just like getting better at it and do, and doing the exercises more intensely or doing them faster, doing more reps or being better about the rest or whatever. And just did it nine times in a row and got off blood pressure medicine. And so it's not to say that you can't reverse these things. But yeah, sometimes those, I mean, I agree completely like the doctors, I mean, the farm, big pharma controls a lot. And so doctors are supposed to push that, but sometimes they do have to push that too. Well, no, and, and, and to your point, this is not to say that you shouldn't be on blood pressure medications or you shouldn't be on your cholesterol meds or whatever it else is, like if it's medically necessary, it's medically necessary. And you, you take care of your, your health, you know, with, with meds as you need to, while you work to make yourself healthier. And yes, that's, that's the important part. While you make yourself healthier. Right. The trend is what we would like to see is, sure, come to me on your blood pressure meds, come to me on your cholesterol meds, whatever it is that you need to take. Absolutely. And then what we're going to do is we're going to work to make you healthier. And hopefully as you get healthier, as we bring the weight down, as we bring the muscle up and we get, we get you healthier, then your dosing will go down and your thyroid support. And you might be able to get off and maybe not. Maybe you have to stay on a really low dose and that's okay. If that's what your body needs, that's all right. But the idea is to come down. Yeah. Let me tell you, there was a study done many years ago. So I used to do lifestyle coaching with the YMCA. They specifically have a program for diabetes prevention because it's this like something like 70% of all adults are considered pre-diabetic. That's crazy. They did, they did a study and this was a massive study and we're talking millions of dollars. Several different agencies were in on it where they were looking at metformin versus lifestyle factors. They were looking at what? Metformin. That is a medication that they give to those who are pre-diabetic to help prevent them from developing full-blown diabetes. Okay. Okay. So one group got metformin and one group, it was lifestyle factors. So they were encouraged to eat a diet that was no higher than, it was like 30 grams of fat a day. Like that's where they started. Like make it super simple. And to get 150 minutes of intentional activity every week. So they didn't even say what kind. It could be gardening. It can be walking. It'd be anything. So those two factors versus metformin. And it was a massive, not even close. Most, the metformin only reduced their risk of developing diabetes by like 30%. So these people on the medication, 30%. That was it. The people who changed their lifestyle just by those two things, reducing the fat in their diet and getting in more activity, they dropped their chances of developing type 2 diabetes by like 70%. Wow. Not even close. Hmm. Did they do, I wonder if they did, did they do a, of, also a group where they did both? I'd be interested to see that. I wonder if they compliment each other at all. Not that I, I want to say they wanted to look strictly at the efficacy of pharmaceutical intervention versus lifestyle factors. And they just wanted to compare. Wow. That's crazy. So yeah, that goes to show. There is a massive, massive difference. And so going back to like, so like touching on like the longevity piece of this, because I think that's what this really all boils down to. Because like, like we said in the beginning, like aesthetics is usually a goal for a younger minded person at the beginning of their journey. Like that might be one of the reasons they get started. But like at this point in my life, I mean, I don't really love using myself as an example because my life is fitness and most people can't relate to that. Right. But I think as most people get further into their journey, their reasons change drastically. It's no longer about looking better. Like I'm, I know for a fact that I'm not ever going to look significantly better than I look right now. I can't, I'm not going to cut my body fat in half. I don't want to even do that because that would be extremely unhealthy for my body. And also it would, it would not be fun. It would be the worst. I don't want to put on twice as much muscle because that's just going to result in either I would have to take steroids or I would just be carrying so much muscle that I lose my mobility. I lose my ability to do certain athletic things. Right. And so like at this point, like my, my why in the beginning was because I was skinny and I hated how I looked and I was insecure and I had body image issues and I kind of got, I don't want to say bullied. I didn't get bullied, but I got picked on a little bit because of my size and I would get beat up a little bit in sports because of my size. And I wanted to change that and I did change that. And now I'm bigger than all my friends. And so like the difference is like the, like that's not my reasoning anymore. My reasoning now is like, again, I don't like using myself as an example because most people can't relate to this, but my reasoning now is to motivate people. It's to inspire people. It's to teach people what they need to do. And I hold myself to a high standard because it's like what you said, I think on the last episode, it's like, if I'm gonna sit here all day and people are going to see my ads online, me talking to talk and being like, you need to get in shape. You don't need to do this. And I'm not in shape. Why would I wouldn't trust me if I was in somebody's face all day telling them they need to get in shape and I wasn't in shape. And I was kind of not practicing what I preach. I'd either be like, this guy's full of shit. Doesn't know what he's talking about because clearly he's out of shape. Or he's just a, he's just a, he's just doing it for the clicks. He doesn't really care about this at all. He's doing it for money. You know, I truly have a passion for this. And so when it comes to the longevity piece of this, what does training for longevity or dieting for longevity look like compared to training or dieting for aesthetics? Oh, that's a good question. When you are going for longevity, you're going smart. It's setting smart goals. What is sustainable? What can I maintain forever? You know, it's not about dropping, you know, five or 10 pounds for the cruise that I want to go on in three months. This is about being able to move and be healthy to lose those, those five, 10 pounds, maybe 20 pounds, whatever it is to lose that weight, but then keep it off. That's one of the things that I probably instill most in my clients is do you want to lose the weight fast? Or do you want to keep it off for good? Cause you can't help those. There are no shortcuts to success. So of course, it's like, yes, but we want it all fast. Yes, of course, of course, but that's not realistic. Not if you want to maintain it. So this is where we have the slog for the last episode. We talked about building the habits and its sustainability. Yeah. And why can't people maintain that? Explain the reasoning behind why these quick fixes, these yo-yo diets, or I shouldn't call them yo-yo diets, it's the yo-yo effect caused by crash diets. Why do they cause that yo-yo effect? Why do they, why don't they work? Oh, I can tell you that one. All right. So let's say, let's say, Vince, you have a cruise coming up and you want to lose 10 pounds. Okay. So you go on the potato diet and you eat potatoes. That's all you eat. Great diet. Sounds phenomenal. Potatoes in all forms. All right. So you go on the potato diet, you lose the 10 pounds, you go on the cruise, and you are so happy. However, is eating potatoes only potatoes realistic for their whole life? No, absolutely not. So what's going to happen is chances are when you go on vacation, you're going to gain it all back because you're going to eat like you normally do. But when you come back from vacation, let's say you're able to maintain it while you were gone, you, you lost 10 pounds as soon as you come back. If you don't go right back into the potato diet, you're going to go back to eating the way you always do. Right? Eating the way you always do is going to put you right back to where you were before. You didn't make any real change. And here's the real danger of that. You ruin your metabolism because what happens is when you drop weight quickly, your body cannot shed fat quickly. When your body has to drop weight quickly, it's going to get rid of whatever is burning the most calories. This is part of the survival mode of the body. It does not care how you look. Zero fucks how you look. It is all about keeping you alive. So when there is a drastic reduction in your calories, your body's like, holy shit, we're starving. So what it's going to do is it's going to drop whatever burns the most calories, which is muscle. That's your muscle. Yes. So it's going to drop muscle. Well, guess what? You're still left with all this fat and you've dropped muscle. Well, then once you are off the potato diet and you're eating your food, just like you always do, your body's like, Oh, we feel better now. And that weight comes back. However, if you aren't lifting, you just gain it back. Guess what you gain back? Fat. So not only do you have the same weight that you did before, but now you lost part of your muscle. And the reason that's bad is because that muscle is the engine that drives your metabolism. So now you have less of that fat burning tissue in your body because your muscle is the most metabolically hungry, meaning it burns the most calories of everything in your body. This is why people who have big, big muscles, they eat a lot, a lot, a lot of food because their body needs it. Their body burns it. You know, where I am in my journey now versus before, before I was on like 1200 calories a day. I didn't have a whole lot of muscle. Now I'm at like 1800 calories a day. And that's if I'm gearing up for a competition, it's more like 2000 or 2200, even on my smaller frame, because I have a lot of muscle. And that's just what it is. Muscle is what, what is basically what we call metabolism. So you want to fix your metabolism. You say your metabolism is broken. Your metabolism is not broken. It is the result of the choices that you have made. And you don't have enough muscle to support the calories that are coming in. You build the muscle, you repair the metabolism. Yep. No, it's how I get jokes from my friends all the time, where they're like Vince eats the most food of anybody I know. Or like, or I also like, I only really see my friends like on the weekends, if I see them, I'm a homebody. And so like on the weekends is when I'm a lot more relaxed with what I eat. And so like on the weekends, I'm having burgers and fries and ice cream and stuff like that. Going after pizza, having some beers. And they're like, they're like, they also say like Vince eats the worst of any of our friends. And he's in the best shape. It's like, well, first off, most of the time, you're not seeing what I'm eating. 80, it's the 80, 20 rule. But then the other part of it is, I've been lifting for 15 years, I got a good amount of muscle on my body now. It's super metabolically active. I work out every single day to keep on top of that. I'm burning a ton of calories anyways, doing a 20 minute mobility routine followed by A-50 minute lift followed by a 45 minute endurance session. I'm burning, I don't know, 2000 calories during that, like a ton. And so it's like, I struggle to eat enough. And that's a quality problem that most people don't experience. Most people struggle with overeating. And they don't know how to get out of that. And so, yeah, no, it's, it's, it's, so it's funny to me when I hear people, especially women, saying that they don't want to put on muscle. And I'm like, Do you know how hard, any, any ladies that are out there, do you know how hard it is to put on muscle? I want you to look at these arms, look at these arms. Okay. I am not bulky. You would never, ever look at me and go, man, she's bulky. Do you know I did lift over 300 pounds? Yep. With, with, with these arms, with these arms, you can't see my legs, but you know, they're, they're proportional. I am, I am, I am strong and I am fit and I am trying. I was telling you this earlier, it's like, like I'm working on like building my little baby caps and my biceps and I'm working really, really hard. I lift a lot of weight and I do so many reps and I eat so much food and I am trying to put on some, what we call it's hypertrophy, what you would call bulk, but, and you think, well, I just want to tone, I promise you, if you were to lift as if you were trying to get bulky, you would be amazed and astounded and incredibly proud at how those muscles would show up. And then you have pretty sculpted arms and not, you know, they're, they're not skinny, they're not jiggly, they're strong and they look strong. They look fit, not bulky. We don't have the hormones for it. We just don't. And guys do have the hormones for it yet still. It's hard. It is. And, and so for, for men, you, you still have to lift heavy and you have to lift with intention. It's very hard still. And even with the hormones. Now, now I will say like one of the differences, like my son, I finally got him in the gym with me when he was like 18 years old. He was six foot three and a buck 50. Yeah. Yeah. Stiff breeze below that boy right over. So I got him it now. Keep in mind at that point in time, I'd already been lifting for years. I've been a trainer for years. I've been a competitive power lifter for years. That boy 18 years old comes in the gym and starts lifting. And we're talking like starting with like goblet squats with like a 25 pound dumbbell. Okay. That is where he started because he was brand new with this, right? And within about nine months of consistent working out. Now, just imagine the teenage version of this, you know, so he's still, he's still quite lean, but he is at this point, he's about 185. Okay. Still at 63. But he outlifts me. He outlifts me in everything in nine months, but he's bigger than that now. And he's off in the army now, but, but nine months teenage boy, nine months, and he could outlift the work I had been doing for years. And you're a power lifter. So that's even crazier. Yes. Because I was lifting specifically for strength. That typical female weight lifter is not lifting for strength. She's lifting for hypertrophy in specific areas of her body. And so that might be super like somewhat like people like, I get comments all the time at the gym where people are like, they're like, they're like joking. Like, they know that I know my shit and it'll be like a trainer and I'll be like using, I don't know, 60 pound dumbbells on like a flat dumbbell press, which is not heavy for me at all. He'll be like, oh, going heavy today, huh? Like joking. But it's like people get shocked at how light I lift to put on muscle. And so like that's what most women are going to be doing, you know? And so with the fact that you don't do that, you actually do lift for strength. And he's still did that. That just goes to show like the difference in hormones. It's crazy. But the difference in hormones is absolutely stunning. And you're right. And that's, and that's something so fun fact for those of you who aren't super sure about what he was just saying. So there is two very different styles of weightlifting. There is weightlifting for strength. And then there is weightlifting for size. And so when you see someone like Vincent, he's got very big, well-defined muscles. He is going for size. I have always been going for strength. Now I have recently kind of switched up my program and to try to, because I'm wanting to try to build something in my arms. I want to actually look like I can kick ass instead of like you got the go muscles. I got the show muscles. Yeah. So, so I'm actually, I have pulled back on the weight so that I am doing a lot more reps. So when you are trying to build muscles, like for size, you do a shit ton of reps, like so, so many reps. And slow, not super explosive. Whereas for me, for powerlifting, I'm doing sets of like three. And I was mentioning in an earlier episode, like for my deadlift was like 275 three times. And I only do three sets of that. And then that's all of the deadlift. With a super long rest. Yeah. I'm like five minutes in between. But it's because the way that the muscles are, the explosiveness and the way you pull them out in the ATP cycle, and there's a whole lot of science behind it. There's two very different methods of lifting. But I promise you in either way, ladies, in either way that you lift, you will not get bulky. If, if, if I couldn't press anything upon the ladies out there is, I challenge you, lift like you're going to get bulky, do it and see at how your body transforms. And you would be so proud because we're not going to get bulky. Just when you're like, Oh, let me get bulky, just remember these arms. Okay. Just just remember that. There's so much work that has gone into. You talk so badly about your arms. Your arms look great. Look at that. I'm just really proud of that. Yeah. I mean, you're lean. You got actual muscle definition. You got some size. You talk so poorly about them, but they got great arms. Well, but, but here's the thing. Thank you for that. It's for as hard as I work, I would like them to be bigger and more defined. But this is another thing of, of like the aesthetics that people don't realize is I, I have freakishly long arms. I think they are, they are much longer. Not good for power lifting. No, it's actually terrible. I'm not built for power lifting. So no, not at all. But I have, I have weirdly long limbs. So I know it looks like I'm a lot taller than my five foot six, but I'm not, I'm just, I am all limbs. That being said, the length of the muscles is different. You have what are called short belly muscles and long belly muscles. And so, because I am so long, my muscles are long. So I will never have that being glorious. Boom. That's not how you see like this right here. Like that, that's just probably, but I, I mean, I could get a little thicker, but I won't get much more than that because my muscles are so long, which is why if you ever notice like, like shorter guys, shorter gals, shorter limbs, like people who don't even work out and they do this and it's like, wow, it's like way up there. You know, like, how was that for you? You look like you're hiding a freaking baseball in there. This is where like the aesthetics will get you if you're trying to lift for aesthetics instead of just lifting for health and lifting for strength and, you know, trying to make yourself the best is you could be chasing a standard that is not even attainable for your size. If you think about six pack abs, you know, Vince and I, we are smaller framed people. So we can rock the six pack abs because we, we eat well, we have the lifestyle factors, but we also like frame wise, we are not the genetics people. Right. Whereas you have other people who they're going to have a bigger frame. They're naturally going to be a little bit bigger people and six pack abs are not healthy for them. That's, that's not a thing that is not a factor of how healthy or how fit or how strong you are. It's how lean are you and what are your genetics look like? Truly. And I know some of you are thinking, oh, well, that's easy for you to say because you have a friend. I have been in this game a long time and I have trained a lot of people and I've trained a lot of range of, you know, athletes to senior citizens and everything in between. And, and I have way more people who don't have the six pack abs who are crazy strong, crazy fits. They just, they're not built that way. And that's okay. Don't force yourself into some kind of box or into some time, some kind of standard that is not realistic. And then you beat yourself up and you hate on yourself for not meeting a standard that's not even possible for you to reach or healthy or sustainable. Yeah. No, that's, that's a great point for the aesthetics topic of this because like genetics do play a large role. Like that's something that I talk about quite a bit, but they're not, they're not the, they're not the deciding factor of whether or not you're going to look a certain way or you're going to be able to get in shape or whatever. Like if someone's always been overweight, they're going to have to take a different approach than somebody who's always  alfalfa, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, n was realistic don't try to overhaul your whole life at once start small start with with You know, I think we talked about earlier instead of saying I'm never ever going to out to eat ever if you go out to eat Five nights a week. That's not realistic. Maybe whittling it down to two Maybe you're gonna say alright. I'm gonna start packing my lunch a couple of days a week Maybe I'm going to be intentional to eat a good healthy breakfast getting in some protein getting in some good healthy carbohydrates because carbs are not the enemy Carbs fuel your body your brain runs on glucose. You need carbs. I don't care what everybody else is that? I'm not trying to sell you anything you need carbs low carb is not the way to go Sorry, so box anyway Focus on on on on getting in plenty of protein protein is really really important It is the golden child of the fitness industry for a reason so making sure that you're getting in plenty of protein Making healthier food choices They don't have to be perfect just aim to do better and then be challenging yourself figure out What what type of movement you want to start including it doesn't have to be the gym? It can be walking, you know It maybe starting with a lap around your neighborhood or walking 15 minutes And then maybe you can up that time to 20 minutes and building your stamina that way look for markers that That you can start with and improve upon or maybe you can start with saying you know what I want to I want to be able To do a push-up on my toes Okay, you start where you are and you work towards that goal Just make sure that you're not hating on yourself along the way because this is this is trial and error It's it's it's trial and a whole lot of error so much error, and it's okay mess up today start over tomorrow It's about consistency. It doesn't have to be perfect. It's being consistent. That's where your results are Consistency and how big do how big how much does goal setting? Play into this if you're gonna come over to my house fence, but I don't give you my address. How are you gonna find me? Hmm? Nice You know I live in Texas well you can hop in your car and head to Texas is a big damn state. Mm-hmm So if you don't know where you're going You you you can have a general direction as to how to get there. Hey, I'm in Texas come visit me Okay, okay, you can get to Texas. Do you have no idea where I live? Mm-hmm, so Having having a general idea of what you want is good But having an actual goal is going to help you with the roadmap to get there. Mm-hmm and then I would add on top of that if you are not necessarily Capable or willing to build the knowledge base to Create a proper plan to get to that to achieve that goal Working with somebody who does Absolutely, you know I'm partial to be shred, you know, that's who I work for However, you know going to see a trainer at your at your local gym You know trainers are a wealth of information and they may not be certified nutritionists But they can they can get you at least on the right road They can give you some direction you can find a nutritionist you can either plenty of platforms online You know these shreds one, but there are plenty out there There's a lot of really great places to go and you can find find someone you could hire a registered Dietitian to help you as well. That's another route to go There's resources out there consider it an investment in your health and not an expense And it doesn't have to be I think a lot of people assume that it's going to be way more expensive than it actually can be I think it can be very expensive Oh, it can also be very affordable lots of options out there depending on you know What you what you find and where you're looking and what you are willing to do on your own versus what you want someone else to do for you Yeah, yeah, and like the one thing I always say like if somebody says that they're trying to do something or they're struggling with doing not being able to do something My go-to question is well, how much time are you putting in every single day to fixing that problem? if you say that Personal training is too expensive. How much time have you spent today? Finding a cheaper solution for personal training because it goes for any anything you want to do absolutely Absolutely, if you're putting in work every single like how much like it's like people who are like, oh, I'm I'm gonna be single forever I can't find I can't find a partner. It's like How much time a day are you putting in to finding a quality partner? What are the actions that you're taking to find somebody are you going to places that you like where you'll find people? Are you on dating sites? Are you trying to go on like me? We're gonna be single forever because you go home you go to the gym you go to the girl total body Because well, I work from home Vince you make me work from home You know I will to your point I won't find anybody just going to those three places So it's like once I'm willing maybe the grocery store if you got super lucky But no you got to put yourself out there You got to put time in every day or every week to Accomplishing whatever it is that you want to do so if you want to get better at something or you want to achieve something How much time and effort are you putting in every single day? I don't I don't want to hear from somebody that they can't do something if they're not spending time every day to try to do it You're just not doing it I would and I would say this if you if you're gonna come at me and say well, I don't have the time I'm too busy. Guess what? We are all busy. We are all busy That is the adult version of saying the dog ate my homework If you don't have enough time in the day to figure out some way to Make some healthy food or to get in a short workout somewhere my friends you have a time management problem Yeah, and it's a matter of priorities And I'm not trying to be ugly and I'm not gonna be one of those We all have the same 24 hours because like Vince said earlier our lives revolve around Fitness and you know this this is what we do so I realized that we are in a different camp Yep, but we are also very busy people and we put in a lot of hours at our job And we make time for being intentional with our workouts and our meal prep because it's important Cool, I know you gotta be out here in two minutes So I'm gonna wrap this up if anybody wants to check out our coaching plans if you want to work with Barbie directly Or you just want some help getting started make sure you guys are checking out There's links probably around or just go to our website check it all out, but Barbie. Thank you I know this was a lot of time out of your day and you're gonna have to go to the gym at a different time today But I appreciate you being here. All right. Thank you so much for having me. It was fun. Yeah, have a good one now if you are looking for some extra support and You aren't looking to spend a fortune. You should consider working with one of our V shred certified coaches We'll figure out your macros will figure out your calories will figure out what your custom meal plan will look like and yes We'll make sure that it contains your favorite foods And basically all you do is you let your coach know what you like what you don't like because when we say custom We mean it and you get unlimited emails you get weekly check-ins You get access to our brand new coaching app where you can message them at any time about anything with any questions Our coaches are here to help you reach your goals and they care about your success So all the details about how it works is in the description down below So check that out if you want to but thank you again for tuning in until next time Thanks for tuning in to today's episode of the shreds better body better life podcast Whether you're doing one of our programs taking our supplements or just doing things on your own Tune in every week for exclusive content with vents V shred trainers and special guests as they share valuable tips around Motivation workout food and living a healthier lifestyle. See you next time