 características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características características We're here to make your journey fun and inspiring. What's going on, everyone? Welcome back to another episode of the Better Body, Better Life podcast. I'm your host, Vince Sant. Hope you're having an amazing week, and I want to thank you for tuning in. Today, we're going to be talking about something that we all do every single day, walking. I mean, it seems simple, right? But the thing is, walking can actually be an absolute game changer when it comes to losing weight, and the best part of walking is that it's easy, it's free, and you can literally do it anywhere, okay? But here's the deal. Not all walks are the same when it comes to burning fat. Not all walks are the same when it comes to getting in shape. So depending on what your goals are, you might have to do stuff a little bit differently. So if you want to turn your daily stroll where you're walking your dog or just walking on your own into something that actually helps you lose weight, then stick around because I've got some very simple strategies that anybody can do that are going to help you out tremendously. All right, so first things first, let's just talk about intensity because that's probably the biggest piece that people mess up on because a lot of people probably think that they need to be running or they need to be jumping around or they need to be doing something intense to lose weight. They need to be drenched in sweat, otherwise their workout doesn't count, right? But that's not true. And when it comes to walking, that's especially not true because the fact of the matter is, you can walk at a moderate pace and a moderate pace means that you're walking at a pace where you can literally hold a conversation with a friend and still see fat loss results. And there was studies that have shown that moderate walking can be just as effective for fat loss as high intensity workouts, especially if you're consistent with it. There was a study from the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition that showed that walking 30 minutes a day, five times a week, which I think we could all do significantly reduces body fat over a 12 week period. So if you can commit to 30 minutes of day walking, whether that's at the gym, whether that's at home, whether that's around the block, whether that's walking your dog, then you're going to be on the right track. Now, if you're just getting started and 30 minutes feels like it's a bit much for you right now, that's okay. Just start small. Do 10 to 15 minutes at first, then work your way up to 15 to 20 minutes. And then the next week, work up to 20 to 25 minutes. Just work your way up gradually. And what's going to be the most important factor here is that consistency. It's building that habit. Because as you build that habit, and especially with something like walking, where it's not as, I guess, mind numbing or as hard on your body as running, it's going to be a lot easier to actually stick to that long term and actually get those walking sessions in on all five of those days a week. And so, yeah, that consistency is what's going to be the difference between whether or not you actually see results from this. And like I said, it's much easier to stay consistent with walking than it is with, I think, any other type of exercise, especially if you get some friends to join you or you schedule it out. Or like for me, it's honestly just the dog walk at the end of the day. I walk for probably 30 to 45 minutes every single night on top of my workouts. Now, you don't have to work out on top of that, but that's something that I enjoy. I don't even consider that a workout because I'm enjoying doing it. So if you can find a way to enjoy your walks, if you get a little, a friend group that goes for walks in the evenings or first thing in the morning, if you can make it a community type thing, or like I said, do it with your pet, it makes it a lot easier. Also, if you're trying to take things to the next level and walking is a little bit too easy for you, then you can add intervals. So we've all heard of high intensity interval training, but there's also interval training for walks. And so basically this just means you're alternating between faster walking and a slower, more relaxed pace of walking. And so you might walk, let's say briskly for a minute and then you'll slow down your walking pace for a minute or maybe two minutes. And then you just keep repeating that cycle over and over and over again. And this type of walking, like I said, called interval training can actually help to boost your metabolism even more and increase fat burning even more on top of the relaxed walking that you could do. And a study published in the British Journal of Sports Medicine found that interval walking helps to improve cardiovascular health and increase fat loss. Plus, if you get a little bored with walking, it's much more fun to just incorporate some sort of interval or incorporate some sort of intervals rather than walking at the same pace because you don't get as bored as quickly. And so it becomes something that you actually are, it's easier to stay focused. It's easier to stay on task when you're constantly having to watch a clock and you're going, okay, I have 32 seconds left at this brisk pace and then I'm going to rest for a minute. So instead of just sitting there thinking, oh my gosh, I have 30 minutes left of doing this, you're looking at it as a minute at a time. And so it makes it much more, much easier to actually do it and it makes the time pass a lot faster. Then another way to step things up, pun intended, is by adding weights. And no, I'm not talking about carrying a barbell around your neighborhood while you walk. I don't want you to look ridiculous. Just something simple. You could get a weighted vest off Amazon. You could get ankle weights off Amazon. You could even carry gallon jugs or, I mean, any kind of small, any kind of resistance, whether it be a pound, five pounds, 10 pounds, 20 pounds, depending on your fitness level, is just going to help you burn more calories, plain and simple. So if you want to start incorporating some extra weights on your body, start light. You don't have to jump into A-50 pound weight vest. Start with two pound ankle weights and then gradually increase that as you get stronger, gradually increase that as those walks get easier. And then also just make sure if you're wearing something like a weight vest that you're not allowing your posture to crumble. You want to make sure that you're staying up straight. You're keeping your chin up. You're keeping your shoulders back. You're chest out. That way you are promoting proper alignment and posture as you go through these types of exercises or these workouts. Okay. Next, I want to talk about terrain. terrain is another big piece of this that needs to be, I guess, considered because walking the same flat route every single day is great because as we talked about, the consistency is the piece that matters the most, right? And walking has a ton of different benefits and studies proving that it does burn fat, right? But switching up your terrain can add new challenges and make things harder and also just keep things more interesting. And so if you usually walk on a sidewalk and that's a smooth, flat surface, maybe go drive your dog out to some hills that are nearby or go find like a long staircase. If you live anywhere that has like a known staircase that a lot of the community goes to, if you live like I used to live in LA and they had these staircases over by the beach that people would always go to and get these stair workouts or they would have Runyon Canyon that has like these, these hills and this dirt and it's just different surfaces and just different terrain that you can go walk on. That's going to add a different bit of a challenge. Also, if I was ever walking Runyon Canyon in LA, it's just fun. You know, again, it doesn't feel like you're working out. You go there with a couple of friends. Maybe you play a little bit music. If you're alone, you take your dog and you're out and about in nature. And you got the sun shining on you and you feel good. And so adding that terrain not only challenges your body a little bit more, but it also makes it more mentally stimulating. And like I said, walking up these hills, it's going to activate more muscles in your legs. It's going to activate more muscles in your core. It's going to burn more calories. And so it's a great way to get your workout in, but also just a great way to build strength and endurance on top of getting your workout in. So if you're into hiking, try hitting some trails. Try walking on uneven ground. That can help you with your balance, can help you with your coordination, which is just an awesome added bonus. And there's research showing that walking in nature can actually reduce stress and boost mental health. And there's a term in the, I think it's a Japanese culture. It's called forest bathing. Japanese practice and basically studies show that walking in nature can lower stress and anxiety. And so if you're stressed out, if you got high anxiety, it's a double win. You get physical and mental health benefits in one go. But I get it. Sometimes the weather doesn't permit it. Sometimes you don't have enough time to go drive to a trail to walk. And that's where the good old treadmill comes in. And it might not have the fresh air and the views, but it lets you control your speed. It lets you control your incline, which means that you can really dial in those intervals if you're trying those out or simulate hills. And you can start at a low incline. You don't have to bump up to 12 incline immediately. Start it like a two incline or a three incline. Start small, see how your body handles that, and then gradually increase your incline over time and work your way up. I'd say the North star of walking on a treadmill is probably three to four miles per hour. Four might be a little fast, or maybe you need to start a little bit slower. That's okay too. Maybe you start at two, two and a half, three, work your way up. But then you want to probably work your way up to like a 12 incline. And you want to also make sure, and I cannot say this enough, do not hang on to the treadmill if you're walking on an incline. I cannot stand when I see people walking on an incline, which is one of the best exercises for fat burning, but they're hanging on to the railings. And so basically they're sitting there, leaning back, walking on an uphill, but they're not really walking on an uphill because they're not shifting their weight forward. Their knees aren't really going over their toes like they should be. They're not pushing their weight forward up this hill. Instead, they're holding on and just letting their feet walk straight. There's no incline if you're leaning back, hanging on to rails. So don't do that. Okay. Okay. And, and, and while you're walking on it, I know a lot of people think that treadmills are boring. And I mean, I think that's a very, uh, common, uh, belief. So that's where headphones come into play. And, and it doesn't just have to be music. Although I'm a big, I'm a big fan of music. Um, that's probably one of my go-tos when I'm doing any kind of cardio workout, but you could also try listening to podcasts. Ladies, if you like those murder mysteries, listen to those, maybe listen to this podcast while you're doing it. Who knows? Maybe you'll learn something while you're getting a nice workout in. Uh, lastly, I just want to talk about tracking progress with your walking, because that's going to be another important piece of this, because if you're walking for weight loss, it's a good idea to track your walks. So, you know, if you're improving and how you're improving, and there's a ton of different fitness trackers out there. Um, there's apps, there's, there's journals, there's, I mean, you have your phone, um, there's, there's wearables to help keep tabs on how many steps you're taking per day, where your heart rate is at during those walks, how many calories you're burning during those walks. And sometimes even the treadmills that you're on, they'll tell you how many walks or how many flights of stairs or how far you've walked. And they have a little heart rate readers, but like, I'm a big fan of, of fitness wearables. And so whether you're wearing an Apple watch, whether you're wearing a Garmin watch, whether you're wearing an aura ring, I don't have sponsorships with any of those, but if you are working for any of those companies and you hear about this and you want to sponsor us, we're open to it. Um, but those are just a great way to track your walks, track your activity throughout the day. And there's something motivating about seeing those numbers go up over time. Uh, plus having that data lets you identify patterns and it lets you, allows you to push yourself even more just to do a little bit more every single week. And so, and like I said, you don't need any kind of fancy gear. If you don't have any kind of watches or anything that tracks it, a notebook works just fine. Literally just jot down how long you walked or, or, or how far you went. Uh, maybe add a note on how you felt during the walk. Maybe try to just take your own heart rate occasionally to see about where you're at, because you do want to try to keep your heart rate pretty low. Like I said, you want to be able to hold a conversation during these walks. And then lastly, I would say, just don't forget to celebrate those wins. When you do see yourself walking further easier with a lower heart rate, or you're, you've been consistent this week, or you've just, or you've been consistent for a month, whatever it is, or you hit a new PR, give yourself credit for doing that. Because those little small wins being celebrated is huge for actually staying motivated long-term. And if you hit plateaus, which happens to literally everybody, just mix things up a little bit. And that's why I wanted to include talks about, um, just regular walks. I wanted to talk about different terrains. I wanted to talk about different speeds and intervals. Um, go try a new, uh, route to go try a new path. Go invite a friend, set yourself up with a challenge, like hitting a certain number of steps today. That's, that's 50% more than you've ever done. Or, or go tackle that steep hill that you've been looking at that where you, that you can see when you're driving on the highway that you've been thinking about doing for a while, go do it, challenge yourself. And then hopefully that breaks the plateau. And if not, just keep trying different stuff. And then when you do break that plateau, like I said, celebrate that win. Okay. And, and, and, and, and okay, truly last thing I'll say, I know I've said that like three times, but if you do need support going through this, or you need someone to hold you accountable, or you need someone to help you write that plan and create that plan for you so that you can lose all the fat that you want to. That's where a coach comes into play. And we have a ton of B-Street certified coaches that are ready to work with you. They are experts at creating personalized workout plans, personalized diets that are built for you from scratch to help you hit your goals. Whether it's more walking, whether it's weight training, whether it's, uh, maybe you're doing, maybe you're a marathon runner or you're a CrossFit or whatever it is, we can create a plan for you from scratch. That's right for your specific goals. So you don't even have to think about it. And so if that sounds like something that you'd be interested in, there should be a link somewhere around here, maybe down in the description or just on our website, go to vshred.com and you can get all the info that you need. But that's all I wanted to really talk about with walking. I cannot stress the importance of walking enough. It's one of the things that literally everybody can do. And it's, it's one of the keys to living longer if you just simply walk. And so, um, get out there, walk more, change it up, challenge yourself, track your walks. And after a while you're going to realize, Oh, I've been walking all this time. It doesn't even feel like I'm really working out and I'm getting in better shape. And so that's a major win. And so, yeah, that's all I wanted to say. Hopefully, um, this was helpful. Um, if you guys are wanting to check out other episodes of the better body, better life podcast, we have so many different stuff about eating and we have interviews with our coaches talking about, um, having getting your body back after having kids. Um, we have tons of different episodes. So if you're new here, go check out some of our episodes. If you're not new here, and this is the 10th episode that you've listened to. Thanks for your support. But that's all for today, guys. Hope you enjoyed it. Have a good one. Thanks for tuning in to today's episode of V shreds, better body, better life podcast. Whether you're doing one of our programs, taking our supplements, or just doing things on your own, tune in every week for exclusive content with Vince, V shred trainers, and special guests as they share valuable tips around motivation, workouts, food, and living a healthier lifestyle. See you next time.