! NARO2-2, amenethiku, amenethiku, amenethiku, amenethiku, amenethiku, amenethiku, amenethiku, amenethiku, amenethiku, amenethiku, amenethiku, amenethiku, amenethiku, amenethiku, amenethiku, amenethiku, amenethiku, amenethiku, amenethiku, amenethiku, amenethiku, amenethiku, amenethiku, amenethiku, amenethiku, amenethiku, amenethiku, amenethiku, amenethiku, amenethiku, amenethiku, amenethiku, amenethiku, amenethiku, amenethiku, amenethiku, amenethiku, amenethiku, amenethiku, amenethiku, amenethiku, amenethiku, amenethiku, amenethiku, amenethiku, amenethiku, amenethiku, amenethiku, amenethiku, amenethiku, amenethiku, amenethiku, amenethiku, amen it's not always about the scale. Live your best life while working on your health and fitness goals. We're here to make your journey fun and inspiring. Welcome to the V Shred Better Body, Better Life podcast. What's going on, everyone? Welcome back to another episode of the Better Body, Better Life podcast. I'm your host, Vince Sant. And today we have another one of our previous guests back who is also one of our V Shred coaches, Kimberly, who is also a mama too. She's worked with a ton of our clients before, has her bachelor's of arts, her fitness management and nutrition certification. She's a certified personal trainer, certified bar bootcamp instructor. And like I said, she's worked with a ton of our clients before. So she has a ton of experience. And today we're going to be talking about what to expect when starting a fitness journey. So Kimberly, welcome and thank you for being on here with me. Hello, everybody. Good to see everybody. Yeah. And we did an episode in the past where we talked about strength training versus cardio. And we got a lot of great responses from that. People found it super helpful. So if you guys are liking what you hear in this and you like how Kimberly talks, you want to hear more, go back and check out those previous episodes. But let's go ahead and just dive into today's episode and talk about starting a fitness journey because obviously like that's a pretty, I guess, overwhelming thing because there's obviously so much information out there and everybody wants to get healthier. Everybody wants to lose 10, 20, 30, maybe 50 plus pounds. But they're not really sure where to get started or they're kind of scared to get started or they've tried stuff in the past and it didn't necessarily work or they just don't really even think that it's really that big of a deal right now and they wait until it's a life altering decision. And so just starting off, why do you think it is so important for people to get ahead of the ball, get ahead of the curve and get fitness started before you reach, you hear something scary from your doctor? Definitely. And, you know, I encourage all ages to exercise, whether you're a child, you know, a teen, middle age, older adults, it can't hurt to, you know, get started anytime. Obviously, the sooner the better. But, you know, it depends on where you've been and your own, you know, specific journey. But it's so important. And it's not just for the physical component. It's also, you know, mentally, it's important. Emotionally, it's important. Obviously, you know, with exercise, you know, we always attribute it to, you know, weight loss and maintenance. And obviously, that's a big part of it, too. But in general, you know, it's a combination of taking care of yourself physically so that it carries over into your mental and emotional health as well. And I told a lot of my clients that I said, you know, it's not just about, you know, sweating and feeling it physically, but you're going to feel better overall, the way you're thinking, the way you're feeling the way you're dealing with situations in general. And it's also going to help you have more motivation to eat better, sleep better, and take better care of yourself in general. And obviously, disease prevention. I mean, that's, that's with any age, like I said, you can't start too early. So many diseases creep up on people, even in their 20s, 30s. So, you know, the sooner you can start, the better without a doubt. Yeah, and it happens even more now with just mass production of food and ultra processed nonsense that people are just shoving into their bodies. Right. What would you say are some of the misconceptions people have when they are wanting to start a fitness journey? Yeah, I think the main thing I hear a lot from clients is they don't have the time. That's probably one of the biggest things I hear. You know, they have no time in their day to schedule in and so that hinders them from even starting. So I think that alone can be helped. And I tell them, I said, schedule a time in your day, where you're not distracted, where you kind of just put in your own me time. And I tell everybody, it's so important to have that me time, because as busy as you are, you still need a mental break from everything. So I said, you know, even with the V shred workouts, or the workouts you're doing on your own, give yourself 30 minutes a day to start off. That's all you need. Find something you enjoy at first, you know, when you're first starting off. And I tell people, even if it's just going on a brisk walk every day, get yourself started somehow, and start slowly so that you don't get overwhelmed at first with everything. And then, you know, then as you get accustomed to your workout, you add on little by little. But I think a lot of people just get overwhelmed at the thought of fitting it in their day. And they don't even know where to get started with it. You know, so I think that is one of the, I guess you could say it's a misconception, they don't have time. But I think a lot of people get nervous, too, when they go into a gym setting, if they're if they're heading into a gym, you know, people like to go and then they get overwhelmed. Oh, you know, I'm maybe not in the best of shape, all these other people are in great shape. And honestly, I tell people, people aren't even paying attention to you. They're doing their own workout, you know, really, you know, and just start off slow, you have to do it for yourself. And you can't worry about what other people are thinking, you got to focus on you. And you're going to get better as you keep doing it for sure. Yeah, no, that's a fantastic point. Because and I would even go as far as saying like the people like coming from somebody who is in the gym, five, six days a week, every single week, when I see people in the gym that are new, or that I haven't seen before, or I can tell or just like, struggling with an exercise or kind of confused going around. I respect that even more, you know, and sometimes I'm more inclined to step in and maybe even offer a little bit of help if they want it. Like I don't necessarily love when people just assume that they can give people advice in the gym, because some people just don't want it, you know? Yeah. But some people do. And, and, and I would say that the people that get judged are the people that are like going in there with a bunch of ego, and they're throwing around these weights and screaming and dropping super heavy dumbbells versus the people that are in there just trying to do their own thing, keeping to themselves. They're not talking to anybody. They're just like trying to figure out the gym. And I mean, I got a bunch of big, bulky friends. And generally, like people get scared because like the gym's filled with like some of those guys, you know? Yeah. But those are like the nicest guys usually. Yeah, yeah. And, and those are the guys that are more than willing to help you. And so like, I would say if someone, if, if, if you're listening to this and the gym does intimidate you, yes, that can be tough to get over. I think it's really just about creating a routine and, and, and familiarizing yourself with it. So like know what you're going to do before you go that way, when you get there, you're not just walking around like a lost puppy, you know? And then also be willing to ask for help. Like every gym has coaches walking around. If they're not working with somebody, they will be willing to help you and, or, or just find somebody who looks like they're in pretty good shape. If someone came up to me and was like, I've had this happen all the time. If I'm doing an exercise, it's maybe not a normal, like chest press. It's like a different type of tricep exercise. I'll have people come up and be like, Hey, what muscle is that working? Why do you like that? How can I do that? And I'm more than happy to help them. And so I think that's a great point. Then the time part as well, like that's probably what you said. The most common misconception is that people don't have time. Oh, that's probably the, I would say 85% of the time is that's what I hear just with the, you know, people that have, especially like you hear a lot with like middle-aged people because, you know, a lot of them have families and they're working and, um, they just, they can't fit any time in for themselves. Um, another thing I always suggest too, if you really have a hard time finding time and you do have a workout plan or you have one of the V shred workouts, I tell people, I said, take two days during the week, um, maybe get up a half hour earlier or use your lunch time. If you would get that or later in the evening, I said, do a half hour twice a week. And then on the weekends, if you're not working, which a lot of people don't work on the weekends, I said, get two more workouts in then, because then you've got four workouts in a week. Um, at least you start, you know, and so that way you're not, you know, like during the week, you know, you're still getting three days where you're sleeping in or having your evenings or whatever, but a half hour can do so much for people. And I don't think they realize that how much better and how much more productive you can be just giving yourself some time, honestly. A hundred percent. And a lot of it that goes into that 30 minutes is about changing their understanding of the type of workouts they should be doing because I, and we'll talk about this for everybody listening in our next episode where we talk about exercise tips. I really would love to dive into just like the different types of workouts that people can be doing, but just the understanding of, or the acceptance of knowing they don't have to spend an hour in the gym. They don't have to spend even two hours in the gym. I think people get so caught up with what these bodybuilders or like these, these physique athletes are doing or what these people who are in incredible shape are doing because some of them do live in the gym, you know? And I would say that some physiques are not necessarily attainable for some people just because they don't have the interest in dedicating that much time to it, you know? For certain physiques, it can be a full-time job, you know? But it can also be really unhealthy to do that. And so if you're just somebody who wants to get a little healthier, wants to look a little bit better, have a little more confidence, be around for your grandchildren, then you don't have to be going and killing yourself in the gym and you don't even have to be going to the gym, you know? And so understand accepting the fact that you don't have to spend an hour. You can do a great workout in 20, some of the best workouts I've ever gotten have been 30 minute workouts. That's actually a great point. I completely agree with you on that. When I have all the time in the world, sometimes I'm just kind of lollygagging and I'm taking too long of rests and I don't even break a sweat and I might not get a great workout. But those times when I'm like, I get to the gym and I do my warmup and I'm like, okay, I need to be out of here in 38 minutes because I got to call three or whatever. Those are the best workouts I've ever gotten. So if you're intentional with it, you can really make your time, make the time your, you know what? And so, no, I love that. And so also I think another piece of it that people get intimidated by is the nutrition side. What role does nutrition play here? Definitely. It plays a huge part. I mean, it goes hand in hand with fitness along with, like we mentioned, sleep and hydration and stress management, but nutrition is so important. And I think honestly, when you do start an exercise program, if you aren't already eating healthy, you probably, it may encourage you to start eating healthy. And by healthy, we mean, you know, eating enough- Because of the momentum, you mean, right? Yeah. Knowing that you're, you know, exercising, I might as well feel my body. So I get, you know, the most out of what I'm doing, you know, why waste your time exercising if you're not going to properly feel yourself? And, you know, with, with nutrition, you know, it's eating enough of the right foods, right? You want to get enough calories. I have a lot of people that think that they have to, you know, eat 700, 800 calories a day. And I said, no, no, that's not what you need. You need, a female needs at least 1200 calories a day. And that's what we always, you know, tell our clients and our meal plans. Obviously it varies on your, you know, certain specifics of your height and weight and whatever age, but you need enough of the food. You need to listen to your body. You need to feel your body throughout the day. And it's choosing the right kinds of foods. You know, protein is so important. Protein is, you know, everybody needs protein. And you need to fuel that. You need, you need your carbs. You know, you need your fats you need, but it's got to be healthy carbs and healthy fats, your complex carbs, your healthy fats. And you need to find, you know, a good calorie and macro system that works for you. And like I said, if, if some people don't have the knowledge of that, and you know, that's sometimes where we come into play, where we can help them with a meal plan or what have you, or, you know, the app also helps a lot of people. So yeah, nutrition is so important. Um, the body needs to be repaired and to do that, you need to feed it for sure. Yeah. And I like what you said about the right kinds of food. Cause that's super important because 1200 calories, whether it's, whether it's that, or like for a guy, I, what do you say it could go up to 1800, 2000, maybe 17, 1800 minimum for sure. Yeah. And then, and then, yeah, depending on like your age and body size and activity level that can, that can fluctuate, but 1200 calories, let's say you're on the lower end for a female, you're a small, you're a petite woman, right? You're eating 1200 calories a day, 1200 calories of, I don't know, microwavable frozen meals is not much food. 1200 calories of whole foods that you cooked yourself that you got from the grocery store, though. That's a lot of food. And I think people kind of don't realize that when they're first getting started, how much food you can make. Like if you're, if you're eating low calorically dense foods, it's a lot of food versus if you're not, if you're just, if you're just eating what you like to eat all the time and you're just being like, it's like, it's like weight watchers back in the day. I don't know if I'm even allowed to say that, but my mom would do weight watchers and she would just, she had this point system and she would eat like Swedish fish. And then all of a sudden it'd be 5 PM and she's out of points. And I'm like, well, I mean, I didn't understand it back then, but now looking back and she also understands it way more now too. But I'm like, man, if you would have just like had like, like eggs and maybe some Ezekiel bread in the morning, or like you had quality food all day, you're going to be eating so much more food, be so much more full, have so much more energy. And you're not going to have to stop eating at 5 PM because you've already reached your caloric intake, you know? So I think that's a huge, huge point. Um, what would you say is another misconception when it comes to nutrition? Oh, I get, and I was just going to bring this up before you asked me, um, I get so many clients that ask me, can I eat in the evenings? Like, can I snack in the evenings? And I get that all the time. Like I, Oh my God, you know, do I have to stop? I said, no, you, you have, we have, you know, on our meal plans, we have, we allow two to three snacks a day. And I tell my clients, if you've already eaten those, um, and you're still hungry and you know, you've hydrated, I said, by all means, you know, people get into this mindset where they can't have food at night, but you can, it's just, again, back to the fact that you have to have quality food. So grab a protein snack, grab, you know, a piece of fruit with yogurt or something like that, something that's going to satisfy you and fill you up so that you're not hungry overnight. Um, versus, you know, the standard, let's go, you know, grab chips or whatever people do at night that are you? So they're in such a habit or fast food or whatever. Yeah. Yeah. Cause a lot of people, like I'm in such a habit of eating at night and that's okay, but it's just choosing the foods that your body can do something with. And then you're not waking up in the middle of the night hungry. Cause I tell them, I said, if you're hungry at night, you have to eat because your sleep's going to get disrupted if you're that hungry and then you're waking up at night. So eat something. It's totally, it's your body telling you it needs something, you know? And, and, and, and would you, would you recommend like leaning more towards certain macros late at night? Or do you think it's just about more? Yeah. You know, it, depending on, you know, obviously if you're on a carb cycling plan, you know, we try to follow the carb cycling day. If you're on a, you know, a lower carb day, I try to tell the clients, you know, find a good protein snack for yourself, nuts, um, you know, yogurt. But then again, like if they're on a mid or high day, I said, you know, throw a piece of fruit in there. Um, you know, even, you know, if you're even like a, like you said, in a piece of Ezekiel bread or something, you know, something that's going to fill you up with some peanut butter or something like that. Um, just something that, you know, is going to take you through and help your hunger and making a healthy choice for yourself as well. Yeah. And I also love what you said about you, you briefly mentioned as long as you're hydrated or, and you've hydrated. Yeah. I think that's a big piece of it. And we mentioned when I brought up nutrition, hydration and sleep. Um, but that, what did you explain what you meant and you've hydrated as to why that's important to understand when you're experiencing hunger? Yeah. And I mean, I'm guilty of this myself. Cause I, I'm sure I don't get enough water all the time during the day, especially when I'm out and, you know, out and about or in the heat and, you know, what have you. And you come home and you're like, all of, all along you say, I feel so thirsty. And then you didn't drink and then you come home and then you, what, what do you end up doing? You end up eating because you think you're hungry, um, but you're probably thirsty. So what I always tell clients, I said, you know, it's hard as it is, um, carry a water bottle throughout the day, hydrate, especially when you wake up in the morning, cause you haven't really usually drank all night, hydrate in the morning, um, hydrate throughout the day. If you're working out, you know, you need to be hydrated before, during and after. And excuse me, you just need to make sure, you know, make sure you're, you're satisfied with your thirst before you go to food. Cause often I, and I do it myself, I find myself eating and then I'm like, Oh, I'm probably just really thirsty. So then I drink water and then I'm full. So, you know, I think it's, you need to really find a balance, um, with hydration also with the water. You know, I do get a lot of questions about, you know, do I always have to drink water? And obviously we want you to drink as much water as you can, but you know, having maybe like a diet drink once in a while is okay. Um, but you know, you, you want to stick to water as much as you can, but again, coffee, I, I say have coffee if you need it, you know, once a day, excuse me. Um, like I said, a diet Coke, but Gatorade once in a while is okay as well. I heard a little bit of a accent there when you said coffee, coffee. I don't even drink coffee. I hate coffee, but everybody I know likes coffee. So I don't know. Go for it. You know? No, it's great that you bring that up because like, I'm going to be completely honest here. Like I'm not a coffee guy, but I am a sugar-free monster energy guy. Yeah. And people kind of get, people get shocked by that. And I'm not sitting here saying that that's the healthiest choice. Cause I know for a fact, it's got chemicals in there that are not good for my body, but I truly enjoy like the, the, the calf, like not the caffeination, but the carbonation. And I love the taste of it. And I just like the pairing with my breakfast and it makes it so that I can have the same breakfast every single morning. And I enjoy it the same way I did 10 years ago when I started having this breakfast. Right. So it's about like the, the balance of making great choices, healthy choices, and also living your life and enjoying what you are doing along the way. Um, and I also, it's like what you said about having like a diet drink. Like I'm also a sugar-free, caffeine-free root beer guy. Yeah. Just an A and W caffeine-free, sugar-free. I've found that like, if I have one of those with my dinner at night, like that's, that's like a highlight of my dinner, you know, I love, and I don't feel like I'm killing my diet because everything else that I'm doing is like, I'm on top of it. You know, I'm having the meals that I'm supposed to eat. I'm drinking tons of water. I have a, if you guys are just listening, I'm holding this water bottle that I have next to me literally all day. I actually get made fun of sometimes because I literally carry my shaker bottle everywhere. There's like a game that I play when I go on trips where I will take this through the airport and airports nowadays, by the way, are really good about having those water stations that aren't just drinking pounds. They're like the water stations that are like recycled bottles saved or whatever. Every airport has those nowadays. And so you can also save money by carrying one. And then like, it's literally a game now where it's like, does Vince lose his water bottle this trip? And so like, I really try to not lose it, you know, but that's just going to show that I take it literally everywhere. I make sure that I'm prioritizing water. Is there an amount that you would recommend for guys versus girls? I always tell my, cause I think clients get overwhelmed when you tell them they have to drink so much a day. Like, I mean, they usually say what, half your body weight in ounces a day. And that's if you're sedentary. So, you know, take 150 pound woman, 75 fluid ounces a day is what they recommend. And that's for a sedentary person. So I would try to say, get maybe at least half of your body weight in ounces and keep in mind, you know, you are getting some fluids from foods too. I always tell clients, you know, if you're eating veggies, fruits, you're getting, you're getting water with that too, but aim for half your body weight in ounces. And I know it's not always possible for everybody to just walk around with water all day long, you know, depending on their job, but keep it in the back of your mind. You always want to hydrate. I mean, I can't, I, and then a lot of times it disrupts people's bathroom cycles and things at night. So find a system that works for you. Um, whether it's, you know, you're drinking a lot in the morning, um, you know, you're hydrating, you know, while you're working out and after, I think it's just finding a nice balance that fits into your life that where you're getting enough water for yourself, you know, and you're feeling, you're feeling good, you know, about it. I think that's a good point. Cause usually I'll recommend, like, I'll say guys aim for a gallon, girls aim for maybe three fourths of a gallon, you know, but I think people can probably get a little overwhelmed by the idea that like a gallon is a lot of water, you know, like if you're not used to drinking water, you're going to be going to the bathroom a little bit more. And like, it's also about like maybe cutting off water after seven, 8 PM or like two or three hours before you go to bed. That way you do get your last couple of bathroom breaks before you fall asleep. And then you haven't had much water recently. And so you're not waking up in the middle of the night. Like I don't have a problem because my body's so used to it, you know, but I wake up and I got to go, you know? And so I, I love the idea of finding that balance. Um, but okay. Shifting back. Cause I feel like we're kind of getting into the exercise tips and I want to make sure that we're saving that for our exercise tips. That's my bad. Um, but what would you say are some of the mindset shifts that are essential for somebody to make when they're starting a fitness journey? Yeah. I think you need to start off slow all the time. Um, I think you need to learn about what you're learn about like exercise first, try to, you know, ask for some, ask, read up on it, read up on some of the benefits, like educate yourself about why you're doing it, figure out why you're doing this exercise. There's a reason why you are exercising and you, and you need to really focus on that. I think that will carry you through as you go, but starting off slow rather than just going through the motions. You mean? Yeah. Yeah. Start off slow, find something you enjoy at first, whether it's, you know, um, walking, say you like just walking. Well, start off walking and then maybe increase the pace a little bit and then introduce some lightweight training. Um, I think, um, and you need to watch too, in the beginning that you don't number one, get too sore where you get very discouraged. Cause some people do that when they start off really, they go crazy. They use too much weight. They, whatever they're doing too much at once. And then they're like, Oh, I'm so sore. I just, I don't want to do this. Which I love. And I think, I think people probably usually eventually start loving that. Yeah. But in the beginning it's like, like this hurt my, my legs hurt, you know, and they don't really like it. Well, you know, whereas like right now my calves are sore and I'm like, please grow. Yeah. I'm like, I hope that, I hope that means something's happening. Right. You know? So the more sore, the better for me. But I see what you're saying, where that can be, um, like demotivating almost if somebody is so sore, like, am I always going to be this sore from working out? That's not worth it. You know? Yeah. And I saw clients, I said, start off slow. Like I said, find something you like, um, educate yourself on, you know, some of the next steps, whether it's, you know, maybe introducing some lightweight training, some core training and stretch. I tell clients you have to have to stretch, um, after your workouts, especially because it will help prevent some of that soreness and fatigue and you'll feel better for your next workout. I mean, I, I used to never stretch when I was younger. I thought stretching my eyes. None of us did. None of us did. We didn't need to, to be honest. I didn't even want to. I'm like, Oh, I don't need to stretch. I'm fine. Well, like within the last 10 years, um, since I've gotten a little older too, like I stretch probably three times a day, um, just because I feel better and I have more energy. You know, I can feel myself kind of getting like crunched up from sitting at a computer chair all day. Yep. A hundred percent. I mean, like, especially, like I said, and if you stretch after your workout, give yourself five minutes, you're actually going to help your, your prevention of soreness and you're going to be more motivated the next day to work out. You won't feel as sore and cramped up fatigued. And I think, um, like I said, I think just starting off slow and then, you know, gradually maybe within a couple of weeks, a month or so changing it up a little bit while still doing the activity you like, you know, cause I think people really, some people love running. Some people love to bike, but you'd have to add on as time goes on, or you're not going to really reap the benefits, you know? Yeah. No, love all that. Stretching was something I never did back in the day. Um, didn't warm up either. I would just get to the gym and I throw a plate on each side of the bar. And I'd, my, my warmup would be like bench press. That's a little too heavy to start with, you know, when I was a kid and my body could handle it. And I was, I was, I mean, kids, kids are made of rubber until you're about 25, 30. And then all of a sudden things start hurting a little bit more versus now, like I'm, I could probably, I could be a lot better about stretching afterwards, but mobility before warming up before has been a game changer for me because I do have a history of like injuries. Um, and so like, whether that's like little things like tennis elbow or like patellar tendonitis or big ones, like disc herniations or like serious injuries that keep you out of the gym, like I've experienced, like I tore, I've torn my pec, I've herniated discs. I've, I've dislocated my AC joint, broken my collarbone. Like I've been through a bunch of injuries. And so like, I have to make sure that I'm warming my body properly because I'm also like, as you get more and more experienced in the gym, like in the beginning, especially if you're a female, you're not going to be going and trying to throw around the heaviest weight possible. Girls just don't have that same ego mindset that guys do, you know? But if you're a guy, it's really important because as you get, and even for girls, as you get more experience and you do start loading your body with weight that it's not used to, you're going to elevate your risk of injury, but you're going to decrease your risk of injury with proper warmup. And so loved what you said about stretching after to help out with that recovery. I could a hundred percent be better than that, better at that. Um, and then also loved what you said about changing things up. I always say this, just try stuff, try different things, like try boxing. If you saw, if you think it looks fun, go try Pilates, go do a bootcamp class and see if you're more of a group exercise type of person, you know, just try things. And what you're going to find is that you like, you don't like stuff and then you like stuff and you just stick to the stuff that you like. And it makes it a lot easier to stick to it. Yeah. And like I said, you always have to worry about proper form is always very important. You know, that was, I guess, something I should have mentioned when starting off, you need to do the proper form or you're going to number one, injure yourself or risk injuring yourself. And number two, if you get hurt, you're going to say, why did I do this? I shouldn't have even done this. So proper forms important. And I can't stress enough, um, about mixing things up because I have so many clients that, you know, they, they come to me and they, oh, I walk every day and, you know, I really don't do a whole lot else. And I'm like, that's great that you walk, but there's other things we have to add in there to, um, to help your weight loss, to help your metabolism. Um, so, you know, that kind of thing. And, uh, yeah, like you said, women have to keep in mind that they're not going to be, um, lifting as much as a, as a man or, you know, not going to be as strong as it's just not going to happen. So, um, my kids who were, you know, 13 and 16 arm wrestle me and beat me every time. And I've been working out for like 30 years and I'm like, this sucks, you know, but that's the way it goes. I've accepted it that, you know, I'm not going to be stronger than I'm ever again. So that's the way it is. I'm sure you got a couple of lips on them still. Oh, they're strong. They, they work out too. So they're blocked. Yeah, they're a lot stronger. So I, I'm kind of going to say six, 16 too. That's like at an age where like probably grown more versus like before, before puberty, you still got a chance, you know? Yeah. Yeah. No, my kids, like they see, they're, they're pretty good. They, they know how important it is to work out and things. So I think that's another thing. I think when you're an adult and you're a mom or you're a dad, um, you know, show yourself, you're, you're showing an example to your kids, right? You want them to be active. So eating and exercising, I think that carries down your, your kids see it. Um, your grandkids see it. And I think that's important too. I mean, you're, you're showing them what health is, you know? And it's, and it's probably, I'm not a parent, but I assume it's way more effective them seeing it versus them just being told it, you know, if they, if you're telling your kids, they need to be health conscious and eat better and make sure that they're staying active. And then you're a lazy bum on the couch, watching TV, potato chips, and you're way out of shape. Then they're going to be like, why would I do that? My mom, my dad doesn't do that. Yeah. Yeah. Your kids model, they, they model what you do and you know, you want them to, if you're doing something good for yourself, for sure. You know? Yeah. Um, and then kind of going back to what you said about like how the mindset that women have when they go to the gym and this also relates to the guys, it kind of sounds like goal setting is like going to be a huge piece of that. And understanding that yes, progress might be slow sometimes. What would you say somebody should expect in those first few weeks and like how important is goal setting? Yeah. Goal setting is very important. Um, at all ages again, now, obviously somebody that's in their twenties or thirties, that's just starting out. It's probably going to be able to do a lot more than somebody in their, you know, forties and over. And I tell clients that you have to be patient with yourself depending on, you know, your age and, and what you're facing that way. Um, but yeah, goal setting, I would say, you know, um, within the first, maybe two to four weeks of your, of your training, whether you're doing one of our workouts or your own, you know, um, first couple of weeks, take it slow. Um, you know, find something, like I said, you like to do. And then maybe within the third week or so let's introduce something new. Um, maybe it's like I said, some lightweight training, um, take a class at the gym, um, you know, just learning what else is out there. Um, cause there's so much more out there than just probably what, you know, you're already doing, whether it's like I said, a cardio piece, which is great, but, um, you know, we want to work on, uh, you know, some core work for your body. And like I said, education comes into a big part of that too, because a lot of people don't even know what, what a core workout is entails. So I think learning about it and learning why you're doing what you're doing. Um, why am I weight training? This is why you're weight training. Why do I need to do my core? Um, I think that's a big part of it, but setting goals, I think you want to have realistic goals. Um, you want to know, like maybe within the first month, you're going to really start, I tell my clients probably within the first couple of weeks, if you're following one of our, um, workout plans and nutrition plans, you're, you're going to start seeing some results. You're going to see your, you're going to feel your clothes fitting differently. Um, photos, you're going to see yourself maybe looking a little more muscular toned, but I think, like I said, as you go along, um, I think you need to set a goal maybe once a month, um, to change something up, whether it's a new workout, adding something, um, changing up the weights, maybe, um, just trying something new, but I think, and then add on to that as you go and then eventually get it more, more intense workouts to like hit and things like that, which I would definitely recommend for somebody in their twenties and thirties. That's, you know, really trying to make a difference after that first month or so of getting into it, add in hit, you know, that's a huge part of a training program. And explain just what hit is real quick. Yeah. Um, you're, you're talking high interval intense, high intensity interval training, and that's probably one of the hardest trainings you can do, um, for your body, but it's one of the most effective and quick ways to work out. And what you're doing with that type of workout is you're elevating your heart rate, uh, pretty high, and then you're taking it down and then you're repeating it. It's kind of like going up and down on a cycle, whether it's like 20 seconds of, um, high knees, and then you, you know, you're marching for 10 seconds and you're going back at it again. So you're, you're tricking your heart rate. You're getting it up and down, up and down. And what that's doing is it's really training, um, your heart and your body to really, um, function at a better level in your rest mode. And you're going to notice that your metabolism is going to really increase and you're going to be burning a lot of fat in that as well. And that's the goal of the program, right? You want to burn off fat and you want to increase your metabolism. And that to me is one of the best exercises you can do. Uh, they say not to do it more than two or three times a week, but you will find that it will make a lot of your other exercises seem much easier without a doubt. No, a hundred percent. Yeah. I always, I always recommend like if people are, and it goes back to what we said about like the time thing, like if people say they don't have time to work out, it's like, well, a HIIT workout can literally be done in 15 minutes. Oh, without a doubt. Oh, that's with a short warmup and a short cool down. Yeah. You know, like these workouts, oh, intense. Oh, that can be in there. And those are some of the, and I said that like some of the best workouts that I get are like the lifts that I have, like for a very short time period, HIIT workouts are some of the hardest workouts I've ever done because what's beautiful about them is, and we'll talk about this more within the exercise, uh, tips episode that we have. But what's beautiful about HIIT is that it can be completely catered to your level, you know? And so it's all, it's all based on heart rate. And so like, if I have a higher threshold than somebody who's just getting started, I can push myself much, much harder and go much, much faster and go much more intense so that my heart rate gets up there versus their heart rate is going to get just as high as mine from less intensity. But every exercise can be made so that it, it works for whoever is doing it. And so, yeah, you don't have to have a specific workout that's made for beginners or made for intermediate people or advanced people. It's, it can be high. Like I could, I could do high knees and get a great HIIT workout done versus somebody who's just getting started today can do high knees and get a great workout done. And so, and like I said, some of my HIIT workouts have been less than 10 minutes. And so like, if I'm just like at the gym and I don't have time, oh, they're, they're, they're brutal. They're brutal. Like one of my favorite ones are sprints just because of the effect that testosterone or sprints have on testosterone. That's one of my favorite things to do when I'm doing HIIT workouts. Yeah. I'll do 15, maybe 20 seconds sprints I'll do. And then I'll do 20 seconds off. I'll do 10 rounds of that and I'll be done. And I think that's like six minutes. It's like nothing. Climbing stairs in your house is another thing you can do. It's, you don't even have to have any equipment. You have a staircase. You can see up and down, up and down and your heart rate will climb so fast and you do that. And then you take a couple laps around your house and then you repeat it. It's like, there's so many things you can do that, um, you don't even have to have a gym for. You can do things in your house. You can find things you could, or, or, or, or go sprint on the sidewalk. Yeah. And like I said, in our workouts that we have, um, you know, we have the HIIT recommendations. So there's different things you can find there too, you know, for, for variety. So I always tell my clients do the HIIT workouts. They're out there. There's some examples for you, you know? Yeah. Yeah. No. And, and for anybody listening, all of the V shred programs have most, I should say most of the V shred programs have HIIT workouts incorporated. That's like one of the backbones of our programs just because like 80, like you said, probably 85% of people say they don't have enough time to work out. And so we get rid of that excuse by being like, okay, do you have 20 minutes? If you say you don't have 20 minutes, you are lying or you just are really bad at time management and we got to fix that, you know? So, um, and then when it comes to plateaus, that's another big topic that people struggle with just because it can be extremely hard to stick, to stick to your plan after you've hit a plateau, putting in all this work, you're, maybe you're getting results in the beginning and then all of a sudden you're doing the same amount of work and nothing's happening and you've gone now and, and you're, and, and you've heard online that you just need to trust the process and it's been three weeks and you haven't lost any weight and you have no idea what to do. What, how can somebody manage or handle those setbacks or those plateaus and what should they do? Yeah. And plateaus are going to happen. I mean, it's inevitable. It happens to all of us and some plateaus are longer than others. Um, some clients think they're on a plateau after two weeks. And I said, you're not in a plateau. You're just, you're just, you have, you don't, you don't have to lose weight every week. You may not, you know, just depending on your weight, it's going to fluctuate, but plateau, what I always tell the clients is something needs changed. Um, your body's comfortable at when you're at a plateau, you got to change something up, whether it means, you know, we change up your eating plan a little bit. Maybe, um, maybe you're, maybe we need to reduce the carbs a little bit. Maybe you're eating too many carbs, you know, on a carb cycling, maybe we need to go to a low carb plan. Definitely. We need to, I need to look into changing your activity somehow. Um, maybe you're doing the same type of workouts. I actually had a great, I've exact, great example. I have a client who was in a plateau. Um, I've had her for probably two, maybe a year and a half now. And I, I said, you know, we need to really think about your, your training plan. She was doing the same thing over and over. And I put her on a custom training plan where I, so I put in weight training for her. I put in, um, core and compound movements. We were doing all kinds of things at once. And she, to this day has lost weight and looks so much different than she did. And I think it's because we changed up her routine, you know, and so before she wasn't doing any kind of weights, she wasn't doing, she was doing a little bit of like, I think on her own, but I don't think she had a set schedule. And I think she just needed something where she was changing up her routine. And I think to me, that's probably one of the best things you can do. Um, if you're, you're eating okay and your calories seem to be okay, then you need to make a change, um, probably in your workout plan, or you may need to change, um, your sleeping habits too. Maybe you're not getting enough sleep where you're, you know, your hunger hormones aren't working correctly, or you're not getting the benefits of your workouts because you're not sleeping enough. So something's got to change when you're at a plateau. If you've been at the same weight, for what, three, four weeks, maybe even more than that, depending on your, the person, um, you know, then you maybe need to change up something, um, and do that. So that would be my recommendation for sure. Yeah. No, and I like, and with the workouts, I would add one on to that is the intensity of the workouts. Yeah. I think that's one that people can sometimes just overlook. Yeah. They think that they're working out with intensity and then they go work out with somebody who works out with intensity and they're like, Whoa, I wasn't working out with intensity. And I've had that happen to me so many times where I'm just like, um, I think I like, I work out all the time and I have better workouts. I have some days I get better workouts. Some days I get worse workouts, you know, when I have like a gym partner, which I haven't had many gym partners in my life just because I prefer working out alone just because my schedule is kind of weird. Yeah. And I just, I just honestly like having that me time. Um, but there have been times in my life when I have a gym partner and when I have that gym partner, the intensity goes through the roof and I get stronger and I get more muscular and I push more weights and I look better. And that, and that's just because that's only because the intensity went up. And so I do think that like, I, I, one of my friends, I've been helping him kind of get in shape on the side and he eats pretty good. I think his diet could be cleaned up a little bit, but he eats pretty good. He is really good at managing stress. He's good at getting sleep and, but his, and he, and he was really good about being consistent with his workouts. He works out all the time. He does a good amount of cardio. Sometimes I'm even telling him to stop doing so much cardio and just focus more on lifting, um, which I think is a great point for some people listening. Cardio is not always more cardio is not the answer. Um, but it's, his intensity of his workouts because he'll go and he'll do his four sets of 10. And I just, I, I don't, I haven't worked out with him because he's across the country, but I just have a feeling that he's not going to failure and then doing two more reps. He's not pushing himself to where he's like completely gassed after a squat session. You know, he's not drenched in sweat because he's watching his timer between sets to make sure that his rest is 60, strictly 60 seconds and not 84 seconds because he got caught on Instagram, you know? And so I think that intensity piece can also add an extra layer to how effective workouts can be. And I want to encourage clients to, and, um, don't always just focus on the scale. I think a lot of people do that and then they get, they think they're on a, maybe a plateau where they're discouraged because the scale doesn't mean everything. I mean, um, it actually, I tell people look at, you know, other factors, like how are your clothes fitting? Are you getting stronger? Um, look at pictures. I, I always get clients to send pictures to me, but you know, every four weeks I ask for pictures and they may not have lost a lot of weight, but they're like, Oh my God, like, I didn't even realize that my stomach looks different. I'm like, that's because you're changing your body composition and you don't even realize it. You know what I mean? So you have to look at other things. And I think people get so focused on the scale and that can be very, very detrimental to their journey because it's not always about the scale. Yeah, no, that's a great point. I actually saw this video on, I think Instagram the other day, it was these two girls at the gym. Um, and one of them like kind of hit like a little tricep pose. Um, and she like, and they, and then, and like she had a little tricep pop out and they both freaked out. And like the caption on, it was like, I didn't realize I even had triceps. This is the first time I've ever seen. And they were like both like freaking out because of it. And so, but it just goes to show like maybe she wasn't losing weight or like the scale is not always going to go down because people don't also don't realize that muscle weighs more than fat, right. Or it's more dense, a pound of fat and a pound of muscle. It's like, what weighs more, a pound of feathers or a pound of bricks? It's like, well, it's a pound. They weigh the same, right. So a pound of fat and a pound of muscle, they weigh the same, but muscles more dense. Yeah. And so one pound of muscle looks like less than one pound of fat. And so if you lose a pound of fat, but gain a pound of muscle, you weigh the same, but it'll look like you lost like three, four pounds of fat, you know? So I think, I think the scale is a great piece. And then also you mentioned sleep. What is the importance of sleep? What are some tips you can give people about sleep? What should they expect if they get better sleep? I can't even tell you how important sleep is. And I, I, well, I don't even, I can't even tell you that. I don't even think, um, you, for me, I need eight hours of sleep a night. Like that's me. I need to get enough rest. Everybody's different. But my, my recommendation is that everybody gets seven hours of quality sleep. And the reason being, and not only because, you know, it affects your energy, but it also affects how you eat the next day, because there's been a lot of studies shown that, you know, if you're sleep deprived, your hunger hormones are thrown off. So you're feeling your hunger hormone that signals that you're full, um, is actually signaling that you're hungry. So there, there are hunger hormones are all out of whack when you're not sleeping enough. So you'll notice that the days that you're maybe really tired, you're reaching for something with a carb in it because you feel like, God, I have no energy. I need some energy. So you're reaching for the wrong kinds of foods. And it's not even your fault. It's your body's way of, um, reacting to being hungry. You know, it's just, or I'm sorry, being sleep deprived. It's think it thinks it needs fuel and you, you choose the wrong types of foods. And I think when you're, um, also for your workouts, you know, if you want, you need to replenish your body by sleeping, not only eating, sleeping, and hydrating, but sleeping is so important because you need to repair the muscles. You need to give the time muscles to grow. And the only way they're going to do that besides eating correctly is to get rest. So, um, you need to sleep. And I think a lot of times people that have really crazy schedules where, you know, a lot of people work like overnights, I think they're, you know, they really struggle because obviously it's not easy to get a really good amount of sleep during the day. I know people, a lot of people, I couldn't do it, but you know, I think it's just harder on the body. I think you need to find a nice schedule for yourself, um, where you get enough sleep through the night, you know, and a lot of people don't sleep good. I think that's probably one of the biggest problems in America today is that we don't get enough sleep. There's just, people don't have the time to sleep. They don't, you know, they just don't get enough or quality sleep, but that's just not there. Yeah. It's almost been celebrated. Like I know when I was younger, it was almost celebrated if you didn't sleep. Yeah. Like, right. You like pulling all nighters was cool. Working late into the night and waking up super early was, was motivating, you know, versus now I'm the same way. Like I, I, I, I track my sleep every single night and I make sure that I'm getting like good rim. I make sure that I'm getting good, deep sleep. Um, I make sure that I'm getting a good total sleep. And so I'm like, that's, I'd probably call that. I mean, I, that could possibly be called the most important aspect of getting in shape because you could be dieting, you could be working out, but if you're not getting sleep, you're not going to get results, you know, but you could also say like, if you're getting great sleep, but you're not working out or not dieting, then you're not going to get results also. So there's like, you got to make sure that you have each piece, like I'd say the three main pieces of the puzzle, which is sleep, nutrition, and exercise. You get those three figured out you're going to get results, you know? A hundred percent. So, and, and, and I think that what you said about like setting a schedule, like the circadian rhythm is a very real thing. And it's your, for anybody listening, it's your internal clock that your body has when it naturally starts getting more tired and when it naturally wakes up in the morning without an alarm clock. Yeah. And if you get on a regular schedule to where you start winding down the same time every single night and your body gets used to you falling asleep at 10 PM and it gets used to you waking up at 6 AM, eventually you're going to start getting really tired around 9 PM and you're going to start waking up without an alarm clock at 5 36 AM. And that's just what happens over time. And I actually literally just heard Huberman talking about this, like, I think on a podcast, like, I think I saw this video two days ago, um, which is ironic, but he said even, he said three days is all it really takes for somebody's circadian rhythm to start adjusting. So like day one waking up at 5 AM is going to be tough. And he says, wake up at 5 AM, no matter what, I don't care if you went to bed at midnight, wake up at 5 AM. Cause you're going to be is way tired that night. And then when you're way tired that night, allow yourself to fall asleep earlier and wake up at 5 AM again. He said by day three, your circadian rhythm already starts resetting. Maybe I can find a new way to get up to five instead of six and I can get more done. I can't get up for six. I'm not, I'm not a morning person. And so seven, six is already early for me. I like it. I'm like a seven 30 guy. I don't like going any earlier than that, but I also go to sleep a little bit later. And so like I, I get my six to eight hours a night, um, trying to get as close to eight as possible. But so I'm going to bed like midnight, you know? And so like, I got to sleep in because, cause I don't like going to bed early. I know, but I do know people that go to bed at like eight, eight, eight PM and then wake up at like 4 AM, which is wild to me, but that's just how their body works, you know? So yeah, it really just comes down to figuring out, like you said, what works for you, you know? 100%. And how can, how would you say that, um, I hate to turn this, but this has been a great episode already. Um, but I want to get into our next one here soon, but how would you say our, our, the V shred workouts can benefit somebody who's new to fitness? Oh, I have a lot of clients that start off with us. And, um, what we have is we have, um, you know, we have a masterclass that a lot of clients start off with and it's a, it's a Facebook program that, um, and I've never had a client come back and say they didn't like it. It's, you know, they're taught by, you know, um, our trainers here and it's a nice intro into what the workouts that you're, if you do purchase a workout, it's a nice introduction to what the workouts are going to look like. Um, so I say we have the masterclass, we have a move program. That's a very beginner program as well for, um, some of the people that are really new or some of the older people that, you know, have a little bit more trouble with jumping and moving around quickly. And then we have our fat loss extreme, um, which is, um, a great, like I said, these are all nice, short, effective body weight workouts. Um, FL, uh, the FLE workouts, fat loss extreme. I would say majority of the clients I have have those and they really enjoy them and you can fit them in your day. They're, like I said, they're quick 20, 30 minute workouts, um, with varieties, upper, lower core, uh, hit suggestions and some cardio suggestions. And then we have our toned in 90 days, which is a little bit more advanced than the FLE workouts, same kind of format, but, but definitely harder. And again, all short, effective workouts. And then we also offer as, as trainers, we do custom training plans, which, um, I have a lot of clients that like, they really are life-changing workouts for these clients. Cause I add so many things to the workouts and, um, you know, you choose your number of days that you want to do them for. And, and I try to make, give them a variety and you change it up every month. So I think that's, like I said, I think it's, um, the V-shed workouts have just, there's so much to choose from. And then when you get done with one, you can purchase another one. So, um, you know, you keep advancing until, um, until, you know, you get to the custom training plan and then we change those up too. So a lot of clients love them. I have, I have never really heard, I hear a lot of great things, um, about our workouts. So, and we have clients that can't do a certain thing, you know, we maybe take them down into the move workout or we do a custom training plan for a beginner client too, or it's just very beginner exercises. So it's very, very, very varied and very easy to do. Um, so I think it's a great program. I was going to mention even having a beginner start out with the custom approach is because like that, like, yes, I think it's good to have like a, like a 90 day program. That's kind of like a do it yourself, hold yourself accountable. I think that's got its time in its place for a lot of people. But I also think starting out with working with a coach who can remove all those objections that you have, where you're like, if you run into, if you're doing a program and you're like, I can't do this exercise or I don't have this food or, um, I don't like these meals, whatever the objection is, you have a coach that you can go to. First off, you probably don't even have to go to the coach to ask us because the plan was custom catered to you, you know? And so it's, the workouts are made so that, um, if you have a knee injury or you've had a back surgery or whatever it might be, the exercises are kind to you. And then same thing with like the foods or like where in the world you live or the foods that you like eating, they can, everything can be customized to you. And also, I feel like with those types of plans, because you're able to ask questions, you learn so much more. And so it becomes this educational piece where it's like, if you, you, if you give a man a fish, he eats for a day. If you teach a man to fish, he eats for a lifetime. Same thing with working out. If you give somebody the workout, they work out for a day. If you teach somebody how to work out and why it's important to work out and how to make adjustments, they're going to, they might not ever get, have to get a plan again because they have an understanding of what to do. Yeah. So a hundred percent agree. I think that's a great point. But, um, anything else you would like to say to anybody who is just getting started in their fitness journey before we hop off here? No, I just, like I said, I think we've covered everything. I think you just need to, I always say, give yourself grace and be patient with yourself because you're going to run into bumps in the road and you're going to have, you know, some, some things that you may get frustrated with along the way, but ultimately you have to tell yourself, you know, you're doing it for you and your family and your longevity. And, um, you know, you're going to feel better. I can't stress that enough. Um, how different you will feel even after just a week of clean eating and some exercise, it'll carry over to so many different facets of your life. And, um, I can promise you that it's just nothing that I, I can't, I can't tell you any differently how good it is for you to do that. Kids, adults, uh, elderly people, it's, it's for everybody. And I think a lot of people don't realize that because they've been eating poorly or not being active for so long. But once you, once your body gets used to you fueling it properly, getting that movement in, getting those endorphins on like a daily basis, once you do that long enough, and then all of a sudden you stop doing it for a little bit, you realize, wow, I felt way better before and, and versus not doing any of that. And, and yeah, I mean, there's the aspect of like, if, like when I, if I'm sick or I have an injury, I do have a little bit more time in the day because I don't have to worry about going to the gym and working out, you know? Right. But I miss it. And when I get back to being in the gym, I'm so much happier. Yes. I have slightly less time, but I'm, I'm feeling way better, which is more than worth it to me. And I feel like I said, I get more energy after I work out. Whereas like, Hey, I'm going to get more work done. And I work really till in the evening, pretty late sometimes. And I have the energy to do that because I took time during the day to, to, for myself and worked out. And I, I can't stress that enough. I'm the same way. I, I work out midday. I'll, I'll wake up, knock out some work, go to the gym, work out, and then come back, knock out some more work. And it's a nice little like midday. And I know not everybody has that ability to do that. So you do have to find a schedule that works for you. But once you've, but, and, and try, try a bunch of different stuff. Try waking up a little bit earlier. See if maybe you are a morning person. You didn't realize it. You just needed to give yourself two weeks of waking up early to find out, try doing it. If you do work from home, try doing it just midday at home. Once break. Yeah. Um, try it. If, if you can't get there until after work and you got to stop at the gym on the way home, just do it and see if you can get into a routine that you actually like. And also I always say like, once you start seeing results, it becomes a little bit of an addiction. So in the, in the beginning it can be tough because you've been out of shape for so long. You don't really know what you're doing. You're getting kind of sore. You haven't been doing it long enough to get results. And then all of a sudden, pants are fitting a little bit looser or guys, maybe you're, maybe your sleeves are fitting a little bit tighter or whatever it might be. And you're just realizing that like you're starting to get results and that becomes motivating to continue pushing yourself. So yeah. Yeah. I love what you said about just give yourself grace, be patient with it. And it's everything that we talked about. Yeah. And every day, like I said, take one day at a time. You may have some off days, but you'll get back on it. You just have to have the right mindset for sure. Yeah. Love it. Well, thank you so much for doing this. I think we covered a lot and hopefully everybody listening learned a lot. And if you are thinking about starting your own fitness journey, hopefully this gave you a little bit insight of what to expect and what to look out for and some things to avoid things to do instead. And if you guys are wanting to work, get a program, if you're wanting to work with one of our coaches, if you want to work with Kim directly, go ahead and there should be a link somewhere around. I don't know which camera to look at right now, but there should be a link above below somewhere to sign up or just go to our website, vshred.com. We have all of our programs there, but again, thank you so much for your time. This was awesome. Awesome. Thank you guys. Thanks for tuning in to today's episode of vshred's better body, better life podcast. Whether you're doing one of our programs, taking our supplements, or just doing things on your own, tune in every week for exclusive content with Vince, vshred trainers and special guests as they share valuable tips around motivation, workouts, food, and living a healthier lifestyle. See you next time.