esterol, adoles butea, insulin, else, menstrual blood, epid Insertio93 cellosensitivity, valleys, seoinsensitivity, cholesterol, crearniblcks, seoinse rred doctors. I'm Victoria Kort, I'm also head of llei internal, inflammation of the iliopsoas, lav Talk shows, kytomol. So now we are going to talk about twelve pronouns. So when I talk about Andrea King Kent, a tough yoga player. Not just for fitness professionals, but also for the population at large. As there are more and more sources of information, digital and otherwise, we really need trusted resources to get current, factual, helpful information. Our fitness pros here at Ace are going to be able to make real-time decisions and have all this data about their clients right at the palm of their hand. It's going to be the most exciting time to work in the fitness industry. When you think about things like AI, virtual reality, all those things can be used to create a more personalized experience. The thing that AI can't do that only you can do as a human is to show empathy, to connect with the person on a real level, and that really is the secret sauce of helping people change their lives. We get to be a part of getting people moving by the millions. I've had just a miraculous opportunity to meet people where they need to be to be in their life trensformations, whether it be in nutrition, in fitness, in just personal goals. There is a fitness journey for everybody out there, no matter how old, how young, what size you are. There's people who don't see themselves sometimes in marketing because of body type or the way they're moving. We want to be more inclusive so they know that exercise is for them as well. Working out and exercise is so much more than just movement. It really taps into people's lives and their emotions and what they're going through. It is an organization that is run by what I call good humans, who also happen to be very smart, very passionate, and good at what they do. Every single person at ACE is committed to our mission. They're committed to our pros, and they're committed to making a difference in the world.