ceroleum and tricephalogram, power하는성, E2GDTEXT The barbell clen and jerk is a total-body exercise that uses the hips, the legs, the core and the shoulders. There are four phases to the barbell clen and jerk. There's the first pull off the floor, the second pull, the catch and the overhead press or the jerk action driving the barbell overhead. Start with the first pull. You want to engage the hips, press the feet into the floor and snap the hips forward in order to start the upper momentum of the barbell. At the second pull, the barbell is passing the knees in front of the mid-thighs and it's very important to explosively pop the hips forward in order to generate the upper momentum for the barbell. The upper body doesn't do that much work to lift the bar off the floor. All the work is done from the hips. For the catch, the lifter has to drop his or her body below the bar in order to receive it right across the front of the shoulders. Once they've caught the bar in the front of the shoulders, they want to return to a full standing upright position. Both feet should be about a hip width apart. Knees should be soft. You want to have the bar right across the front of the shoulders with the palms up and the elbows pointing straight ahead. For the overhead jerk phase, it's important that once the lifter generates the upward momentum of the barbell, that he or she can cycle their legs to land in a lunge position and sink their body underneath the bar. With the right leg in front and the left leg back in the bar overhead, the lifter wants to press the right foot into the ground as you swing the left foot forward in order to come to a full standing upright position. It's recommended that you want to step underneath the weight moving forward as opposed to stepping backwards with the front leg. That's to be avoided. From a standing position with the arms overhead and feet hip width apart, you want to teach the lifter how to slowly bring the bar back to the shoulders and then down to the hips and return it to the floor. Remember, an extremely important thing about the barbell clen and jerk is that this is a power-based exercise. The body will fatigue after only three or four repetitions because so many muscles are involved. So when teaching this lift, focus on form, focus on technique, not volume. Don't be intimidated by this exercise. Be smart about teaching the barbell clen and jerk. For more health and fitness information, visit acefitness.org.