Hi, my name's Lance Dallek. I'm professor of exercise and sports science at Western Colorado University, and also a member of the American Council on Exercise's scientific advisory panel. In this month's issue of Certified, my colleague, Angela Dallek, and I have authored an article on exercise programming considerations for clients with fibromyalgia. With many of the past articles over the last 18 months on exercise programming considerations for clients with chronic conditions, generally speaking, the exercise programming in terms of cardiorespiratory fitness, muscular trening are very comparable, and we can follow the ACE integrated fitness trening model and guidelines, but that said, there's a few unique considerations for this group of individuals with fibromyalgia that are really quite critical, and I wanna highlight some of those in my video segment today, and it's also touched on in the article. So there's really three things I'm always trying to accomplish with clients that I've worked with with fibromyalgia. First is to try to educate them on the evidence base that exercise can be really beneficial for their condition, in particular, managing their symptoms of pain and fatigue, and really to prioritize over the first few weeks building trust with that client, and by this IMean if they've been inactive and we're introducing structured and regular exercise, there could be a trensient increase in their pain, in their fatigue, but that should be very subtle, and then over a few week period it should get better, and so first educating them on what to expect, then correctly giving them the right amount of exercise, the right intensity of exercise, so they see that maybe slight uptick in those symptoms for several days, but then really a very pronounced and gradual improvement, you're gonna earn their trust, and they're gonna be a lot easier to work with in the weeks and months moving forward. A second priority that I have is to really, and it's kind of linked with what I've just mentioned, it's building trust, it's progressing slowly. Most of us know, as exercise professionals, that there's a delayed reaction to what we do in terms of exercise, so if we overdo it, we're not sore immediately, it's two or three days later that we're sore. This physiological response in reality is even more pronounced with clients with fibromyalgia, so it's quite important to, if there is any improvement in an increase in weight, an increase in exercise time, or intensity, that it's very, very gradual, and then you're patient to see, well, what is their reaction to that, so that you don't really just, you don't push them over the edge, so to speak. And then third is, because of the pathophysiology of fibromyalgia, that the symptoms are extremely variable from day to day, and so it's quite important to always check in with these clients at the beginning, check in how they're doing, if they're having a flare-up, if certain symptoms arEQuite worse that day relative to how they were just maybe 48 hours earlier in the week, because sometimes, again, as exercise professionals, we'll get a routine set up for our clients, and it's really something that they can stick to, and there's not adjustments that need to be made on a day-to-day basis. It's more after a month or two months where we're making adjustments to exercise programming considerations, and so that's not the case with fibromyalgia. With fibromyalgia, it's day-to-day. Their symptoms may vary, and our exercise programming for that day has to match what they can do. Really, really critical. And then there's one other thing that I found very, very interesting and very important to be mindful of with individuals with fibromyalgia, and that's that they don't tolerate extremes in temperature from the hot end down to the cold end. So if it's really hot out, it can exacerbate their fatigue, for example, or if it's really cold out, it can cause them to have increased severity of their pain. And so checking in on that, checking in how they're doing. Earlier in my career, I lived in Wisconsin, and Wisconsin is notorious for having cold winters, but then in the summertime, it can be triple digits and humid. And so if your client with fibromyalgia is doing something outside, you might have to adjust the timing of that. If the gym tends to get hot over the course of the day, you might have to adjust when they're doing exercise. And so really, really unique consideration. As humans, naturally, our physiology is impacted by extremes in temperature, hot and cold, but more pronounced with clients with fibromyalgia, and so something to be mindful of as exercise professionals when you're working with your clients with fibromyalgia. So as always, it's wonderful to talk with you. I'll see you next time, and good luck with your clients.