 aerosurist, I've written an article on assessments past present and future and what I want to do today in our video clips is share with you some of the common questions that I receive on assessments and that what my responses to those questions are let's dive in one really common question I receive is what's your favorite assessment and probably for me one of my most favorite assessments is one repetition maximum for bench press and squat and there are several reasons why this is my most favorite assessment first of all in ACE's new manual the exercise professional guide to personal training a client-centered approach to inspire active lifestyles there is reliable and valid protocols for these assessments and as a result of that I'm really confident that when I perform these assessments on all my clients the values are going to be reproducible they're going to be accurate another reason why I like this assessment is that it's almost guaranteed that clients are going to get stronger in both the upper body and the lower body there's been a variety of ACE sponsored studies that we've collaborated with ACE on with our lab and universally what we see is that after just several weeks participants are getting stronger their muscular fitness is increasing and that's great motivation and confidence for both the clients as well as the exercise professional knowing that their intervention is working and the third reason why I really like this assessment is that we're finding out more and more from research that muscular fitness is really important for longevity and prevention of chronic diseases and so if we're making our individuals stronger our clients more fit from their muscular fitness standpoint we're also confident that we're we're making their their lives longer and their quality of life better so those are reasons why those are three reasons really why the one RM for bench press and squat are among my favorite assessments another common question I receive on assessments is well how often should I repeat an assessment and that really varies according to several parameters first of all what are the goals and expectations of your clients for example if they want to improve fitness it might make sense to reassess fitness in four to six weeks after your training has started because we know in that time frame that fitness is likely to improve however if we're looking at another outcome such as body composition or even weight we know that these specific physiological parameters oftentimes take months and months and months to change substantially and we don't want to reassess these parameters in too short a time frame after training is convinced and see that they haven't really improved that much another consideration when we answer this question of when to reassess is oftentimes if our clients are older our clients are older we know that our physiology tends to decrease with age with time and so the maintenance of a specific outcome may be a favorable objective objective. So let me use muscle fitness as an example. We know our strength, we know our muscle mass decreases with age, that's referred to as sarcopenia, and if we start a training program, yes we might want to improve strength and muscle fitness, but another thing we're trying to do is we're trying to actually reduce the decline in muscle mass with age, trying to reduce sarcopenia. And so maintenance, when we do a reassessment, can be a very important objective that we're after. So those are important considerations when we when we're addressing the question of how often should I reassess an individual. Another common question I receive is what's a common problem that you see with personal trainers and or in my instance here at a university students performing assessments? And there's a couple I really want to highlight for you. First of all is preparation. Knowing which assessments that you're going to perform, what the protocols are, as well as having the client understand what those protocols are. So not being prepared can introduce a lot of noise with your specific assessment and that can lead to error. Another common issue is not controlling for extraneous variables. So for example, if you're going to perform an assessment of cardiorespiratory fitness, not mentioning to your client that they need to be hydrated, that they need to wear proper clothing, that they need to potentially avoid strenuous exercise the day before, these can all impact the results. And therefore, when you make a baseline assessment and then a reassessment, if there's these extraneous variables also impacting the fitness score that you obtain, that's going to make your interpretation more challenging. And then there's a final issue I want to make you aware of that I don't always see personal trainers and my students understand. And that's that with any physiological measure, there's something called biological variability. Meaning that that parameter is going to change a little bit from day to day, even if we control for all of these extraneous variables. So for example, cardiorespiratory fitness, we know from research that ACE is sponsored in our lab, then that value is going to change about 5% from day to day for the typical individual. And as a result of that, any improvement needs to be above and beyond that 5% score for you and your clients to be confident that there was a true improvement. So those are some considerations when I'm asked the question, what are common issues you see when performing assessments? Last question. Over the past 10 to 20 years, what are some of the biggest changes you've seen on the philosophy regarding assessments? I'm going to give you two. First of all, we know that most participants or most clients goals are to lose weight or make positive changes to their body composition. Unfortunately, research shows that these changes are hard to achieve and take a long time. And as a result of that, one of the more common assessments we used to do is a skin fold assessment with skin fold calipers. And we've really departed from doing that in particular in the last manual that ACE published for personal trainers. And that's because skin fold assessment is notoriously inaccurate. The error can be 3 to 5% even for someone who's very competent. And so typically body composition is actually not going to change by more than a couple of percent even over several months of training. And so we've really tried to discourage using skin fold assessment to evaluate an individual's body composition. And the second big change we've seen in assessment over the last decade or so is that we're trying to really personalize assessments for every client based on their goals. And what I mean by that is at the beginning of an individual's session, what we used to do is we might have a whole battery of assessments that every single client performed regardless of their goals or expectations. And that's not personalizing the assessments. In contrast, more recently to personalize the assessments for each client, we'll sit down and talk to those clients about their goals. And if their goals are to improve balance, then we might do the Y balance test and that's going to be part of their workout. It's not going to be just a separate session just devoted entirely to assessments. So we might just do one assessment within the actual workout or we might just do a couple assessments, maybe the Y balance test to assess balance as well as a walk test to identify the ventilatory threshold one and two. And those can be two things that are embedded into the first session made to be more like a workout instead of a just a series of assessments. And so personalizing the workout or personalizing the assessments is one big change. And then the other is, as I referred to, really discouraging use of the skin fold assessment.