 cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu that little voice, that critical voice saying, you know, people don't want to hear from you. You don't have anything new to say. Who are you anyway to say it, right? We all have that little voice. So what I would encourage you to do is know that people do want to hear from you. We all have different personalities and stories, and we connect with people in different ways. So there is room in this space for all of us, including you, and people want to hear your story. So when you are connecting with people in your emails, make sure to include some of what's going on in your life, because it makes you a real person. People connect with real people. People do business with people, not businesses. So in sharing your story, in sharing your struggles, in providing solutions to those, what did you do to overcome them? Are you still working on it? That people will connect to that. And also be consistent with your message. So this is a tough one. I'm still working on this too. But what I suggest is pick one day of the week that you are going to send out your email. It doesn't have to be long and lengthy. It can just be something short, something to connect with people to your audience that you're trying to build. People do business with people, like I just said. And you need to build, it's called the know, like, trust. Okay? So when people get to know you, because you're sharing your story, you're sharing helpful solutions to their problems, they get to know you, they get to like you, and then they get to trust you. And that is so important when you're building your brand. You've got to build that trust. So know, like, trust. So keep that in mind when you're doing your emails. Okay? And that should help you also come up with different ideas and know that, yes, we all go through like people, people have to know this. They've heard this already, right? Repetition is okay. Okay? Repetition is okay. It's how people change their habits. It's how they change their mindset. They need to continue to hear it. And don't be afraid to put it in a different way. Okay? So some people are going to connect with the way you're saying something in one way, and other people are going to connect the way you're saying it in a different way. So think about the language that your audience uses. That's really important too. Sometimes we want to show them how much we know, right? But we're not connecting to them. So bring it to their level that they're going to understand so that they can connect to you and your message. So I hope this was helpful. And we would love to know what you think about all this. Are you having success? Do you have any more questions about this? Let us know below. Take care.