epilepsy, epilepsy, epilepsy, epilepsy, epilepsy, epilepsy, epilepsy, epilepsy, epilepsy, epilepsy, epilepsy, epilepsy, epilepsy, epilepsy, epilepsy, epilepsy. Hello, everyone. So this article dives into a really crucial aspect of health and fitness, and that is helping exercise professionals understand behavior change. And in order to understand behavior change, we lean on things like theories and models that help us make sense of how individuals take action or the reasons that they don't take action. And this article highlights three really important models that are probably the most referenced in literature when it comes to health behavior change. The first one is health belief model. This model suggests that the individual's perception, beliefs, and their idea of severity and susceptibility related to a certain condition is what really influences their willingness to take action. The second one, probably the one you're most familiar with, is the trenstheoretical model of change or the stages of change. This model does a great job of emphasizing a really important fact about behavior change, and that is behavior is nonlinear, which is why you see models as a funnel or this one referenced as kind of a road, kind of a winding and twisting road, because it's not a simple point A to point B in a linear fashion. There will be lapses, there will be relapses, and those are influenced by life events, by personal health illnesses, and other conditions, but it does emphasize that there are stages of change that an individual moves through and kind of back and forth. And one really important aspect of this model is the maintenance stage. And when a client or you get to a maintenance stage of any kind of behavior change, we cannot assume that it's permanent, because life's going to continue to go on. People are going to get ill, they might get a new job, they might lose a job, it's very much influenced by those external factors to the person. But it is a great theory to fully understand what each stage of that model looks like. And the last piece of the article really does touch on what we call the self-determination theory. That theory emphasizes the importance of this notion of intrinsic motivation, those things that come from inside, versus the extrinsic, that something is an outside reward, not an inherent reward to making this behavior change. So helping to create an environment that's going to support the autonomy and the competence and relatedness can actually enhance a person, a client, in this situation, their intrinsic motivation. So hopefully, in going through this article, if you didn't know a lot about behavior change theories and models to begin with, now you have a little bit better understanding. So I hope that you enjoy the content and you find ways to apply it in your own work with clients, in your research, whatever it is you're engaging in in your daily practice.