Hi, my name is Chris Gagliardi, I am the scientific education content manager of the American Council on Exercise, and I am also an ACE certified exercise professional and health coach. In this video, I will be talking about self-efficacy and providing effective feedback when cuing clients. Self-efficacy refers to the degree to which an individual believes they can successfully perform a given behavior, skill, or movement, and it can be thought of in terms of beinGHigh or low. When working with clients, you may find that they have a high level of self-efficacy with certain movements, and a low level of self-efficacy with others. For example, a client might have a high level of self-efficacy when it comes to running on a treadmill, while at the same time having a low level of self-efficacy when it comes to weightlifting. The concept of self-efficacy is important to exercise professionals and health coaches because it relates to program adoption and maintenance and improved self-management of chronic disease. Additionally, there is a circular relationship between self-efficacy and behavior change, such that a person's level of self-efficacy is related to whether they will participate in an activity, and a person's participation in an activity influences their self-efficacy level. When it comes to helping clients build self-efficacy, exercise professionals and health coaches play a crucial role by creating positive exercise experiences. One way we can provide a positive exercise experience has to do with the way cueing and feedback is offered. One approach I like to use when providing feedback after a new skill is performed focuses on three things. One, it provides reinforcement for what was done well. Two, it corrects errors. And three, it motivates clients to continue practicing and improving. Essentially, you are sandwiching corrective cues and feedback between reinforcement and motivation. Let's look at an example of how you might use this approach in practice with a participant in a group exercise class. First, you might say, your timing and form were just right on the first five lunges. Here, I am reinforcing what was done well. Next, I would add, remember to keep your back flat even as the exercise starts to feel harder. Here, I am correcting the breakdown in posture that occurred after the fifth repetition. And last, IMight say, learning to maintain correct posture while exercising will make the work feel easier the next time. Here, I am motivating the client to try again by letting them know that the next set may feel easier if they maintain good form. Putting this all together, it will sound like this. Your timing and form were just right on the first five lunges. Remember to keep your back flat even as the exercise starts to feel harder. Next time, keep your back straight and the lunges will feel easier. When providing feedback in the moment, it should be limited to a few simple points and avoid overloading the client with information. While at the same time, correct any errors that need to be addressed. This is especially important when it comes to movement errors impacting client safety. Creating positive exercise experiences will help your clients to build self-efficacy and providing appropriate feedback and cueing is one way that you can support your clients in achieving a high level of belief in their own ability to successfully perform specific exercises. For more information on this topic, check out the April 2024 issue of Certified. Thank you.