everyone. The Turkish get-up is a very important exercise to consider adding to your client's program. It's a perfect combination of stability, mobility, and strength all in one movement. When teaching the Turkish get-up you want to have your client lying on the floor, they want to lie next to the weight, grip it with both hands and roll from their side onto their back. They want to extend both arms overhead and firmly grip the kettlebell and keep the right arm extended as they lower their left arm and extend it out to their side. The right knee should be bent and the right foot should be flat on the ground. From the lying position with the left arm out to the side, have your client keep the right arm extended as they roll up onto their left elbow. Once they're on their left elbow, they lift their chest and extend their spine and come up to their left hand. With their left hand on the ground and the left leg out in front of their body and the right foot firmly planted on the ground, teach them how to push their right foot into the ground as they lift both hips into the air. It's very important to teach this bridge position with the left leg extended and the right foot on the ground with the right arm overhead. From the bridge position, coach your client to push their right foot into the ground as they sweep the left leg back underneath their body and come up onto their left knee in a kneeling position. From a kneeling position, have them maintain a nice, tall, long, extended spine as they push their right foot into the ground and come into a standing position. At the standing position, pause for a second, extend the spine, and all you're going to do is go in reverse and have your clients learn how to do this in reverse. Sometimes one teaching technique can actually be teaching it from the standing position down to the lying position to help them learn the sequence of the movement. Holding this bridge position is important on the way back down to teach them how to properly engage their glutes and their core to maintain stability. So with the left hand on the ground, the left leg extended in front of the body, and the right foot pushed into the ground, slowly lower the hips until you come into a seated position. With your left hand on the ground, slowly roll your left elbow onto the floor and start lying back onto your spine to return to the full lying position while maintaining the right arm overhead. When your client is lying on the ground with the arm extended overhead and they're finished with the exercise, have them slowly bring the weight down to their chest with both hands and roll over to the side and place the weight out in front of them. From there, they can get up and move on to the next exercise. One very important technique for learning this movement is to coach their client to look up their hand during the exercise. Your body follows your eyes. If your client's eyes are on the mirror in front of them, they won't learn how to properly sequence the movement because they won't think about what their body is actually doing. So if you're looking for a great way to help your clients work on their total body strength and burn calories at the same time, consider adding the Turkish Get Up to their program. For more health and fitness information, go to acefitness.org.