 cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya cya c you, Konecha. I know you are with the CDC and working with the Live to the Beat campaign. You're the director for that campaign. Tell us a little bit about you, the campaign, and what's going on your side of the country today. Thank you so much, Anthony. Nice to meet you, to engage with you virtually. I'm so pleased to be on this forum today. As mentioned, CDC Foundation's Live to the Beat campaign, it's actually a national cardiovascular disease prevention campaign created to empower more individuals to lower their risk for heart disease and stroke by taking small steps, including, very importantly, that important step of moving more. I have been director of this campaign since its inception. We started planning in 2020 during the pandemic, but I've been working in integrated marketing communications and behavior change marketing, including with an emphasis on public health for more than 20 years. I am probably really enjoying the work that I'm doing right now on this particular campaign. It's a passion of mine. Where I am in this part of the world, Atlanta, Georgia, where it's actually, the weather is looking pretty nice right now, I must say, but in Atlanta, that can change on any given day. So if you ask me again tomorrow, my answer might be different tomorrow. Thank you. Thanks for being here. And we're going to come back and talk about that campaign here shortly. Tasha Edwards, nice to have you here. I know things are a little bit different where you are at the moment. So I'd like to just tell us who you are a little bit about yourself and how do things look where you are today? Okay. And I just want to say hi, Anthony. Hi, Kenitra. And it is, it's a pleasure and an honor to be here. I am gazing over my shoulder because we are under tornado watch here in Huntsville, Alabama. Not unusual, but we still don't like it. So that's what's happening here. I am a board certified health and wellness coach, personal trainer, group fitness instructor of lots of things. And I just consider myself a wellness advocate, a wellness cheerleader, a wellness enthusiast. I have a nonprofit called See Her Healthy. That is our motto is her, her wellness changes the world. And so to be able to offer access to women on different levels, physical, emotional, do a lot of mental health things, regardless of their ability to pay for it or afford it. So really working on the access piece of this health and wellness journey for all. Thank you. And I think if we were to look at the CDC's Live to the Beat campaign and what you do, there's, there is an intersection. In fact, that the campaign is going to talk about is designed to provide resources for people like yourself in these different communities, underserved communities in many different communities. Kenitra, tell us a little bit about that, the campaign, maybe some of the resources that are available. And then Tasha, I want to come back and ask you a question on something that you brought up a second ago. Yeah. I'm happy to do that. I'll start with a little bit of what most of us know, right, on this call. Heart disease is the leading cause of death in the United States. Cardiovascular disease is also the number one contributor to all racial disparities in life expectancy. And so when CDC asked us to work with them on cardiovascular disease prevention campaigns, we realized it was also a very critical lever for advancing health equity more broadly and particularly communities that need it. It's not a surprise that the pandemic took things from bad to worse. And CDC recently released data that showed the pandemic set us back five years in progress in preventing heart disease deaths for all across all races and ethnicities. And that number is double for Black adults in the U.S. who lost 10 years worth of progress during the pandemic. And part of that was also an increase in sedentary leisure behaviors. Those increased during the pandemic. Physical activity declined during the pandemic. And so a large part of what the work of the Live to the Beat is, it's relevant more broadly, but probably more important now than ever. We conducted focus groups with 160 Black men and women across the nation. We went in saying, okay, we need to do a cardiovascular disease prevention campaign. We know what we need to say. We know what the people need to know, right? And we did those focus groups. We started with listening and it really changed our thoughts on the best approach and the best strategy. A few things we heard. One, please don't give us more statistics. We already know about heart disease and stroke and in the Black community in particular, but we're overwhelmed and we're tired of the data about mortality or anything else that's about trauma and for the Black community. We're tired of the negative statistics. And we know what the steps are. That's not the issue in particular there. The other, don't pretend this is easy, right? A lot of those prevention steps are very important, but can be easier said than done, particularly if you're living in places where there isn't easy access to safe places to get physical activity or easy access to a gym membership or even a place where you can get healthy foods. And so let's not pretend that this is easier, you know, super easy. And then another thing was don't ask us to change everything immediately, right? And so you'll see a large part of the focus of the campaign is one, empathy. All of the messages lead with acknowledging the barriers that we can all have. For some, like myself, as a working mom and wife, it's time. Even if I have access, time, you know, is a limited, you know, resource for me as it is for many. So let's just acknowledge what those barriers may be for many people to practicing heart healthy habits. Representation is critically important. So you'll see in the campaign, very diverse representation that reflects the diversity within the Black community, different body types and sizes, skin tones, hairstyles, etc. So that folks can kind of see themselves in it. Small step solution. So to that point about not talking about the destination, we're serving up, you know, resources, making connections to organizations like Tasha's and others who are resources that are available to help you think about how you can implement some steps that are sustainable in your situation for how you can put these in action and living. It's called Live to the Beat for a Reason. We are about leaning into Black joy, Black culture and living and celebrating life and how these steps can improve your quality of life, not just reduce your risk of dying. Great. We're going to dig into that in a little bit. And I, Tasha said I come back and and ask you a question. You mentioned, you know, when you're talking about your environment, you're in your circumstance, but get the feeling that the community that you live in is a community where many people are struggling with making these lifestyle changes or perhaps understanding what to do. And something that I was thinking about, Errol, when we're talking about or or discussing the media and the media's, I guess, availability of advertising and marketing. I know, Konecho, that's a little bit of a of a adjustment for your campaign. You know, it used to be you just need to go out there and do it or why aren't you doing more? And you mentioned that, Konecho, a little bit about being a working mom and having to deal with time as a resource, but that's not working for our communities. You know, Tasha, what's changed and what's the approach we should be taking? Well, I think it's about sharing with people what they can do as opposed to putting fear in them about what they can't do. You know, it is a it's a loss. It feels like a loss for someone to tell you, you can no longer do this thing that your great great grandmother has done. Like, I would not go to my family and say, you have to stop using Crisco to fry your fish. Right. And so it is about learning to add habits or adding things as opposed to taking away. It is also about being with people as opposed to talking and directing people. And so you have to gain people's trust. You know, my life is different than the one I grew up in, in the hood in Chicago, you know. And so one of the things that I know that if I were to go into a neighborhood, I want to relate to them the way that I would relate to my own family. I know the struggles. I've been in the struggles. And it is about helping them already identify what they're doing well. Everyone wants to be affirmed. You know, what are you doing well? You know, if you put on that 30 minutes of owl green while you're cleaning up the kitchen and you're dancing, hey, you're moving, you know, and the more that we affirm people, people are more likely to change the guilt and the shame. Just you, you build resistance. You know, people are resistant to that. You can't tell me what to do. I cannot tell you how many times I have heard Black people don't do that. This is not, that's not us. That's not how I roll, you know. And so it is, I feel like I'm in a very unique position to have seen one lifestyle and now live in another to know that I can take what I have now and go to my people in a way that it's not threatening. It is like, oh, okay. Even if they start to think about it, just like Kamitra said, we're talking about small steps. You know, if you're drinking a six pack of Pepsi every day, try five. You know, people say that's it. It's just like a toddler. You know, you don't say now get up off of that table and start walking when they're four months. It takes a while. It takes a while. It's consistency. And I just think there's a building of safety that we have to do because we're aware of when people show up and they haven't been there. We're very aware of that. And so it is, it's just like Amitra said, we're talking about culture and I just want to bring the culture of what we already know to get us going in a better direction. When we were going through the height of the pandemic in the US and coming out of it as things were starting to turn around. And we have to remember that today people are still being affected by the, by the COVID virus and all of the circumstances of that. But we're getting to a point where people are starting to look a little bit outward and thinking that there's going to be some differences that perhaps they can make. I felt like you were talking a little bit about the messaging might have been a bit of a scare tactic. People are feeling guilty in the seat or being made to feel guilty, perhaps because they're not doing something. With the Live to Beat campaign, that's different. It's more forward facing. Can Etra tell us a little bit about the objective there and was that intentional to kind of move away from scare and you've been bad and you're doing the wrong things to how you can make small steps moving forwards? It was intentional. It was, we challenged ourselves a lot and continue to do so, to think about what are the ways in which we're receiving, people are receiving all kinds of messages, right? On social media, through traditional media or advertising, in the community, places where they live, work, play and pray. And how can we be a part of that way in which they're responding well? And a campaign cannot do it as well for everyone, as Tasha mentioned with her one-to-one, etc., which is why it's so important and it's a large tenet of this campaign. And we think we've done a really good job of providing a good wide range of content and resources and messages that are uniquely designed to be most powerful when leveraged by individuals and organizations who are able to provide that more focused touch. So we work to do that to try and find a way, though, that it would feel like not like it's a public health message trying to wag your face. That's the thing is, it's like we challenge ourselves to maybe not feel to public health, not feel to. And so we're really proud about some of that. Would you be okay, Anthony, if I just shared a couple of snippets of kind of what we have and what we do so I can, I will just give a couple of examples of what I'm talking about. And in this particular with just a few side slides. So one, if you go to live to the beat.org, what you'll see is an emphasis on small steps. They're organized into eight categories, move more being a very important one. And as I mentioned, you'll see a diverse range of individuals, all different, large diversity, engaged in activities and certainly engaged and enjoying life. We have a pulse check digital health resource, which is a tool that you can access on the website or on your mobile phone, where you can get your data in small steps. If you don't want to interact with the whole web page, you can select your step move more eating healthier controlling my blood pressure and you're going to get your content served up in quizzes and infographics and short videos. You'll earn points along the way to earn badges and we're going to roll this out to earn rewards just for consuming information and learning about small steps and begin to think about what that plan might look like for you. And then lastly, I was going to say that's really interesting that they can be incentivized just for interacting, which is something quite unique. We're excited about what will what will come there. And lastly, I'll close by sharing a couple of short videos to reinforce what I mentioned about finding a way that works for you. That's what I heard from Tasha is, you know, what you what we try to reinforce is while there are all different types of ways to move more, eat healthier. Our biggest message is there's no one right way. Right. Like like how do we model different people finding a way that works for them? I don't like Spanish. Working out. It's hard when your schedule is as busy as mine. Cooking is not my thing. It's boring. Nope. Disgusting. I knew I needed to make a change. I knew we needed to make a change. I knew I needed to make a change. You know how I got healthier? I switched up my order and I walked to and from drostanolone. In the morning, I get my work done. At night, I put my work in. I still don't like eating vegetables. But it turns out we kind of like drinking them. Improve your heart health to your own beat. Live to the beat dot org. And that's one of the general messages is do it to your own beat. You can live to the beat of your own heart and you can incorporate small steps at the beat that works for you as well. And then the last asset that I'll show is one that was specifically designed. We did hear from our audience that when you didn't just tell us what I should be doing, but you explain why does it work? So if I'm telling you sodium is bad for you, but I can explain how it actually does influence your blood pressure, that a light bulb goes off. And so we created this video to just explain a little bit the relationship between moving more and your your your heart health. You know, being active is good for your heart in the long run. And let's face it, sometimes the long run can feel a little too far off. But did you know that getting active right now can improve your health right away? It's true. When you move your body and get your heart pumping, it can help control your blood sugar and blood pressure for hours afterwards. And keeping those numbers in a healthy range is key to protecting your heart. You can choose activities you enjoy and just 10 minutes can make a difference. So remember, the payoff isn't so far off in the future. You're already boosting your heart health one step and one beat at a time. Learn more ways to live to your beat and live to the beat that org. Thanks for indulging and sharing. Yeah, that's really interesting. And we've got some good insight. I think you mentioned that a little bit about these are designed for people in a black community, underserved communities who want resources provided in an environment that makes more sense to them. Tasha, when you were talking about, you know, you said the example where where some people are saying, not an hour community. That's not how it's done. I found it interesting in those videos. It looks like they've tried to really put it in a language and in a style and a feel that's like it doesn't have to be traditional. You know, I wonder when you're working with with clients, you know, what are they saying about how they feel they should be active and exercising versus the connection with what you're saying that here are strategies for them to use, because it feels like there's a disconnect. They're being told all of this over here and then they come to you and it's not it's not maybe it's even a little bit more like, oh, I didn't realize I had to. I could do it in 10 minute breaks. This example, can you tell us a little bit about how that expectation gap is met? Yeah, way too many times I get people who come feeling defeated because of what a doctor said to them in my own journey, because of what a family member said to me about my body. You know, you know, and it's like we're starting out the journey feeling less than defeated. This is too hard. This is going to take too long. I might as well give up. And part of it is again, when I mentioned about affirming people, but listening to what they have to say, and you can learn so much by keeping your mouth closed because people will tell you what they like and what they don't like and why they don't like it. And so with my one on one clients, I often ask, what is it that you love the most when you were a kid? What is it that you enjoy the most? And I will tell you, sometimes you can get someone engaged in something and they don't even realize they're doing it because you're just talking like we were at the coffee shop having a conversation and they're like, oh, my God. I'm like, I know you just totally did that. And so it is it's building confidence that you can do it and that it's accessible. You know, again, we're looking at we're almost like a voyeuristic society where we see pictures of of we want Janet Jackson's body, but even Janet Jackson doesn't have her 20 year old body anymore. You know, or we we see that the newest diet pill, we see the newest shake and what's happening is that there's a desperation like I don't blame anybody for anything because I have been there. I just I needed to do something and I didn't know what to do, nor was there anyone that would walk me through the process where it didn't cost me my car note. To talk to them, you know, and so part of group fitness is being able to connect with so many people on so many different levels, just like the guy who said he doesn't like spinning. It was. Part of my thing was to become certified and teach so many different things so that I could reach people where they were. Everybody doesn't like Pilates, they just don't. But they'll come to my Zumba class, you know, with Prince Blair from the speakers and it's. Whatever it takes, you know, and again, I think the idea of community, seeing people who look like you, who have who have bodies like you came from where you came. You came from where you came, understand your your language, your vernacular. It is a sense of I'm not in this by myself when we kind of felt that when you're in a survival mode and none of us are the same since COVID. You know, we can talk about how many, you know, people got COVID, but we're talking about how many people have anxiety and depression and had to care for aging parents and had to help kids on Zoom. You know, lost their jobs. And so I think it is to open the space where people feel safe being themselves. No, we're not going to ask them to do anything other than what they do, you know, because you don't have to spend. You don't have to spend. You don't have to spend. So I love that. That was that was a really good example, because you can you could stereotype and say, well, you're not going to see a black guy in a swimming pool. Right. I mean, you can make that stereotype now, maybe in an environment where they don't have a pool. That's not that's not possible. The message is you don't have to do the traditional things. And for me, that's a little bit of understanding the difference between being physically active, which could be doing something in the house. And, you know, it could be housework or it could be yard work or it could be walking versus fitness, which people often think I have to go to a specific place to do fitness. This messaging in the campaign and sounds like Tasha, what you spend a lot of time doing is showing people how they can have these movement opportunities as opposed to having to have a commitment to doing something at six o'clock for an hour. How how is that? How does that conversation work on the ground with people you're talking to? You know, it feels like too heavy of a commitment. You're asking me to be at the same place at the same time when there are too many variables happening in my world when I can't make that time now I feel defeated. I'm lazy. And so all of these like titles and labels that we're putting on ourselves only put us farther beneath, you know, what we're actually trying to accomplish. accomplish. And so it is showing people things, like I said before, that they're already doing. You know, if you have the laundry room is downstairs and your room is upstairs and yesterday you were way too tired to go down the stairs, maybe you went up them twice. You know, it is to celebrate every step along the way that even if you take one step more than you took the day before, then it's forward motion. You know, and I think people feel relieved almost when I say, depending on if you mop like my mama, you're burning more calories than you would doing a, you know, doing a class. And they're like, oh yeah, I put my music on and I do this and I dance while I cook. Yay. That's awesome. What do you like to listen to? Yeah. And it's like, well, what do you like to listen to? And the more people get engaged, they want to return to it. It becomes that habit that they thought they could only set if they got up and went to the gym at 6am. No, the habit is on Saturday mornings, I put my pine salt in a bucket. You know, I put Motown on Pandora and I clean, you know, and it's a, it's a feel good. We want people to feel good so that they go back to it, not feel bad so that they repel it almost because it's like saying, I'm never going to be able to do that. I'm never going to be able to do that. And now people are like, I've been doing it. And that's when you can get people engaged in going forward as opposed to just tearing themselves apart because they honestly didn't have the time or the energy or the resources. That is still a real thing. Talking of resources in the CDC lift the beat campaign. A lot of good stuff in there. I know we've got the ambassador program, people listening, watching, how can they get involved? You know, what are some of the things they can bring into their communities to expose their community to these great resources? How can they get involved? So, you know, I like to talk in slides, Anthony. Can I share a couple of slides? Yes. And we're getting close to the end. So I'll wrap it up in these slides just to close it out by answering your question. No videos this time, but at a high level, what is available in the campaign is three categories. We have short content like those video PSAs, radio ads, a whole suite of social media graphics and copy plug and play. Social media is still a good lever for engaging your audience or your community in the conversation, then redirecting them to the resources that you may have or the solution. So great social media content there. We do have some resources that are more educational, like those video, that animated video, the pulse check resource we talked about. Kev on stage is a prominent influencer, comedian, and radio host in the community. He recorded a seven episode web series with us. So each of these episodes talks about a particular topic. He exposed his own journey, went to the doctor, takes you into that. So those are about five to eight minute episodes each. And we do have a limited quantity of gifts, like tangible promotional gifts. Some of these materials are available to be shipped for free, like postcards, etc. And then some of these, you know, gifts, if you have events, are available to be shipped as well. So all of this is free and is currently available on our toolkit. You don't have to do anything. Like it's a public service. But if you want to coordinate and work with us more directly, we do have a community ambassador network. The link here will provide all these links to you as well. If you raise your hand and say, yes, give me messages, give me resources, I want to engage in this conversation, I'd be happy to use what you have. We're also able to consult with you and maybe even support you in targeted activations. For certain ambassadors, we might be able to support like an event in your community. And we're going to wreck all ambassadors will be recognized on our website, and we'll get recognition posts on our social media channels as well. So the campaign website is live to the beat.org. This toolkit, you can go to millionhearts.hhs.gov forward slash live to the beat now to get access to all those downloadable resources. And you can go to bit.ly forward slash community ambassadors network to learn more about joining that network. Thank you for sharing all of that. And we're going to have that information made available. What's exciting about this is if I'm watching now, I'm a, you know, health and fitness professional wondering, how can I get more engaged in my community? These are all tools that I could put on my website I can use within those conversations with clients, Tasha, that we're talking to on a regular basis to say, here's some information that you may wish to consider that just helps you understand a concept maybe we're talking about a little differently. And it seems like there's going to be more stuff coming as the program gets built out that will really help us give back to our community in small bite-sized pieces. That's really exciting. It is. And I actually signed up for the ambassador program, like when I talked to you last week. So I look forward to doing, doing more work with you all. I think as far as a fitness professionals, we have got to get outside of the gyms in the studios. You know, we have got to go places where the people are. And, you know, we're, we're spoiled in a sense. If you, you know, you make your money because you show up to a place and the people are already there, you know, it takes a little bit more work to pack your bag and say, tell me where you're going to be. And I'm coming there. And I think that's the, the change that we, that we need to make. And I think it starts with us, us going into our own communities. One of the other things that I suggested, even my daughter goes to Alabama A&M. I suggested to her, why don't you become a group fitness instructor? To get here. She said, no, because I've been doing this for her entire life. She said not yet. Not yet. Yeah. Yeah. So it is. So it is activating those people who have the, the energy and the stamina and they don't know what to do. Making sure we have resources that if they can't pay for a certification, we can pay for a certification. You know, that's also doing work that maybe you're not the person on the ground level, but if you have the resources to activate someone else, then that's also helpful to, to get to our schools and our churches and our fraternities and sororities, wherever there's an open door, we as health and wellness professionals should be willing to walk in. We should be the first people in line. And I think that's going to be the shift is to go to the people. Thank you for sharing that. And, you know, we're having this, this, this conversation, this dialogue, you know, in observation of Black History Month and Heart Month. And, and it doesn't stop next month. You know, there are people next month who are going to have the same struggles that the people are having this month and last month. There are people next month and in three months who may be worse off. I would encourage all of you as you're listening and getting excited, go to the website, reach out to us, ask us for questions. Every little bit of information we have could be that bit of information. That's the tipping point for somebody in our community to go, thank you. I feel like I, I can come with you on this journey. And, and rather than being pushed, it's, it's walking alongside people. So thank you very much, Konecha, to you for your time today. Tasha, thank you very much for everything you shared and, and your journey and, and really excited to have you both on. We're going to have some more resources that we're going to put here, put out on our blog later. And thank you everyone for listening and, and we will see you next time. Thank you. Thank you.