Hi, my name is Lance Dalek, professor of exercise and sports science at Western Colorado University, and also a member of the ACE scientific advisory panel. In this month's issue of Certified, I've authored an article on programming considerations for clients with osteoporosis. What I want to focus on in today's video clip is how we can use the ACE mover method as part of our programming approach for our clients with osteoporosis. As I pointed out in the article, there's approximately 10 million Americans that have been diagnosed with osteoporosis, and one of the most critical concerns that I've encountered for these clients is that they are at a quite pronounced increased risk for falls and then suffering fractures from those falls. Some of the statistics I pointed out in the article include that about one in two women and one in four men over the age of 50 will break a bone due to osteoporosis with falls being the primary culprit. So how does the ACE mover method come into play? If I have a client has come to me and they have osteoporosis that's been diagnosed by their physician and it's been recommended that they increase physical activity to help manage that condition, I'll take the ABC approach as part of the mover method and I'll ask these open-ended questions such as, well, what do you hope to accomplish with engaging with me, the ACE exercise professional, with physical activity? And certainly some of the most common responses I get when I close that open-ended question is, one, I do want to become more physically active, however, I'm not sure what exercises are safe. And so that kind of segues into the B, what are the barriers that we need to identify for this particular subset of clients? And some of the barriers that I'll ask clients about with osteoporosis that they're encountering, and certainly what usually comes to the top of the list is, they're fearful of falling. And so we need to do some things working together in our next step of the mover method approach as we collaborate to alleviate some of that fear. And so for me, when we reach that C stage of the ABC approach of the ACE mover method, what are we trying to collaborate on to alleviate some of that fear and have our client become more comfortable, more confident, have higher self-esteem, health efficacy with exercising, is I really try to start with some balance exercises and appropriate balance exercises. Our clients are going to be starting at maybe just some basic chair-based balance exercises, while others may be ready for some more standing dual task balance exercises. And I've included in the article a link to a previous article that I've written that's pretty comprehensive on balance trening options. And once we engage our clients with balance trening, they do gain more confidence, and then they're more likely to trensition to doing regular cardiorespiratory and resistance trening exercises that are going to provide a lot of benefit to their overall conditioning level. And certainly the more weight-bearing exercises that we can have our our clients do can be very helpful in terms of helping to maintain that bone mineral density. So lots of great suggestions I hope for you to entertain for implementing with your clients with osteoporosis. In my video clip today, I just wanted to share with you, again, the ACE mover method approach and how that can be applied to asking open-ended questions, breaking down barriers, and then collaborating, you know, to really help increase the physical activity levels in your clients with osteoporosis. So as always, it's great to talk with you, and I'll see you next time. Good luck with your clients.