 Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betteng Betten highlight two aspects of the article. First, we're going to really do a good job with training recovery for our older adult clients. We need to appreciate the physiology of aging. As we get older, unfortunately, our fitness decreases. Cardiorespiratory fitness and muscular fitness. Underpinning these decreases in fitness is a decrease in muscle mass. This is a phenomenon known as sarcopenia. Aspects of sarcopenia that are associated with the decrease of muscle mass include increased muscle damage. This is really driven by inflammation. We also see reduced ability to have protein synthesis take place. This is going to result in decrease in muscle building during recovery. Then we also see that our carbohydrate storage, which is referred to as muscle glycogen, that our ability to replenish muscle glycogen after exercise also decreases. We really need to appreciate this physiology and what's going on as we get older if we're going to do a good job with training recovery. The second area I talk about in this article is what are some strategies that we can take given the physiology of aging that's going to help our clients recover more quickly. I just want to talk in the segment today generally about what I explore and that's that we probably need to pay more particular attention to our recovery strategies with older adults. We need to take a holistic approach. In the article I talk about things we can do from an exercise programming standpoint such as always doing active recovery instead of passive recovery. That's going to facilitate blood flow to our muscles and it's going to reduce inflammation. It's going to get those waste products out of there and it's going to bring in important nutrients that's going to drive muscle building and drive muscle glycogen replenishment. Another great exercise programming consideration to be mindful of is that we oftentimes need to take longer between harder sessions. Research has shown for example that following high intensity interval training which can be safely done in older adults we need at least five days of recovery which is a lot longer than the younger adult counterparts. Other strategies that we can take include nutritional strategies. So paying particularly attention to after exercise post-exercise our carbohydrate and our protein ingestion and I give you some specific strategies and specific recommendations in the article. And then a final consideration again being mindful of this holistic approach to training recovery is who doesn't like a massage. Everyone likes a massage and research has shown that massage is great for recovery specifically for older adults. The final thought I want to leave you with is this and that's research for older adults in recovery really remains understudied and sometimes the research is great at telling us things but often times we need to learn from people who are older adults themselves and health and exercise professionals. And I one time several years ago asked a pretty high level older lady who was still completing ultra marathons in her 60s what she did different for training and recovery. She told me something really intriguing. She said my training is really similar except for I do the same amount of training in 16 weeks that I used to do in 12 weeks. And so there's really about a 25 percent more time that she was taking for recovery but she was still doing a lot of the same things. And so I think that's really insightful for us as health and exercise professionals. So as always I hope you enjoy this article. Good luck with your clients and we'll see you next time.