etc, etc, etc, etc, etc, etc, etc, etc, etc, etc, etc, etc, etc, etc, etc, etc, etc, etc, etc, etc, etc, etc, etc, etc, etc, etc, etc, etc, etc, etc, etc, etc, etc, etc, etc, etc, etc, etc, etc, etc, etc, etc, etc, etc, etc. I'm Farrell Haruska, the global fitness director at Fit for a Mom. And I'm thrilled to present to you about the considerations and modifications of trening a woman in her third trimester of pregnancy. As health and fitness professionals, it's truly an amazing time to tren the prenatal client. Research has emerged over the last 15-20 years that has completely changed our understanding of prenatal fitness. We're far beyond the mindset that prenatal fitness is just okay. We now understand that fitness during a healthy pregnancy is beneficial for both mom and baby. Today I'll be joined by two moms who are in their third trimester of pregnancy. They will demonstrate some exercises to help with the postural shifts that can occur in the later stages of pregnancy. I've got these wonderful pregnant models here. I've got Vanessa and I've got Cheryl. The exercise we're going to show first is called the woodchop. And it's for lordosis, which is that sway back in the low back. Three-dimensional core strength is crucial to help rectify that. So we're going to try this woodchop with a medicine ball. Are you ready, Cheryl? Take it down. Come down into a nice squat. Take the ball to the side. And as you draw up, keep that belly nice and tight. Come back down. Keep your knees square to the front, please. And bring it all the way back up, nice and tight. Even deeper. Take it back up. Nice and tight. Shoulder blades back and down. Breathe. One more time. All the way up. Brilliant. Now we're going to take a look at it from a different angle. So Vanessa, you're going to come nice, deep into that squat. Extend those arms just a little bit more. Come on up and rotate those arms across the body out of that squat. Knees stay soft. Good. Take it down. Really tighten belly around baby. Beautiful. Even deeper if you can. Yes, there it is. Bring it up. All the way across your body. Breathe, please. Inhale on the way down. Weight is in your heels. Good. And exhale on the way up. Excellent. Let's hear that breath, please. Take it down. You can hear it. Bring it back up. Beautiful. Take it down again. Really squeeze the glutes at the top. Again, weight is in your heels. You should be able to wiggle your toes. There. Now take it back up. Rotate at the ribcage. Beautiful. One more time. Take it down. Again, rotation happens at the ribcage, not the hips. Brilliant. Perfect. In this exercise, we're really going to target the upper back. Most of us as human beings are dealing with some level of kyphosis, which is that forward dumping of the shoulders. It is so very apparent during pregnancy, especially in that third trimester when all of her weight is pullinGHer forward anteriorly. We need to make sure that we're emphasizing a posterior pull, and one great exercise for that is a row. So, Vanessa, if you could go ahead and grab your weights. Cheryl. Excellent work. Take a deep breath as you bring them back up. Perfect. Go ahead and hip hinge forward. Knees are slightly soft. Shoulder blades are back and down, and you're going to draw up and squeeze those shoulder blades together like you're cracking a walnut between those shoulder blades. Nice and tight. Come back and squeeze. Keep belly nice and tight around baby. Do it again. Nice and strong. Exhale. Nice. Good. Inhale on the way down. Exhale on the way up. Let me hear it. There it is. Beautiful. Again, relax your upper traps and really squeeze those shoulder blades together. Nice and strong. And take it up. You keep going. We're going to take a look at this exercise from a different angle. So, if you're going to notice that her feet are about hip-width apart, belly stays nice and tight. She's going to relax her upper traps, right Cheryl? Excellent. Squeezing that abdominal musculature around baby, almost like you're giving baby a little hug. Take it down. Come on back. Squeeze those shoulder blades together, making sure that you're really emphasizing that breath. Take it down. And exhale. Crack that walnut between the shoulder blades. You've got this Cheryl. Take it down again. One more time. And bring it back up. Go ahead and stand up. Excellent work. Thanks you guys. I appreciate it. The final exercise focus is on the pelvic floor. The muscles of the pelvic floor are not unlike any other set of muscles. They need to be trened in both the concentric and eccentric phases of motion. Kegels are the best way to help your client tren for pelvic floor strength. Be sure to include them in your trening program with all your pregnant clients, especially throughout her third trimester. Thank you for taking the time to watch this video on late-term prenatal fitness. And for more health and fitness information, be sure to visit ACE at acefitness.org. Ace Fitness. For more health and fitness information, visit ACE at acefitness.org. 