Hi, everybody, I'm SimIMansfield, founder of Cancer Wellness for Life. And thank you so much for taking the time to read the article about the common medications utilized that we see in the health and fitness population. So of course, we talked about side effects that you'll experience in the fitness setting. But I want to take a moment and talk about how two of these medication categories actually impact a factor that we see every single day in the health and fitness setting that is actually one of the biggest pressing problems across the world, which is metabolic health, obesity, and management of blood glucose. So two of our medication categories are corticosteroids, as well as our antipsychotics, which fall under that antidepressant category, actually have a significant impact on how our body regulates glucose. Why does this matter? First of all, it's important to note that one in 10 adults in the United States already have a diagnosis of type two diabetes, which is related to lifestyle. And about 40% of adults in the United States are actually considered to be prediabetic. And we know with our obesity rates, this is one of those factors. So the most important way to manage blood sugar is actually through skeletal muscle. Our muscles are responsible for utilizing glucose that we take in through food and distributing it and disposing of it. So if we think about the engine of glucose disposal agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent, our muscle mass is the most important factor. So how do these two pieces fit together? Well, if you have an individual that you're working with, go back to that article and reference that are taking corticosteroids. We see this also in the NSAID or pain reliever category, or taking some of those antipsychotics. These are individuals that may have a bigger challenge in managing their glucose. So why does that matter for you? How does that help in your conversation? These are individuals that are going to notice that their blood sugar is a little more difficult to manage. They're going to notice maybe their energy is not quite what it should be, especially when they're making behavior changes. And most importantly, and probably most important for our clients, is they're going to notice that their weight is not shifting in the way that they would normally expect. So what do we do? Well, we really want to emphasize what we know, which is building lean, healthy, skeletal muscle, even overemphasizing the building of lean, healthy, skeletal muscle, and then adding the rest of the lifestyle factors, prioritizing quality foods, minimally processed, reducing added sugars, and other aspects of lifestyle, including sleep, stress management, etc. So I hope this is really helpful. Take a dive back into that article, and then really lean on those muscle building techniques. It's going to make it a great day. Thanks for watching.