Good morning. My name is Lance Dallek, professor of exercise and sports science at Western Colorado University here in Gunnison, Colorado, and also a member of the ACE scientific advisory panel. In this month's issue of Certified, I've authored an article on exercise programming considerations for clients who are recovering from stroke. And this article continues the series of articles in Certified where I've discussed programming considerations for a variety of different populations surrounding chronic disease and disabilities. And like many of the other articles and the conditions that have previously been discussed, with stroke, we're talking about a condition that is prevalent. It's estimated that 10 million Americans have experienced a previous stroke, and each year there's an additional 800,000 new or recurrent strokes that occur. Older adults tend to be more prone to experiencing stroke with very similar incident rates between men and women. In today's article, there's really two aspects of, or sorry, in today's video, there's two aspects of the article that I want to talk a little bit more about. That's the reality that individuals who have experienced stroke have also the tendency to present with multiple chronic conditions, and then that there's a little bit more safety and supervision considerations for clients who have experienced stroke. So let's first talk about the reality that individuals who, maybe your clients who have experienced stroke, are very, very likely to possess a comorbidity. What that means is that in addition to recovering from a stroke, they're likely to have other chronic conditions such as diabetes, hypertension, as well as depression. There's research that shows that the prevalence of comorbidities in people who have experienced stroke is 75 to 99 percent. Those are really high percentages, really high rates. And so it just guarantees almost that in addition to trying to manage the exercise programming around the realities of the stroke, that we need to be mindful of those other conditions, and sometimes multiple other conditions. One strategy we've employed very successfully when working with individuals with stroke and their comorbidities is not to start with the most serious condition, but one that's the most limiting. As an example, individual clients with stroke sometimes, actually very commonly, have problems with deconditioning, poor strength, poor mobility, and so we like to start there. We like to start with low-intensity resistance trening, range of motion, improving posture and strength, and what this tends to do is it unlocks the potential for this individual recovering from stroke to then do regular cardiorespiratory exercise sessions. And as a result of that, they can then see things like blood pressure and blood glucose control be more easily managed. So another consideration or another benefit to this strategy is that these clients don't just see what they can't do, they can really see the progress. So they can see, ah, my posture's getting better, I am getting a little stronger, I can do 5 minutes and 10 minutes and 20 minutes of regular cardiorespiratory exercise. And that can be really encouraging for clients' recovery from stroke and really help them with their overall quality of life, and again, with managing those comorbidities. And then the second item I want to talk about in today's video that's also in the article is that I have found that individuals recovering from stroke really require more careful supervision and monitoring than even other chronic conditions that I've previously written about and certified. The risk of recurrent stroke can bEQuite high, especially in the first six months post-stroke. So it's important for health and exercise professionals to be able to recognize symptoms, such as problems with vision, problems with recognition, they're having really obvious problems thinking, there's numbness or tingling in the extremities. And so being aware of these warning signs of a stroke in your clients is really quite critical. And then depending on the part of the brain that was impacted by the stroke, it's also been my experience that these clients can have problems with cognitive functioning. And as a result of that, we just need to be more mindful and more aware and supervise them more closely when we're having them go through the exercise routine. And we might have different settings on a piece of exercise equipment, such as a recumbent bike, and we just need to make sure that they're performing the right resistance and they have the right settings for proper full range of motion of their legs on the recumbent bike exercise. And same thing with machine resistance trening exercise. Are they doing the right weights? And it's something that maybe we take for granted with other clients we work with and we need to be a little bit more careful about. So I wanted to conclude with also some comments on even though, as with many chronic conditions, clients post-stroke can be challenging, it's highly rewarding. And as I alluded to earlier, just starting with small rate limiting issues and making some progress with this can be really, really impactful for your clients and really boost their confidence. And then long term, their overall quality of life is better because they're more conditioned and they're more able to function post-stroke than they would have been without working with you as a health and exercise professional. So as always, great to talk with you about another chronic condition. This month it's stroke. As always, good luck with your clients and we'll talk to you next time. Thank you.