 If we're going to have an impact on chronic disease, we've got to learn how to help people make those small but incredibly challenging lifestyle behavioral changes. One of the things that we recognize is that we really need to train our professionals, professionals to understand how to help people make lifestyle behavioral changes. To really take a much deeper dive into the kind of nuts and bolts of coaching people through behavior change. Working with individuals like Bill Miller who really is kind of considered the father of motivational interviewing. James Prochaska who most people are familiar with the trans theoretical model of behavior change, the stages of change. We worked with Robert Bisward Diener who is kind of considered the leading expert with regard to positive psychology. Worked with an experimental psychologist from Stanford, BJ Fogg who has the tiny habits program really is kind of this small steps to behavior change. We thought it was important in the manual to have a number of interactive exercises baked into each of the chapters so that when we're having a discussion about positive psychology, what are some practical exercises that we could have to participate in to help them really kind of cement those skills. Through these interactive coaching demonstrations where they serve as the coach working with a cohort of their peers and they are evaluated by a master coach on their abilities to actually put into practice what they've learned. And it also allows them to get expert feedback and advice from a trained coach with a lot of history and knowledge with regard to conducting a motivational interviewing session or helping an individual with appropriate goal setting. And so you're able to kind of get this feedback, use it to kind of refine and tweak your techniques so that you have the confidence that you've not only learned about all these wonderful things that are taught in the curriculum, but you've actually done them. And given the nature of the content, this program has received recognition and approval for continuing education from a number of allied health care organizations. Most leading health care and allied health organizations recognize that being able to help people make lifestyle behavioral changes is going to be one of the most impactful things in reversing some of these disturbing trends. So there are going to be an opportunity and an increasing need for individuals who are well skilled in helping people make such changes.