Hey everyone, I'm Dr. Erin Nitschke and I wrote this article on the power of incremental change. As health and exercise professionals, we are always using incremental change with our clients, the power of the one percent. But when it comes to ourselves and our own lens and what we do in our professional life, sometimes we want to focus way too much on the perfection and doing everything the right way. And that's just not, that's just not how we're built. That's not how humans are. That's not how life works. And we see it time and time again with our clients. We experience setbacks with them and a struggle through setting clear goals. So in this article, I encourage you to really focus on that one percent, not one percent better every day, but just overall the power of that incremental change. And in this article, I also give you an example for my own set of goals that I have and align it with the SOAR analysis. If you're used to a SWOT analysis, you can use that as well. And I do mention that, but I take you through how to set clear goals in three areas of your life, basically three dimensions, the personal, the professional, and then big life goals. Because sometimes we get so overwhelmed with all the things we want to do and the have to dos and the need to dos. And it can be really difficult to kind of unbury ourselves from all of that, that mess and figure out where you need to start and what is the most important to you and what will give you the greatest bang for your buck. So in this article, I talk you through that process and I hope that you find it helpful and insightful. And it gives you a way to kind of separate the noise that's going on in all three of those categories and figure out a more clear direction for yourself using again, either the SOAR analysis or the SWOT analysis. It really doesn't matter. The point with either of those processes is to really take an evaluative standpoint about what it is you want to accomplish and how you can do just 1% and kind of move the needle a little bit closer to where you want to be. And overall, I just hope you enjoy it.