Hi, I'm Pete McCall for the American Council on Exercise to talk for a minute about program hopping. Social media makes it seem like giving a client a different workout every day is a great idea. See a client on a Monday, they do one workout, see them on a Thursday, they do a different workout. Now, if you're following a consistent program, you might have like a push day on a Monday, you might have a pull day on a Thursday, that's one thing. But when you're designing workouts for clients, you're giving them a different workout each time and there's no progression, there's no motor learning going on, there's no skill development, there's no real progression. Keep in mind, exercise is movement and movement is a skill that must be practiced. You want to practice coordinated movement patterns with clients. What IMean by that is the movement patterns of pushing, pulling, rotating, hinging, squatting, lunging, carrying. Movement patterns use multiple muscle groups at the same time. When we do that, what we do is we increase caloric expenditure. Also, what's happening is we're trening the brain how to activate multiple muscles at the same time. That's why it's so important to be consistent for a period of four, six, or eight weeks, anywhere between four and eight weeks. Being consistent with exercises will help clients learn the movement pattern and learn the skill. That's where we see true progression coming in. If all we're doing is giving clients a different workout every time we see them, we won't have an opportunity to see them improve at doing a particular exercise or doing a particular movement. If you have a workout based on movement, if you have a workout based on the movement pattern for your clients, we need to stay consistent with that. It should be a period of time. Practice the movements. As they get better, load the movements. Give them a heavier object. Challenge them. Be explosive. Be dynamic, but keep the patterns the same. Now, here's an idea. If you want to make the workout a little bit more interesting for some clients, here's all you got to do. Maybe one day you do goblet squats with a kettlebell. Maybe another day you do goblet squats with a dumbbell. Same pattern, different tool. Maybe one day you do standing cable rows with a cable machine like this. Maybe the next workout you do standing bent over rows. Same pattern, different tool. So that's the idea. When you design programs for your clients, you want to stay consistent with the movement patterns because that's going to help them develop better coordination and better movement skill. That's a true sign of regression. But if all you do is give a client a different workout every time you see them, they don't get a chance to practice a particular exercise. They don't get a chance to improve a particular skill. So when designing exercise programs for clients, be consistent with the application of the skill and you can adjust the tools to give them a slightly different experience. I'm Pete from the American Council on Exercise. Hopefully that gives you some great ideas for how you can optimize your client's workout programs.