Hi, I'm Pete McCall, the author of the American Council on Exercise article about mobility trening. I'm going to go through a mobility sequence here. For the most mobile parts of the body, they'll have you feeling great, either as a prep to warm up for a workout, or as a cool down after workout, or the other use of mobility trening is an active recovery day, when you had a really hard workout the day before, and you just need to move the next day to take the tissues through a range of motion to get rid of all metabolic byproduct from a hard trening session. Keep in mind what mobility is. Flexibility is joint range of motion. Flexibility is just a structural range of motion of the joint. Extensibility is the ability of the tissue to lengthen and shorten. Mobility is a combination of flexibility, range of motion, and extensibility. Mobility is controlled by the nervous system. The nervous system controls the joint range of motion. The nervous system activates the muscles to control joint range of motion, and that's how we get mobility. The foundational patterns of movement, hinge, squat, push, pull, rotation, moving clients through those ranges of motion is a form of mobility trening. Anytime a client goes to a full range of motion, some muscles are shortened, other muscles are lengthening, and it enhances joint mobility. So any compound movement where we're really moving through gravity can be considered a mobility exercise. Right now we're going to start on the ground. When we do mobility exercise on the ground, we're basically minimizing the effects of gravity. So when we stand up, the body will be compressed into the ground in reaction to gravity. By laying on the ground, we reduce the effects of gravity. The first mobility movement I'm going to show you is quadruped rocking to reduce stress in the SI joint. That's the sacroiliac joint of where the pelvis comes into the spine. So I'm going to take one hand, one knee forward. I'm going to take my right hand, right knee forward, left hand, left knee back, and I'm going to rock forward and back. And if you see what's happening on the camera, my spine is rotating a little bit. That's creating just a little bit of movement through that SI joint, which can reduce stress on the hips and allow more hip range of motion. So now I'm going to take the other hand and knee forward, and I'm just rocking forward and back. Now, another little tip with this movement is watch what I'm doing with my feet. I'm tucking my toes down, and that's going to create more range of motion in the talocrural joint of the ankle. So that's going to give a little more ankle mobility as well as SI or hip joint mobility. So that's the first exercise, a littlEQuadruped rocking that reduces stress on the hips. The next one, hip circles. Laying on the ground puts our spine in relative neutral. That's going to allow us to get much greater range of motion from the hips. So hands on the knees, nice, deep, high circles, moving through that range of motion, trying to keep your back flat when you're not talking to a camera, and then go the other range of motion. Make sure you do about 10 or 12 circles in each direction, and that's going to reduce a lot of stress on the hips and really open up through the range of motion. After hip circles, what we want to do is activate the glutes and release the hip flexors. We can do that with a glute bridge. Notice my heels are down. Again, this is another opportunity just to get a little length in the calf. I'm lengthening the calf, and I'm creating more range of motion in the talocrural joint of the ankle. So heels pressed down, fire the glutes, and what we're going to do is release through the hip flexors to allow greater range of motion. Anywhere from about 10 to 15 repetitions, that'll be great. Now what I like to do with my clients is have them do circles and glute bridges about two or three times each, and that really loosens up the hips. Now from the glute bridges and the hip circles, very simple little movement here. We're going to do a kneelinGHip flexor and adductor stretch. Watch what I'm going to do here. Knee down. I'm going to follow my knee. This is going to be abouT4 or six repetitions. I'm pushing down here. I'm following my knee, getting this great range of motion. After four or six repetitions, I'm going to hold this end range of motion. Now I'm going to get my thoracic spine involved. Reach across. I'm reaching with this hand and pulling with the other hand. So I'm pushing this knee down, keeping this hip open, reaching, pushing, and pulling to get that thoracic spine. I'm going to go the other direction too. So knee down. This lengthens the hip flexor. This opens up to the adductors. We do abouT4 to six repetitions here. Push this knee down into the floor. It creates more length here. Hold the end range of motion. Reach and pull. Spine tall. Reach and pull right across. So what we did here was we worked on mobility, dynamic range of motion. Started with thEQuadruped rocking. We went to glute bridges and hip circles. We did a little kneeling, little stretch here for our hips. Last kneeling exercise is going to be a nice tall position, chest up, fingertips right by the forehead. We are going to rotate to the left, drop down, come up, back to the front. Rotate, drop down, push those hips forward, back to the front. AbouT4 to six on each side, nice and steady. So rotate, drop, and come up. Keep those hips pressed forward. Now critical to this is I'm firing my glutes, pushing up. That's going to give me the range of motion and allow my thoracic spine to stay nice and long. So these are a few simple little movements that we can do on the ground to improve hip mobility and thoracic spine mobility. The most mobile parts of the body are the foot ankle complex, the hips, and the thoracic spine. If we keep these three parts mobile, what it does is it reduces a lot of stress on the knees and on the lower back. So when we look at this mobility sequence, doing these mobility movements on the ground are a great way to take the joints to the range of motion, work on tissue extensibility without the effects of gravity. Doing mobility exercise on the floor reduces the effects of gravity. Gravity will compress the body, especially when we're looking at the hip joints. Our gravity will compress our body into the hip joints and take space away from the joints. One thing to try and do with mobility trening is restore space in the joints. Anytime the joint has space, it has room to move. Now in these few movements, what we're going to do is combine our hip and our thoracic spine exercise. This is going to be a simple little lateral step. I'm going to step to my left, take my right hand, reach across, come back, and come back. So I'm getting a little hip range of motion, reach across. Now the other thing I'm going to do is I'm going to pull with the elbow. So I'm going to reach with one hand, pull with the other. Reach with one hand, pull with the other. What that's doing is gettinGHip and T-spine mobility. I'm going to give you a camera too. I'm going to step, reach, boom, step. So what I'm doing is I'm combining movements in the frontal and trensverse plane. Combining movements in the frontal and trensverse plane where we're getting a little hip motion and a little thoracic spine motion. That's a little side step or side lunge with a thoracic reach or a thoracic rotation. Now what I'm going to show you is a trensverse plane lunge with a reach for a ground. That was trensverse plane lunge, reach, and reach. So I'm reaching up with one hand, reaching for the ground with the other. What that's going to do is really open up through my hips and through my thoracic spine. I'll give you a slightly different angle here. This foot stays steady. I'm opening up 90 degrees to the hips and coming back. This hand going down, this hand reaching up. Boom. Now the trick to this is keeping the front foot pressed into the ground. So these movements, a little side step with a thoracic rotation, a little trensverse plane lunge with a reach and a reach. That's opening up the hips and the T-spine at the same time. And finally, this has been one of my favorite mobility moves for a while. Hip hinge, squat, power up. Hinge into it, squat, power up. Now if somebody can't reach all the way for the ground, bring something. I'll put a step riser, a couple things there, so that if you go down and reach, you get that tactile response. But it's simply a little hip hinge, squat. Now if we want to get a little more thoracic spine rotation, we can reach up and up. Now obviously if I'm really doing this for myself, I'd bring up something a little bit higher, so that way I get a little bit of pressure and open up through them. But there we have the very basic little mobility sequence. Ground-based mobility exercises reduce the effect of gravity, so we get more range of motion from the joint. Standing up now, now we're integrating the movement. We're integrating our hips and our thoracic spine and getting our nervous system to control how the body moves. So think about mobility. You want to work on tissue extensibility, lengthening and shortening, work on enhancing control of the nervous system of the body as it takes the joints through the range of the motion. Now remember, any compound movement, any compound movement, any time you go through a full joint range of motion, that is a mobility exercise. Hey, a lot of great information in that article. Make sure you read it. And keep coming back to acefitness.org for all your fitness and personal trening needs.