Hi, I'm Pete McCall, the author of the ACE article on Extreme Conditioning Programs, or ECP, and I'm going to talk a little bit about goal setting. I'm out here in one of my favorite hiking spots, and one of the things I love about hiking is you know there's an end destination, you know what the goal is. Here where I love hiking, the goal is to get to the top where I have a killer view of the ocean and the San Diego scenery. Now, sometimes clients need to set a goal for themselves. Yes, they might have a weight loss goal. Yes, they might want to get in a certain shape or look a certain appearance by a certain time, but some clients need more. Some clients need that big, hairy, audacious goal. Some clients need a big outcome goal to push themselves. That's why they might sign up for an ultra marathon. That's why they might want to climb Machu Picchu. That's why they might want to climb Kilimanjaro. Our job as personal treners is to take those goals from our clients and facilitate the process to get there. So, if your client comes to you and says, hey, I want to try this. I want to try climbing a mountain. I want to try this adventure. I want to try this race. Sit there and look at them, and how can we help them do it? You have this outcome goal. Now, in order to reach an outcome goal, there are process goals. Process goals are the steps that it takes to get to that outcome goal. So, if a client comes to you with a BHAG, if a client wants to do an extreme conditioning challenge as a BHAG, we have to sit there and take a look at, all right, what do we need to do? What strength does it take? What mobility do you need? What type of energy pathway? When are you going to be doing it? You have to break it all down and develop that trening program for them. One of the things I loved about writing that article is Joe Decker made a great point. Joe Decker is known as the world's fittest man. He runs extremely challenging conditioning programs. Joe's point is that a lack of exercise is more dangerous than anything you would do in one of his conditioning programs, and that's absolutely right. So, when you hear about extreme conditioning programs, think about how you can use them to motivate your clients. Think about how you can use them to help your clients set their own BHAGs. And then, when you help your clients to achieve that success, and you're a part of that success, hey, that's why we do what we do in the first place. Thanks for tuning in. I look forward to having you read future articles with the American Council on Exercise.