Hi there, I'm Sabrina Jo, ACE's Senior Director of Science and Research. We know that the fitness industry is not reaching roughly 75% of the population, so thEQuestion must be asked, how do we reach those individuals and communities who may not be able to afford our services or don't have easy access to the appropriate resources? Today I want to share with you a little information abouT3 Winds Fitness, which is one of ACE's community engagement partners. Three Winds Fitness is recognized as an innolvative program for delivering positive physical activity experiences to populations and communities that may not otherwise have access to such programs. The concept behind Three Winds Fitness is simple. University students studying kinesiology volunteer to lead fitness classes every morning in parks throughout the surrounding area. Everyone is welcome, the program is free, and participants may choose from three different classes designed to meet people where they are in their physical activity journeys. What makes Three Winds Fitness unique is its creative approach to the meeting the needs of not only community members but also university students through a partnership among academia, local municipalities, nonprofit organizations, and the business community. So what are the three winds that the program promises? Number one is participant health, number two is community health, and number three is student professional development. The goal of a recent ACE-sponsored research project was to determine how effective the program is at meeting these stated objectives. The study consisted of nine focus groups with a total of 51 participants, including current and past student instructors, and participants spanning the full 10-year period from when Three Winds Fitness was launched. Three themes emerged during the analysis following the focus group sessions. The first was defined as the perceived value or benefit from the program. What they found was that the program provided both professional and personal benefits to the student instructors as well as benefits to the participants and the community at large. The second theme was health, where the Three Winds Fitness program was shown to positively impact the health of the participants and the community. Finally, the third theme was social connection, which manifested in several ways. The student instructors reported feeling a strong sense of community and support with their fellow instructors as well as with the participants. In addition, the participants felt like they were becoming more connected to their communities. Stated simply, this research found that the Three Winds Fitness program delivers the wins it promises. What makes these findings particularly exciting is the potential public health impact of programs like this one. ACE's mission is to get people moving, and ACE-certified professionals are doing public health work each and every day as they educate people about how to eat more healthfully, move more often, and make the behavior changes that empower them to live healthier lifestyles. Programs like Three Winds Fitness can serve as a model for how to improve the health of those communities that need it the most through free programming that also offers important benefits for the instructors who lead the exercise sessions. The results of this research should serve as a call to action to everyone from public health policymakers to individual exercise professionals and health coaches. Three Winds Fitness is a model that works, is free To the public, has proven benefits to both the participants and instructors, and is a scalable, replicable, and cost-effective program. It's time to get involved and help more people get moving and enjoy the benefits of a more active lifestyle. Thanks for watching.