Hi, my name is Lance Dallek, professor of exercise and sports science at Western Colorado University, and also a member of the ACE scientific advisory panel. In this month's issue of Certified, I've written an article on exercise programming considerations for individuals with asthma and or exercise induced bronchoconstriction, or EIB for short as an acronym. And in this video segment, I want to talk about how as a health and exercise professional, I employ the dose response relationship concept to managing clients with asthma and or EIB. First, let's define a dose response relationship. A dose response relationship refers to a dose of a factor and how changes in the dose of that factor elicits a corresponding response and a varying corresponding response. So as an example, we know that there is a dose response relationship between exercise volume and health benefits. For example, as you go from 30 to 60 minutes per week, five days per week, you get a corresponding favorable response in improved cardiorespiratory fitness levels. Well, that same dose response relationship and the concept can be applied to how we can prevent individuals with asthma and or EIB from experiencing symptoms. There's really three factors that we want to consider in terms of a dose response relationship in managing symptoms of asthma and or EIB. The first is the concentration of an allergen in the environment. So for example, a higher concentration of a pollen count for an individual means that there's going to be an increased risk for experiencing symptoms such as coughing or wheezing, shortness of breath. And so understanding that dose response relationship between higher dose of pollen count and an unfavorable response is important in terms of managing symptoms or limiting symptoms that an individual client may have with asthma and or exercise-induced bronchoconstriction. And in the article, I've included a link to a pollen forecast website that can be used. The second factor in terms of a dose response relationship is that as ventilation rate increases, there can ultimately be an increased response in terms of symptoms of asthma and or EIB. And so being able to identify or pinpoint what that threshold is is important so that you can stay below a threshold of increased ventilation. And ventilation can be driven by the duration of exercise and or the intensity. And so it can be kind of a combination. So if your exercise intensity is low, your ventilation rate may need to persist for a longer duration before you experience some of these symptoms. Whereas if the intensity is high, the ventilation rate is high, the number of minutes you need to exercise may be a lot lower before you reach that critical threshold. So the third factor there is the interplay between intensity and duration of exercise and understanding what that is. So as a, again, an exercise and health professional, when I'm working with my clients, for example, with exercise-induced bronchoconstriction, IMay be looking at what, with this dose response relationship concept in mind, I'm looking at, well, how long can this individual exercise before their ventilation, their total ventilation rate, and that's accumulated to the point where they start to become experiencing symptoms. Again, they're getting shortness of breath, they start coughing, and I'm trying to manage that with exercise program design. And then similarly, I'm taking a client who has asthma. We know what their allergens are, we know what their stimuli are, and we're looking at that pollen forecast website in our geographical region, and we're saying, ah, the concentration is too high. You shouldn't exercise outside on these days. You should be in an indoor environment. So in summary, as I've outlined in the article, a lot of the exercise programming considerations for individuals with asthma and or exercise-induced bronchoconstriction are actually quite identical to what they would be in an otherwise normal, healthy population with some various considerations. But a big approach I've taken, which I've outlined in this video clip, is this dose response concept, which factors to pay attention to, concentration of allergens, ventilation rate, and ventilation rate determined by duration of exercise as well as intensity of exercise. So as always, it's great to talk to you. I hope you enjoy this month's article, and good luck with your clients, and we'll see you next time.