osteoporosis, etc, bone marrow, akylin's impulses, immobility that you can analyze stored hormones, including degenerative hormones, hormones, hormones, triglycerides, onses, spikes, varrainen, ssodium ligand, potassium ligand, to save you time, build your business. You're great at working with clients, at helping people. This is why you became an ACE pro, no doubt, but to help people, you have to have people to help. Getting those people is not necessarily, it's, it's an involved process and it's not one that we all love to do, right? Or we're great at. If that's you, get in line, join the crowd, right? So today come along with me cause I'm going to share my screen here in a minute and show you how to use, how to take advantage of AI, specifically chat GPT to go out and find and land the golden goose. Okay. What I call the golden goose. This is a corporate wellness client where you can think about it, help lots of employees have recurring revenue and it opens tremendous opportunities. So to do this, it's, it's a long arduous process and it's still going to be a process, but chat GPT has eliminated, you know, a lot of the time consuming part. So walk with me through this. I'm going to share my screen right now and you're going to see what I'm talking about. So here we go. There it is. We're shared. So I'm in Jacksonville, Florida, right? So I'm, I'm jumping right in and going, Hey, chat GPT, right? What are the best places to work in Jacksonville, Florida with over 300 people? I asked best places to work because I know that there's lots of magazines and lists and stuff around that specific term, and that they're most likely going to be a kind of organization that will be willing to invest money in a corporate wellness program. So boom, it gives me this list and you can see right away. So it's, you know, a lot of Naval air station, you know, it's a lot of very big, big organizations. So I need to adjust. So I say, Hey, adjust this list to include places with more than 200 people, but less than 1200 employees. And I get another list and you can see on this list, okay, now we're looking at a thousand. There's 600, you know, and, and on down. So I'm going to target web.com because it popped in my mind, you know, about a half a dozen years ago, I had a couple of clients that work there. 600 people's a good number. And we're looking usually for places that are offices or factory type of working places. So the next step in the process, I'm going to say, please write a brief email to X company web.com that creates in them a desire to hire my company, ABC company to provide health and wellness services to include health coaching. Boom. In a matter of seconds, subject line, the whole thing, you can see it right here. And it reads pretty well. It's done well, you know, dedicated to empowering individuals to achieve their fullest potential through holistic health coaching and wellness programs. That sounds great. It lists out specific, you know, benefits for partnering with my company, ABC company to do this. So really good. I look at this though, and I say, well, it doesn't sound that different. I'm wondering if I can get a little twist. So I say, Hey, make this message more casual and include somEQuestions because I know that questions kind of light up that part of the brain that's creative and thinks about possibilities. So I'm going to try to take that approach, right? So here it goes. Boom. It nails it right out. Now I highlighted this word kick-ass because kick-ass health coaching doesn't really fit my brand. It doesn't feel right at this level of interaction with a corporation. So, but the rest of thEQuestions and stuff, all, all really great. So I just say, Hey, use a different phrase than kick-ass. And then boom, it's fits it right back out again. And it changes to dynamic, dynamic health dynamic. It's a good word. It says a lot different feel, kind of more about what I'd like. And so that's it. So I'm off to the races. I can send this out. I can have another one done. I'm going to stop sharing my screen now. You can have another one done for the other companies on the list. I can tweak some of it myself. You would want to always, you always, always, always want to make sure that the information that you're getting from any AI is accurate and matches what you believe in. So always, you know, inspect what you expect for sure. So that's it, right? That's a great way to save yourself some time, build a potential huge part of your business. If you land just one of those corporate wellness clients, you're set. So I want to thank you for investing in your clients by investing in yourself and beinGHere today. And as a reminder, this is a great article, so make sure you save it, go back and read it again. This excellent article from Daniel Green about using AI to save time and build your business. Thanks again, everyone. Have a great day.