 tignitim.it.h. Hi. My name is Chris Gagliardi. And I'm the Scientific Education Content Manager for the American Council on Exercise. Today I'm going to talk about motivation. And address the question. Why do we do what we do. Motivation is a key factor when it comes to our behaviors. And is the driving force behind the actions we take. As such. It is crucial to identify. Understand. Support. And support. And support. And support. And support. And support. And support. And support. And support. And support. And support. And support. And support. And support. And support. And support. understand, support, and connect the work we do as health coaches and exercise professionals to our clients' reasons for changing and the motivating factors that keep them moving forward on their behavior change journey. Motivation is a common topic of discussion in the health and fitness industry, and it is crucial to appreciate that motivation is not set in stone. What motivates us to behave in a particular way on one day may not be the same reason we desire to behave a certain way the next day? For example, have you ever had a client describe a scenario where they feel like they lost their motivation? Or perhaps you have had this feeling yourself. Can motivation truly be lost? Is it something that can be found? Or is it something that is there all along and just needs to be revealed? Our motivations or reasons for behaving a certain way can change from day to day, from week to week, or within any time frame, depending on our circumstances, and the way we perceive what is most important to us at a particular time? For instance, one day your motivation for change may be to become more fit, and then the next day you wake up with back pain, and your motivation for changing shifts to eliminating pain. Motivation is fluid and changes depending on what is happening within and around us. So what can we do about motivation? The ACE Mover Method is a fantastic way to use open-ended questions and collaborative conversation to learn more about what motivates the client. The ACE Mover Method is a client-centered approach that can be used to empower clients to make behavioral changes to improve their health, fitness, and overall quality of life by taking a client-centered approach and recognizing that clients are the foremost experts on themselves, using powerful open-ended questions and active listening during every client session, and by genuinely believing that your clients are resourceful and capable of change. The ACE Mover Method can be applied by using the ACE ABC approach to ask open-ended questions, break down barriers, and to collaborate on goals and next steps. Not only can the Mover Method and ACE ABC approach be used to help build the client professional relationship and rapport, but it is also a great way to learn more about what is motivating a client to change while continuing to position the client as an active partner in their behavior change journey. Let's explore an example of how you can put all of this together. You've been working with a client for six months. Initially, they were motivated to change their behavior to control their weight and improve their fitness. However, during a recent session, they mentioned feeling stressed out for the past few months and being mentally fatigued at work. After using good active listening skills, you decide to ask the following open-ended question. What has changed in your life that is leading you to feel more stressed and mentally fatigued? The client then proceeds to tell you about some family obligations, changing work and school schedules, and some large projects they are leading at work. Sound familiar? After listening to understand these new developments in your client's life, you ask another open-ended question to help identify any barriers to managing stress. What strategies are you currently using to help manage your stress and how effective you perceive those strategies to be? The client then proceeds to tell you that they are not doing anything to manage their stress levels and that they are just accepting the fact that they will be stressed out as part of life. However, they also mention that they would love to get their stress level under control and continue to improve their fitness. At this point, we know that the client would like to learn more about stress management and is still interested in improving their fitness. However, it currently appears that managing stress is a priority above improving fitness levels. But can we do both? It feels like another good opportunity for an open-ended question. So, managing your stress and improving your fitness are both important goals for you. What do you already know about how these things work together? We've already learned that a barrier for the client is not knowing how to manage stress. And with this question, we open the door to using the Elicit Provide Elicit approach to find out what the client already knows about the topic, to share relevant information, and to make sure they understand the information that you shared. All this new information indicates that stress management has become a greater motivating factor and can be used to collaborate on next steps, modify your approach, identify support, provide accountability, shift session focus, and adjust measures of success to align with your client's motivation for change. Remember, the greatest impact that health coaches and exercise professionals can have on the lives of their clients is to help them positively change health-related behaviors and to establish positive relationships with those new behaviors. Check in with your clients regularly about their motivation for change and use active listening to discover how their motivation may be shifting. To learn more about this topic, please check out the Shifting Priorities Certified article. Thank you.