Hi there, I'm Sabrina Jo, ACE's Senior Director of Science and Research. Over the pasT3 years, ACE has supported ongoing research investigating the effectiveness of the ACE Integrated Fitness trening Model, or ACE-IFT model, which is a personalized approach to exercise that optimizes trening responsiveness and impacts cardiorespiratory and muscular fitness as well as cardiometabolic health. In our certified article on the year one research, you can read about previous studies investigating the ACE-IFT model and the ACE mover method and watch a video on how to successfully apply the muscular trening component of the model with your clients. In the year two article, you can read about the importance of muscular fitness for a person's overall health. In this video, I'm going to summarize the findings of the year three research and explore the overall findings of this multi-year, multi-site study. The study conducted by Dr. Lance Dalek and his team at Western Colorado University sought to determine if the ACE-IFT model was more effective than standardized trening. 31 physically active men and women aged between 18 and 64 participated in this 13-week study. They were divided into three groups, the ACE-IFT model group, the standardized trening group, and the control group. Both the ACE-IFT model and the standardized trening groups underwent cardiorespiratory and muscular trening with the ACE-IFT model group receiving a program based on their individual ventilatory thresholds. Now, on to the results. The ACE-IFT model group saw more desirable changes in body mass, waist circumference, body fat percentage, VO2 max, and strength. They also saw significant improvement in systolic blood pressure, HDL cholesterol, and blood glucose. In short, the personalized approach of the ACE-IFT model drove more dramatic improvements across multiple measures. The most meaningful outcome is the consistency of these findings over three years, supporting the effectiveness and personalized exercise programming using the ACE-IFT model. This means that the findings of any one of the studies aren't a fluke because these benefits were found across three different studies and groups of participants. So what can exercise professionals take away from this study? Here are three actionable tips. First, emphasize personalized programming. Every individual is unique, so their fitness program should be too. Use your client's individual physiology and goals to tailor their program. Two, balance cardiorespiratory and muscular trening. The study showed the importance of both cardiorespiratory and muscular trening in promoting overall health. And third, keep an eye on cardiometabolic health. Don't forget about waist circumference, triglycerides, HDL cholesterol, blood pressure, and blood glucose. These are key indicators of overall health and can be greatly improved with personalized exercise programming. There you have it. Remember, the key to optimal fitness outcomes is a personalized approach. Thanks for watching this video.