Hi, I'm Lauren Troyer and I'm the vice president of product and innolvation here at ACE. Today I'd like to talk about aging and one of the reasons I'm very interested in this topic these days is because I am officially middle-aged. What I find really interesting is how aging is a very different experience for every individual going through it. Over the last couple of years I've had some illness and some injury that has really impacted my body, my exercise routine, and just my overall wellness. While some of my friends and some of my colleagues are posting videos of them, you know, doing amazing physical feats and talking about how they're in the best shape of their life. And truthfully watching those videos and seeing those posts sometimes can be pretty disheartening for somebody like me who has led this fit lifestyle and healthy lifestyle for years and all of a sudden the impact of aging and of illness has changed what I can expect from myself. So it got me thinking, I'm not the only one going through this. This is very normal and the things that I have gone through these last couple of years are very, very normal and common. So what are other people feeling and how can we in the fitness industry really connect with people who are aging and help them feel better about the fact that they might be aging differently than their friends? So I wrote an article for Certified called Exercise and Aging the Truth About What We Can and Can't Change and I want to share three tips for you. The first one is aginGHappens and as it does physiological aging occurs. So there are physiological changes in the body. While a healthy lifestyle maybe slows the impact of those or maybe more correctly stated an unhealthy lifestyle speeds the impact of those physiological changes. So by leading a healthy lifestyle we can in comparison slow the speed of those changes. We can't reverse them. They are actual physiological changes that happen over time and with age. That leads me to number two. Because of those facts it's so important that people practice self-compassion. That's something that I've been doing a lot of lately is just recognizing that I can do what I can do. That showing up to the gym is showing up to the gym. Some days I show up to the gym when my whole body hurts and that is an accomplishment in and of itself and I should get a pat on the back just for doing something. So that self-compassion instead of comparing ourselves to what we used to do 10 and 15 years ago. As a personal trener, group fitness instructor, or health coach you can help people work through their reality and practice self-compassion. So that's an aspect of your job role that you should be thinking about as you're working with people and hearing them sort of bemoan what they can no longer do or talk a lot about what they used to be able to do even though they can't do it today. The third thing I think everyone should do with every single client but I think it's particularly important with groups of people who are aging and their motivators are changing is really connect with them and help them understand why is exercise so important to them. What is it that they want to accomplish? For me like I said just showing up at the gym became the goal that I wanted to accomplish even though it hurt maybe all of the time going to the gym didn't make me feel worse so I knew I was getting better. That was one of the things I wanted to accomplish. For me the motivator was being able to be independent. If you've ever met me in person I am rather short of stature so climbing on to stools, reachinGHigh into cabinets, gettinGHeavy things out of cabinets that's just part of my life and I want to always be independent so that became a motivator for me. Gardening is something that I enjoy doing. I want to be able to carry heavy things so that was a motivator for me to get to the gym. What's that motivator for your client? The best way to do that is using the ACE mover method the ABC approach. A stands for ask open-ended questions. Really connect with your clients and understand their motivators and understand what's frustrating them about their exercise or their wellness right now. B, break down barriers. Figure out what's getting in the way of them being successful and C, collaborate. Work with your clients to find the right program for them that's going to help them meet whatever goals that they have for themselves and stay motivated to be active.