 naringin, naringin, Well, heel raises can be done in the gym, calf raises on a machine, or think about it, if you're sitting there right now, lifting up your heel in that seated position is known as a soleus pushup. So the soleus, the muscle that makes up 1% of your total musculature is a really slow twitch, very fatigue proof muscle. And what this particular study looked at was how the soleus pushups done with amount of regularity, you know, in times of sitting in a meeting, eating a meal, sitting on a plane, someone that might be chair bound, how this particular very small micro movement improved both blood glucose, as well as overall metabolism. So the study looked at adults of all fitness levels, men and women, different BMIs, a lot of different comorbidities. And what they found is soleus pushups had a significant impact on improving glucose regulation and overall metabolism. I definitely encourage you to look at this study because it could be a really useful tool, no matter if your client is a more sedentary, a less fit client, or is somebody who's a busy client that might be working, having a lot of Zoom meetings, being stuck on planes, things like that. Utilizing this simple strategy is a great tool for not only managing people with prediabetes and diabetes, but also as a prevention strategy. So how do you incorporate this? I really encourage you to think about this, utilizing some smart goals, because if we tell people to do soleus pushups, we may forget when to do them, how to do them, or I forgot to do that today. So definitely work with your population on maybe every minute you do 20. Maybe you set your timer and you do it for a minute at a time, two minutes at a time, during a commercial break, whatever that is. But utilizing this really simple tool can be great for any type of our clients that we're working with, and a very useful tool for managing not only their blood glucose, their metabolism, but also their health spam. And I just want to reiterate that fitness professionals are the key to managing chronic disease outside of even our healthcare system. These simple strategies, engaging with clients, are the things that will help us all get healthier together. So thank you for the great work that you do.