Hi, I'm Lance Dallek, professor of exercise and sports science at Western Colorado University and also a member of the ACE scientific advisory panel. In this month's issue of Certified, Angela Dallek and myself have authored an article on programming considerations for clients with osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis. Arthritis is a very common clinical condition. One in five individuals in the United States is impacted. And in this article, there's a variety of programming considerations that we present to you, including if your individual clients with arthritis also has a comorbidity or multiple comorbidities such as diabetes and heart disease, considerations for the medications that clients with arthritis are prescribed and taking, the various exercise considerations that you need to be mindful of for working with your clients with arthritis. In this video segment though, I want to focus on that initial few weeks of programming for clients with arthritis and what we have tended to focus on and what we think is critical for a successful long-term collaboration. There's three things. One is to, prior to really jumping into exercise, is focusing on range of motion activities. Next is to progress slowly. And the third consideration is we want to build trust. How do we do all of these three things in the first several weeks and what does that look like and what do we need to be thinking about? We oftentimes have some research available and we share with our clients before we start with range of motion activities that it's anticipated that over the first few sessions there's going to actually be an increase in pain and sickness. And clients with arthritis can be fearful of this, but what we want to share is that that's just going to last for a few days or a week and then it's going to get better. And when you can actually demonstrate that after performing range of motion activities for a week or so that stiffness lessens, pain is reduced, your clients are going to trust you. Some other things we're trying to accomplish with these range of motion activities is, as I've already alluded to a little bit, we're trying to reduce stiffness, we're trying to reduce pain, we're trying to improve posture. And by establishing this at baseline over the first few weeks, as we progress with functional exercises and cardiorespiratory and muscular trening exercises, those are all going to have a much more likelihood for a beneficial response and tolerated well for our clients if we focused on better posture, reduced stiffness. With range of motion activities, some other things to be thinking about and things that we've outlined in this article are to progress slowly, finding that sweet spot where there's going to be a little bit of increased pain and stiffness initially, but that's going to get better, and recognizing that the side effects of stiffness and pain will come about a day or two later after the preliminary range of motion activities, and so we want to really be careful in seeinGHow our clients are responding and not doing too much too fast. Also finding various range of motion activities that clients can perform throughout the full range of motion around a given joint, and if they can't, to find a different particular activity. So to reiterate, what we focus on and what we think is really important is range of motion, progressing slowly, and building trust. And then with the range of motion activities, building a consistency of doing this on a daily basis, even as they start up with their exercise, and really trying to avoid a starting and stopping pattern, because doing this with clients with arthritis tends to feed into this negative loop of more stiffness and more pain as you start up with more activity, and then when you become inactive, that pain and stiffness returns, but building consistency can really help manage those symptoms, which are really symptoms that are exhibited in most of the arthritis clients that we've worked with over the years. So in closing, good luck with your clients, and we'll see you next time. Thank you.