etc. So thank you again to our panelists for beinGHere. We're going to start our discussion today around defining trauma. So we know that trauma is a broad, has a broad definition and probably many definitions depending on who we're talking to. So for our context today, I'm going to start with Chelsea around the definition of trauma and we'll all kind of weigh in here. And then we're also going to talk about how trauma might manifest just generally speaking within our human bodies. So Chelsea, would you like to take a stab at this one first? Yeah, and you're absolutely right, Jackie. There's day long, week long presentations on defining trauma and identifying trauma. And I think one of my favorite definitions is by Gabor Mate. Dr. Mate said that trauma is not what happens to you, it's what happens inside of you as a result of what happens to you. And why I really love that definition is because it acknowledges the nervous system, the body as key to assessing reaction. And I know some people will say, well, I don't have trauma, but I have a bunch of little things that happened over the course of a life that aren't really trauma necessarily, which we sometimes call big T, like the things that stand out as trauma. But those little things over the course of a life can create nervous system responses and body reactions. So there may not be aromasingle trauma that we're working with. We're working with a lifetime of nervous system dysregulation or activation in the body. So I love this definition by Gabor Mate. Yeah, Bill, I see you nodding. I know that you have thoughts around this as well. Yeah, yeah. I think this is key is to understanding that there is a self-protective mechanism that is really fundamental to our experience as human beings. Our bodies and our most basic nervous system function is built around survival. And if you have experienced aromasingle event that's overwhelming, your nervous system can adapt very quickly to a survival response that becomes perpetual. And that influences your behavior throughout your life. But as Chelsea was noted, it might not be one single instance, but it could be the cumulative effect of beinGHeld in a state of activation, you know, in a perpetual stress response. And you think of, you know, racism or poverty or, you know, gender discrimination. These things over the course of a lifetime, your nervous system and your body is adapting at a very fundamental level for its own survival. And this to me, you know, really gets it at what trauma is. You know, it's that internal response that may be entirely appropriate to the environmental circumstances that you're living in. Yeah, Mariah, do you want to add in? And then we'll start talking a little bit about how this might look, trauma might look or feel or sound, et cetera, for folks. Yeah, yeah. Something that's coming up, I think, in response to what you just added, Bill, is I'm a big fan of Resmaa Menekum's work, who's the author of several books, including My Grandmother's Hands. And Resmaa has this wonderful quote. And he says that trauma decontextualized in a person over time can look like personality. Trauma decontextualized in a family over time can look like family traits. And trauma decontextualized in a people over time can look like culture. And I think that that's kind of the bridge between both how we define trauma and then some of the things I think that we're building on here in terms of what Chelsea shared about the body and the nervous system, Bill, what you're sharing about chronic experiences of oppression and discrimination, right? That trauma is both what we experience in our own bodies and nervous systems, but it's also what we experience collectively, historically, intergenerationally. It's deeply rooted in identity and it's experienced collectively, which is also a part of the reason why we have a lot of dialogue about why fitness and movement can be also a really trensformative collective way of healing. And so holding that understanding of the ways that trauma is experienced and defined both individually, I think, and collectively is important for us to remember. Thank you.