 epceanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaanaana come to us and feel like they're being validated in their feelings. It doesn't mean that you have to overdo it, but validate their feelings. Remember, feelings are just feelings. They're not right or wrong. So you can challenge those feelings for them. Ask for the evidence of how they're feeling. So that's one thing. The other thing too is to remember that you want to avoid making comments like, well, once you lose weight, your body image will improve. You'll love your body then. Okay. The point is for them, one, to start appreciating and supporting their body now, not after they've lost weight. Also, weight loss brings with it a whole other set of challenges. Okay. So maybe their clothing size has gone down, but now their wrinkles are showing more or they've got saggy skin. There's just a whole other load of other issues that if they don't practice appreciating their body now where they're at right now, that losing weight does automatically bring better body image. Okay. So another tip is to ask your, ask your clients how they can start supporting their body. Now they may never love their body. And as, and as far as where love is a feeling, but how can they show their body love? So when we love someone, right, how do we show that person that we love them? Same thing applies here. How can you show your body that you love and appreciate what it does for you? How can you support it in all the billions of things that are going on inside your body at a microscopic or microbiology kind of level? Um, how can you support that no matter where you're at in your journey with your body? And that, that's all, those are all things that can start now. Um, I think too often we kind of encourage them like, well, down the road, once you are more fit, once you lost weight, once you're stronger, that then you'll love your body. And that is not necessarily true at all. So the point is to start now, wherever they are in their journey now, how they can, can they start supporting their body right now? So I hope that helps, um, keep promoting positive body image and body positivity and, um, keep doing what you're doing. Bye-bye. Bye-bye.