deca dick, et cetera. Hello and welcome to Ace Alive webinars. Thank you for beinGHere. The event will start shortly. But first, a few announcements. If you don't already know, just a reminder that we do have a suite of free Tools to our Ace professionals, starting with the Ace Pro Connect app, the Ace job board, Ace Pro Compass, and the Ace website builder in collaboration with Wix. And again, thank you all for beinGHere. My name is Araceli DeLeon, and I will be introducing our hosts and panelists here shortly. Did you know that you can earn a $50 gift card with our Refer a Friend program? You can sign up to earn a $50 gift card, refer a health and fitness enthusiast like yourself, and get rewarded when they purchase an Ace certification study program. As a gift from you, they'll get 10% off. So it's a win-win for each of you. And just a couplEQuick housekeepinGHere. Thank you for joining us today's live webinar. Just a reminder that you are watching today for free via GoToWebinar. We appreciate you taking the time to join us during a live presentation. Remember though, you won't be receiving any continuing education credit for this course specifically unless you purchase it using the link on your screen. So I just shared that link. ThEQuiz and the recording will be available for $19.95 at that link in your chat box. And just a quick reminder to open and hide your control panel using thEQuestions panel. And I'll be taking a look at thosEQuestions throughout the session for today. When you pass thEQuiz, your CEC will be awarded to your account. If you have any questions during the live presentation, be sure to comment in the chat bar and I will monitor those, like I said already, as you'd like to ask a question to your presenter specifically. We'll be addressing those in thEQuestion and answer section at the end of the presentation. All right. Without further ado, let's get started. Welcome to your course, Nutrition and Physical Activity, When Science Meets Application. I hope you're all excited and ready to learn today. I'd like to introduce Dr. Sabrina Zhou, a Senior Director of Science and Research. She is also an ACertified Health Coach, Personal trener, and Group Fitness Instructor. Welcome, Sabrina. Thanks, Araceli. I'm thrilled to be here guiding the conversation with this super talented panel of experts on nutrition and physical activity. By the end of our conversation today, you'll have some really practical tips on taking information from the scientific literature and applying it with your clients. One of the things that I think is so helpful about our discussion today is that we will see that research papers typically are written to be published in peer-reviewed scientific journals. Our panel is going to help us understand how to sift through the science to make the most out of the evidence when we're working with our clients. Speaking of our talented panel, you'll be happy to learn that each one is a co-author of two papers that are very relevant to our topic today. The first paper is a systematic review and meta-analysis on the impact of nutrition and physical activity interventions provided by nutrition and exercise practitioners, much like probably most of the people on this call or on this session today. And the second paper is a landmark publication with evidence-based practice guidelines from the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics and the American Council on Exercise. And this is for nutrition and exercise practitioners. These evidence-based guidelines offer a blueprint for integrating individualized physical activity and nutrition into client care. It's an essential read for exercise and nutrition professionals, and I really can't recommend it enough. The guidelines emphasize the role of screening and assessment in uncovering a client's needs and values, and they also underscore the importance of a collaborative decision-making effort between clients and practitioners. So if you're looking for high-quality evidence-based guidelines as a starting point for designing and providing individualized exercise and nutrition recommendations for adults in the general population, this paper is for you. So now, without further delay, let's meet the panel as they briefly introduce themselves. So we'll give a few seconds for the panel to pop on, and we'll start with, as you can see on the slide there, let's start with Dr. Erin Nitschke. Erin, take it away. Thank you, Sabrina. Happy to be here. My name is Erin Nitschke. I am an ACE-certified personal trener and an ACE-certified health coach, and also a member of ACE's scientific advisory panel. Justin, do you want to go ahead and introduce yourself? Yeah. Good morning, everybody, or late morninGHere in San Diego. Justin Robinson. My full-time job is a human performance dietitian working with the Navy in San Diego, so I'm a tactical dietitian. On that note, anything I say today is my own opinion and may not reflect that of the DoD or any of its entities, and I'm also adjunct faculty at Point Loma Nazarene University. Hi, there. I'm PeGHamlet. I am from Moscow, Idaho. I head fitness director at the University of Idaho and adjunct instructor in kinesiology at Washington State University. I've been a subject matter expert with ACE for many years, and I am very honored to be here. Thanks, everyone. All right. So as we get into it today, it's important to cover off on our objectives, the reason that we're here. So if we want to advance the slide, we can see we've goT3 main learning objectives. So first, we're going to understand the differences among different types of research papers. So we'll talk about systematic reviews, evidence-based practice guidelines, and position statements. Another learning objective for today is that we're going to learn how to apply critical thinking to scientific literature as it relates to health and fitness information and research. And then lastly, we will look at the third learning objective, which is to help our clients achieve their nutritional and physical activity goals by applying the takeaways from the systematic review. And the systematic review, by the way, that IMentioned a little bit earlier, is actually provided as a handout in this session today. So there's a PDF of the systematic review that we're referring to here. But we're going to go over some really practical takeaways from that review, and I think we're going to find it very helpful in our own practices. All right. So with that said, let's jump into the meat of our conversation. And we're going to first talk about that first learning objective, where we're going to try to understand some differences between the different types of research papers that we might come across in our own practices. So research papers come in a variety of formats. In working with our clients, some of the most helpful are systematic reviews, evidence-based practice guidelines, and position statements. So to kick us off, Erin, can you help us understand, just in general, the key differences between these types of papers? Sure. Sure. So a systematic review, the way that I like to think about it, and probably the easiest way to summarize it, is it really answers thEQuestion, what does the body of literature say? So it is a research methodology that involves a very rigorous and comprehensive process in which the researchers will identify and select certain research studies that meet specific criteria related to the research question they're interested in learning more about. And its aim is to summarize across the body of what these studies say. So what kind of conclusions have been drawn in multiple research studies that meet this criteria? And it does aim to provide a very unbiased but robust summary of what the existing literature says. When we look at the evidence-based... echnomics, chakrakins, epidemiologic registry urine, epidemiologic CDC, epidemiologic patient care record, epidemiology of the blood cell, immunotherapy of the liver, epidemiology of the syringes, epidemiological report of the liver, the metabolic record of the liver, embryology of theipples,portfolio data, immunological report of the baby, epidemiolitique of elders, epidemiological research, etc, epidemiologic handbook information. 1- 1- Atlantic csay.1 recently, I did a commentary. I went to a local women's health center that inspired me, that gave me information about vampires. A lot of agents who say the importance of showing both, their botox available for all to us and the situation. I went there for about 10 days 3-5 tight periods and I hope that that did help. of the individuals that we serve. When we look at the position statement, things like those pieces of information represent an agency's official perspective stance on a given topic, such as nutrition and physical activity and those statements will provide some authoritative guidance to their certified professionals and on whatever emerging issue that we're looking at to try to advocate for specific policies that will support that guidance or again, standardized practice and say, these are our best practices. Here's what we really need to be doing with the people that we serve. Great. Thanks, Erin. So, I would like to kick it over to Justin next and for Justin, I have basically a two-part follow-up question. So, first, please fill us in on anything just in general about the research process that you'd like to share and then second, there's one type of research paper that I didn't mention earlier and it's called a scoping review. And so, I'm wondering, Justin, what can you tell us about the scoping review? AwesomEQuestions. Glad we're here discussing this today. In teaching, whether it's a one-on-one consultation with a client, oh, and as a dietitian, happy registered dietitian day to all of you, those of you out there, whether it's one-on-one or if I'm teaching a course, the concept I really try to push forward is that research never proves anything and I think that's what we see. I'm sure we'll get into the influence of social media, but when you see a headline that says such and such study proves this, that's a big red flag to me. Every research study is essentially setting up the next one because if you read research, the conclusions are always more research needs to be conducted in this particular category. So that's really the purpose is to have this algorithm, just go along the algorithm of a lot of information and whittle it down to something that is specific or pertinent to you. There's certainly biases involved in research, animal versus human studies, we'll touch on that a little bit more. Most subjects are male, so it's a very male predominant subject area. And then of course, research biases, industry funding can factor into all of the research that is concluded and make it not as strong, not as valid. The scoping review takes place before systematic review and when I was first part of the scoping review with some of the people here today, truthfully, it's not as exciting as it sounds because it really just assesses what literature is available. So it's really the top of that funnel. For example, we had 16 outcomes in the scoping review that we are assessing, but we only took a look at eight of those in the systematic review because enough literature did not exist to dive deep into some of those different outcomes. And then as you whittle it down from there in the... So from 16 to eight in the evidence-based practice guidelines, we took the three or four strongest recommendations from the systematic review and put those into a paper. And we actually have a paper in the position stand in review right now, where we're really focusing in on onEQuestion. So what is available? Okay. What is the deep dive into the literature? What are the three or four things practitioners need to know now as a position stand? The Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics and American Council on Exercise believe this, and it's really whittled down to that one point. So that's the entire process in three minutes. That's amazing. And thanks for mentioning that. Thanks for mentioning that there's a position stand amongst both of our organizations. So A&D and ACE, and we're very excited about that coming soon, and it's very relevant to exercise and nutrition professionals. Okay. Moving on. So Erin, my next question is for you. You've explained the basics of a few types of helpful research papers that are typically published by researchers in those peer review journals, but I'm curious about the impact of those types of papers on the larger community. In other words, how do evidence-based practice guidelines and position statements actually impact public health policies or recommendations? That's a great question. We do all this work, and then what? So there really is a lot of value to this, and I think it's really important to understand what that value is. So taken together, they all provide that authoritative guidance and promote these evidence-based practices that we, as those professionals, can implement. There are actionable steps that we can take in our practice with clients to improve their outcomes and limit the effect of whatever condition they might be afflicted with. They also advocate for interventions that will promote health and prevent disease in that population, in that specific population. And the way that it influences, so it can influence things like policy development. So both your guidelines and your position statements do provide that evidence-informed recommendation that policymakers can rely on when they develop certain public health strategies. And then it also can help set standards of care, again, pulling in what does the body of literature say, what is the evidence, and then what does this mean for me as a practitioner and how I relate to my clients and how I provide this intervention that's going to promote health and reduce disease risk or perhaps positively influence whatever metabolic risk factor that they have currently. And so it can help establish that standard of care, that plan of care in looking at how do we do this to the best of our ability with what we know now. It can also help us inform public health campaigns and also support whatever advocacy efforts are going on too. We have this evidence that says X, Y, and Z. How do we turn that into an agent of change? Like how do we take that evidence and say, we need this to advocate for policy change, for health strategies, public health strategies? And then I think another thing that's really valuable about this is it definitely promotes this sort of collaborative effort that's interdisciplinary. So for example, professionals like myself, who I am not a registered dietitian, but I can partner with somebody like Justin, and we can have kind of this coordinated synergy to work on an intervention together or like this research paper. And so it allows this interdisciplinary kind of cross-fertilizatianavar fields because we all aim for the same thing, right? We aim to promote health and reduce that disease risk. So we're all climbing the same mountain. We just are doing it with a little bit different scope of practice. And when we build a bridge, we build it together. And so Justin can brinGHis expertise in that realm. I can bring mine. Peg can brinGHers. Sabrina, you can bring yours. And we have a stronger intervention. We have a stronger plan of care that helps to elevate that client experience in such a way that it does improve their outcomes. Well said, Erin, and you just confirmed the fact that evidence such as what we're talking about here, this is what's relied upon by governments or public health officials. They need evidence so that they can go out and then start to implement it. Without evidence, there's even no start. So this stuff is really important for us as practitioners. Okay, Justin, my next question is for you. So we're trensitioning from the larger public health picture and then kind of moving it to the individual practitioner. Let's talk about how evidence-based practice guidelines might affect how we actually coach our own clients or counsel our patients if you're in healthcare. So contrary to some belief, practitioners are not required by their organizations to teach specific things. I know that's some of the flack against dieticians that, oh, well, the Academy of Nutritive Dietetics tells dieticians how they're supposed to practice, and that's very, very far from the truth. However, we have standards of practice that say, hey, these are the guidelines, these are the bookends in which you should follow. So whether you're a personal trener, group exercise instructor, registered dietician, you have these bookends. And I think the, or I believe the evidence-based practice guidelines are the newest versions of those bookends to say that this is a good policy to follow as a health practitioner. These are the three to five areas you should focus on. And so I feel that they're most beneficial for a practitioner who maybe needs to brush up on some current literature, or maybe, as Erin was mentioning, how somebody may trensition from one aspect of their profession to another. So somebody who is a clinical etc. Great. So, Justin, before we move on to the next topic, I want to touch on the fact that research studies are conducted within the limitations that constren us. For example, the gold standard in research design, which is some form of the randomized controlled trial, is notoriously difficult to conduct in nutritional science and behavioral science sometimes in general. Can you expand on that briefly before we move on to the next topic? Absolutely. We could easily spend the full hour just on this part of the discussion, so I'll do my best to be brief. But I concur with you that the randomized crossover, repeated measures, double-blind, placebo-controlled study is the best study. And from a nutritional standpoint, that is incredibly difficult to conduct. It's easier to conduct with drug trials and medicine because I can give this population the white bottle and this one the blue bottle, and they have different pills, and it's all of those aspects that are just mentioned. And it's a very well-controlled study, and they could take that medication for 30 days, and we can measure some output. But when we talk about preventing disease, heart disease, diabetes, dementia, they take 30 or 40 years or more to develop. And so we cannot control every single aspect of somebody's life for 40 or 50 years. And so when we look at ward studies where individuals, the subjects will live in a facility, have all the food handed to them, their ins and outs are all recorded, those are ridiculously expensive. And those only last maybe up to 30 days. And outside of that, it's very difficult to blind food. So if we're doing a high carb versus low carb study, carnivore versus vegan, well, you know if you're getting vegetables or if you're getting meat. So we can't always follow that randomized placebo-controlled crossover. And so we have to just really, again, what we're learninGHere today, how do we assess the literature is thEQuestion. How do we apply it to our particular population? Self-reporting is also very inaccurate. So for numerous reasons, nutritional research specifically is very difficult. And it limits our ability to say this works and this doesn't work, which is why there's so much confusion around different, again, from my perspective, dietary regimens. Yeah, it's just the stuff is hard and it's complex and humans arecomplex. So it's hard to, like you said, keep somebody in a ward for 50 years. That's just not possible and it's inhumane and we wouldn't do it. So we work within our constrents. So I appreciate that perspective. All right, let's move on to our next learning objective, really, which is the next section of the conversation where we apply critical thinking to the literature as it relates to our work as health and fitness and nutrition professionals. All right, Peg, I'd love to bring you into the conversation. This question is for you. There's a lot of information out there. Some of it's great, some of it's not. How can we differentiate between high-quality research and less reliable sources of information? Thanks, Safrina. It is. You can get overwhelmed and go down rabbit holes, as we all know, when we're looking for papers to read. But, you know, there's some simplEQuestions to ask yourself. And I want to start first by saying, when you start looking at it, use your common sense. Most of us know what to look for, but we can get our own biases on where we're going. So first, try to look for things that are free of bias. You really want things that are done for the act of learning and learning more. Is it evidence-based? Where did this information come from? Trustworthy author, organization, who funded this is really a big one. And in funding, what was the purpose of the funder's research in here? Is their goal to sell a product? So does that influence the research question? Does that change how we're looking at the evidence and how that study was set up? Those things are so important. Has a study like this been done before? Has it been replicated? The size of the study? There's a lot of things that we want to think about in getting our information. Looking at studies, has this study followed accepted practices? Has it followed things such as where is the ethical research going to? Where does this question come from? So following up on where you're looking for information and comparing to where you get it is very important. Choose what you know to be from a reputable source. Talk to your friends also. That makes a big difference in, you know, I saw this study. What did you think of the study? And they may have more information to bring in. I also want to remind you that when we're looking for research, especially with clients, sometimes we go to articles that aren't evidence-based and that doesn't make them flawed necessarily. What that means is take that information if you're interested and it's something that applies to your client. What did that article use for their research? Where was their, you know, their recommendations coming from? What research should they use? So a lot of research is good, but we do need to go back to if you're going to use the information in client-based programming performance in your own knowledge, make sure that it's that reputable source and that you have related materials. So you can use lots of different things, but go to a source where you can trust it. Yeah, well said. Erin, do you have any thoughts on finding credible resources? Anything else you want to add onto that? Yeah, in addition to all the great things Peg said, I want to reiterate the funding piece. I think it's really important to look at who funded the study. If that person has or that entity has a vested interest in efficacy of whatever it is they're testing, it might be something to question if their results yield something positive, like this is efficacious. I think the other thing as well is what are the limitations of the study and are those called out? Have those been highlighted, noting that, well, the sample size is this, so it can't necessarily be generalizable to a larger population. What was the size of the sample? And looking for those limitations that are discussed in a very unbiased way. That's the whole goal of scientific research is to study something, but then call out, well, we need to interpret these results with caution because we can't maybe infer causation, but there's a correlation. There's a relationship here of some kind and further research is warranted to look at X, Y, and Z. So what are those limitations? What are those future recommendations? And then again, just looking at who funded it, just ask that question. I wonder who funded this study and what their interest was. What's their relationship to this research question and their interest in whatever the outcome is? Yeah, great. Great tips, Erin. And just as an add-on to that, just reiterating, every published study in a peer-reviewed journal is going to have a section called limitations. And so it's where the authors actually point out, yeah, this wasn't perfect because of this list of things. And next time, maybe we could do it this way, or maybe we should have considered this, but we worked within our constrents. And so it's important to just look at what's just know that science is messy and there's always limitations. All right. So for my next question, and in keeping with the theme of finding quality information, and then let's add on the element of actually being able to apply that information with clients, I'd like to pose my next question to Justin. In the area of sports nutrition, there's a concept called the paper-to-podium trenslational matrix. And this concept can help us trenslate the evidence from a research paper and then apply it in the real world. Are there any helpful insights from that process that you want to mention today, Justin? Yes. So I'll quote from the paper, and Graham Close and colleagues, they've put out quite a few papers where I've had the thoughts moving through my brain, but I was not able to eloquently trenslate those. And so they come out with something like, yes, that's what I've been trying to say for 15 years, but you just said it much better than I. So I'll quote from their paper, but put simply, we must look beyond... on the abstract, the 140-character tweet, and the latest infographic in order to truly evaluate the scientific rigor and trenslational potential of performance nutrition-related research studies. And so there, the paper we're discussing now evaluates nine different criteria from a negative two to a positive two scale. And the thought process is that, okay, well, maybe I have a paper that is incredibly well-controlled, randomized, placebo, double-blind, but the population has nothing to do with the population I work with. That may not be a very trenslatable paper. The other may be true as well that, okay, well, maybe this is not the best designed study, but it's exactly in the population I work with, therefore it is trenslationalable or applicable to my population. So that could have to do with, again, the types of subjects. Maybe this has to do, a great study could be done in rats for a placebo-controlled and dietary supplement study, for example, but as Louise Burke said, I'll care about rats when rats start winning gold medals. So as a human performance dietician, as a sports dietician, I tend to work with elite athletes. And if we really look into the research, most of the studies are conducted in well-trened individuals. Well-trened and elite arecompletely separate. I would be considered a well-trened subject, but I'm nowhere near a professional or Olympic athlete, yet sports dieticians work with professional and elite athletes. So we have to be able to have this risk-reward assessment when we're developing a new exercise technique, considering a new dietary supplement. And so if I work with Olympic rowers, I care much more about a study with five individuals who are Olympic rowers than a study of 50 well-trened cyclists. And so it has to be applicable and how you can critically critique or research on those different aspects. And one note to follow up on what we were just discussing with the limitations, a solid research paper, the authors will list their disclosures. And so the funding may not always be part of the title or within, but at the very end of the usually demonstrate or list where the researchers work and who they work for. Therefore, if you have a drug study and all of the research individuals are, or the paper authors work for that company or its parent company, that could be something to consider. I would say it's even worse if they don't disclose anything. So, cause then that means they're truly hiding something there. So. Great, great perspective. Yes, definitely. So an interesting thing about the scientific method is that researchers always begin by setting out to find answers to a set of questions or a question. And where it gets interesting is sometimes scientists ask the samEQuestions, but go about finding the answers in different ways or the sets of scientists conduct the same exact studies, but they end up with different results. So Peg, I'd like to get your thoughts on this sometimes confusing concept. Do you have any suggestions for what to do when we come across conflicting findings in the literature? We do this a lot, don't we? IMean, one day it's good to drink red wine and the next day it's not, you know? And so we choose to live in whatever day we prefer. We understand that with scientific literature, this is how we progress in methods is by disagreement and papers will often disagree. So we do have to look at, you know, how did this method come about? What are the other studies? How has it been replicated? Has it been replicated? So the fact that they conflict isn't necessarily a bad thing. It just makes you do a deeper dive into the information and seeing what has happened. What was the study size? What were the methods? Were they exactly the same? Is there any other information that can back up either claim? And I always like to think, I like to bake in my spare time. That's also why I like to exercise. But when I bake something, I often realize I can use the exact same ingredients to bake a cake and it'll turn out great. And then two weeks later, I'll do the same thing and it'll be a flop. And you'll try to think, well, what caused this? It was the same, same oven, but small things can change. Like a temperature difference, water in the air, any small things we may not actually note. And those sorts of things happen in many studies. It's not always the things that we see but there can be slight differences. You go back again to thinking, okay, where is this coming from? And read deeper into that. See where it impacts you and how you're using the information. But you just have to a lot of times use your common sense and do a deeper dive and realize that a change isn't a bad thing. Also, one of the most important things is size changes so rapidly. Any of us who've been in the field forever know that we've changed a lot of things we've done and now we don't do certain things. People, we've learned better. So looking at the time an article was written really does make a big difference and their resources and references and how they are current. Great insights, Peg. Okay, so with that, let's move on to our final learning objective, which is to understand how to help clients achieve their goals by applying takeaways from research, basically. And this to me really is the practical part of our session. We're really gonna give some great advice and tips for how to work in our own practices. So far, we've covered different types of research papers. We've covered how to think about different types of evidence that we might come across and how to go about determininGHigher quality information. So now, I'd like to shift our conversation to help our listeners understand how to apply what we've learned today and then apply that to their own practice. So Erin, this question is for you. How can we balance our individual clients' needs and preferences, of course, with these broad recommendations from systematic reviews or other sources? I think that's a great question because that, I think, is a big challenge for professionals. Well, the evidence says this, but what does that mean practically in my day-to-day work with the people I serve and the clients I work with or if, you know, patients or whatever, whatever is the most appropriate there? So four things really come to mind when we're looking at how to balance, achieve that balance. So the first one is absolutely you have to have and prioritize an understanding of each client. They are unique. They're a mixed bag. They, you need to understand their health status, their previous experience with physical activity, maybe their previous successes, what worked for them, what didn't, their fitness level, where they're at in this journey, and any specific challenges or constrents, limitations that they might face. And we can do that through conversation by having a collaborative conversation, motivational interviewing, and asking really powerful questions. And we can also do an assessment of gathering information, like assessments are going to vary based on who you work with, whether it's appropriate for that client, but gathering that information. So really prioritize getting to know your client and where they're at in this journey and what brought them to you in the first place. That will give you insight into their motivation. I think secondly, yes, systematic reviews offer super valuable insights and guidance on general best practices. But I think professionals have to recognize, again, that those studies give very broad recommendations based on whatever the aggregated data is. So we can use that evidence as a foundation, not as a prescription necessarily. So we have to remain really flexible when we adapt our own recommendations and guidance and interventions with each client. Again, going back to specificity of that person. You can have two clients of the same demographic, the same health status, the same experience, and they will respond differently to the same intervention. So it cannot be this cookie cutter approach. So you really have to figure out who is your client, not just what they're dealing with. And then I think third, clients do better when the decision-making is shared. And this is where we really have to meet our clients where they're at and really respect that they're in the driver's seat. They're the expert on themselves. You are the expert in the field, but that doesn't mean you know best for your client. And so we have to use a very guiding coach approach to encourage them to move forward. hormone and glycoside results from Bierpromotech. Theonne Jarrell. Taza Binread. All right, this is Taza Binread, and this is a question about query and rich patterns. Well, how are embryos different compared to normal embryos? And how do they grow and develop. And there is a set of rules completely misaligned. How is it going to resonate with them? And then again, working together in a collaborative fashion to set those realistic goals, both like a macro focus and a micro focus, and moving forward together and just being open and honest. And that comes when you take the time to build rapport with your client and build that relationship. So that is absolutely of the utmost importance. And I think lastly, always remaining client-centered. It's about them. So we have to be client-centered in our scope and in our approach, and then combine that evidence-based set of recommendations with individualized care. It doesn't have to be one or the other. Because if you just individualize care, you're meeting the client's unique needs, but are you following the evidence? And then if you just use the evidence, does it resonate with your client if you're not looking at them as an individual and instead you're looking at them as an end number or a subject in this study that may or may not be trenslatable, as Justin talked about. So it really is key. I think those four things, if you really wanna strike that balance, keep those four things in mind, and you will find that you will be able to better guide your client in a way that allows them to achieve their optimal health outcome for them, for what fits their needs, their unique characteristics, their journey in life, where they're at. Great advice, Erin. So a couple of things. You described kind of the science and the art of what we do. And you also described a coach approach, and I'm here for it. So that's awesome. Peg, what about you? Do you have anything to add about using the evidence you learned from papers to help your clients succeed? Well, I think using a lot of that information is really tagging on to what Erin said, knowing your client. You have to know, speak your client's language. We get excited when we learn a lot of information. We wanna share everything. And sometimes our clients are the elite athlete, and they get it. And sometimes it's the client, you're looking at them, and you're going, and we're using thEQuadriceps on the front of our legs, you know? And you're pointing to what, something that you think they should know. Breaking down information, speaking their language is so important. So you don't just try to give everything that you've learned to them right away, being really focused on how they learn, what they learn, parsing out the information in a way that makes sense to them. I think it's really important just to follow along with people, just where are they at? We're there for them. Yes. The individual who is complex and unique. Okay, Justin, I'd love to hear your thoughts on this next question. We often hear phrases like evidence-based and evidence-informed. Is there a difference between the two? And if so, what are some helpful ways to think about these two approaches? So for the record, I do consider myself an evidence-based practitioner. Going back to the standards of professional performance and even the evidence-based practice guidelines, we should all follow evidence-based practice research. And this was also highlighted in the Graham Close paper, the performance matrix of the slow researcher versus the fast practitioner. And what they mean by that, it's not a knock against researchers. I consider myself a full-time practitioner who has the side hustle of research, but I could not do my job as a practitioner without researchers. However, we as practitioners don't have the ability or the time to wait for concrete evidence. And I've seen this with dieticians to where as a practitioner, I like to look at risk-reward. And then let's try to find a product that has a potentially high reward with a very low risk, and let's just run with it. Whereas some other dieticians, and again, dietary supplements come to mind, who might say, well, I'll wait for the evidence. I'll wait for the evidence. And if we keep waiting, that rarely exists because research never proves anything. Research is never definitive or conclusive. It's only relevant until the next research study five years from now proves it wrong. In fact, that's the only thing research can prove is that everything before it was wrong or false. I've talked about how some of the advice I gave 10 years ago as a practitioner was right based on what I knew at the time. A great quote from a mentor, Gary Gray, the truth never changes, only our interpretation of the truth. And that's really what we dive into with research is our interpretation of what exists and what we're trying to learn more about the human body. And so we have fast practitioners who maybe read a research paper and are like, well, no, duh, I've been doing that for five years. I've been doing that for 10 years as a practice. So we have to be able to take what is available and let that inform our practice, but we cannot 100% base our decision as practitioners only on research. And so that's how we differentiate. And a good colleague of mine coined that term evidence-informed practice. So I stole that and consider myself an evidence-informed practitioner. And the way I can summarize it is it's really this Venn diagram. And you have the research. So what does the evidence say? But we have to combine that with maybe the athlete's experience and their best practices. Again, getting back to the individualization. And then also our understanding of mechanisms and physiology. So if I'm deciding whether or not an athlete should use this supplement, okay, well, are there any banned substances? No. Okay, does it make sense from a mechanistic standpoint? Like can it indirectly improve power output for this reason? Okay. Is there some evidence to apply? All right, yeah, cool. Let's give it a try. So it's really that intersection. And Aaron, when you were just talking about individualization and is this person an N, it reminded me of something I saw a few days ago about the myth of average and how we truly have to individualize. And so LeBron James, here's a quote. LeBron James has never finished a game with a LeBron stat line. Meaning that his career averages are 27 points, seven rebounds, and seven assists. And so the leading scorer in the NBA, almost 20 years in the league, has never had that average in any single one of his games. And so when we take research and we try to apply these averages to an individual, well, they are not that individual. I'm sorry, they are an individual. They are not the average of that research. So again, we have to take a best practice of letting that inform our decision, talk to the person in the room, use the motivational interviewing, figure out where they are in terms of their stages of change model, and apply a very low risk, potentially high reward intervention that makes sense to them. Great advice, Justin. And thanks for bringing sports into the conversation for all the sports fans out there because it's not gonna come from me. So I appreciate that, Justin. Okay, so we've covered a lot of ground here today and we've given some useful strategies for navigating the intersection of science and its application. But let's face it, mastering all this stuff is hard. So Peg, I'd love to hear from you about some of the challenges of trenslating the science into practice and your suggestions for how to overcome those challenges. Right, especially for those of you who may be listening who are newer treners, some of this is gonna probably seem overwhelming because you're thinking, I'm trying to make a living. I'm working with these clients. When am I gonna do all this research? And time is a constrent. But let me tell you this, it's gonna get easier. And it's gonna get easier the more research you do. So time on your own learning is gonna make your life so much better for you and your clients. That's one of the biggest obstacles. We talked about it earlier. A lot of research becomes lost on us because we may not understand completely what the information is being presented to us. But as we learn, all that becomes a lot more clear and we can learn how to incorporate that information. So time, and I just wanna tell new treners, your time will get better because you won't be spending so much time per client because it will make more sense to you. So that's one of the things. Limited support, making sure that you have people in your life that's supporting you to spend time with clients. Making sure that you're doing peer. Auto-red prawns, adaptive analgesic technique, AlzGrash keyboard, AlzWith-Algik Save, AlzIZ Glow, AlzIZ-Serve, AlzIigo Ringmain, AlzOil, AlzWoe👇 Extended-rating oxygen, AlzAespect PAC submersible 알렠리ppedPLURALL, AlzIndianizingscreen, alzelionsmart, Holidayfeed, hypothalysis So again, looking to where your resources are and really trying to connect out in your community. Is there a community college, a university in your area? What libraries are available to you? I know American Council on Excellence has a great resource that you can tap into for information. Making sure that you're using all of those sources is really going to help you a lot because those challenges that you're trying to overcome, really financial, time, support, it's really going to make a big difference in the long run how you can help your clients retain that information. You just have to really think about listening to what you know, listening to your clients, where they're at with the information. Obstacles with your clients is giving them, again, too much information at one time. So really think about how your time is used for obstacles, how it's best presented to your client, how to preserve your resources but help others will help you overcome a lot of those main points. Yeah, speaking of using resources to help others, IMentioned earlier the collaboration between A&D and ACE, a recently published paper, it was 2023. It was some evidence-based guidelines that are very applicable to, I would guess, most of the people in this session today. Actually, all the people on the panel were co-authors. Justin is the lead author on that evidence-based guidelines paper. And if you're interested in receiving a copy of that paper, you can contact Justin correctly. I hope I'm not speaking out of turn. Is that okay, Justin, if they seek out your support for that paper if they're interested? If they seek out your support for that paper if they're interested? Yeah, LinkedIn or ResearchGate, please reach out. Wonderful. So, you know, to Peg's point, a lot of those scientifically or peer-reviewed journal papers have limited access. So if you're not subscribing and paying to the journal, you're not necessarily going to have access to that. So one of the ways that we can help, you know, from participating in this session today is to reach out to Justin and he can give you a copy of that paper if you'd like. All right. Erin, do you have anything to add in terms of overcoming some of the challenges of accessing and applying the scientific information? Yeah, a couple of things. I think one of the challenges is, again, like we see the evidence and then we try to take that and like shove it into some situation that is our client. And it's like, well, the evidence says, why is it not working? Forgetting that your client's in the driver's seat, forgetting that they are the expert on themselves. You have to interpret it with flexibility and finding those things that make the most sense and resonate with your client's unique situation. And I see that that sometimes is forgotten because the evidence is so strong. Absolutely. We need the evidence. We couldn't practice without it. At least we couldn't practice effectively without the evidence to guide us. But forgetting that your client is going to know more about themselves and their situation than you ever will. So don't forget that. And then I think another challenge is in research, we might see a specific intervention and think that's going to work really well. And under most circumstances, maybe it does. But if you get in a situation where you apply that intervention to a group of people you're working with or coaching or an individual, and then it doesn't work, I see the challenge being that, oh, I failed as a practitioner. Just like science never proves anything, as long as we look again and ask a question again, like, why didn't this work? And we engage in that reflective practice just like we would if we were running an actual review or research study. Dialing it back, it's okay. And giving yourself permission to take a step or two back and being like, okay, let's modify this so it's more manageable and getting that feedback from your client. And then I think in terms of getting access to information and breaking it down and understanding it, I feel like your network is going to be one of your strongest sources of support, which is why when I'm mentoring new professionals and students, I hit that so hard. They're probably so sick of me saying it, but it's like, build your network now. Don't wait until you're certified to build your network, because there's value in the people that you are connected with, and they can teach you something. So get into the habit of co-learning. Get in the habit of accepting that, yes, I'm a professional and I know these things, or I'm a budding professional and I know these things, but someone has something to teach me and I have something to learn. So beinGHumble enough to know that you're never going to know it all, and you're probably going to forget some things. There are still times in my practice where I'm like, what was that principle again? And I have to circle back. So being just humble in your knowledge and being willing to expand that, expand your horizon, I think is so critical. Great advice. Okay, before we wrap up here and open the floor to somEQuestions from our participants, I want to offer one final question. So this is like a lightning round, and it's for all the panelists. And I really want to get down to brass tacks here. So from your own experience, what has been the most impactful application that you've learned or strategy that you've used, that you've learned from science that really helped you support your clients? And I'm just looking at the order on my screen here. So Erin, can you give us a very like one minute brief summary of something very impactful that helped you from science that trenslated to your practice? Yes. So I think the big thing is I tend to now ask a lot morEQuestions. So that's what science does. It asks thEQuestion, it engages in a process to get a result and summarize that result. And I think it's really important when you read things to ask questions about what does this mean? And what does this mean for my client? And I feel like that's really impactful because then I ensure I'm being reflective about what I'm reading. I'm looking at it through a scientific method lens, and I'm looking at it through a client-centered individualized lens. And I think another strategy is staying up on that behavior change research and understanding those interventions that are out there. There are so many, some more effective than others, some conditions that make it more effective than others. And I think being willing and daring to try something new has been really impactful. So let letting go of that fear and knowing that like I'vEQuestioned it from a science mind, I'vEQuestioned it from a coach perspective, and I'vEQuestioned it from the relevance to my client. Yeah, treating all of your experiences as little experiments and learning from those experiments as we go like scientists do. Excellent advice. All right, Peg, how about you? Do you have a brief summary of some powerful, impactful lessons learned? You know, I think one of the things I've learned is that we all learn differently. I know for myself, I am a very jack-of-all-trades, common-sense sort of person. And I learn visually and by doing kinesthetically. And I have to remind myself to learn how my clients learn. How do they learn information? There are people, I am so humbled to be with these brilliant people on this panel because they are brains. I am the common-sense person you'd want to have on the island with naked and afraid of survival. You know, that's me. Prackled down to earth. And it doesn't make anyone better or worse or anything else. We all learn differently. We all have our intelligence differently. And really finding a way where you can relate to your client, speak on their terms, remembering that when you're teaching someone, when you tell them, they only are going to probably remember 5%. When they read it themselves, it's 10%. How you put in a program goes up from there. And then actually getting someone and teaching information is where you start absorbing. So going through those phases, and you may have to repeat a lot when you're teaching somebody information, is finding their learning skill, repeating it, having them do it. That sort of process has been very impactful for me because it makes you realize that oftentimes we look at people or clients and they're not speaking the same mental language that we are. And they're brilliant people, but we have to learn how they obtain knowledge. How do they give knowledge? And speaking to them... oral control to be more specific oliform pretension, contraception, individuals who skip breakfast are also more likely to smoke cigarettes. And so in that study, they did not control for cigarette smoking. So just because people skip breakfast, that itself may not lead to a negative health outcome as opposed to smoking or alcohol or some of the habits that we know have a very definitive effect. So we live in a very aha, gotcha type of society right now where I think we have a lot of confirmation bias. And so we skim through headlines, all the social media to find something that meets our beliefs system. And then we pull that out. We're like, aha, see, I told you this is what's going on. And so I think trying to eliminate that confirmation bias, understanding that association versus causation, that just because two related items are related does not mean that one caused the other. And so if I had 60 seconds to talk to my students, that is what I would try to get through to them. And so we just have to really understand the purpose of social media and news snippets and influencers that their purpose is to sell us information. And so looping back to the disclosures of the authors, what is the intent? What is their purpose? And just really having that question everything mentality without being a total pessimist and finding that sweet spot. Fantastic. All great advice. I want to thank our panelists so much for your time and your wisdom. We're all better for it. And now I think we're at the time where we can open up the discussion to receive somEQuestions from our attendees if there are any. Also on the screen here and included in the slide deck is a list of resources, a lot of those papers that we discussed today are included in those resources as well. Thank you, Sabrina. And thank you everyone for joining us today to talk about and learn about the nutrition and physical activity when science meets application. On your screen, you should be able to see the contact information for all of our great panelists and our hosts for today. Be sure to jot down their information if you are interested in further connecting with them. And again, that networking piece, right? If you enjoyed today's session and today's content, there are other continuing education webinars and courses that are related to this topic. So make sure to check those out as well. All right, so now on to somEQuestions. First of all, everybody is really excited and thanks you all for clarifying a lot of information. I have a question here from Chrissy. They're asking, what does the panel think about twin studies for nutrition research? Anybody would want to take that one? I'll comment briefly as it's a nutrition related one. I haven't watched it. I'm sure they're referring to that Netflix documentary in the Stanford study. I haven't dove deep into those yet, but that's, I don't know if you know who Andy Galpin is, a practitioner, researcher, Cal State Fullerton. He tells a story of how one of his students has a twin and he's like, you're a twin and like you're an athlete here. It's like, come on, I want to study. Having said that, you can still have your research biases involved in the research. So I'd say the potential is certainly there, but we still have to critically assess the conditions and the research and all the controls of the study, whether it's the clinical trials or the clinical trials. We still have to critically assess the clinical trials and the research and the conditions and the research and all the controls of the study before we can say, yes, absolutely, that is very applicable. And I would also just add that it's taking a twin study and then applying it to a large population probably isn't very practical because we're looking at very specific set of twins. But I find that fascinating, that area of research. All righty, and then we have another question here. Other than ACSM and AMA publications on new research applications for health coaches and personal treners, what do you recommend for further information? And this question is from Susan. In terms of looking for that information, like actual databases or sources, I'm assuming, or did I interpret that wrong? Yeah, so other than ACE and the AMA, do you have any other organizations that you can look to for this type of information? Specifically for health coaches, the NBHWC is a great source for information. They do have a lot of publications and access to different journal topics and things like that, that's great. You can always, like a local library would be a really great place to find peer-reviewed scholarly research through their databases. A local college or university would have access to that as well. I would also add PubMed, because PubMed is the National Institutes of Health database for, most are open access, but if nothing else, you'll get an abstract of health and behavioral science-related research studies. And the website itself is free, and a lot of the studies on there are also free. They have a very robust search engine for any type of topic that you're interested in. All righty, thank you. I think we have time for one more. This one is pretty interesting from Mia. How do you recommend approaching a client who asks about an unsafe practice that they read about or heard about that you might not agree with without making the client feel foolish for asking? That is such a beautiful question. So, I think we have a strategy as coaches that we can use called Elicit, Provide Elicit. I think really one of the first things is knowing that they are coming to you because they have a natural curiosity about it. And it's okay if you've created an environment where it's okay for them to ask questions and they feel safe. The fact that they've asked you that question, I think speaks very highly to the practitioner and the environment they've created. So, first and foremost, recognize that. And I think asking thEQuestion of, oh, okay, that's interesting. What drew you to that subject or what interests you about that? Like respond with your own set of curiosity so you can kind of understand where the client is coming from. I always encourage coaches and professionals approach things like a child from a childlike curiosity. Kids ask questions unbashfully, you know, and because they're naturally curious, not because they have a judgment, but because they want to know. So, how can you apply that in your own practice? And then once they've answered that question, you could respond with some sort of reflective statement about it. Sounds like you've learned quite a bit about this. Would it be all right with you if I shared some more information with you? Get their permission. That way you're not shoving information down their throat, but you're asking them. Great. I would love to share this with you. And then you can kind of engage in this conversation. Following sharing that information, you can then ask them. So, what if any of what I've shared with you is interesting to you? And just really trying to get to the heart of what is their motivation for asking? Is it because they're not achieving success in something? So, they saw this and they're like, should I be doing this kind of a thing? I think always ask questions. Well put. Thank you. Thank you, Aaron. Thank you, Justin, Peg, and Sabrina. And just as a reminder for today, you can earn your CECs for this course once it is posted on www.acefitness.org slash past webinars. prolactinrun in conqueror pans, prolactinhops 4 in commerce research, trailer, soup, soup doctor, noodles in sour soup, nose drinking soup, braggartykid legs, braggartykid woks, braggartykid face, braggartykid Contour, braggaritykid faces, braggartykid pleats, braggartykid braggartykid legs, braggartykid size, braggartykid craze, braggartykid elbows, braggartykid elbows, braggartykid elbows, braggartykid braggartykid octopus, braggartykid has 18ellenbi umas, braggarty a friend program. You can earn a $50 gift card through this program. All right, and we have an upcoming live free webinar on Wednesday, May 1st at our regular time 11am. This will be a topic around inclusivity and action and building a thriving special needs fitness business. And just a quick reminder of how you can connect with us on the different social channels with Ace Fitness. And before we log off and sign off, do any of you have any lasting impressions, lasting insights from our panel? I think just ask what's in it for me. If you are reading through something, and by that, of course, what's in it for me, what's in it for your client, what's in it for me as a practitioner in my situation. And if you're reading about apple cider vinegar, and how it can improve glucose control, but the study was conducted in men in Japan who have obesity and type two diabetes, you might only be able to pull a little bit of those details. So always have a very questioning mindset when you're reading some research and ask what it's in it for me and how this is going to best apply to my client or my population. Yeah, I think building on that is don't be afraid to ask like, what does this mean? Because as Sabrina said at the very beginning, like these types of articles and research papers have a specific language. And sometimes it can be really difficult, because they're lengthy. They have a lot of statistical jargon. They have a lot of like, it's peer reviewed writing. So don't be afraid to like reach out to your network, someone else in your network and be like, I came across this, I'm curious what your interpretation is of it and how maybe it could benefit the practice that we engage in with our clients. I agree with what Erin says there. It's so important that when we're looking at these papers, that sometimes you feel like you're reading above your level, you kind of get lost and you've read the sentence four times. And it happens because there is a jargon and it's getting into the rhythm of these papers and understandinGHow they're written. But don't be afraid of that, because of that, because the more you know, the better you are. And it will take time, as we've discussed before, on really feeling comfortable with that knowledge. But the more comfortable you are, the better it's going to be for you and your clients. And reach out, we talked about before, the networking, you know, going to other people and asking information. These sort of webinars are a wonderful place. Don't be afraid to ask questions. Do go to conferences and meet new people and don't feel like your questions are stupid. We all feel that when we're going to ask a question. It's like, am I going to look like the dumb person because I'm asking this? You're not. Trust me, IMight be that person sometimes, but it's okay. We need to make sure that you ask thEQuestion because that's how we learn and that's how we understand. The only stupid question is the one you don't ask. Exactly. I just like to close by saying that researchers themselves love to learn and they love to put the information out there. And you're looking at co-authors on important published scientific papers here on this panel. And if you'd like to reach out to them or to me, please do, because we love to share the information. And if something isn't making sense, again, a great resource. Reach out to us. LinkedIn is probably a great place to get connected and share the knowledge. Well, again, thank you, everyone. Thank you for sharing your expertise and your insights and answering our pros questions. Without being said, have a great rest of your day and we'll see you on the next one. Thank you, everybody. Bye. Thank you. Bye. Bye.