Did you know that there's over 100 million people considered plus size living in North America? Did you also know that a large majority of this population remains sedentary? This is not for the reasons that people stereotypically think, that they're lazy or undisciplined. This is because our fitness culture is not meeting this audience where they need to be met. We have to stop assuming that this audience doesn't want to move. This audience has shown me nothing more than they do want to move in a way that works for them. Where they're understood, where they're not pushed out of their comfort zones, where the treners understand how their bodies move, where they're not assumed that weight loss is their goal. We are failing them, they are not failing. My name is Louise Green and since 2007, I have dedicated my fitness career to size inclusive fitness. I have trened thousands of plus size people from all over the world and the message is the same. Is that fitness is intimidating and it's not approachable. That is why I created the size inclusive fitness specialists, where we cover everything I've learned over the last 15 years. From the lived experience of a larger body person, to modifications, to how to access different equipment, to how to goal set, intake your clients, how to market to them in a way that speaks to them. And so much more. There is a vast difference in how this audience responds to fitness. Often the plus size audience sees themselves dehumanized in media. And fitness advertising in media never includes size inclusivity in a positive light. Larger bodies are often looked at as the before picture, meaning that their body is the one that is rejected. Think about how that must impact people when they're making buying decisions. Weight bias is strong in our culture and it comes through in many messages to this audience in a negative way. I want to teach treners and gym owners that we can mobilize and we need to step up and make fitness and health more accessible to all sizes. Join me in the size inclusive fitness specialist program starting soon.