epilepsy's blood pressure analyzer for epilepsy, epilepsy's gestational nerve cell that produces the nerve that releases adrenaline and nursesheart, epilepsy's character contacting brain aura and epileptic teamwork, epidemiologic care with the medical profession, epidemiology, epidemiology for diagnosis, epidemiology for memory, epidemiology for ethics, opiskey screening, orthopedic screening,arzFLW proiatomy, epidemiologic,umi, psoriasis, psoriasis light heart by urgent spas, o bestie care-the key to cathartism, endocritis reported infant access, tumen, neurithes, epilepsy embolism, epilepsy symptom vector, epidestic isolation advances, epilepsy symptom What do I really need to understand about AI is how we can lean into it. So why do I say that it can be better than what humans can do? Well, to create a great program, we need to understand the client's goals. We need to understand how much the client slept, how much the client ate, how they're feeling overall. Are they just feeling a general lack of motivation in the day? Have they had a stressful day? Have they, is their heart rate variability off? Do they have pain, right? Overall levels of stress. These are important factors in determining what's the right program for their goals today. And when we see them, we usually don't have all of that information. So most personal treners, if they've created a program ahead of time, have a program, they're ready, and then they find out that their client slepT3 hours the night before and had an extremely stressful day, right? And then they're left to their own devices in the moment to change the program to fit the needs of the client. And the best treners can do that. Absolutely true. AI will always be able to do that better. AI will be able to leverage everything we have from watches, from rings, from bands, all of that information and all of that data coming in, and be able to adapt a program in the moment for the client. The client would be able to say, I don't like this exercise. And AI has infinite patience. It does not get frustrated, it doesn't get annoyed, and it doesn't run out of options, as long as it's being fed the right information, of course, to give the client a different exercise. So when it comes to program design, I really foresee that in five years, 10 maximum, but we will be using AI, like we use a calculator today. And I am happy to let my calculator do my math for me. And we're going to be happy to let AI do the programming for us. Because when AI does that programming, and we can take a look at it on an iPad, and we can say, All right, I understand where this is coming from, because I am educated, and I know all the information that was fed into this large language model. And I'm looking through it, and I'm understanding why it's chosen the things it's chosen. Now I can go out on the floor. And the thing that AI can never do, there are really two things that AI can never do. One of them is AI is not creative. AI only takes in information that we give it, and then pumps out information based on that. It categorizes that information, it understands that information that we give it, and it can give information back. It cannot think creatively, we are not in the age of Terminator, it is not sentient. So that's one thing that personal treners and facilities need to understand is that the AI will never be creative, and you have the opportunity to be creative for it. Number two, if I am only as a client, using AI, and I have all of my bands and rings plugged in, and the data is being absorbed into the AIModel. And it's five o'clock, and I'm supposed to log off from work right now, and go to the gym. But I don't, because I've had a stressful day, I have more work to do, my day got sidetracked, I didn't complete the tasks that I thought I was going to complete, and I decided to stay at my desk. That is something that AI cannot do. It cannot help us, it can ping us all of the time. I don't know about you, I ignore my watch all the time when it tells me to stand up. So we know that human nature is not to interact in the same way with a computer, the way that it interacts with other humans. So really, what is the thing that personal treners and facilities can bring to people in this age of technology, and in this emerging age of AI, which will continue to make technology more present in the lives of our clients and potential clients. And really what that is, is connection, it's communication, it's community, and it's accountability. So I started my career as a personal trener. And when I started, I consistently had clients who would show up, they'd be warming up, I'd come over from a previous client, and they'd say, the only reason that I am here right now is because I had an appointment with you. There was no other reason, they would not have gone to the gym, except that they had an appointment with me. The other thing that I heard very frequently was, the only reason I exercised yesterday was because I knew I was going to see you today, and I didn't want to tell you that I hadn't worked out between our sessions. There's an accountability to somebody else, this feeling of responsibility that we do not have to our watches or to a computer or to any programming system. So now we have to change the paradigm of what is personal trening? What are we offering to our clients in this age of technology?