 TIP T3, All right, so we first got the Goblin Camp. So the first thing it teaches us is actually about how to capture the stone. So I'm going to assume that you're kind of at this level, and then I'm going to introduce these concepts. So we're going to start out as a complete beginner. So in this case, the liberties are the lines touching the stones. So here we can see that there's four liberties. And then when you have stones that are connected like this, they actually share their liberties. So here you can see that there are actually six liberties. So in this example, it shows our first concept, which is capturing a stone. When a stone has zero liberties, you can lose that stone and it'll be captured. All right, and now we can go ahead and go into our puzzles. So let's go ahead and start our first puzzles. So in the puzzles, we are going to learn how to capture. This is our first attacking concept is how to capture a stone. So in this case, we're going to do exactly what the example said. We're going to capture a stone like so. Now, the cool thing about some Mega Dragon is there's actually a feature that allows us to edit the board and stones. So I actually want to change this up because I think it'll make a little bit more sense for beginners. If we use these handy dandy squares, I think squares make a lot more sense for brand new players. We will switch it back soonish. But I just want to show this concept with squares just until you understand what a Liberty is. I kind of like this one. So we can do the line color to be white. So the cool thing about this, the reason I like squares so much is because it makes it easier to understand what a Liberty is. So how many sides does a square have? It has four. So in this case, there's only one side left because the edge doesn't count. So there's only one side left to capture the stone. So if I block that edge of that square, I capture the piece. In this case, there's two edges of the board that don't really help white. So the left side and the bottom side, there's no extra lines. There's nowhere to go. So those are already filled. So in this case, we can actually take the last Liberty right here. All right, and we're going to continue on. These two are connected, and you can tell they're connected because of the sides. If I was to place a piece right here, you can tell that this piece is not connected to the stone right here because the corners of the square are not touching each other. You need the sides of the square to touch each other. So this would be connected to the lava stones, and this one would not because you want to look at the edges of the square. So these two are connected through the edge. So when I play right here to capture the last Liberty, they'll both be captured. Okay, let's do it again. This one is actually an important concept, though. When you are attacking your opponent, when you're attacking their stones, you want to make sure that you're attacking from a good direction. That direction is pushing them to the edge. So this one is actually there's a trap. So if I place right here, I will capture myself. So the reason for that is when I play right here, you can see there's only one edge of my square left, and the ice will capture me first. But if I attack it from this way, I have two edges of this little lava piece, and white will only have one, so I will win the capture race. So the concept here is to push it to the edge and trap it along the edge. So I'm sure that you're seeing that the lava pieces are trapping the ice pieces on the bottom edge. But I want you to take into account the left edge and the right edge. So the ice pieces have more room to go left, whereas they have less room to go right. So we want to push them to the right because that will trap them against that edge. So here the piece is going to counterattack. So they're going to try to capture my piece before they capture theirs. So this is what's known as a capture race. So instead, we're going to go ahead and capture them. We could try to attack this piece, but anything we do, we'll just get captured. So we have to capture them first. All right, so we can go ahead and capture here. And this one, you can see all of the sides are connected. So all the three of these pieces are connected. And all of the edges of all the squares are blocked except for this one down here. So let's go ahead and play there and capture it. All right, so this one is teaching us our first interesting concept about illegal moves. So this one shows that, hey, there's only one edge left that's shared between all of these pieces. All of them are connected because this piece connects to this piece. This piece connects to this piece. So they all are connected. But if we play right here, you can see that I have no actual edges exposed for my lava stone. It's completely surrounded by all the ice. So if I place right here, you would think it would be an illegal move. Normally, that is the case. This would be an illegal move. However, there's one exception. If you are capturing something, it's not an illegal move. So because this is the last liberty of these ice pieces, it is not an illegal move. And I can play right here. All right. This is a similar concept, except that the ice pieces are not connected. So each of these pieces, you can see there's no edge connecting to another one. So they're all by themselves. However, it doesn't really matter because they all share the same liberty. So it'll just take one move to capture all the pieces. All right. So moving on to capture number two. Now, this one, we're going to start adding more pieces and get a little bit more complicated. I encourage you to go through this on your own as well. This is sumegadragon.com slash campaign if you wanted to try it on your own. And we're going to go through and we're going to go through this a little quickly because I don't want the video to be too long. But I want you to understand that I'm looking for the edges that are exposed and the ones that don't have a lot of extra liberties. So like these two right here, they have one, two, three, four, five. This one right here has one, two, three, four. Notice how this is a red dot because that would be my last liberty on the lava stones. I would have zero liberties if I played right there. So it's an illegal move. And then these five pieces only have one liberty. A good habit if you struggle with this is to find all the groups. So the pieces that are connected and then count how many liberties they have just to see. Some of these I think can be obvious, but some of them maybe you struggle to see. And whenever you're struggling, just count them. So these five pieces, I can go one, two, three, four, five, six, seven. And these two pieces only have one. And I know that they're not connected because there's no side face touching another side face. All right. And now we can see this one has one, two, three, four. This one has one, two, three, four. These two have one. So that is my answer. All right. And there's a lot of pieces here. So maybe you can pause the video and try to solve it yourself if you are struggling with this at all. But there's only one group that has one liberty left on the enemy side. Even though we have two groups of ours, you can see that if I play right here, I'll get captured. Or if the ice plays right here, I'll get captured. If the ice plays right here, I'll get captured. But I can actually just capture these. Okay. Similar situation. We are just going to take the last edge of these pieces. And then here we're going to take the last edge of the pieces. All right. And here we have another one. We are in another capture race because these two pieces only have one liberty, and these five pieces only have one liberty. So we're going to take that last liberty. Okay. We're in another capture race. These two pieces only have one liberty, and these four pieces only have one. We're going to take that. All right, and then let's move on to capture number three. All right, and now we have that situation again where it looks like it's an illegal move, but it's not. So we're learning how to capture pieces where it looks like it's an illegal move. But as long as it's the last one, it's okay. So here, these three only have one liberty. Again, they're not connected from edge to edge, so the corners don't connect. You need a side face to a side face so I can capture that. Okay, and we're going to take these. And I do get captured back. So this one's okay because I'm capturing three pieces, and they're only capturing one piece. So they do capture back, but it's okay. And I'll go right here. All right, and this one, the little H, only has one piece left or one liberty left. So I'll just go ahead and take that. And this is another. I capture them, they'll capture me back, but it's okay. Three, four, one is a good trade. Okay, and capture these. All right, and then we have the corner, which is the least amount of liberties. So you can see both of these faces only have one line left. I'll capture it. All right, so we'll go ahead and wrap it up here. I don't want the videos to be too long. I think this is a good length for starting out. And in the next video, we will go through our introduction to cuts, and we'll see how to win and play Gabi, our first AI, go AI robot. We'll see you next time.