 I'm all joseki's. Do you connect that? I thought you do, I guess if you want the cutting points you can. Yeah, I guess it's good, I guess it's good. Um, this is the first odd move, so this is probably the first mistake. Oh, deadgummit. Oh, deadgummit. You are not premium, so I have to upload it to my account. There you go, here's a full AI review. Hmm. Maybe on a good day I could find this move. This is a hard position to play from. Yeah, this one is the first odd one. This one's slow. Yeah, I think the big key here is you didn't find this move. It seems like you're a little impatient to gain a lead. Gotta be more comfortable playing close games. Your fighting's fine though. for doing track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track track Thank you. If I sign up for your lessons, I can make a list of my OGS games. We can go through them for one hour. Yeah. So lessons are voice calls on discord and we spend one hour analyzing your games that you want to look at. Ideally your losses. And then you, I assign you homework and I write down my notes. So to be a little bit more in depth and also I'm more focused. So since we're on call, we'll be able to have a conversation. You can ask more questions. I won't be as inclined to just get off topic because it'll be a lesson. So I'm going to focus a lot more on the student versus in a quick review like this or whatever, I'll get off topics or talk about some. Um, uh, yeah, that's, uh, that is a, how lessons work. Um, if you want to do once a month, I think that's fine. Just try to play games, uh, as well, because I want you to get the most value for your money. And what I do is I magnify your efforts. Like I multiply your efforts. Like, so if you're playing like five games a month or 10 games a month, it's not going to multiply as high as if you were playing 30 or 40 games a month. So I want you to get the max value for the lessons. So I want you to make sure that you're playing games, uh, in addition to getting lessons, um, because I want to maximize your value. Yeah. So black's aim here was to cut white, but I don't think that white gets cut. Cause I think the double honey works. Yeah. 2.4 points. Oh, it's a co. I didn't see this move. I didn't see this move. Yeah. Oh, did gummit. Not what I wanted to do. Okay. K3 is unfindable. Um, I was looking at this move. So maybe it's possible to find this one. Uh, maybe with enough reading here, but not in a, maybe not in an online fast game. Doesn't show time controls. I go Congress. I might be able to find this move, but maybe not in a five minute game. What is this move? This is not a shape. I don't like this move. I don't like that move at all. Uh, this should be the shape because it's an elephant's eye. 25 minutes. Yeah. I honestly, I'm surprised you didn't find the double honey. Maybe if you had seen this move, maybe that's why you didn't play it, but I didn't see this move and I'm not sure if you saw this move, but even if they find this move, I think it's fine because you can always connect under. Okay. I really don't like these diagonals that you played. I think you like these diagonals too much. And not giving any Panuki. Panuki towards an open center though is, uh, the key. I do agree though that this group is very weak, which is a problem. Do you have time for this? What am I here? Does that fix it? No. Yeah. No. What's the problem with this move? I want an N6 of black Tanuki. Yeah, but black's not going to Tanuki. If I was black, I'd be trying to, uh, squeeze this and connect while cutting you is what I would be trying to do. I don't know what I would come up with. I would be reading. Um, I would spend a lot of time here, but I would be trying to cut you off while still keeping my connections alive. If I'm black, I would be trying to cut you like crazy. I would be trying everything to cut you. Night's moves are cutable. If, if these were the only two weak groups, I would agree with you. But you have another weak group over here. Night's moves are cutable. Yeah, night's moves are cutable. Uh, the problem is you have two weak groups, not just one. In my opinion. In my opinion. This is all my opinion. Somebody's doing something wrong. Is that enough points? If you do this, is that enough points? First off, what's wrong with this move? I'm sorry. I would have never found that. I don't think I would have ever found that move. I don't think I would have ever found that move. I don't know. This feels passive to me, but. Yeah. It's impressive. It's really impressive. I wouldn't have found it. Probably. Did you count? This has to be you counted that you were ahead. White's up by 11. Then yeah. You must have counted that. You never count? What? How do you have the confidence to just play this slack move? If you haven't counted the board? How do you know this is the biggest endgame move? Like, what about this move or something? How do you know if you don't count? Never count. Freaking Westerner. I found it funny. All my Asian teachers were like, I can't believe people don't count. How do they make a score? How do they know the score? All my Asian teachers were like flabbergasted that people in the West don't count the board. Oh, come on. This doesn't work. That has to be the move. That has to be the move. Yeah, it's a three-point loss. Here's something that I'm noticing. Here. And here. And the double Hanay here. You are assuming the shapes don't work. Normally, your instincts are correct, but you still have to double check. You always read them. Even if they don't work, you still double check because sometimes they do. Right? But if it looks like it doesn't work, you kind of assume that it doesn't work instead of actually double checking that it doesn't work. Like, you have to read it. Your instincts will give you an estimate, but you need to know that it doesn't work. If you're not going to play it. And I think you have a habit of just only using instincts and not reading. And your instincts are strong, but... Yeah, I can see you not liking B. That's fair. I couldn't read it in 30 seconds. Okay. If you go here, you're going to die. Do you die? Because if not, this should be more value. Okay. I want to say connection is better. Because when they connect, you don't want to go here. So, connection should be better here. Oh, I would be reading so hard to kill black Dang it there's no killing black what I'm looking at is if I can try to cut black off here somehow I don't think anything works though I don't think anything works Yeah, two is two is sente Oh, yeah it doesn't matter, I guess I was thinking about the fact that there's I shape here but I guess it doesn't matter but what I was looking at is can I kill the whole black group? Yeah Okay, okay I'm amazing I am AI level I am awesome bow down to my greatness One, two, three I read three AI moves Okay Three in a row I read AI moves I am amazing They have decent endgame That's That is sentei What? What? What? What am I missing? Where's the second eye? Where's the second eye? What am I missing? O13 O13 H15. Oh, oh, oh, 13. I go here. H 15. Oh, this one. Dead gummit. Dead gummit. I didn't see that one. I was looking at that one and that one. Ah! My life and death is bad. Cut? Cut what? Oh. Oh. I didn't read it far enough. I'm sorry. My stream reading is failing me. That's not a co-threat then. This is not a co-threat. It's not a co-threat. Oh, what a blunder. Wait. Wait, what? What? What? What just happened? Hold on. What? What? What? Did Blackknot realize? Oh, no. How did he forget? That's what this entire co-fight was for. Oh, that is so unfortunate. He forgot what the co was about. That's funny. That sucks. That's funny, though. I think... You could read more than you are. I think you're slacking a little. Also, you should learn how to count. I think you're stronger than Winky. Well, I don't know. Depends on how much effort you put in. If you put in enough effort, I think you're stronger than Winky. I think you're stronger than Winky.