 Hopefully you can see the board okay, make sure everything looks good. Oh, that is loud. That is really loud. That is really loud. Need that. You are black. You are black. Okay. Okay. So you wouldn't want to play this one just yet, because the left side and the right side have nothing on it yet. So you would want to play on the left or the right. Because the top side there's already been an extension, so you don't quite need to play there yet. So maybe an extension over here. Maybe play over here to prevent White's extension. You could also approach White. Mm-hmm. Yeah, this one's fine, but the same thing, the right side first. Open sides first. Interesting. This one's not bad, but according to my basics for double digi-queues, you are supposed to save your stone first. And right now your F3 stone is getting surrounded. So you want to go back and make a base, and this sort of third line, fourth line, third line combination is a great way to make a base right here. Before that, if you want, you could also make an exchange. You can say, hey, I'm going to live in your corner. They say, no, you're not. And then you're going to say, okay, then I'll go live on the side. And you made a little nice exchange first. This would be a very basic way of playing. This one is fine, but it does define the basics a little bit. Because when White goes this way, this F3 stone can get cut off. Now, I don't think it's good for White to play this way, though. Yeah, I don't think it's good for White to play this way. But like I said, this move is fine. I just want you to understand the basics of how everything works. Okay. Okay. I wonder if you can do this first. I'm not sure. I'm not sure if you can do this first or not. Oh, no, you need to follow this up. And you're surrounding a very large corner, so I think it's perfectly fine for you to do this. But you got touched. You want to respond to a touching move. What in the world? I have no idea what this move does. It just gets cut off, yeah. Yeah, I have no idea what you're doing here. Okay. I don't know why White didn't cut you off, but okay. I think you got to wait a little bit here. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. um i have a lot of thoughts on this actually um i want to say i want to say i like that there's more competition however like you said pulls traffic away from ogs but here's the counterpoint uh how do we improve ogs if ogs doesn't have competition right so i don't really care uh i don't know i used to care i used to say that we all need to get on one server so that way we have a big enough community but i think that is the wrong solution to the problem uh thank you for the problem is there's not enough go players right that's the that's the underlying issue it's not that another server is going to harm the community it's that we don't have enough players to support multiple servers so i think that is that is the issue now having another server if it's also advertising to create new go players or bring go players to the english community i don't think that's necessarily a bad thing um about the server so far i think it's still in the early stages there's uh several things i've been reporting bugs um every so often so i think it's still in the early stages so it's hard to it's not fair to compare it to ogs yet like ogs has been out for like a decade and explore bit has been out what a few weeks um so it's not a fair comparison but i think it's a pretty site and coming along quite nicely it'll be very interesting to see how it develops um and interesting to see how the traffic builds one thing i'm interested to see is how will it deal uh i want to open this in a new tab but i can't let's see this is one of the things that like quality of lives i want to be able to open that in a new tab let's go to explore feed yeah one thing that i would like to see is more community i'm wondering if this will give more uh community so this is one this is a problem that i don't think anyone's solved yet there's no one that has been able to create oh i guess discord has kind of solved it right um it's hard to create a chatting community but i think a lot of people miss the nostalgia of like watching games as a group um on kgs like 20 years ago um so there's a lot of nostalgia there so having a go server that actually people chat on would be interesting but i don't know if it's going to solve this problem but it'll be interesting to see if it does or not i think this is going to be more like a facebook uh where it's like once a day or something yeah i i think kgs just lost support the owner slash creator just wanted to do other things in life and then no one could take his place so that is the unfortunate thing that happened there um i think discord has replaced the chatting community so if someone can compete with discord with their go site i think that would be very interesting uh this is an idea that i have on some mega drag as well where we have a feed i have a theory that this is not the solution yet but um another theory that i have is like make a discord clone on your go server where you can have rooms or whatever but i just don't know if that would work or not right ideally you would just integrate your discord go server like the online go club into the go server but obviously that's not that easy to do if even possible because anything that transfers traffic away from the site is probably going to be not good um but right now i think it's a very nice go server i don't think it's to ogs level yet it'll be quite a while before it gets there but they are sponsoring today's stream to uh show you guys they said hey check us out we're new we're cool we're checking it out today um but i've not been shy about my bug reports sponsored or not sponsored i am not being shy about the bug reports um b15 b15 b15 b15 eh that's possible um you know why does it have a nice book why can't do this uh why can't do this like i said it's possible c8 um locally i really like this move i'm just not sure if it's the biggest thing to do yet so you gotta think uh do i want the top left the bottom left or the bottom right now i said already that this is the move that i think should be played because it's urgent it's been touched um so i think this is the move that should be played the top left looks kind of scary so i want to find a move up here you could also look at this move to attack this white stone um or maybe this move uh to reduce this area while building the top right because if you get this jump here it starts looking quite nice uh but if i said the bottom left was the big thing to worry about then i think this move is a very nice invasion point for the bottom left so i don't disagree with you locally but i think globally probably um probably not the biggest move but yeah this one's a little bit slow i think because you don't need a base here you want to think about bases more uh this is building the bottom but the left is bigger than the bottom uh maybe yes yeah i guess it's fine okay no you can't keep doing that that's not how that works you can only do it once someone is going to get cut if you keep doing this like something deserves to get cut here you can't do elephant elephant elephant it's not a herd of elephants here a herd of elephants has a lot of cutting points no you need to like reduce it somehow like get over here and reduce redo or invade you have to do something about this this is like a quarter of the board i want to hit up and down okay what the heck are you guys doing what is this you got an elephant into an elephant into an elephant into an elephant a herd of elephants just cut it just cut it stop doing it you're just trolling now now you're just having fun playing elephants this is not ghost strategy this is you having fun playing elephants just cut it elephants are cuttable i think this is kind of silly right here i think we're going to be fighting over damai or neutral points so i don't think there's any really interest to play right here i think you need to destroy this i don't know where though hello page welcome welcome thank you thank you it's nice to finally get a cut every single day i'm like do i want to go get my hair cut or do i want to go to work and i'm like i want to go to work i want to make money not lose money so i finally took the time to actually get a cut uh don't push diagonals this forces them to fix their cutting points that's a bad exchange you want to fix go here um none of this feels important i want to be playing the top left the top left feels important um yeah right like i want to do cool stuff to take care of myself or make myself feel nice but i like money it would keep that cute what what what is happening right now if we go if one goes right here this is not a ladder right so it has to be a net but then we do this this this this this this this this okay that is a ladder it's a net ladder is it 24 can a 24 q read that ominously i'm surprised that 12 q can read that maybe if you're doing a lot of ladder goat problems i'm really surprised that the 24 q can read that okay so i do like this you're cutting off this stone and what you're doing is going to use the fight here to destroy the top left but again the big no keep going keep going the big thing is you want the top left i think the big thing in this game is you're not seeing the biggest framework gotcha yeah you're you've got to be on the big framework you got to be on the big thing you have to have the global vision you don't get distracted by a lot of pretty shapes or funny looking shapes or any of that you need to be at the big picture what is the biggest thing to do and do that every turn and every single shapes are just your way of moving so you can have pretty shapes or funny shapes but if you're walking around in a circle you're not going to go very far no matter how good looking your form of walking is right you have to be going to a destination shape is your movement to go to that destination so you have to know where you're going or where to play or where you want to be and use shape in that place yeah this is a quarter of the board what? why? these three stones are dead yeah? so pretend it looks like this why did you why did you play right here? alright that doesn't make sense this is cuttable so remember remember this works like this right? but what if I play right here now you have to fix and then I cut you off so don't forget about your sequences I would like this to be a little bit bigger I'm gonna I need to keep getting notes because I've been reporting things like crazy some quality of life to the demo board I would like to navigate the three up and down with the arrow keys I would like to go towards backwards with I just spelled backwards if that's not because backwards is not a word an A backward oh my gosh I'm so dumb okay sorry I literally spelled it right on forwards but not backwards that's funny okay with the mouse scroll let me actually put these on different lines make it easier to read I would like a pen tool um I would like the scroll bar on the move tree to be bigger so I can click it more easier easier okay anything else oh yeah uh I want to adjust the sound uh of of the stone click audio maybe even upload my own sound and settings um yeah that's what I got so far hello welcome welcome uh my rank is uh 3dawn AGA 6dawn fox and 1dawn ogs right now and I have deranked 1 rank in the last 5 years so I have 1 rank weaker than I was 5 years ago it's very unfortunate um okay yeah this is technically cutable not anymore but invade invade invade invade cool probably want a 3-3 now because there's not a lot of places to go in the center anymore you kind of gave white a lot of center I think 3-3 is going to be your closest way to live it might even die like the 3-3 might just die but it's going to be your best bet I think like my ghost here I'm not sure how you're going to live you might be able to I don't know it might be possible to live it's difficult I mean there's a lot of points right um there's here here here here here um these are all possible invasion points right yeah these are all possible moves to try to start making some life it just requires a lot of reading well this is interesting both branches light up um another one uh free game tree the game tree on the demo board lights up both branches when it should only light up the branch it will navigate down here's something um that's interesting I cannot code this okay I can code every bit of this but I cannot figure out how to code this stupid tree this tree is complicated as crap for me and I don't get it I don't get it I don't know how it works I cannot deal with the node trees drawing I just I don't get it I don't know how to do it so I know there's some probably some magic science behind it or whatever some just some math but I just don't get it do I know d3 d3 what is d3 uh this feels sentai because you're gonna live in the corner otherwise also life is on the third line not the fourth line fourth line is for escape or development oh no yeah I've heard of this but I've not used it I don't know how to use it but yeah I know I've heard about this I read about this at some point so I wonder if I've figured out if I watch a lot of tutorials or whatever maybe it would just make me a nice looking game treat yeah I'd probably have to watch a lot of tutorials take a lot of tools Thank you. These trees would be a nightmare to navigate a Go board with. This could be quite interesting to play around with. Yeah, I have to watch a lot of tutorials. So these are the possibilities for a Go to rewrite. Here. Here. Here. This one looks like a nightmare to navigate, though. Here. I don't know. Maybe this one could look good because it would have a lot less words. So maybe it would look a lot better. But this one might be... This one might be, though, the tidy tree. It might be the formula that current Go trees use. This one's not my favorite. Yeah, I think tidy tree would be where it's at. Oh. This looks like you're trying to run away. Just live. Yeah, I... This navigation tree really annoys me. I don't like it it's really complicated but like it's so useful like you have to have it it's so useful but it's so complicated okay it looks like you're alive if you're starting endgame this is not the biggest move I think maybe here or here is the biggest move okay maybe something like that or here something like that like that this can be cut huh yeah you really needed this move in the corner okay good that one's small uh this one might be ignorable because it's only two stones compared to something like that so be careful it's not always senti uh you can probably go right here right and just go right here this is the best just do this it's the best no reason to lose that stone that is one point maybe one point two five uh this is bigger this didn't fix anything this literally changed nothing this move is a waste literally changed nothing finally got that move yeah I think your endgame can be improved by like 15 points um the big takeaways from this game though is going to be the biggest framework and let's see the opening it was open sides you're not playing all the open sides the middle game biggest framework for sure don't play weird shapes for no good reason and your endgame can probably improved 15 points as long as you slow down a little bit and always try to find the biggest one don't just play the first one you see that is a bad habit so yeah that is my advice hopefully that was helpful take a look at that take a look at that take a look at that take a look at that take a look at that take a look at that take a look at that take a look at that take a look at that take a look at that take a look at that take a look at that take a look at that take a look at that take a look at that