 naringin, Okay. I'm angry guards. Badgeretta. Badgeretta. See this game. Got myself in trouble. Got myself in trouble. In this game and allowed black to have his way too much. Even gave up a group to easily. Hello, good noodle. Welcome, welcome. Welcome. Joke's on you. I already ate. Trying to make me hungry. I'm hungry. I'm hungry. I'm hungry. I'm hungry. I'm hungry. I ate before the stream today. Okay. You felt the black had their way too much. Mm-hmm. Yeah, they're playing this really annoying style. Okay, but just settle. So far you're playing perfect. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. You could go here as well. I think I'll make a base, but... Eh. The problem is this is only one eye, and this is two eyes. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Probably want to cap. Okay. Okay. Nah, just surround it. Just trap it. Just trap it. It's good enough. It is good enough. Trapping it is good enough. It is good enough. And then you can go pincer over here. You can play a big move over here. Yeah, that's good enough. Okay. Possible. Your opponent... What the heck? So it's just dead. Oh! Premature killization. Okay. Just block and it's dead. Haha. Yeah. It's just dead. Oh! Premature killization. Okay. Just block and it's dead. Haha. Yeah. It's just dead. Oh, you could've killed the whole group. Oh well. Okay. It's good for you. Okay. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. You said you got tricked by black, but black's killing themselves. Of course he wants us to go black's way. Black's plan is to die. So of course you want them to get their plan. Okay. Approach. You could also go for the Chinese opening pattern like this. That's possible. Okay. Okay. Very nice. Um. I think blocking your base is a good idea. Like up here too. I think just blocking your base would make the fights go in your favor in the future. Okay. Okay. You punished. Very good. Okay. So now we just need a big move. Let's look for a weak group. There's a nice floating group right here. Okay. Yep. That one's not good because you're just getting cut. Uh, cut it off. You want to cut the whole group off or whatever, and then run away while trying to surround. If you go like this, then, uh, I'm going to break through your cutting points. And the way to do it is actually here. Like that. It's a clamp to Suji. Um, it utilizes the weaknesses of this cutting point. Basically. uh cut it off you want to cut the whole group off or whatever and then run away while trying to surround if you go like this then uh i'm going to break through your cutting points and the way to do it is actually here like that it's a clamp to suji um it utilizes the weaknesses of this cutting point basically tiger's mouth this is a double tiger's mouth shape this one is very much not a double tiger's mouth shape uh because that's an atari you have to do that so it's a little bit worse because i get another people here um potentially potentially there's a ladder right so it's not nearly as good just just fix it have no agi just peeps no agi yeah the fact that it took you two moves to fix is not good okay go down yep i'm not sure what you're stressing about with this game you're winning maybe you're not counting it but i would you say black's getting their way but you're winning like the game you're doing good i think you're overthinking the game oh dear fix and keep your uh stats yourself right there yeah because you lost your cutting stones uh stay alive stay alive stay alive um let's see how if we can make this not look so scary first off uh we want to just look at the territory right this is territory this is territory this is territory this we want to call a framework or a moyo because i can place a stone in there and survive so it's not territory okay for white this is territory uh this is territory this is territory this is territory this this right here is times two because of dead stones so let's take this cancel out that and then we can take a second part that's this big because of the dead stones and cancel out that so all i have to worry about is this right side okay we can say this and some of this cancels out that okay so all i need to think of is this chunk right here and cancel out the potential chunk right here so all i need to do is destroy one chunk with an invasion so i just need one move over here okay the reason is in white's favor is because big move wise white only needs one move but globally black has a weak group here a weak group here and a weak group here white only has one possible weak group right here so what am i going to do i'm going to fix this weak group in centae right i'm going to play something to fix this weak group in centae um maybe something like this fix my weak group in centae fix my weak group in centae once i'm fixed in centae i'm going to go invade in a way that also attacks their weak group so maybe i go here all of a sudden by me settling myself because defense first but i use their weak group to do it this is very five q plus level thinking but i use their weak group to settle myself and then i go destroy the area that is the only thing that black will be ahead by i destroy it by invading and i use their weaknesses or their weak group to destroy it in centae so because black left weakness laying around all over the board i can do everything i want in centae centae um the moment you can count you should start doing it because even if you can't count you should start comparing shapes because the game is an exchange rate game um you can get an instinct for the score as you get stronger and play more games but technically speaking if you count it you know if you count it then you know that i'm losing by this area or i'm winning by this area or it's an even game um yeah uh knowing what the score is really helps you come up with a game plan so it's hard to make a strategy if you don't know what the score is or what you need to win it's called your win condition what is your win condition how do you know what the win condition is if you don't know the score so the moment you can start counting as close as to as accurately as you can you need to do it um and just understand there's a difference between actual points versus potential points you can count the territory the actual points but the potential points requires a whole move to get it so keep that in mind great i'm glad it helped um and then the second thing you need is you need to keep track of the weaknesses on the board this is the hard part right this is the part that's a lot difficult a lot more difficult for people to understand this is not settled this is not settled this is not settled this is half settled because four spaces one eye okay so we have three not settled things for black and one potentially unsettled thing for white so yeah all that information combined i much prefer uh white in this position because i'm just going to utilize all of this i'm also confident that if the game is within 10 points my end game will catch me up because i've researched my end game now i want you to watch this now this section just got destroyed by half and now black has a section right here which cancels out this section because this this score will cancel out this score so in other words in two moves you lost this entire chunk that is how important keeping stuff cut off is this was your base this was your base so this one was quite important okay keep in mind there's a knight's move right here knight's moves have cutting points okay what about this cutting point though that actually wasn't a cutting point that wasn't a cutting point this is the cutting point this is a ladder this one is a ladder so you made a mistake there you was you assumed it was a cutting point instead of reading it always double check ladders and nets give you more moves ladders and nets means you don't have to respond if you know if you can read them um fix something black's not alive yet black goes a move because black just dead no black's not dead yeah black's not black's not dead but still it's close yeah almost dead okay okay you're attacking this stone but you're severely underestimating your weaknesses down here so right here is good for this area but you are severely severely ignoring this group down here i don't know what that does so you just sacrifice the whole group that's almost a quarter of the board it's like a quarter of the board i don't know if i would sacrifice that um um don't sacrifice groups until five year just get that in your head groups should not die so it's the thing is this is not a sacrifice you died and you accepted that you died it's not a sacrifice unless it was intentionally sacrificed to get something else if you didn't intentionally sacrifice it in advance in your head and you just like oh this looks annoying to live or i'm already dead i'm just going to sacrifice it no that's not a sacrifice you died there's a big difference well you have to get your compensation for the group otherwise it's not a sacrifice so keep that in mind uh you you probably just died uh you did get this in exchange but this is so much bigger so much bigger than that now you're losing by quite a large chunk i would say yeah if i'm black uh i'm just gonna go in i have plenty of cash i have cash for like the next game i play that's how much territory i have i have territory that's going to go leak into the next game that i play that's how big this area is okay this area is future territory as well so just destroy whites and black ones is there anything else in this game this thing game oh okay let's see what happens any exciting stuff the way this will work is your cutting points so just start fixing cutting points whatever they do just start fixing cutting points just fix cutting points they do something whatever just start fixing cutting points that's the only way it can live it can't make two eyes in here the only thing you can do is attack your cutting points so just start fixing cutting points uh trying to trying to find an opening black is testing the agi yeah so the only other interesting thing in this game was black tried to do stuff in the center you you effectively stopped it which is good because you just did your reading um what's the score because you got a lot in that center uh 40 points yeah don't sacrifice dead groups you died yeah um i think that's a that bottom side is where it's at it's not a sacrifice if you die that is a dead group and you should review the game figure out where did you lose control of the group where did you die did you not settle it did you ignore too much that's what you review that's what you find in the review yeah hopefully you enjoy the review and found it helpful and shout out to the lessons i do teach go for a living if you like my teaching style and are considering getting lessons from someone hopefully you will consider me uh we do have a black friday discount code going on uh if you use code b friday um you can actually get 33 off of the lesson bundle packs right there and if you're on some mega dragon and you would like a lifetime membership you can use the code b friday or just click the picture on some mega dragon uh and you will also get 33 off of the lifetime membership which is like a hundred dollars so i don't think i'm going to give a bigger discount for a lifetime ever so i that's the biggest discount i could possibly give on the lifetime so uh if you want that uh it exists for the next two weeks i think however long it is till the black black friday yeah hopefully you guys enjoyed that