 holovarum, holovarum. Hello everyone, this is Clausey, and I'm back with another video. Today, we are going to be talking about SomegoDragon.com and its custom categories feature. So on the homepage, if you scroll down, you'll actually see this categories section. Now in this section, you can actually select a type of puzzle to load and study. capturing stones or capturing pieces, you can select this capture category. From there, you will select what level of difficulty. So if you're a beginner, you would select level zero, and it will load capture puzzles at your level. And then you can simply begin solving puzzles. So going back, let's say you wanted to customize your experience a little bit more. We can actually click this custom button right here, and this will load up all the categories for you to select from. So now let's say I wanted to work on capture and connecting at the same time. And let's say I'm still a beginner and I wanted to select beginner. Well, then I could do that and select start, and it will load capture and connect puzzles, and it'll shuffle them for you so that way you can generate a random list and practice what you want to work on. Now we can actually take this a step further. Let's say you wanted to customize your experience even more. So here's actually a recommendation I have for you. So let's go to custom. Now in custom, I'm actually going to recommend a few categories if you wanted to work on attack and offense. So if you're a beginner, I actually really recommend capturing and connecting first to make sure you master capture and connecting and master liberties. But once you go beyond that, what I think you should work on for attack and offense is actually going to be ladders, nets, connections, let's see cutting and connecting and squeeze to suji's right here, squeeze. So what this is, let's let's go over what this is. So connecting and cutting are and are basically going to be how you are going to attack cutting stones or cutting points. So connecting is going to be fixing your cutting points. Cutting is going to be attacking cutting points. Ladders and nets are going to be capturing cutting stones and squeeze to suji's are going to be bullying the cutting stones. So you maybe not won't capture it, but you can reduce its liberties and create a weak group out of it that you can attack and profit from. Now taking it a step further, if you wanted to get into even more than this, this is attack and offense. But let's say you wanted to do even more, you could actually add on life and death. So that would be taking eyes and making eyes, I believe, let's see making eyes, making eyes and taking eyes. And this is what you will do to attack entire groups that are surrounded. And this is a very specific thing that I want you to think about is life and death doesn't need to be applied until a group is completely surrounded. And once it's around it, then you can think about life and death and maybe potentially win the game instantly. Before that, when a group is not surrounded, you just want to threaten to surround it and make profit while you're attacking. So let's say you wanted to make this list. Now, once I have this list, I think a lot of people are going to be maybe level three, level four, 14 to 10 Q or nine Q to five Q. So let's say I select level three and we'll start this. This will load 327 puzzles because it's my own custom selection. Now what I can do now is actually click this save custom puzzles button. This will actually save this entire collection, this custom set that I've made as a set and I can name it a lot of what. So I can name it attack and defense example. Now I guess I has a limited character. So I can name it attack and defense. So now I can create a set and you can actually do a lot of different types of sets that you want to create. It's a very customizable experience. So now let's go back to the homepage. Let's go to puzzles and click on sets. These are our custom sets and you can see I have several, but let's go to our attack and defense set. Now in this, we actually have two options. So right now you can see it's actually loading the puzzles one at a time. So you'll have to wait a little bit for it to load because it's actually converting them into a set for you and it will go up to 327. So I might, might take a minute while it loads, but once it loads, you'll have access to all of them. So right now if I click load set, it'll load the ones that hasn't set already. But once it's loaded, it'll load the entire set. So if I click load set, it will actually load them in the order that they were added. Now, if I go back and actually click random, so make a list, this will actually take the entire set and randomize the order so you can practice it. Right. And then if you wanted to practice it in a certain way, and you wanted to load set in a certain order, you can actually click this little edit button. And this will allow you to actually reorder the puzzles as you want. So right now it's still adding to them. So I won't be able to show you exactly, but if I scroll down a little bit and I just take this and I want to drag it up or down, I can actually reorder the puzzles as I see fit. So from there, you can again, you have your attack and defense list that you customized. You've created a custom experience for working on attack and defense. You can load the set in the order that you have made, or you can randomize the list in order to practice in a random order. So that is pretty much it for categories and our custom and our sets. So you can customize your experience however you want in order to practice certain things. So that is my recommendation and my advice. Hopefully you guys enjoyed this video. Again, this is SemeGadragon.com. Scroll down on the homepage and this is the category section. Hope you guys enjoyed and I will see you guys next time.