 Hello everyone, this is Klausius and we are back with another Play Go video. Today we are going to be playing Gabi, our first robot in the beginner campaign on Smego Dragon. This video is sponsored by Smego Dragon. So first up, we're going to click on this little book to talk about how to win. So if you haven't figured it out already, you take turns placing pieces at a time, but the way you win is you actually surround area on the board. So in this spot we have black has the circle surrounded and white has the triangle surrounded. But you also count the pieces as well. So in this case, it's area plus your pieces equals your score. In this example, let's go ahead and count that. There would be 2, 4, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10. The player with high score wins. All right, and here is an example game. Black goes first and white plays the attachment, black stretches, white plays the bend or the Hanay. Black stretches again, white blocks, black blocks, white connects their cutting point, black tries to reduce, connect, reduce, block, connect, and that's pretty much it. And in this game it says black is seven stones plus six area, which is 13 points, and white has seven pieces or seven stones plus five area, which is 12 points, black wins by one point. That's a how to win. So let's go ahead and play Gaby. All right, so we're still using our square pieces and then probably in the next game we'll switch back to our circle pieces. This particular bot actually starts with a pre-started position. This is to help beginners spread out a little bit more. So on the five by five, the best place to start is the center point and that is because it is the third line away from all the edges. We'll get more into the third and fourth line as we get into the bigger boards, but just know that's pretty much our starting point. From there we're going to continue to spread out. We want to make our area as big as possible, so I'm going to just spread out here. Our opponent is trying to come under, so in this case what I'm going to do is I'm going to block because of the ice pieces keep coming under. I'm going to lose all of this area, so I'm going to go ahead and block. Now why does it come here? Now we get into a little bit of reading. So there's a couple ideas here to think about. The first thing I could do is simply push right here and then white will connect and then I block. White connects, I connect, but I think I lose if I do that. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen, one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve. Okay, I think I won by one point. So let's go ahead and do this. I think this is what most people would do. I could be a little bit more aggressive by going right here to cut off this piece because one thing you might notice is that this piece is trapped along the edge with only two liberties. So because I already have its head blocked, all I have to do is trap it by attacking from the left and pushing it right and then I'll actually trap this piece right here. I think some people might go right here and then the ice piece would block, but I'm not sure which one would be the best for educational. So I'll go ahead and show you how to attack this piece because it's all by itself on the edge. It's very easy to attack. Just remember that you want to push it to the closest edge. So right now I've already got it trapped against the bottom edge. So now I want to trap it against the right side. So I'm going to play on the left to push it right. And now I can capture it. And then I'm in Atari. I have one liberty left. So I'm going to connect. All right. When they do this, you just want to trap it along the edge. The safest way to do this is to go right here. I'm not sure how much I want to go into this, but this is the safest way to do it is just trap it and capture it. And then we can just capture it. Capture it. All right. This is very, very important. We have to pass now. I have two liberties right now, right? So I can be captured. If I place right here, I only have one liberty left and my entire position gets captured. If I place right here, I will only have one liberty left. My entire position gets captured. If I play another piece, I will lose the game. All of my pieces will disappear. They will all get captured. But if I do nothing, white cannot play right here and white cannot play right here. So this is very important to not fill the last two points of your area because you will get captured. So instead, I'm going to pass. If I played either of those, I would just lose. Okay, and let's go ahead and review. This actually opens it up on the OGS Go server because that is the background API that we're using. I'm going to review this game. Review started. Okay, so let's start over. We did use the square pieces. We'll switch the circle soon. But what I did was I started in the center and then I expanded, blocked, and the other option for me right here was to play right here. They go like this, and then I would continue to block my area. They can't go here because that's a self Atari, which means they would put themselves down to one liberty and I would capture them. So I have to go right here, I go right here, and that game is a different result. I think I counted the black still one though. So but instead I cut them off and trapped them against the edge. They played a minotauri so I connect. All right, the reason this was a little bit tricky was this is safer because no matter what white plays, it's a self Atari. So if I place here, I capture, I place here, I capture. But if I play it this way and white goes right here, I actually can't play anymore. Because if I play right here, I get captured. And if I play right here, I get captured. If I play right here, then this gets into life and death, which we haven't gotten to yet, we will get to it. But this would become a three in real life and death problem, which I get captured. So it's very easy to fall on this pitfall. So it's a little bit tricky. This is my five by five can be tricky if you're not careful. But the safest way was to go here. They play in an eye play. Yeah, that's pretty much it for this game. Okay, so let's pick some nice pieces. I do have a lot unlocked, but I'm going to click on simple to make this a little bit simpler. Which ones do we want? All right, I think this is a very traditional look. So we can go with this. And of course, you can customize your own pieces to look how you want whatever is your favorite, as long as you can play the game and you're enjoying how it looks. I think it's fine. All right, so we're once again going to start in the center. This time we'll go down and set up shouldn't change too much. We could block but I'm actually going to block this one now because it doesn't really change too much. Now when they play this is known as a honey or a bend. If they do the honey or bend on the edge, I cannot cut them because if I go right here, it is a self Atari. So I have to block first, and then they have to fix because they are in Atari. So this is a first line honey or a first line in game move where you reduce it by one point. It's very safe and very effective to get one more point. Okay, they'll go in notice how I'm all connected. So this wasn't nearly as dangerous as the last one. So I'm just going to block and trap them against the edge. They passed. You actually don't have to capture this, but I'll go ahead and capture it just to show you but you actually don't have to. Pass, pass. All right, and we went by two and a half points. All right, so let's review this game. So I went ahead and blocked like normal. So the what I was saying here is this is a nice in game move. It only works on the edge because if I play right here, I get captured. So you have to block first. And then if you ignore, you actually will get captured right. So once they block, you have to fix. So in this case, this is known as a one point go to move and go to means you lose the initiative to play somewhere else first. Sent a means you keep the initiative to play somewhere else first case of sent a go to or keep the initiative lose the initiative. Okay, this is a one point in game move that loses the initiative, but it's okay because you don't have to worry about that right now. But if they play right here, I block, they connect black has the initiative or black has sent a. So this is a go to move, but it is a common one point in game go to move and then black blocks there. And then the game is pretty much finished. White could also go right here. This is slightly better in game because this is sent a because when I block, you're not an Atari. So this gets one point and then I can go back up here and do this. And this is one point better than the game. So we'll talk a little bit more about that when we get to end game puzzles. So the reason this doesn't matter. If you want to play it out, I encourage you to just play it out and it's fine. But the reason it doesn't matter for scoring purposes is because the robots are very smart about scoring. So they automatically will know in the scoring phase that this piece is going to eventually be captured. So there's something known as a stone removal phase when you're counting and the bots thankfully do this for us automatically. If you're unsure, just play it out and capture it with your pieces. And that's fine. You don't lose any points. But the bots will determine that this piece will eventually be captured. So it'll just take it off the board for us. If we pass right now, the bot will actually take this piece off for us and then score the board as is. So this would be blocks area. This would be whites area. And then we count the pieces as well. And notice how the score is still the same thing. It still would be two and a half points. It doesn't actually change anything. But for clarity, we went ahead and capture the piece while you're learning. I encourage you just capture the pieces. It's fine. So that is it. We have officially beaten Gabby twice. And then next time we will go into some tricks to capture pieces, which will be ladders and nets. All right. Look forward to the next videos and I will see you guys next time.