 So immediately the first thing I do, click on this. Look at the, look at the, look at the graph. We're going to figure out what this is. Dun, dun, dun, dun. Um, let me, let me get a thing. Black has this, white has this, white has this, white has this, white has this, black has this, black has this, black has this, black has this, black has this, there's a cutting point right here. black has this patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns patterns Um, so there might be an invasion point here or here or here. Um, okay. So I think I have a good grasp of the game. Now, right now, the obvious thing to do is fix your cutting point. You didn't. So the question is why? Uh, this is almost a false eye. So if white goes right here, um, you go right here and you're still alive. Oh no, you just take, hold up, hold up, hold up. You can just take the stone. So I asked. Hold up, hold up. If you take and white goes here and you go here. Oh my gosh. Yeah, I go away. Oh, you take white goes here. You go here. Why goes here? You go here. No, here. I see why you took. Yes, this makes sense. This makes sense. White went here. You went here. So you're worried about what? This self Atari. What are you worried about? So this is what I mean about reading cutting points. If white cuts, you go here. Uh, and that's it. This is a self Atari. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So this is cutting points. If you go here, white goes here. Uh, you're still okay. White went here though. Uh, can you still cut? Because if white goes right here, this doesn't work. White can't cut. So you can just proceed to attack these stones. So it doesn't matter what white does. If white cuts, it does. It's not senti. So I think just connect your groups and white's dead. But now your corner's in trouble. Looks like your corner's alive. Oh, then this isn't alive. Oh, just connect your stuff. Just connect your stuff. Yeah. So this is, this is what I mean. You have to master this. Like at a glance, you need to know it's not cuttable. And that's why we do the problems. Like you, you wake up, you do 50 easy, easy net and ladder problems just to warm up your eyes. And then you play again. The difference is this entire corner from knowing a connection or not knowing a connection, right? So what? Two, four, six, eight, 10, 12. Oh, and white's group. So negative. However many, like probably 50, 60 points. Um, this one is a little bit silly. Now let me explain. We're 7Q. If I, unless you're in time trouble, are you in time trouble? You had 20 minutes main time, so you should not be in time trouble, hopefully. Um, this is solvable at 7Q. I see way too much. And this goes all the way to like 3Q and 2Q. I see way, way, way too much of not solving it and just playing it out. Do not play out life and death problems. Read it in your head. You need to know the answer in your head. So if you play here, uh, you need to know that it's that. Cause you lose all these co-threats, all this Aji. Uh, this isn't even Sentai. Yeah, it is. I lied. I lied. Ignore me. Black's dead, right? This is what I mean. Like, we're just throwing away the game because we don't solve life and death problems. Just solve. Don't just instant play. Solve it. It's dead. It seems so easy, right? In hindsight. But in the game, it's about the discipline of reading it before you actually play the move. And I'll also tell you, between move 120 and 170 is usually where all these mistakes happen. So there's gonna be something that you can call stupid. Uh, but that basically means below your level. There's something, uh, below your level that happens between move 120 and 180. And sometimes between 70 and 180, there might be one or two low level moves that you can take advantage of. But you also have to make sure that you're not the one doing them. Right? So if you take your time and double check things between move like 70 and 180 or 120 and 180, you will likely have a chance to potentially turn the game around in an instant. Because a lot of times things just get rushed and missed between those moves. Players will rush to the end because they're like, they're almost done. They want to stop thinking. Right? Their brain's tired. So they'll start playing faster in the second half of middle game. And that gives you an opportunity to turn the game around. Um, but if you're doing it, then that gives them an opportunity if they catch it. So let's go. Okay. Okay. Okay. You don't have to go with that. Oh, yeah, you do. Right here. Oh, sorry. Right here. There. Now you're back in the game. And then it's a go right here. So now let's get another one. Um... I don't see another one. Yeah, I'm not finding another one. This cutting point really... really screwed you over. Let's see. If you go here, white goes here, you go here. It's a side gate. White can't play... White can't play this move. White can't play this move. And white... White can kill you right here. You go right here. This is the Secchi. This is the Self Atari. So it's a Secchi. It's a corner life and death problem. Is white... Is white dead? Not yet, because that's Sente. That's Sente. But... But... Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. White's alive. White's alive. White's alive. Corner life and death problems. Just... Do go problems... For like... 5-10 minutes... Before you play for the day. Like just every morning... Do 5 minutes of go problems. Easy go problems at that. Like they don't have to be hard. Like do like... 50-100 go problems... In like 5 or 10 minutes. Easy go problems. Corner life and death. Nets. Ladders. Um... Yeah. Semega. Corner life and death. Nets. Ladders. Squeeze. Cut. And connect. Those are the important ones. I don't know if you're on Semega Dragon. But here's something you can do. On Semega Dragon. This is a feature that someone requested recently. Okay. So if we go into puzzles custom... What we're going to do... And let's do... Ladder. Net. Connect. Disconnect. Squeeze. And we're going to do corner life and death. Okay. Let's make it... Level 3 and level 4. Okay. So easy and maybe just a little bit of difficult ones. Right. I don't know. Level 4 might be a lot for you right now. Heck. Make it level 3. I don't care. 607 on. Start. Okay. This button right here was a feature requested... Uh... By someone... By a user. Save custom puzzle. Name the set. Um... Uh... Attack and defense basics. For... DDK. Oh. DDK. Great set. Now you just created a set. 607 problems. Um... And then if you go into your sets... See... Attack and defense basics for DDK. Okay. You have to give it a minute. It has to... It has to save them one at a time. So you'll probably have to give it a minute to get to 600. Um... I need to make this faster. Is there a way to make this faster? I don't think so. Because I did the... The way I do the Semegos is... I get their unique IDs. I don't get the entire Semego. So I can't just add a Semego to the thing. Because I'm stupid. This can probably speed up. Anyway... Load the set. Right now it's only 34, right? But it'll... It'll go up. Uh... And then give it like a little bit. And then you can do like maybe 50 problems every day. And then... Um... It'll be in the same order, I guess. You know what I should do? I should add a feature that says load it randomly. Like it randomizes... The order. Instead of loading it in the same order every time. I wonder if I should add a randomize button. Because that would be nice. If you could just randomize the order and do like 50. Yeah. And then you just do that. Um... Oh crap. It's just here. I'm getting stuck on the... I'm getting stuck on the DDK problems. Here. Here, here, here, here, here, here, here. Yeah. I think this isn't a J group. Because this move doesn't exist. That's a bent four. That's a psyche. I can't do the DDK problem. Oh. Oh. I can't do the DDK problem. Oh. I can't do the DDK problem. Okay. I did the DDK problem. I feel better. Okay. This one, I believe, is just here. Because it's not a ko. Yeah. This one... I mean, these are tougher than I would expect for a DDK problem. Oops. Restart. Oops. Do I start here then? Because I'm trying to get the Atari Atari, right? I want the two Ataris. Yeah. Yeah. There, there, there. That's a DDK problem. There we go. Okay. Is there anything wrong with this move? Yeah, there's a DDK problem. Yeah, that one's easy. All right. Yeah. There you go. That's my, that's my tips. Let's look at the opening. Let's see how you did in the opening. You are black, right? Probably stop the Shimari first. Or since they're going so high, maybe go high. Because they're too invested. Yeah, don't... Don't... You fell for... You got baited here. Look at this crap. Look at this. Cutting points. Right? Cutting points. Look at that. Now white needs something like this. But I guess you just do that. There. There. There. Yeah, I can't cut. That sucks. Yep. Yep. Yep. Sure. Nope. That stone's not important anymore. It's got the value already. You can go here. You can go here. You can go here. And you don't need to see if that's done. It's not a... The thing is, this is not a cutting stone. That's why it's not important. If it was cutting something, it'd be important. But it's not a cutting stone. Like, for example, this one is important. It's a cutting stone. If you want, you could, like, screw their shape up a little bit. If you want. If you want, like, you can just make them really uncomfortable. Ooh. Snooking weak groups, huh? That's... That's not a policy approach. Hey, this just doesn't work because cutting points. Wait, no, no, no. It doesn't work. It doesn't work. Let's capture the cutting stone. All. All. Okay, it looks like you're okay. It looks like you're okay. Yeah, okay, okay. Scaring me. Scaring me, though. Knight's move because this is a tiger's... This is a tiger's mouth. Two spaces and knight's moves are cuttable. So if you get a stone, like, right here, there's a cutting point. Whoa! Red flag! Don't get cut right there. Got cut. Boom. Boom. Is this cuttable? Um... I think it is. I think it is cuttable. But does white die for it? Man, you can read so far. This is a hard move to read. You read further than I can. Nope. Remember the squeeze, the Tsuji's? And check this out. Check this out. Okay, you connect. Yeah, you lose two stones. It sucks. Whatever. But... They connect here, they're cut. They connect here, they're cut. They're not connected. Actually... Are they dead? Okay. They're straight up dead. There's no ladder right here. Yeah. They just straight up die. They just straight up die. If you just save the cutting stones. But here, your cutting stones got squeezed to Tsuji. As white, we could probably go right here. Nope. Don't need it. Need this move. Or something. This is... This is one eye. But these are not cutting stones. Okay? Once again, they're not cutting stones. You don't need it. To capture, you just capture back. That's goatee eye. Does not matter. This feels goatee. But it is pretty big. This is big too, though. Yeah. I think it's just points. And points are not... Important. That's not... A cutting point, so... Not sure why you lowered your own liberties. I guess it doesn't matter. No, I think we have to invade here or here. The top... This top side's too big. Yep. That's a lot of territory. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Okay. Ooh. Two space. Immediately looking for cuts. I'm immediately looking for cuts. I'm immediately looking for cuts. I can't find one, but I'm immediately looking for cutting points. I'm immediately looking for cutting points if I see a two space next to my thickness. Okay. Okay. You have the same idea. Okay. You have the same idea. Unfortunately, it doesn't work, so you shouldn't play it out. Look before you leap. You have to save this one. Okay. You have to save this one because they just do this and that. Okay. nice timing because that's not a cutting stone. Okay. Nice timing because that's not a cutting stone.ggiudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeudeude I'm really debating this move but I think it's bad but I definitely debated it I guess you have to respawn it's painful yeah wait let me check I think it doesn't work I think it doesn't work 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 aww it would have been so pretty if it worked that is not cuttable so you're good that's not cuttable so it doesn't work still not cuttable yet but it's getting close getting close almost cuttable what? how did this work? how did this work? that's an annoying go I don't think black wants to take that go I guess if you do this though I could just go here but then you just take take and then throw in and if they go this way you can still Atari and Atari yeah I don't know but okay cutting them off is good cutting them off is good yeah good good good good good good good good now we get into the life and death yeah see what I mean about them throwing making a mistake they ignored their weak group they lost they forgot about the eyes the game went on so long they forgot about the group yeah and then the unfortunate thing happened yeah cutting points and ooh that's not fun here just go here cutting points and then nice cutting points can you co yeah I guess not huh maybe I don't know Atari it doesn't matter never mind it doesn't matter ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh at least you have a million local threats no that can't that is definitely not bigger definitely not bigger uh this is not this is cutable hmm hmm hmm hmm hmm yeah it's definitely not bigger but it is yeah now you got all your local threats ooh life and death life and death life and death death it's not dead never mind never mind never mind never mind now it's dead this is a bit 4 in the corner bit 4 in the corner bit 4 is dead uh corner life and death corner life and death what is this dude did you forget you were fighting ago no no no no no this is a bent 4 do you know what a bent 4 is i can wait till the very end of the game to start a co to kill you so i i get to choose when i start the co so if i just play to the end of the game get rid of all the co threats and then activate it you die because you can't win the co i just have to wait till the end of the game to activate it hello so good now in some rule sets it'll actually be dead without white having to play it out like depending on the rule set bent 4 in the corner is just dead straight up this is a can you afford that is that is that okay because that's sentai uh uh can you afford that I don't know if you can afford that that's Gotei because they cannot cut you also two eyes is bigger than Dami oh did you resign ouch so corner life and death corner life and death connection cutting points connection I think there was something here as well cutting points that was the one you got correct was this one yeah a lot of it's cutting points you'd be amazed two queues mess up ladders and nuts like you'd be amazed just take your time look before you leap and always be checking cutting points and then just every day just do five minutes of Sumego before you play as a warm up and do that for a year like legit like Sumego are things that will not improve you in a day and will improve you drastically in a year because it's like compounding skill so it won't affect you very much for a day but if you do it for a year then it'll drastically improve your game alright hopefully that is helpful oh oh