 z向zitititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititit me up for a Chinese chess class. I think that was. And I think what happened was that class was full. And then my parents thought that, oh, there's this Go class. So they enrolled me to that instead. So I started playing and I have been playing since that. Gotcha. Did you ever pick up the Chinese chess and see if you would like that one instead? Not really. Not really. Well, we're happy to have you in the Go world. I actually did try to play Chinese chess, but it was too difficult for me. The rules were too, too complicated. I kept getting confused with the rules. Yeah, that's fair. So how do you usually practice Go? Do you play online? Do you solve Sumego, review pro games? Um, yeah, that's pretty much what you just said. Like, I play mainly on Fox right now. And I play like tournaments from time to time. And yeah, I don't practice as often as I do before, because I'm in high school. I do life and death as well. Like, I used to do it daily, but not anymore, which is pretty bad. But yeah. Yeah. My teacher used to get mad at me when I didn't do daily. But I understand real life is the older you get, the less time you have. That's very true. What do you enjoy the most when you're studying? And what do you enjoy doing the most to improve? Still say like, playing games, like it feels good when you win. Like, life and death is a little more tedious for me. Like, but it's good practice. Everyone should do life and death. All right. So can you tell us a little bit about the tournament that you participated in? Like, I have been playing Girls Cup and Redmond Cup since a long time ago. I just played like, I think every year. I didn't like, I didn't make it to the like finals for every year though. But it's like an online tournament. So it's easy to, like, even though my time schedule is pretty full, like, it's really easy to like fit in the time because it's not like a set time for the tournament and it's just like you can manage it. Like you can place it anywhere in the two weeks of the tournament. And you just have to play one game every two weeks. And I think that's pretty good for me. And it's, it has been very, it's really good experience since like, it's, there's not a lot of gold clubs here. I live near Seattle, but I don't go to the Seattle gold club very often because it's still like an hour drive. So, um, especially like, I can't really attend a lot of in-person tournaments. Like these, um, online tournaments really help to, um, improve my like concentration levels and everything like to help me to get more, um, like ready for actual tournaments, like the gold Congress. Yes. Gotcha. So you, uh, play, uh, you play games to prepare for the, uh, Congress or for the tournament itself? Um, for, um, for both, I would say more for myself because I enjoy playing it. I enjoy spending the time to like, um, think about like, to actually be concentrated in one thing and think about each move I'm playing because when I'm practicing online, it's pretty hard to actually like play a three hour game around and then to actually focus on every move that I play. I like when I play on practice, I usually play like, um, like, I don't know, five minute games. So yeah. Do you play on a Fox or Taijum or OGS? Um, I play, I used to play on Taijum, but I switched to Fox, like, um, I think after COVID. Yeah. Uh, I think, uh, I think a lot of people switched after, I think Taijum introduced AI, where you could, uh, pay subscribe or something for AI. I know that's what a lot of, uh, are the Dawn players switched because of that. I actually don't know much about that. I mainly switched because like, it's harder, like it became harder to find people on Taijum, surprisingly. Like, and then I just like, switched to Fox because I guess there's more users on there. I haven't like, played on Taijum for a while. So I don't really have the right to speak on like this topic. So. Gotcha. Well, uh, I also play on Fox every, on, on occasion. So, uh, I'm with you there. Um, what did you find the most challenging? Like, what was the most challenging game or aspect of the tournament that you participated in? Like the most chal- Like the most difficult game, maybe. The most difficult game that I've ever played? Like in the tournament? In the tournament, yeah. Oh, I wouldn't say it's like, I think I treat every tournament game as like, very intense. Like, I treat them very seriously. And, um, it's, um, it's going to be more intense if my, if my opponent is like around the same rank as me, but if there, even though, if there's, I play people like that are, um, lower or higher rankings than me, I still like pay a lot of attention and I still take it very seriously. So I wouldn't say there's like one match that, um, it was like the most difficult match ever. Gotcha. Um, was there any particular strategy or play style that helped, uh, you in the tournament or any, any inspiration that you had? Not really. Just focus and think about what you're playing. I feel like, um, and definitely just do a lot of life and death. It definitely helps you to like, get into the mode of playing. I usually just do life and death before the tournament game, just to get my mind into the zone. And, um, um, otherwise though, like, um, like, I believe like everyone has their own, like, uh, ways to like, think in the game and like, to help themselves concentrate. So I think, yeah. And yours is, uh, doing a bunch of puzzles before the match. Yeah. Yeah. For, yeah. That, and then, um, I, I allow myself to take mental breaks during the game because it's really hard to focus for like the whole, like span of the game. So I, like, sometimes when it's like my opponent's turn, I allow myself to like, just let my mind like rest for a bit. But, um, it might not like suit everyone. I think that's interesting. Um, that actually, that might be helpful to a lot of people that struggle to concentrate for two or three hours straight. I know, uh, I don't play a lot of three hour games outside of Congress, but at Congress, I have to get up and get a cup of water because I'm like, okay, I need to, I need to take like five minutes. So I'll get up and walk around for like two to two to five minutes and get some water in order to like reset. Because yeah, those two to three hour games are no joke. Yeah, definitely. Um, so you mentioned that the tournament is mostly online. Do you play, uh, were you able to go to co-Congress and play there? Um, I went last year. It was really fun actually. Like I have never went to Congress before, like last year. And like, it actually blew my mind last year, like seeing how many people are playing, like in the gold society in America. Like I didn't imagine, like, there's so many people like actually like focusing on the game and playing. And it was, it was a really good experience. Awesome. Um, what would you say your favorite part of Congress? Uh, outside of just being, uh, very impressed about like the, with the number of people, what was your favorite part about Congress? Um, I liked how much, like, how intense that week was with all of my games. Like I, it's really hard to find like this, like the same opportunity elsewhere, like to meet so many people and to play so many like long games that are very like serious and very intense. And definitely you can, like I made some friends there and, um, I believe a lot of people also did as well. Like you can meet other people in the gold society and like, I met people around my age and around my rank as well. Like it was, um, it was very fun to chat with people like that because not many people have the same like background, like the, like have a lot of knowledge about gold, like in the U S. Yeah. Fair. So it's nice to be around like-minded individuals. Um, Yeah. Did you find playing, uh, in a live tournament, was it difficult than playing in an online tournament? Or no, sorry, different, more different. It was different. It's definitely different. And like, you can actually see your opponent. That's one thing. And you can see the board just like right in front of you, like instead of on the screen. And, um, I think the main difference is still like, you, what was your, was actually seeing your opponent, you become more focused on the game because you can actually see your opponent also being focused and like trying to read the variations. And, um, and it motivates like yourself to do that as well. Yeah. Uh, I know a lot of people might talk or think out loud or talk out loud and you can't do that when the person. A lot of people just like also just like use the mouse to try to like, like, like when they're playing online, they try to imagine the variations by moving their mouse around. And you can actually do that too when you're like playing an actual tournament. I think I've seen some adults try to, uh, do that with their finger, but yeah, it's really hard. Um, uh, they actually, uh, my teacher used to get on to me for using the mouse to reach. He's like, you can't do that in person. So don't do it on the computer. Take your hand off the mouse and use your eyes, read with your eyes. Yeah. I used to read the ladder with my mouse, just like doing like the zigzag motion. And, um, yeah. But like when you're actually looking at the board, it's, it's a little different, but it's like, it's much more fun. I feel like to play in person, like you can actually know, like you're playing with an actual person and you're like, it's much more enjoyable. I feel like. Yeah, I agree. I much prefer playing in person, which, uh, I know you said go clubs too far, but, uh, it's one of the reasons I really like having in-person go clubs is because you get that in-person experience, uh, even if it's only once a week or, uh, at Congress once a year. Um, I think it's, uh, very inspiring makes you want to play more, I think. Um, so what are your next goals for go? What is the next, uh, maybe in the next year going to look like for you? Um, I'm in my sophomore year in high school. So, um, for if you're just saying next year, I don't think it will be much different because right now I'm mainly focused on my studies and like for go, I play like, um, I try to play as often as I could, but I still like, um, I can't get the amount that I used to play in like elementary and middle school. Um, but I think I'll, um, if I would say like, I, I think I don't really have a particular goal. Like I'll just try to play as much as I can and try to like with this time I have, I'll make the best out of it. Mm-hmm. So it's gonna not take a backseat, but maybe take a side seat while you're focusing on other stuff right now. Um, and just play when you can. Gotcha. Yeah. Um, what advice would you give other people who are, uh, competing and wanting or wanting to compete, um, and go to tournaments? What advice would you have for them? Um, Do you go into like in-person tournaments? Like for people who have been playing like just online? Yeah. So I think there's a lot of people that have never played in person that might be interested or are considering it, but not sure if it's for them. Um, what do you think, uh, you would say to those? People. I think my best advice would just be just go and you'll figure the rest out. Like there will be either people who help you out or you'll figure it out yourself by just like looking around. And it is, I'll, I'll promise it's like, it's very enjoyable. It's much more enjoyable, like, and satisfying to like play with like real people, like then playing like with people, like random people online. You mentioned you made, uh, friends in person. Did that carry over to online? Or do you, uh, is it just people that you meet every, uh, maybe once a year or twice a year? Um, some of them, like, I still like keep, um, connections with like, um, like after the gold Congress and some of them, I just, I meet them once and go Congress and hopefully I'll meet them like this year as well. Um, but I'm not sure. I haven't participated in a lot of Congresses. Gotcha. I know that it was that way for me. There's some friends that I'll be like, Hey, how have you been this last entire year? Uh, yeah, we haven't talked cause we only talk once a year. Um, but yeah, I think there's a lot of, uh, I guess you can call them Congress buddies that you have. Yeah. Um, what advice, uh, do you have for people that want to improve at Go that are maybe struggling to improve or maybe they're stuck? Um, Um, I feel like definitely spend, of course, just like spend more time on life and death. And sometimes it's just like a process that you're just trying, um, like realistically just play, like, um, just play more games and do more life and death. Like the three things that just helps everyone improve is just like play the game, review your game and do your life and death usually. And that will usually get people to a pretty high level. And if you want to improve from there, like, then I guess you have to like, actually pay like a lot, put it in a lot more effort than doing that. You might need to start to study opening study AI, but like, if you want to reach like my level, which like AGA 5 done, like doing that three things are just like enough. Mm-hmm. Uh, this is something I have to, uh, drill my own students about, but how many games would you say is a lot of games per week? How many games would you recommend per week? It actually depends on how long or how serious you're taking those games. Mm-hmm. Like if you're just like me who just plays like five minute games, then I would, I would say 10 is like an average amount. Like you can just play that many. Like, but if you're like, I used to play more serious games, like 20 minutes, like for each person, like those kinds of games. And one game takes around like half an hour to like an hour. Then that kind of games, I feel like just try to play. If you want to improve, play two to three a day. But, um, if you just want to keep up with your, like, I feel like if you want to improve, you should just, yeah, I used to play three games a day. Like when I was actually improving, like from like a lower level. Mm-hmm. When you say three games a day, was that the 20 minute games or was that the five minute games? Like the 20 minute games. So three 20 minute games a day. Um, and now you say you play like maybe five to 10, uh, games a day. Yeah. It's really hard to find like a whole block of like an hour to two hour, like time for me to actually focus on a game, just like, just, um, go for that time. Like, so I just, I mainly just play for fun right now. I might pick it up later after I suffer through my junior year. Yeah. Gotcha. Uh, how was that going? Um, do you have like any direction that you're going with school at the moment? Um, right now, um, it's really hard to say. I'm only in my sophomore year, but I'm, um, in a STEM school. So I'm definitely going towards like the science area. Gotcha. Uh, would you say more, uh, maybe which direction with science do you think it interests you the most, even if you don't go that route? I think computer science, because both of my parents also study computer science and that definitely impacted me. That's awesome. I also got into computer science and fun fact, a lot of Go players are actually computer scientists. So that's interesting. Yeah. I noticed that. But then like, after I was like, um, on the last Congress and I realized how many people actually does computer science or is studying computer science in like universities. Mm-hmm. It's really surprising the, uh, correlation. You would think, uh, it would be very vast, but there's a lot of people that do computer science. Exactly. So, um, bringing it a little bit back around to, uh, the Congress, were you able to play any professional players and simuls or anything? Oh yeah. I got to play with Michael Chen, which, um, like who became professional, like I think the last two years ago. And he's actually my teacher now because of that simul. Oh, nice. Nice. Um, what would you say, uh, would you say that Michael Chen is your favorite pro then? Or do you have a favorite professional that you follow? Um, I don't look much into it now. I used to watch more like professional games and stuff, but I would say like, he gives really good lectures and, um, I think like a lot of his ideas are really like out of the box, I would say like, um, compared to more like traditional ways of like studying Go. And, but like mainly I'm playing for fun right now, so I'm not really trying to do much to improve. So, um, yeah, I wouldn't, yeah, I wouldn't rank like my favorite professional player or yeah. Okay. Um, what is, um, maybe just, uh, what is one of the tips that he gave the, uh, that resonated with you that you think that would be helpful for people? Oh, um, he, um, it's really hard to say like a single point. Like, I think mainly when I was listening to his lectures, there's a lot of ideas that he summarized it in a way that I never thought of it before. Um, like for example, when you are like, um, like when you're attacking or when you're defending yourself, like when, when you're playing a game and you're trying to defend yourself, um, what he said in his lecture was like, once, once you're 80% alive, you are always going to try to go, um, for a counterattack, like, you're like, you're like, you're like a sickness. So people will avoid like in, like to play stones in that area. But if you're only 80% alive, then you can still like do, do things like you can still strike a counterattack without your opponent, like just like defend, just purely defending itself. So like ideas like that, I think was like pretty, like, it's pretty surprising that he summarized it in such a way that is really like, maybe like more of like a rule than like something you just play more games and you learn like, because that's always a tedious process. Yeah, uh, I think great. Um, what advice in general would you give to people, um, for maybe if they're, um, only a little bit interested in go or getting interested in go, maybe they're 20Q or 15Q, what advice in general would you give to them? To improve or like, uh, it can be to improve or to enjoy the game more or anything, just something that, uh, you would like to say to maybe newer players. I think you will enjoy the game a lot more once you start winning. That's the first thing. Like, and then how to win is mainly, okay, first of all, just do more life and dance that really just, um, like once, like there are like a lot of websites that like there's life and death problems. Like I do like the 101, um, weichi.com like that website and they have like different levels. Like once you reach a search, like a higher level of that life and death level thing, then you can, you will see like a, you will see like in your actual game, you have a bit, like a much better like chance of winning. I feel like what you will feel like you are, you improved a lot by just know how to like by calculating more. And yeah, it's not just calculation that the life and death, like gives you like, I feel life and death also gives you like a sense that you know where to play. Yeah. You just know that something works or doesn't work. Yeah. It's like a sense of like an intuition more like, so one thing that I'm noticing, you mentioned a lot of about life and death, about playing lots of games. Um, how did you learn anything about the opening or your modern corner patterns or joseki's or whatever? Um, I, okay. So I, I learned from a teacher, like from the very beginning. So my teacher taught me like the joseki's and the openings and stuff. Um, of course, like, um, it's really important, I would say like to know certain, like, like, especially you are like at like, um, like a lower level. Like I feel like to improve, um, you should memorize that are certain joseki's, but don't like limit like, because a lot of beginners, they start by playing joseki's, but after they play the joseki's, they just don't know what you do anymore. So that's why, like, I feel like it's also very important to get more practice on life and death. So even if you're losing in the opening, you can, you can like catch back, like, by just, um, like the calculations part in the, like attacking and fighting part. Um, so that's kind of a wraps it up for our questions. Um, I'm assuming, uh, that you would highly recommend going to Congress. I know we mentioned that a couple of times, uh, but yeah, you would recommend people go to Congress if they can. Yeah. Definitely. Uh, someone actually, uh, wanted to ask, do you play more by intuition or calculation? Um, I would say always like your calculation is based on your intuition. So you first you like, when you look at the situation, you definitely like produce intuitions of like, oh, I think there's like three spots I'm picking between. And then from there you start to calculate deeper because of course, like we're not like AI who can calculate every like spot on the board. We have to, only like think about certain points and like calculate from there. So, um, that's usually, I think that's what most people do as well. Like it's really hard to do without, um, the other, like most of them. Yeah. Usually what, uh, I tell my students is intuition tells you where to look and your reading tells you if it works or not. Would you agree with that? Yeah. So yeah, you need both. Um, I think, um, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Uh, I really want to thank you for coming on. Sorry. What'd you say? Yeah. I, I like life and that's, I life and that's gives you both calculation and intuition. So definitely do it. Yeah. Oh, uh, someone also asked what plateaus have you faced and how did you, uh, uh, overcome them? Did you get stuck at any rank at all? And how did you overcome it? Yeah. Um, I think I got, like, if you're seeing my main plateau is like right now, yeah. I have been stuck on like Fox six, seven done for quite a while, like two, three years. But, um, if you can say before that, I haven't like my biggest plateau, like it's probably maybe like two, three done and that I just like, I just play more games. Like I, it's just like a lot more like thinking and like games that went, like, that got in, like maybe from AGA two done. And then I just started playing a lot more seriously. And I just pushed myself like, because it's also COVID. So I was like, I had the time to actually like, um, study and like force myself to play like at least two games a day. And it has to be serious. And like, after a while, it just naturally develops, like your population improves, your intuition improves and everything. So playing more games and taking them seriously, not just rapidly playing. Yeah. Yeah. Like a lot of people plays so many games, you can see those like Fox accounts that play, like, there's people who play like 10,000 games. Okay. I don't know how they have so, so many, like so much time to do all of that. But like, if you take one game seriously, it's means a lot more than just like playing for fun, which, which is what I do now. But, um, yeah. But if you're trying to improve, don't do that. Yeah. Um, all right. Well, thank you so much for joining us today and answering questions and, uh, sharing your experience with us. It's, uh, been, uh, I think helpful for a lot of people and inspirational. Um, and it was very nice talking to you. Thank you. It's really nice talking to you too. All right. Uh, well, will you be going to Congress this year? Um, I'm not really sure. It depends on if I make to make it to the final of girls' cup this year, but I would really want to go. I have signed up already. Gotcha. Well, hopefully we will, uh, see you there. Thank you.