 This video is sponsored by cemangodraga.com and today we are going to learn about ladders. A ladder is a series of threats to capture, also known as ataris, so a series of ataris that will end with a stone or group of stones being captured. So now I have 10 examples to go over of what a ladder might look like. A big key in a ladder is that the white stones here only have two liberties left or two lifelines. So there's one right here and one right here. Now the trick for the ladder is to make sure that there's only two on the next move as well. If I play this move right here, the opponent will extend and they'll actually have three liberties. Instead, what I need to do is I need to play right here and now they only have two liberties again. And then I play right here, they only have two and I play right here and now they have one and I capture. So that is kind of the gist of a ladder is it's a two liberty zigzag back and forth. It doesn't always have to zigzag, but the idea is it's a two liberty, then it goes down to one liberty, then to two liberties, then to one liberty, then to two liberties, then to one liberty, and eventually it'll get captured. So here is another example of a ladder. Again, if I play right here, white will extend half three liberties. So I'm going to play right here and this is the same zigzag pattern. If I play right here, white extends, white will have three. So I have to zigzag it again. And when it gets to the edge, I can actually just push it to the edge directly. It doesn't really matter. Here is another ladder. The trick is to notice that the zigzag has already started, but you can see here that there's two liberties right here. Now this white stone right here also has two liberties right here and right here. If I was to play this piece right here, white will extend and white has three liberties. Okay, so that's not a ladder. If I play this black piece right here, white extends, white will have three liberties as well. So that's again not a ladder. It has to go down to two when they extend. So if I play right here and white extends, there's still only two liberties. So I just push it to the wall and capture it. Right here is another ladder. This one is very important. You want to ladder them to the edge or to your allies. You do not want to ladder them out if you can help it. This is because if I ladder them from this direction, this piece right here gets put into Atari, which means I only have one liberty left. So now when I go to a zigzag it, I get captured instead. So this is very important. You want to you want to ladder it in the direction where you are strong, not in the direction where you are weak. In this case, I just zigzag it to the wall and there we go. All right, here it is again another ladder. It might not look like the exact same, but it's again two liberties. If I were to play right here and white extends, white has three liberties. So I have to play right here, white connects, and there's only two liberties. And I actually don't have to zigzag this one. I can push it straight to the edge. So not every ladder is zigzag. It's just a series of ataris or a series of threats to capture. So this is similar to the last one. If I play right here, white extends, white has three. If I play right here, white connects, white has two. So I'm going to just do this and this one I'll zigzag just so that way you get a good feel for it. Okay, here's the classic ladder shape. There's two liberties, two stones. So if I play right here, white extends, there's going to be three liberties. But if I play right here and white goes this way, there's only two. So we'll go the way that white only has two liberties and then we'll zigzag it as per usual. Then we get to the edge and capture it. All right, and here is another example of you want to push it to the edge or to your strength. So if I were to push this left, you can see that the white stones actually have allies right here. So if I push it to the left right here and zigzag it, eventually I will get to the enemy's allies right here. And this is a disaster because a ladder that does not capture the pieces is very, very bad because you end up with a lot of cutting points on all your pieces. So it's very, very bad to play on a ladder that does not work. So make sure that your ladder goes to an edge to your allies because if you play on a ladder that does not work, it's going to be horribly lost. You are going to get cut everywhere and everything might die. Okay, this is making sure that you're going the right direction. If I play right here, white will go right here. My three stones are in Atari, so I need to attack from the weakness. So that way I'm gaining strength while attacking. So I'm going to zigzag it this way. All right, and this one is showing to, again, watch your liberties when you are zigzagging it. So you can see that this white piece right here has two liberties, and this one is the important piece because it is the piece that is disconnecting this black group from this black group. So it's disconnecting these allies. So in order to connect these allies, we want to capture the piece that is disconnecting us. To do that, we can use our ladder tactic. So if I were to play the zigzag like usual, this piece gets into Atari. And if we get into Atari in the middle of the ladder, it does not work. It'll just get captured, and then we'll be in a very difficult position. The trick here is to actually push it again one more. So we gain liberties, and now we don't get into Atari. And now we're able to use our ladder tactic. All right, and that is the introduction to ladders. Hope you guys enjoyed.