יפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפיפ as a cutting point or cutting them that will make it easier to capture. So in this example, it talks about where is the cutting point here. If we click the arrow, we can see that black is the fending right here. And that is because these two stones are not connected through the lines yet. So they need an ally to connect to each other. So now they're both connected to the same group. So that's showing for A to connect to B, it needs this stone right here. And it's showing if you fail to do so and white plays it, then this ally of ours that does not have support anymore is going to get trapped alongside the edge and eventually get captured. Here is another example. This is an attacking example where we're going to cut our opponent. So this one is using the same principle. We're going to disconnect the diagonal stones, and then we're going to cut it. And this is important. You don't want to cut it or you don't want to attack it from the first line. You actually want to attack it from the second line, like in the example, because you want to trap them against the closest edge. This white piece is two lines away or three lines away from the left and two lines away from the bottom. So it only has one line of room. So you want to push it to the bottom. That is how you can trap it. All right. And now we're going to do some puzzles. First, we're going to start with connecting. Okay. So we are doing connecting now, and we still have our handy dandy little squares. We'll do that just for a little bit longer. And you can see that in order to connect these two lava pieces together, I have to play right here because that will connect the edges of both squares. And here is going to be the same thing. You were looking at the edges. This is the way to connect all of the lava pieces. Same here. If we place right here, you can see that's going to connect everything. Right here, we have two groups. So we're going to connect them like so. Right here, we have a piece that's actually about to get captured. And you can see that diagonally doesn't connect. So it needs to connect right here. Now it's connected to all of its friends. Similar right here. This is a second line cutting point move. So we have to protect our second line cut. Right here, our opponent is going to cut us off. So we need to connect. And this is kind of the exact same position, which is the less moves. Okay. And now we have here, we're about to be captured. So we're going to run away, which also connects us to our friends. Okay. And we're connecting right here. All right. So now we get to do what a lot of people would find very fun. We are going to attack our opponents. And it'll be very similar. So in this case, we're going to cut, but it's also the connecting move. We're going to disconnect these ice stones from these pieces. So we'll play right here. And now they cannot connect. And it's actually going to be the same move. So a lot of the times your connection can also be their cut. But it's not always case. Like, for example, here, you can see the diagonal of the ice pieces. They're not connected. So, again, you want to attack from the higher line. So if we attack these two pieces from here, they're actually just going to connect right here. Instead, what we should do is we should attack it from the second line to do our second line cutting point. Okay. Okay. We're about to get captured, but we captured them first. And we successfully used our cut tactic to capture a piece. Okay. We're going to do the same thing here. Again, we don't want to attack it from the first line. We want to attack it from the second line using our second line cutting points. And we want to trap it against the first line. Okay. Another second line cutting point. And here we have two ideas. If we play this second line cutting point, we're cutting off these two. If we play this second line cutting point, we're cutting off these two. However, this is a little bit of a trap. Because if we play right here, notice that we only have one liberty left. So before we capture the ice pieces, the ice will capture us by playing right here. So if I play right here, then we'll just get captured. So the answer is actually over here. We got to cut the one that works, not the one that's going to get captured. Same principle here. Second line cutting point. All right. Here's a little bit tricky. It looks like we might want to turn to trap these two against the side. However, it's important to note how many liberties everything has. So this lava piece has two liberties. These two lava pieces have two liberties. And these two ice pieces have three liberties. So there's no way we can win this capture race. Because it's two to three. So if I play on this side, the ice pieces will attack this lava piece. And if I play on this side, then the ice pieces will attack these two lava pieces. So no matter which side I play on, these will have three to two. So that means there must be a different answer. And the answer is actually to cut off this ice piece, which only has two liberties as well. And we're going to do our second line cut and trap it against the edge. Okay. Now we have, it looks like two more. So this is going to be a similar situation. We're going to second line cut. And finally, another second line cut. All right. We have one more. This is going to be a double threat. What this means is a double threat to capture. So in this case, if I cut right here, and this is the case a lot of times when you disconnect stuff, both sides will be in trouble. So if I play right here and they save that one, then I capture this one. And if they save this one, I would have captured that one. So it's a double threat to capture. The threat can also be called Atari. Atari means you are one move away from being captured or you only have one liberty. So a threat to capture means putting them down to one liberty or putting them into Atari. So in this case, this is known as a double Atari. I'm putting this piece into Atari and I'm putting this piece into Atari. Fun fact, the Atari game system was actually named after this Go concept. So if you are old enough to know what the Atari game system is, it's actually from this Go concept. Or the Atari game company. Okay. And this one's a little bit tricky. There's a lot of pieces. But if you start counting the liberties, you'll notice that this piece only has two liberties. These two pieces only have two liberties. And a lot of the times the double Atari comes from a cutting point where things only have two liberties. So if we play right here, it is a double Atari. Okay. And the answer here is going to be the same thing. These two only have two. These two only have two liberties. We're going to double Atari. Okay. This one, you've got to be careful. This is not a double Atari. Because even though it cuts this piece from these pieces, these pieces are connected. So they have one, two, three, four. And remember, a double Atari has to put two things into Atari. So it has to put two liberty groups down to one liberty. This is a four-liberty group. So if I play right here, it'll have three liberties. So that is not an Atari. So that's not the answer. Instead, the answer is right here. And we get that piece. This one is also disconnecting, putting something into double Atari. And then we capture that. This one is a classic double Atari position. Okay. Another double Atari. I encourage you to go along and do these on your own as well. What I'm doing here is I'm showing you, like, how to answer them, how to approach them. But I encourage you to drill yourself on them as well after the video. So you can go through the campaign. And it's someegadragon.com slash campaign. And we're in the Goblin Camp. And then you can do the puzzles yourself. All right. So that's Introduction to Cutting Points. I was thinking about going into Gabi. But I think I'll save that for the next video. Because I want to just keep the videos short and the concepts into one concept at a time, at least for now. So I think this one will be Introduction to Cuts. And the next one will be How to Win the Game. And we'll play Gabi. How to Win the Game. How to Win the Game. How to Win the Game. How to Win the Game.