 Hello everyone, this is Colossius, and we're back with another Go video. Today we have a nice lecture board to play with, so I decided to make a video utilizing it to show us some Go problems, and then afterwards we're also going to show a real board position with a similar problem that happened in a game. So this video is sponsored by SOMEGADRAGON.com, a Go puzzle website. So if you're interested in Go puzzles like these, you can check it out. These puzzles were all taken from SOMEGADRAGON.com. So all the puzzles are black to play, so if you want to pause the video now and see how many you can solve, and then we're going to go over the solutions. So the concept for all of these is actually Liberty Shortage, that is the category I pulled from from SOMEGADRAGON. So all these are black to play. We're going to start in the top right, and then go around down to the hardest, which is the bottom right. So starting from the top right, we're trying to find a situation where our opponent is going to be short of liberties. So notice how we are dying in the corner. We only have one eye, and the films right here are actually a little bit weak, but white has a gap right here with some low liberties. So we want to take advantage of this. So in order to do so, the first move may or may not be obvious, I'm not sure, but the first move is actually here. So if you start here, then your opponent will actually simply connect, and when you go down, you might think that this is a shortage of liberties because of white plays here, you just capture. But actually, white just plays on this side, and now these stones are okay. So instead, you actually have to play this key point right here. Now if white does anything, then black will capture this piece right here. So white has to save it. So if we simply capture like this, then black will descend, and the three stones are captured. But if instead, white descends like this, then this is a subatari, and white will capture black. But instead, black just simply connects, putting these three stones into a tari, and now we find the shortage of liberties where if white plays right here, then black will capture right here. So white must play this way to get this stone, and then black will play here to capture, saving all of his pieces. All right, that is our first example of shortage of liberties. So let's move on to the next one. So in this next one, we also have, I think a pretty similar concept, a pretty similar move. So if I simply play here to reduce the eye space, white blocks, and you can see white has two eyes, because this side of the corner we can't take away, and there's plenty of space for a second eye right here. And if we go this way, a lot of players might think that white will play right here, and then maybe you find a trick right here in order to capture the white stones. This is actually incorrect, because white will actually just play right here, because now when you play like this, white simply blocks, and there's two eyes. So this move actually saves it. Okay, so the vital point is actually where white keeps playing. White played here for both responses. So let's try playing here first, because a lot of the times our opponent's vital move is our vital move. So if we play right here, and white cuts it off, because if white simply plays like this, and we connect back, white has nothing but false eyes and one eye in the corner. So it has to cut it off. Now when we descend, we get the shortage of liberties. And if white plays right here to capture, black will capture the corner. If white plays right here to capture, then black will capture right here. So white has no move to play, and all the pieces are captured. Okay, so now let's get to the bottom right. The bottom right is involving more pieces, so maybe it's a little bit more confusing, and it's not the same wedge tactic that we've seen this far. So let's try to figure it out. If we simply play here, then our opponent will attarius. These four pieces are then captured, and there's an eye right here, and plenty of eye space for two eyes right here. So it can't be there. So if we do anything else, like we're playing right here, then white will just capture us, right? So we have to do something. And I think if you rule out all the other options, then you can pretty much find that this move is the only move, because everywhere else just doesn't really work. They're either solitaries or white will just capture you straight up. But if you play right here, it may not be obvious in your head, but once you play it on the board, I think it becomes more obvious that no matter what white does, if white plays right here, black will capture right here. If white plays anything else, like for example right here, then we play right here. All right, and hopefully that makes sense that once you descend, white doesn't actually have a move because everything is a capture. Had a little kitty cat. The cat wants to play go. Okay, so now for the last one. This one's actually very similar to these two, but they're all Liberty shortages, all the same category. So let's see. This one's actually a little bit tricky. So this is more for single-digit cues and maybe the stronger single-digit cues. So there's actually a trap here. Maybe you could find the first move, because if you play right here, that actually is the first move. But let's think about this for a second. Normally you might be tempted to play the vital point first. But if we do that, and white connects right here, and black does this, then white will simply capture the pieces first, because white has to connect, and then there's only two liberties to two liberties. How did I mess this up? Oh no, no, no, it's white's turn. I'm silly. Two liberties to two liberties and it's white's turn. Sorry. Had a little bit of a brain thwart for a second. So it's actually, if you pretend this stone is right here, it's actually three liberties, because black has to fill his own liberty. But it doesn't really matter. The whole point is black loses the capture race, right? So we have to actually play like this. Now here's the trap. So white can't go here, obviously, black would just capture. So when it has to go right here, but if black simply connects, you may think, oh, I've got the shortage of liberties, because now in my place here, I cut, and it's just like these two, because now when I descend down, this is a self-atari for white. But actually, white has two liberties on this side, so white can atari on this side, and now white wins the fight. So we have to find a way to take these two liberties. And so that's the tricky part, is you have to realize that white has a liberty too many, so the normal tactic doesn't apply. But if you have a strong obj, sense, then you'll feel like, hey, there might be something here, I just got to steal that liberty first. So you found the vital point, but now you have to think a step further and say, okay, I found the vital point, and it feels like there's something here. So let's take it a step further. What is the reason that white lives? And it's because white has two liberties here. So maybe if you couldn't solve it before, maybe you can solve it from here. But the key move is actually to throw in first. That way, white has to play here. So if white plays here, this is just a snapback. So white has to capture right here. Now we've actually got a white stone right here on the edge, which takes a liberty. So now when we connect, and white connects, and now we play our same sequence, and now when we descend, thanks to this stone, this is now a self-atari. And this one is also a self-atari. And also notice how we were able to connect this in sente, because we were able to connect while threatening these three stones. So now in white plays here, we don't actually don't have to connect. So now it is a true through liberties instead of a false through liberties, whereas actually only the two liberties because black had to respond. So now it's two liberties, and black will play first down here. And so black wins the fight. All right, hopefully these weren't too difficult. Hopefully you guys understand the concept. And with that, let's go ahead and jump into our real game example of a shortage of liberties slash cutting points. All right, so now we have a real game example. This is actually between about 10Q and 9Q level. Both players actually missed this tactic in the game. So go ahead and pause the video and see if you can find the problem in white's shape. It is black to play and try to apply something similar to what we've done with shortage of liberties and see if you can sniff out where the ogie is. As a hint, there are two tactics here. One is the liberty shortage and the other is actually combining cutting points. Cutting points are the secret to Q level in order to win touching fights or touching battles. And also finding all the end game ogie at the end of the game. It's going to be cutting points. So go ahead and try to find it if you can. But with that, let's go ahead and get started. If you can sniff out the ogie in this area, then your ogie sense is really strong. So the first thing we might look at is, hey, I have a cutting point right here. And if you atarmy down, then you get captured, right? So usually just one cutting point isn't going to cut it. So if you go this way, now when you play like this, I can simply atar you like this and your stones are stuck. What if you might ask, what if I go here first? Then does that change the cutting point? And the answer, unfortunately, is no. Because if you play like this, then you get caught like that. And this doesn't really change a good thing. The answer is to use a third cutting point. So we have one cutting point right here, cutting point right here, and a third cutting point right here, three cutting points, maybe there's something there. So we look right here. And this is the important thing from the Liberty shortage that we did today, which is you need to notice that this is a shortage of liberties and black will capture. So now remember how I said there's two tactics. So white cannot go here. White has to go here because now when black connects, white will capture. But now we've caused a different issue in white's shape. White has lost a liberty because they couldn't atar from this side. They have to go from this side. And now it's an empty triangle. And the triangles have bad liberties. So now we cut right here. And these stones need to either connect or capture. And now we descend right here and win the game. So again, let's go about one more time. Just to show that all these moves are forced. So our starting move was to put these three stones into a tarry. If we do anything else, we're just going to capture. So white has to connect. Now we cut right here. If we defend this cut down here, then these stones get captured. Right. So it has to go right here. And now finally, we put this into a tarry and capture down there. So all these moves are forced. Unfortunately, the players missed this in the game. But that is another thing that you can look for. You'd be surprised. Probably one in five or one in ten in Q games are missing a tactic at the end of their game. So if you are around ten Q to five Q or maybe even 15 Q to five Q, I highly encourage you to look at your past five-ish, maybe five or ten games where you got to the end of the game and try to see if there's any sort of cutting point you missed. You can use AI to help you identify where the cutting points are. And then maybe screenshot them. That's actually what I did is I screenshot my students game to share with all of you and then come back a couple weeks later and try to see if you can solve that screenshot now after a couple weeks. That is a good way to get practice finding these. But also we have to megadragon.com if you want to master tactics. The real truth of it is the tactic by itself isn't going to do an amazing amount. But if you master a tactic by doing a specific category many times and you have that tactic down, in the game normally what will happen is you'll combine tactics. Like one tactic will activate another tactic or vice versa. So combining these tactics and being strategic about it, that is how you can actually activate all of this in-game stuff and sometimes even middle game stuff in the game. So I encourage you to try it out. Hopefully you guys enjoyed this video. Again, this is sponsored by sumegadragon.com. If you want to do more puzzles like the ones we saw today, it is the squeeze tactic on sumegadragon.com. So as always, thanks for watching and I'll see you guys next time.