 sighasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasas This is an actual opening. Thank god they're not playing out. As soon as I saw this move, I was like, maybe I shouldn't review this one. I was like, maybe I shouldn't. But they're actually playing a legitimate opening. I'll be honest. When I was completely new to the game, I didn't even know playing the four corners was a thing. At 25Q, how do you realize you can play the four corners? Because I didn't do that for two days. It took me two days to realize I had to play the four corners. Legitimate. As legitimate as the Great Wall. That's true. Legitimate as the Great Wall. Black at least has an idea. I can appreciate that Black has a plan. And their plan... I'm being serious here. I'm being serious here. I think that this is good. Black is saying, hey, I've got an idea. And I'll be honest. That is more than what most players can say. He is building the center. And I think that's great. I think that's great. However, on the flip side, I have to say this. And I'm going to say it again tomorrow when I do the Dragon Enclosure lecture. When you play openings like this, you do have to realize and accept to some extent. You have to realize and accept to some extent that you are automatically taking point loss. Like, you're obviously outright behind at this point as Black. Like, you just are behind. You are accepting that you're going to play an opening, that you are going to be behind it. Even when you play the Dragon Enclosure. Like, Dragon Enclosure doesn't automatically give you a lead of like five points. It doesn't make the game even. It is choosing to have a disadvantage in the opening. And that happens any time you choose an opening that isn't standard. That doesn't mean that you shouldn't play non-standard openings. You can perfectly play non-standard openings. And it is perfectly fine to play this Black Hole opening, just except that you're going to start with a disadvantage. Like, you're not going to be winning from this opening. Even if you play like this and you have an idea, which I think is great, but you're going to be behind. Was never not going to be followed by however with that border. Yeah. But yeah, so you can kind of see that Black does have a plan, right? And I think that is... I still think that's really good. Because even if Black had played a normal opening, right? Like, even if Black had played a standard opening, a lot of players don't have any idea of what they're doing or what they're going for. So they tend not to play. Well, not tend not to play. Anyway, I lost my train of thought. But yeah, so basically, Black at least has a plan of what they're trying to do. They're trying to build the center. And we can see that they're trying to go for the center, which is great. I'm actually surprised they didn't do this. Because that kind of looked like what they were going for. But I do think if they had kept up with this plan, eventually they would have just fallen behind. I usually just go with the flow. Well, the flow is good sometimes. But also, sometimes it's good to... understand that it's good to have a plan. Strange Black hole play for... Yeah, yeah, yeah. For Black, this is probably a little too passive for what they want. I would go for the whole cookie. This is almost like half the cookie. It's like... Again, he had a plan. And he was doing really good at holding it. Even like, this is fine. I don't think that this is bad. And just for reference, White is playing fine. There's nothing wrong with the way White is playing right now. Obviously, if we get down into like... Sure, like the higher level, we could say that... White played the four quarters, which is fine. Then maybe we could argue that, hey, maybe White should play here instead. Maybe White should play here instead. But I don't think White is playing bad right now. I don't think that anything that was played is overall bad. This is probably the first move in the game that I would say is slow. I would definitely go for this instead. I wouldn't play this. Cut is interesting. I would probably... I would probably just reduce. Here's the thing. When you play for the center, when you play for the center, there's a huge reason we don't play for the center. And the reason we don't play for the center is because there's so many directions that you can get attacked. And one of the ways that you lose against somebody that plays for the center is by trying to fight them for the center. That's not how you should generally play against a player that goes for the center. The way that you should aim for it is you should start by realizing, hey, the center is easy to reduce. I've got four directions that I can go into it. So we got this way, we've got this way, we've got that way, we got that way. And so if we just simply reduce like this, we're going to come out on top anyway. Like we don't have to get too complicated. Yes, Eric, you would go for the cut simply because you would probably realize that you're probably looking for something for fun. But it's a review. It's not a murder. It's not a murder. It's a review. And so we can simply win by just reducing. We can simply win by just reducing. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, so it's definitely easy to just simply try to reduce the center rather than go in and attack it. Because now we could argue that if white dies here, then maybe, yeah, then maybe the game is over. White can't play this haunting. White has to play here and maybe go out to the center. And black actually also falls for this. Black should just play here and take these two stones. Oh, no D12. I thought that was white's plan with the cut. Wait, D12? E12. Okay, I was like, what? E12? Here? That is crazy. Your brain's on a different level, Eric. Go away. Eric is giga-thinking right now. All right, so yeah. So black should just cut here. And I know that he might have been afraid of this kind of thing. But again, I would just go with... I would just stick with the plan. I would just stick with the plan and try to kind of build like this. Maybe play this press. Maybe we can get some of the side of the board. I mean, there's still room in these 3-3s as well. So I wouldn't worry too much about it. But black decides to go for the whole thing. Ooh. We don't want to play away here. Very important that we don't want to play away here. I would just go here as black and I would just put more pressure on these. This doesn't matter. This is very detached from the situation. And we have to definitely think about that. So here I would actually probably start thinking about something like this. or if you want to be really safe, you can go ahead and jump out here. But otherwise, this is very detached from where we're at. We played a bunch of moves over here. It kind of almost feels strange that we would play somewhere else when we're already fighting with this group. And becoming detached from the situation is one of the biggest ways to throw the games. Throw games. is when we're thinking like... When we're playing on a certain side of the board and we just randomly play across the board. And this commonly happens when we're like, oh, there's a move on the other side of the board that looks really big. I feel like I finished out the situation almost. I'm going to go ahead and play all the way across the board. Maybe this move is sentai and then I get to come back here. We have to be very careful when we do that. Because our opponent may realize that, hey, we're playing over here just to get sentai to then go back over there. And if our opponent gets back to the other side, then we're going to die. Right? Yeah, this is very much so. Urgent versus big. Though, I'm not going to go with big here because I don't think this is big. But you're right. It is the same idea. If white had a chance to Danuki, again, it would just be something like this. Right? But it is very much so a urgent versus big situation where it's urgent to come back here rather than to play somewhere else. For sure. Black response. Like I said, black should be trying to surround this. There's no reason we should be responding to white's move. However, we're looking at a 17Q versus 25Q. I expect to see lots of puppy go. And this is puppy go. This is basically where we're just responding to wherever our opponent played. We're just like, ah, we're going to play there now. Again, we should be going back to this. I'm not going to repeat myself too many times. If there's something that's done over and over and over again, I won't mention it too much. We don't want to leave these cutting points behind like this. This would be very bad. Now, obviously, black has their own cutting point. But let's say that this cutting point was protected. Then black could do something like this. And even if we don't Atari here now and we play here first, we're getting a lot of strength as black, right? Like we're getting an extra tiger's mouth on the outside. And then if white plays somewhere else now, right? We play somewhere else as white. Now there's weaknesses here. We could deal with this all at once. We could deal with this all at once. We can just play something like this. Or like this. Obviously, these are not the best responses. And the reason they're not the best responses is because we made a mistake earlier on. We should just be connecting here. And then black would play here. Because here, you're not really... Like this looks like a bad shape. Obviously, it's an empty triangle. This also feels like a bad shape. I mean, you've got a double empty triangle, right? You've got triangle here. And then you've got a triangle here. Empty triangle there. So you got, you know, you got a double empty triangle going on. But either way, that's going to be better than this empty triangle. Because this one puts you in Atari. I would go for the tiger's mouth instead. This is fine though. I'm not going to say there's anything wrong with this. I do think that the tiger's mouth is better. Helps us surround this group here before we go back in Atari. In fact, I would even ask the question first. Because there's a world where white does this and then we do this Atari here and white just says, I'll give it up. Right? White says, I'll just give it up and I'll go for the top side. But if we play this Atari now, it's, then we know what white's going for, right? If they play this, then we know they're going for the top side. Right? And then if they connect and we fix now and they try doing something like this, well, now there's more Aji here for us to play with. They've already connected at two. So it's very important that we think about the order of moves. Of course, white comes back and fixes. Again, understandable at this level. It's, it's a moment of, hey, I don't want to sacrifice my stones. Stones are really big, completely understandable. But, we do want to think about maybe more efficient ways to do this. We can see here that, let me, let me turn on the review really quick. That way we're not getting all the, the AI stuff. So we can kind of see here if black plays here and we, like, let's say we try to surround this now, we've got a snap back, right? We've got a snap back here. So that means black has to connect here. However, now if white tries to play out here and we're trying to play as black, there's no way for us to capture these stones. Sure, we have some Aji here. We have some Aji here, which is completely understandable. And then there's all kinds of fights there that we're not going to go into. But we can think about being more efficient. on top of the fact that we can also think about maybe simply sacrificing the stones, kind of how we said earlier, right? Give me one second. Let me take a drink. All right. Again, urgent. Very urgent that we come back here as black as it is just as urgent for white to come back there as well. I would think about being a little bit more severe. But I think this is also fine. Again, I still like that black has a plan. Like, black set out to get the center. They're getting the center. They're probably not doing it the best way that they can, but they are at least getting the center. And I think that's good. I feel like our corner is a little too weak to be able to do this because we're getting in a situation where we have to protect our corner. So it almost feels like we're sacrificing this stone for no reason. So maybe white wants to play here instead. At that point, it seems reasonable for white for trading the three stones for life. Yeah, exactly. Exactly, yeah. It's definitely good to give up those three stones because they're not really connected to anything so it's about six points in total. But yeah, it's almost like we're sacrificing this group. So like, yeah, white can Tanuki but now there's a lot of Achi here that white has to deal with. Like, this could be very bad for the corner. Yeah. But I can understand that that's probably hard to see and this is probably something more around what I would expect. But technically, black can play this. I assume white play, yeah. White plays 0-4. This is good. Or black plays 0-4. This is good. I would still aim to do something like this or maybe something like this or this. It's a very hard game for white, I think. I think at this point it's a very hard game for white. Good under Hane. As white, you generally, when you're trying to like live or get room, you want to play under. I still think it's very hard because you're losing your corner as white. But generally, this is how you would want to play. And then you would actually want to do like this tiger mouse shape because then you have a chance for Ko here. And I know that Ko can be really scary, but Ko is probably one of the most important concepts you can learn when trying to make life. Ooh, we can't play this way. We have to play here. And then we fight for our life here. This is just sacrificing a stone. Yep. Yep. Ooh, hey, though, maybe white has an idea here. Here. I don't know where that came from, but here. Here, here, here, here. Maybe white can do... I want this to work, but it doesn't. This is kind of like a tombstone shape, but unfortunately... I don't know where my words are today. Unfortunately, black... White has to connect here. Otherwise, like, in a perfect world, we could argue that maybe white would want to do something like this, and then maybe white has a chance. But there are too many cutting points that were left behind. But yeah, we're kind of falling apart as white now. We might want to jump out here, because this is still not dead. This is unfortunately going to die. Very likely. But we can still try to build like this. this is definitely not the best way. Our opponent can remove our eye like this if they want to. But extend is also fine. In fact, I would say extend is definitely better. Good jump. I like the jump. All right. I like this as well. Black is saying, hey, I want to surround these. Though I would be a little bit more direct with it, because I don't think the Aji is all gone from here. Because at any moment, we could just do this as white, right? And we can get them in a ladder. So we have to be careful about that. White goes back here. White doesn't really have time to play that. I feel like if we're going to play something at all... Actually, you know what? Maybe it's fine, because we're surrounding this. I'm going to say it's fine, because we're surrounding this. I'm going to say I'm wrong. Because black does need to come out here, right? If black didn't need to come out there, then it's probably not fine. Because, say we Tanuki again, white is definitely dead. Black is definitely dead. So, I'm wrong. Black does need to respond to this. Okay. Ooh, and white invades. White invades. I like the invasion, because white is losing. And when you're losing, what else can you do other than invade? I'm glad white tries. Unfortunately, though, I think it's really hard. The only thing you can really do is this. And the problem with this is that you're opening yourself up for more pain in your corner. So, yeah. Yeah. All right. I think pretty much I'd pretty much say that this one's hard to say anything about. I think black played well. I think black played well taking their center. And I think that I don't want to say it's bad that white couldn't reduce the center like this, because I think this is a tough concept. I think this is a concept that's even hard for even stronger players to understand. So I don't think it's bad that they didn't know how to do that. I actually commend that white played the cut. I think the cut is something that some stronger players might do in a fun situation or for fun situation because you generally wouldn't play against this black hole opening unless you were playing against somebody that was playing trying to just enjoy the game. So I do commend white for playing the cut and trying to fight it. But I do think that white needs to think more about their groups because there's no way we should be playing this without thinking about follow-ups, right? Regardless of being DDK, SDK, low Dawn, high Dawn, and so forth, we should not be playing a group that we're just planning to sacrifice as a whole because in this aspect, we're just not doing anything, right? But I do commend that white tried to cut and I do commend that white tried to invade as well. But overall, I think black played pretty well this game. I think black did a good job. Let's move on to the next one. All right, and we have a Buzzsaw versus Ticycle game. Love you.