 okay, okay, we have 7Q versus 10Q, bussau is white, ticycle is black, okay, I want to say bussau that approaching is bigger than closing as white, but let me actually double check if I tell you wrong, yeah, it's about a point, almost two points difference, this is because black has the connotation first, I mean I'm connotation first, I'm connotation first, I'm connotation first, I'm connotation first, I'm connotation first, I'm connotation first, I'm connotation first, I'm connotation first, I'm connotation first, I'm connotation first, I'm connotation first, I'm connotation first, I'm connotation first, I'm connotation first, I'm connotation first, I'm connotation first, I'm connotation first, I'm connotation first, I'm connotation first, I'm connotation first, I'm connotation first, I'm connotation first, I'm connotation first, I'm connotation first, I'm connotation first, I'm connotation first, I'm connotation first, I'm connotation first, I'm connotation first, I'm connotation first, I'm connotation first, I'm connotation first, I'm connotation first, I'm connotation first, I connotation first, I connotation first, I Fundamentally, the extension, the Shamari, the corner enclosure from the 3-4, wants to go this way. And this one wants to go this way. And this one wants to go that way. Right? So you see how both players want to go this way with these positions. And white got here first. So this should be a little good for white in theory. Which means don't pick the one that wants to go that way. You could go here. You could go here, which looks at this way and this way a little bit. Because if white does nothing, then you can always go back and develop. You could go for the Chinese. This is looking at an extension while also threatening a large corner. And so now if white plays here, you can play like this. It's possible. Also attach right here if you want. Very possible. But I want to say a simple move. White will have a slight edge. But according to AI, I am wrong. So it depends on how comfortable you are with this position. This is the slowest side. This is already settled. So no one wants up top. I think the left side is fourth line and fourth line. Whereas the top is third line. And, um... This square looks like the most developable. So we could approach here. We could attach here. We could attach here. Um... The way to think about this... Uh... The proper way, anyway. Not that anyone does it. Uh... Let's play out variation here. If I play this, this, this, this, this, this. This is good for black. Um... If I play this, this, this, this, this, this. I would... This is the way I would expect the Jusaki to go. Ladder goes in white's favor. So this is how I would expect it to go. Now we count. Uh... I'm going to cheat with AI. We're going to say, uh, white by 1.6. Okay, so there's variation number one. Um... Go away. Then we can go... Here, here, here, here, here. Um... And then we count... 1.5. 1.5. Okay. Uh... Here, here. Um... Is it here? I love the AI. It hates my moves so much. Um... This one looks like... One point. So this one looks like the best so far. Um... My theory for why is we are limiting the end of the game. Influence quickly. Um... And then black is developing, I guess. But what do I know? What do I know? My opening is not my strongest skill. But this one looks a half point better than all the others that I showed. But that is the proper way to do it. Of course, you don't have access to AI in the game. So what you're going to do is you're going to count the score. Um... So the way you can do it, if you see what I did... I darted somewhere. Um... And then I said, okay... Uh... My opponent has... Two responses, probably. Maybe three. Um... And then I'll just figure out which one white likes the best. Uh... So I'll do one, two, three. Count to three. Pick the one that white likes. Okay, that one. And then I'll remember the score for... That one. And then I'll go to the next one. Here. See what right responses are. Count this difference. See what the score is for the best one. Here. Count the score. See what the best one is. And then compare all three scores. And then blah, blah, blah. I have my... Josaki choice. This is if I didn't, like, study it in advance. Right? If you're in a unique position. That is the proper way to do it. Like, that's what you're supposed to do. If you have all the time in the world. Which, in these games, you do have a lot of time. So you can try that if you want. It's easier said than done. And it does take quite a bit of practice. But that is a way to think about it. I don't like this move. Because it's flat. But the AI says it's good. And I'm bad at the opening. So probably should listen to the AI. Why it's good, I'm not sure. Okay, we're doing attachment. This has to be, like, super flat. Yeah, this feels very flat. See. What did the AI want? Lights up by half point. Okay. Okay. I honestly don't know. I don't know why it's so good. According to my theories. Like, I could just keep pushing like that. And it should be good for me. I don't know. I like white. I don't know about you guys. But I like white. Bustle. You want to learn this, Joseki. Against the large knight. This is the move, usually. Let's see. AI. Or here. Why not? Right? That could be something fun to study in your free time if you want. Okay. Okay. Let's pretend. Pretend. Pretend. Pretend. Okay. It looks like a peep is better than the attach. It's actually not that bad. Less than a point loss. Anything over here. Okay. This is apparently AI just doesn't want to behave today. But typically what I like, what I see a lot with the AI is this is the approach. This one I think could be fun to study if you want to learn it. So, and then the other one is peep. So, with the large knight's move, these are the two vital points. Maybe there's an optional vital point here. And then we know that there's an optional vital point here, or optional moves are here and here. And then if there's a stone out here, you can also have a move in here. So, these are kind of the moves to this. Oh, there's one right here as well. Let's make that a triangle as well. Okay. So, let me pull back. These are the simple moves. These are the possible something moves. Timing moves. And then if there's a stone on the outside, there's a stone on the outside, then this move becomes a possible move as well. So, that's kind of like all that about the corner. So, I think the big point is learn this Joseki. I forgot it. I knew it. I knew it years ago. And then I completely forgot it. So, I can't show you, unfortunately. I know there's a ladder involved. But, unfortunately, I just completely forgot what it was. I had it down for like six months. And then six months later, I forgot the whole thing. I studied it too, but I guess I didn't study it well enough. Otherwise, I would have remembered it. Mm-hmm. Black, I think your development on the top right is fine. But you're missing the fact that whites is bigger. You need to deal with whites first. Either here, which is a common shape to this sensor right here. AI says you can also approach. I think it's fine as well. You could invade right here. And this one is setting up a future attack. So, it depends on how comfortable you are with that. However, if white wants to be a little bit more aggressive, white could take the profit first and then just survive. So, it's not recommended, but these are some ideas you can consider. You don't go in the center unless you have a two space on both sides. You do not have a two space on both sides. Because an armpit hit is not a base. Yeah, just approach. Don't be afraid of it. Don't be afraid of the approach. It's not that hard. Okay. This is too good for white. White, remember you want to surround. This also will support your floating group over here. Black, this is too greedy. I think you're panicking dealing with white's influence. Black, what might be fun for you is go to this position and then fork the game and then challenge an AI. Okay. So, I'm not sure if it will be black or white. So, what you'll do is you'll challenge an AI. You don't have to challenge CateGo specifically. Like, there's a whole list of AIs. Onlinego.com slash play. Computer. There's a whole list of AIs. Probably you want to face like 6 DAWN, 9 DAWN, or 11 DAWN, whatever. Something, some high DAWN AI. And you want to start with this position. And what you can do is maybe, depending on what turn it starts you as, maybe fork the game here. And then you make it so you're white. And then you play right here. And then see how black invades you. And then try to attack black. Right? And then do it with a different AI. And then attack black again. Do it with a different AI. Attack black again. And then you can flip the colors. And you can say, you could start as black. And then you can see how the AI attacks you. Or maybe start with that one. Maybe see how the AI attacks you. And then you try to attack the AI with the same patterns that you just learned. And see how the AI counters. And you can go back and forth. I would say do that maybe like for 10 games. Spend like one day. Just play it for 10 games. And go for like 30 moves. You don't have to do a lot. Just go for 30 moves. 25 to 30 moves. And see how it goes. So all you're doing is learning how to play in this position. And that will help build your confidence on how to deal with the framework. Because you'll be able to see some examples of how it's done. And thanks to the AI, we can do that quite easily. I think that will be some good homework for you. Is just do that 10 times. And don't worry about playing the entire game. I think it will be a waste of time to play the whole game. We are well over the time. So hopefully you both found this review helpful.