 s Okay, I think we're good to go. So first off, can you tell us a bit about yourself and your involvement in the GO community? Who are you in the GO world? Why am I in the GO world? My name is Richard Newman, Rich, most people call me Rich, and I live in Colorado in the Denver metro area, and I have been playing GO for, well, since 2007. So I guess that's 18 years now. I think I started about the same time you did, actually. Well, okay. Good company, I guess. So I just got started. I guess I was just looking for a spare time activity, another enjoyable activity. And I discovered that there was actually a kid's go club, advertised as a kid's go club, that met in a library really not far from where I live. So I just wandered over there on a Saturday afternoon and started playing. I didn't know very much about the game at the time. I mean, I knew really, I knew what it looked like, and I knew it was about surrounding territory, but pretty much that's it. And I guess I just kind of, I just kept at it, really. Awesome. Can you tell us a little bit about your role at Congress? What is the, what is the plans this year? The plan for me this year is to, well, let me back up a little bit. I started volunteering a little bit a few years ago. And so the last three years, since we started having in-person Congresses again, the last three years, I have been running the self-paired tournament and the Bound Prize event. Those are both obviously a little bit different from, excuse me, from the normal tournaments, because they're both really self-paired and people just play their games and submit the results. So my job as a tournament director is really just data entry primarily. People turn in result slips and I record them and then I declare the winners at the end of the week. Last year, well, the first two years I did this, the Bound Prize was really not a very big deal. So last year we really pushed it and really promoted it a lot. And Terry Benson announced that he had plenty of prize money to give away, lots of cash prizes, and it got quite a bit bigger than the self-paired event. So this year I'm only doing the Bound Prize. I just refused to do them both because I spent most of my off time last year just doing data entry. Can you tell us a little bit about the Bound Tournament? What is it and what is the story behind it? Sure. My understanding is what happened is there was a Go player by the name of Leonard Baum. And I never met the man. I don't remember ever meeting him. But he passed away several years ago. And the story is that he really enjoyed playing Go, particularly with younger children. And so after he passed, his daughter established a prize fund with the American Go Foundation to honor him. And the way that they chose to do that was to set up the Bound Prize event, which is kind of like a self-paired tournament, but with a bit of a twist. So the idea is that one player has to be under 16 years old. So, you know, if you're 15 at the beginning of this year's Congress, then you're in. But anyway, so one player has to be 15 or younger, and the other player has to be at least 40 years older. So the idea is to encourage or incentivize people, kids, to play Go with people who are much older, like their grandparents' age. And so there are prizes for the kids, the youth, prizes for the most games won, of course, and the most games played. And we also have the fun prizes for the biggest age difference. Have the prizes been announced yet? Or are they still in the works? The prizes are on the webpage. So there's – on the Congress website, if you drill down to where the tournaments are, you'll see the list of prizes for the Bound Prize. And maybe – I don't know if there's a way that you can show that website. Yeah, I'm showing it now. Oh, okay. So there they are. You found it. I can't remember what they're all called, but you get the idea. Yeah. So there's three prizes for the biggest age differences, and those are both for the children and the adults. They're, of course, the most games won. And there's kind of a joke prize for the most games lost by an adult. And last year – go ahead. I was just going to go through them really quick, and then you can tell me a little bit more about your favorites, I guess. So we have the Badger, the player age 11 and younger who plays the largest number of older players. The Striver, youth 12 to 15, who plays the largest number of older players. The Elder Slayer, young player who beats the largest number of adults. The Dawn Destroyer, young player who beats the largest number of Dawn-level adults. The old hand, adult who plays the most games. The encourager, adult who loses the most games. The teacher, the player who gives the most nine stone or higher teaching games. And across the ages, three pairs of players having games with the greatest age difference. Sound up right? Yep, that sounds right. Is there anything you want to add to any of those details? Well, there is one thing that's not on the webpage. And I asked this question. I never got an answer yet. But last year, in order – well, last year what happened was Harry Benson with the American Go Foundation, really, partly because of the pandemic and partly because of low participation in the Bound Prize event. He had really quite a lot of prize money to give away. So he announced – so last year we really promoted it heavily compared to previous years. And he announced more than once that he would give $20 to every young player who played at least five Bound Prize games, whether they come in on the top or not. Play five games, you get $20. Now, honestly, I don't know if he's going to do that again this year. But last year that was an additional thing that didn't appear on the website. And I think it made a lot of difference in improving participation. That's cool. I unfortunately wasn't able to make it last year. I made it the year before. So I knew about the event, but I didn't hear about how it went last year. I suspect you're in the age category that really can't participate anyway. Yeah, I can't participate, but I had several of my friends and students were telling me about how they kept getting challenged by these little kids. They would just come up to them and just randomly, hey, you want to play? And they really enjoyed it. Yeah, and showing off the cash prizes really made a difference, I think. So I got to say, the first two years I did this, it really wasn't well known. And I mentioned it to people, and they didn't know what I was talking about. So last year we really heavily promoted it, like I said. And participation went from around 30 to 40 games in 22 and 23 to last year, I think there was 188 games. That's much better. Yeah, yeah. I was really pleased that our efforts paid off there. On the other hand, like I said, I was running the self-paired tournament also. So it turned out to be a pretty big time commitment. Gotcha. Well, your efforts are appreciated, I'm sure. Well, thank you. Yeah, so I really enjoyed it. I think it's – and other people seem to really like it a lot. So I'm glad people know about it now, and we're going to promote it as hard as we need to this year again. Can we expand a little bit on how it is structured? So it's not part of the – is it part of the official schedule? Is it like on the schedule, or is it a more casual side event? It's more casual. There's no official schedule except for, you know, the start time is on – sometime on Saturday. I think the website says 5 p.m. Games before that will probably, you know, will probably be counted anyway. And it goes until, I think, 9 p.m. on the following Friday. So not really the entire week, but – Even on the day off, players can play each other? Anytime, yes. And it's very much like the self-paired tournament in that way. They just arrange their own games. They – you know, you want to play a game, you want it to be rated, non-rated. They play the game, they fill out the result slip, drop it in the box, and that's all they have to do. And they can do it anytime they want within that timeframe. That's cool. So I read the 9 stones or greater. So what does the or greater mean? Well, sometimes, of course, there's – you might have a Don player playing some kid that's really just a beginner. And it's really just meant for teaching games, right? Sometimes you have to give a 9 stone handicap, and even that's not nearly enough to make it a fun time for the weaker player. So the idea, I think, when they set that up was that the adult here would generally be the stronger player. But as everybody knows, that's not always true. But yes, that is – Yeah. Yeah. So that's really just for teaching games, right? Gotcha. So little line stones and maybe a bunch of do-overs and suggest that they need to make a move here, that sort of thing. Is there also a Rupert's Comey at all? We've never done that. I mean, you could. Okay. So it's just mostly just extra stones? Yeah. Yeah. I mean, and I've seen people play things – weird things like 13 stone handicaps and things like that too. So I haven't seen that much in the Bound Prizes. But – I think the greatest handicap I've ever played, I think, was like 25 stones. And it was like, I'm just going to die everywhere. And then I just clicked and closed my eyes and waited for something to die. So was that when you were a beginner or were you white in this game? I was white and I was playing beginners. And they were like, how many stones do you think it would take? And I'm like, I'm not sure, but you're 25 Qs. Let's try 25 and see how it goes. And they played. Unfortunately, I did win by quite a bit because apparently if there's a certain level difference, if they just don't know how to make two eyes, it doesn't really matter. Right. So there's a minimum level you have to be for any handicap to work, I guess. But it was an experience. They tried a lot of things and it just didn't quite work out. They started filling their own eyes. And I was like, well, this is – I can't help you. It's 25 stones. So if I help you, I lose. If I am patient, you will fill your own eyes and you will just die. And that's kind of how it went. And then I pretty much never did it again. Because I was like, this is not very educational. Yeah, I understand. I've never played a game like that. But then nobody is 25 stones stronger, weaker – or no one is 25 stones weaker than I am. So literally no one. What is your level? I'm about an 8 Q. Officially AGA 9 Q. But I haven't – I've been playing in the online league, North American online league. And I've got a pretty solid 8 Q. I know they don't exactly – you know, they're not exactly the same. So I'm 8 Q in that, 9 Q AGA. Okay. Bringing it back around, why was the 40-year age gap requirement chosen? What did we land on 40? And what does it bring as far as the experience of the players? Well, I can't really say. I mean, this – the event started before I was – before I was really involved in it. It had actually been around for a couple of years, I think, before the pandemic. But I never participated – well, no, that's not true. No, I never participated in it until 22. Okay. No, that's not true. I did play a game in 19. Anyway, I don't really know. I think it was just the idea that kids would play with someone that was, you know, at least their grandparents' age, something like that. Mm-hmm. That's nice. Have you ever observed any particularly memorable matches or experiences between kids and adults? I ever observed that. Well, of course, there's the biggest age difference. I've heard any stories. You know, there's always the cases where, you know, you have a – like I said, the idea was that the adult would generally be the stronger player. But we had last year, I think there was a 14 or 15-year-old who was three or four or five Don or something like that. Mm-hmm. And, you know, was pretty much able to give a teaching game to an adult. I know I played – let's see. I think this was in – it must have been in Estes Park back in 22. I played a Bound Prize game with a girl who was seven years old, I think, at the time. And three stuns stronger than I am. So that was interesting. Yeah, kids are a humbling experience. Yeah. So I think I won that game, as I recall. But, you know, I did have a three stun handicap. And then, of course, there's the big age differences. Sometimes – I think I had to look it up. I think the biggest age difference last year was 82 years. Wow. As I recall. I think the adult was 87 and the child was five. So I don't remember how that game came out, but that was pretty – That must have been an interesting game. Yeah. And I'm pretty sure the same adult is going to be at this year's Congress also. So he's going to be tough to beat in that category, I think. Why do you think it's important to encourage players between generations? Well, I don't know. I have – I'm not sure how to answer that one. I guess the main thing – I like playing Go with kids. I've been – I told you I got started at this kids' club years ago. And I've continued to go to that same club pretty frequently ever since then. I just – I like doing it. And, you know, I don't know exactly. Okay. We can just move on. The people that set this up in the first place might be – might be better – might have a better answer for you. No worries. All I can really say is I enjoy it. So let's do that. Why do you enjoy it? What do you like so much about it? Well, a lot of times the kids – it's sort of fascinating to me that the kids in particular, especially if they get started young, they really have – now, I was, you know, middle-aged or at least middle-aged when I started playing. So I have to really – I've always had to really think about it. But the kids always seem to just grasp it. They have a real intuitive way of playing. They just know. It's like they're not really thinking about it at all. They just put the stones down and, like, magic, it's – if they have a little bit of experience, quite often it's the right place. And they don't seem to have to think much about it. They do a very – they make moves that I'd have to sit and think about for two minutes. And that's sort of fascinating to me. Yeah, they're little monsters with their fast reading. You have to be very careful with them. Yeah, and, you know, I figured out – well, I had to – when I first started playing, of course, I was playing a lot of kids in tournaments because I was 15Q or something like that. And I really had to tell myself to slow down and not get sucked into their pace of playing, not the tempo exactly, but, you know, they'd just be playing very, very quickly. And I'd get kind of dragged into that and start playing quickly myself and discover that I was losing badly that way. So it's something that I have to concentrate on to not get – Yeah, I think it's very easy to get caught up in their speed. They're like, play, and you're just play, play. So I think that's actually one of the reasons some of my students and some people in Discord say don't play AI because it'll cause you to play too fast. Because the AI is always instant response. And they say you need to play more humans so that way you don't get caught in that pace. And kids are kind of like that. They'll just instant respond and you'll get caught in their face if you're not careful. Yeah. Yep. I have definitely experienced that. All right. Coming back around to the prizes a bit. So we already talked about what the prizes are. Do you have any information about, like, what the prizes represent or the names behind the prizes? Do you have any information about that? I don't really. I think probably – I can't remember her name, but Leonard Bowne's daughter and Terry Benson probably just came up with those names somehow. No worries. As far as I know, that's just – that's always been the way it is. Yeah. They are very cute and adorable. That's for sure. The Badger, Stryver, the Elder Slayer, and the Dawn Destroyer I think are my favorite. The Elder Slayer and the Dawn Destroyer. What do you think is the – in your experience, what do you think is the most popular or most talked about? Most popular or talked about among those categories? Yeah. Among the prizes, like, what are the – do they talk about, like, playing the most kids or playing the most adults or beating Dawn players? I think really it's the biggest age difference. That's what seems to get really the attention. The biggest age difference? Although there was – I don't know if this guy's going to be at the Congress this year, but for some years it was always one adult that particularly liked playing. Always get the most – I think the prize for the most games lost. I think three years in a row he had that. What can you tell us about any of the winners of the – any of the prizes? Oh, gosh. Well, some of them, without naming names, some of them are, you know, very enthusiastic about it. They just – you know, there's one kid – I can't remember his name, but he just seemed like he was always buzzing around asking, you know, older adults if they want to play this bound prize game. There were two or three of those, really. But nothing – I mean, it's just – they're just having fun with it. It just seems like anybody that does this really enjoys it. All right. So I think we talked quite a bit about that. So hopefully that will generate a lot of interest. If we can, I want to talk to you a little bit about your own Go history and your Congress experiences. So what is your Go history? I know you've been playing since 2007. What has your Go life been like? Or how did you get introduced to the game? And then where did you go from there? Well, I'd heard about the game, like I said, before this. And just luckily found that there was a club nearby. And there was actually another club that met on Sunday afternoons. That club, as I believe, is now defunct. So I was going there pretty regularly. That was before the pandemic. And I don't know if – I don't think they ever started back up. There is – there was Go life. I guess I really prefer to play in person instead of online. I do some online play. But I found that the sort of casual just logging on and seeing who I can find to play with me, a lot of times I just don't relate to that very well. So it's just not for me. I really prefer the experience of meeting with people in person and talking a little bit during the game and, you know, reviewing the game after it's done. Yeah, there's a really big social aspect to go, I think. Yeah, and you really don't get that with online games. It's really quite difficult. So in particular, it seems like there's a lot of players online who, you know, I don't know if they're not interested in discussing the game or just – it's just difficult. As soon as the game's over, they say thank you and they're gone, right? Mm-hmm. And I just find that a little unsatisfying. So you mentioned you heard about the game. Sorry, did you say where you heard about it from or how you heard about it? I did not say. My brother used to play when he was in college or grad school. He played some and he told me about it. That's interesting. But I didn't play until – I didn't even attempt to play until quite a bit later than that. Gotcha. Gotcha. Does he still play? Do you two play? He doesn't. He does not, and I'm not sure why not. I couldn't even answer. He just – I guess he just got tired of it. I don't know. What was your first GO Congress? When did you go for the first time, and what was your first experience like? My first GO Congress was in New York in 2014. And it was – I'd been – for a couple of years, I've been trying to talk myself into spending the money and taking the time and going. And, you know, I heard, okay, it's going to be in New York. I've never been to New York. This is the year I'm going to go. And it was – I was – I don't know, probably. I think I must have been like a 12-Q player at the time. But it was an interesting experience. It was in the Hotel Pennsylvania instead of the usual, you know, small college somewhere. And there was a lot of good things about that Congress. To be honest, I really – I told you I'd never been to New York before. So I really didn't go to very many lectures and that sort of thing. I pretty much played the games and then I was out exploring the city because every time I think, well, you know, here's a lecture I really should go to. But I'd rather go do something touristy and just look around. Yeah, it's more for the fun experience than the learning. Yeah. So that pretty much got me hooked. I've been to almost everyone since then. All but one, I think, in person. What is your – sorry, dude, go ahead. I don't know what I was saying. Go ahead. What is your favorite part of Go Congress? Well, I can't pick out one favorite part. But I do enjoy the opportunity to play a good – you know, a real serious game like in the U.S. Open, for example. And, you know, the seniors tournament, for example. I plan to play in that this year also. So I enjoy the opportunity to play the serious games and lectures, although – yeah, I couldn't say my lectures is my favorite part. But I like meeting up with people. There's a bunch of people that I consider my friends that – I don't know. They can't really be close friends because I only see them once a year. But, you know, just catching up with people that I only see at Go Congresses. I think you can consider them close friends. I have close friends that I only talk to a couple times a year that are Go players as well. And every time we talk to each other, we catch up. And, you know, I think I consider them my close friends. Oh, okay. Yeah, I think – The other thing is – the other thing is one thing I really do enjoy is it's in a different place every year. And I end up traveling to places that I might not have traveled and seen otherwise. And it's always interesting. So you – so you enjoy going to the things not just for meeting all the Go players, which is definitely a big part, but also for being a tourist in a place that you maybe wouldn't have gone otherwise. Right. Yeah, that's actually kind of – that's an important part of it for me. Gotcha, gotcha. Has there been a favorite place that you have gone to in the recent Congresses? Favorite place in recent Congresses? Let's see. I'm going to have to go – if I can think through it here. I'm going to have to go with – well, I really liked Estes Park, you know, when we had the Congress there. But I've been there before. So I – I think Boston, really. Out of all the – out of all the Go Congresses, I really did enjoy Boston. I actually went there a few days ahead of time and just looked around and did all the historical – ogling at historical places and so forth. And it was really easy to get around, you know, do other things besides the Go Congress. And I really liked that. Cool. What are you looking forward to the most at this coming Congress? Looking forward to – well, let's see. Again, it's kind of hard to name a single thing. Okay, well, just something that you're looking forward to. Compared to last year, I'm looking forward to having a little bit more time on my hands to go to lectures and do touristy things. Because I just said, you know, I'm not going to do both of those tournaments again. It's too much. So I'll be doing about – spending about half as much time doing data entry as I did last year. And I think I maybe only went to one lecture the whole time. And so I'm looking forward to having a little bit more time. I've actually never been to Texas unless you count being in an airport. So just checking another destination off my list, I guess. And of course, I'll have to go see the famous bats in Austin. I plan to do that. Cool. You know about the bats, right? Sports team? Otherwise, no. I'm sorry? Not quite. Not really? Oh, well, there's – Austin is famous for this one bridge across the river in the middle of town. I can't remember what it's called. But there's a particular bridge where there's some species of bat. I don't know what it is. But there's millions of bats, literally millions of bats that roost under this bridge. And every night when the sun goes down, they all come out at once and they go foraging. And it's – by all accounts, it's a pretty impressive site. That sounds really cool. Right. Unless – then maybe not. So that's – Austin is actually kind of famous for a lot of things, but that's one of them. You said the bats. And I was thinking maybe a favorite sports theme or something, but no, literally a whole thing of bats. Little flying mammals. That's cool. No, I had never heard that. But I'm also not, like, looking up bat lore and bat stuff. But that's really cool. That sounds like an exciting thing. Make sure to take pictures. I would love to see some pictures. Yeah. And there's actually – I think if you look on the Congress webpage under the excursions, I think there's excursions. I think there's a couple of – like there's a river cruise or river bat viewing cruise or something. So that's something to look into. But I think if you just go downtown, I suspect you'll probably see them if you're there at the right time. Let's see. Of course, that's – Like 40 minutes at least from Georgetown. Museum, museum, library, ransom center, capital tours, campus walking, capital cruise, longest – bat watching sunset. There we go. $14 for one hour. Nightly bat watching sunset cruises. So literally bat tours. That's interesting. Yeah, that's – that is also on the Congress page. So that's really cool. Sounds pretty cheap. Yeah, I'm just looking at the photos right now. That's like a lot of bats. That sounds like it's going to be really exciting to watch. I plan on doing that anyway at least once. Yeah, I think that'll be really, really cool. Sidestepping just a little bit. What do you think about the growth of Go? And what do you think about new people getting in to go? Like how do – what do you think gets the new people in to go? What do you think we're doing, the AGA or the online community or in-person community? How's everyone doing with getting people in to go? And what would you – what opinions would you have about it? Well, it does seem like we – you know, the Congress is growing. I don't know if we're going to have a record attendance like – you know, the directors have made it their goal to have record attendance this year. I think it's going to be kind of hard to beat Boston in 2016 because that was, of course, when AlphaGo made the big splash. And a lot of people signed up sort of late because we got excited about that. I don't – I'm not really sure what typically gets people into the game. Although if you have, you know, particularly kids, if they get started young and they're really into it, they tend to stick with it and sometimes bring their friends along. It seems like we're – the AGA and the Congress is growing slowly. But I – I don't know how to encourage people to play it. I mean, I talk to people that – non-players sometimes. And I'm sure you get this reaction. You're familiar with this reaction, too. You tell them a little about it and they say, well, huh, that's interesting. And then, you know. Yeah, then they walk away. Exactly. No, yeah, I have a lot of experience. I think in my experience, about one in a hundred people will actually play the game that you teach the rules of the game. Maybe one in a hundred will actually continue playing after a month. But – I've also done – I know this is not – this is a thing that is not effective. I've done some events like there will be some cultural event. Like we have the Cherry Blossom Festival or something. And I've done – somebody else set it up and I volunteered to – we had a booth, you know, teach people how to play Go. So – and people would come by and learn the rules and say, yeah, that's real interesting and I'll definitely come to the club sometime. And, of course, they – I've never seen anybody actually start showing up to a club because of that. So, I don't know. That seems like – it's kind of fun to do, but it's – if you're trying to recruit new players, it's not very effective. I tend to agree. We have our own Cherry Blossom Festival booth and the local anime convention booth. But as far as, like, efforts to people actually attending the club, I think it's a lot, a lot of effort to just get maybe two or three people. And we're talking, like, years of doing this and we've only gotten maybe five or less. So, maybe one a year from doing it at best. So, in your opinion, what do you think that is? What do you think we could be doing different? Or do you have any ideas? I have no idea. The best thing I can come up with is it's just not for everybody. I mean, not everybody. I was talking to – there was a – this was a few years ago. I was sharing an office with a colleague at work and she's just not into playing games, right? So, I was telling – because, I mean, she was interested in, you know, what I had to say about it because I was going – you know, getting prepared to go to the Congress and play tournaments and so forth. But, but really, to her, it would just sound like the absolute most boring thing she could think of. So, it's just not for everybody. How do you encourage or incentivize, I guess, more people to play? I don't know. Okay. Of course. It would be kind of nice if more people did play, but I don't know. All right. So, going a little bit beyond newer players, what do you think about – or getting people into the game, but rather people who have just joined their, like, 30Q to 25Q, do you have any tips for them to enjoy the game more or any tips for their first Go Congress? Should they even come to Go Congress? Well, I'd say specifically about the Congress. I enjoy going to the Congress. And I think it's – you know, even if you're a beginner, people can be a little squirrely or kind of hesitant about, you know, sinking the time and the money into going. But if you get the opportunity, you find out that it's really – the vast majority of players are just – you know, are really like to, you know, introduce people to the game and talk about the game. And so, anybody who's really a weak player that thinks, well, I could go to the Congress, but, you know, I'm going to feel out of place. I think, you know, my advice to them is if you have the time and the money and you think you might possibly want to go, just go. It's going to be – you're going to have fun. At least I would think so. I mean, my experience, yeah, I was a little bit stronger. I'd played in a few tournaments the first time I went to a Congress. And it was a little bit overwhelming, but I was really glad I went. And met a lot of people that were just, you know, really more than willing to teach me a little bit just casually and show me some stuff that I hadn't seen before. And hit some friends. That was pretty good. And there's always other stuff to do anyway, like I said. Wrapping it up here, do you have any final comments about the tournament, your own GO experience, or the Congress that you would like to share? One thing I did want to mention is – I don't know if you're going to be interviewing anybody about the self-paired tournament, but I did mention that a little bit. So we have a new person running that this year, at least tentatively. Not going to be me. But everybody knows about the self-paired tournament. And one of the things that I've noticed, having done – run both of these tournaments or events, is – so for both the self-paired and the bound prizes, they're run in much the same way. And you can play – players who arrange a game for either one of those things can agree that the game will be either rated or unrated. And either way, it's going to count for prizes. But, you know, either a game will be submitted for an official AGA rating or it won't. And my experience has been – and this makes perfect sense to me – I'd say at least 90% of the games in the self-paired tournament, the players choose to have them rated. So those are mostly rated games. And it's just the other way around for the bound prizes. It's more of a fun event. But I'd say at least 90% of the games they choose to have unrated and just play for fun. So anybody that – you know, it's always the player's choice. And they're always more or less friendly games. But, you know, you don't have to worry – you know, if you don't – you don't have to worry going into that. You can always just choose to have it unrated. And like I said, the vast majority of the bound prize games are unrated. Cool. Anything else you want to share before we wrap it up here? I guess not. All right. Well, thank you so much for taking the time to have this interview. And hopefully all the people that watch this will appreciate your time and effort. And the people that play this year, I'm sure, will also very much appreciate your efforts. And hopefully I will see you there at the Congress and maybe you can show me the pictures of the bats. I would love to see it. Okay. Yeah, I'm looking forward to it. We'll see you then. All right. Thank you. Thank you so much. Have a good one. All right. You too.