 Hey everybody, welcome to it's just bodybuilding, I'm your host, big Ron Parlo, and I'm here with Dusty Hanshaw and the producer Scott McNally, remember like, share, comment, subscribe, and ring the bell, and ring the bell. And don't forget the hype button. And don't forget the hype button. Right, Scott? Yes. The new hype button. Okay. Remember, I am mutant. Okay. Remember, I am mutant.com. Go to I am mutant.com. Go to I am mutant.com. Save money. Avoid people. Get stuff delivered right to your house very quickly. Dusty and Big Ron are your codes. Get your hardcore ISO. Get your big greens. Get your mind. FK. And everyone should get on the gear. Okay, Dusty. We have a reaction today. Don't we? Reacts. Oh, I wasn't ready. I wasn't ready. I was waiting for that earlier. Oh, you do. Yeah, yeah, yeah. You tried to catch a safeguard with it. That's what that was. No, no, it's good. I've tried to just delay, delay it a little bit. I like it. What are we looking at? We got an MPC Nationals? Yeah, so this is from a channel called Anything Bodybuilding that one of our listeners told us about. And we were talking about, hey, we could just jump straight into the light heavyweights here, 97 Nationals. As well, are they ready for Sylvester Solomon? Is he ready? Oh, damn, I remember this. Look at those quads. I remember the name. I love the VHS dub. Yes. Oh, that guy looks good. He walks funny, though. Yeah, that's a wacky band. Damn. Remember light heavyweights, Dusty? Yeah, they're always frightening. 5-5. So, was there only one pro card at this show in 97? 97 would have been it's Nationals, which is one card per class. Yeah, okay. USA's would have been one card. Bodybuilders are constantly working to make improvements to their physique. Yeah. So, when you're recognized as the most improved bodybuilder at the NBC Nationals, you could not ask for more. I think she's done a good move. I've grown the hair out. Sorry. Dave Rose of Champion Nutrition will present the Most Improved Bodybuilder Award. Thank you, Linda. On behalf of Champion Nutrition, it's an honor for us to present this award. We like to think, as manufacturers of sports nutrition products, we add a lot to a bodybuilder's physique. So, it's with great pleasure that I give this award to Sylvester Solomon for being the most improved bodybuilder. Sylvester. Thank you, Lord. Congratulations, Sylvester. You look wonderful. You have a face. I hear that you're working with Chad Nichols. Yes. I've been working with him for about eight weeks now to prepare for this competition. Eight weeks. And it really paid off me hiring someone to help me obtain this type of fitness in this competition. Look at that face. Yeah. That's she's really locked. Back now to the light heavyweight division competitors. This is Robert Russo from Hophog, New York. He was the overall junior national winner in 1996. People do not realize how good this light heavyweight class would have been. I bet it was 30 guys. Oh, yeah. Lost. Maybe 20 if I'm small. Yeah. And he was born on the 4th of July. This would have been very standard light heavyweight look back then. This is incredible. Just because you own a gym doesn't mean that you'll have the greatest physique because you have to really work with the athletes and the clients in your gym. And they think you're always available. So for him to be in this great shape and look at those glutes. He's really worked hard. One of his training partners is Johnny Moya. Oh, yeah. The winner of the middleweight division. Is champion nutrition still around? I was wondering. There we go. Great era. Oh, Arntz. Damn. 5'5", 198. Yeah. It's extremely tough because he's... This is a song choice. This is 12 weeks. So he's had to actually start the diet all over again. Stay strong mentally. Come in and try to get as hard and ripped as he was at the USA. Look at that glute from the side. Well, basically certainly it's difficult. Would it be just as difficult mentally, Linda? Very difficult mentally. He was around forever, man. Yeah, he was. He's good. The VHS line through the middle. Oh, yeah. Classic. Remind me how I watched the majority of my young life. Oh, look at the hams from the back. Crazy hamstrings. Jason Arntz gave us some insights to his preparation for these nationals. Well, it's been a constant, another 15-week diet regimen. You know, it's probably one of the toughest sports I've ever been involved in. It's bodybuilding, just the consistency with dedication and the dieting. It's a 24-hour sport. It's not like football or something else where you go out for the day and that's it. You know, I mean, this is a lifestyle. And I gave it my all for this show. Great years, though. Hopefully things will work out. On stage now here in Dallas, parenthesis Devers. Oh, PD. PD. Oh, I forgot about him. I got a PD story. He was a great loser back then. I got a story about PD. No, no, let me turn this down a little bit. It's a 24-hour-a-day routine. It's not something where you go out. So PD got his pro card in 2009, 2010 when I did the North Americans with Chris. Okay. And after the show was over, Chris texted me and he said, Hey, come meet me. I'm going to PD's room because he just got his pro card. Yeah. So we went to PD's room and his family was in there, all these kids running around. And they had all this baking and food and catering in the hotel room. He had all this food. It was like this real family. I walked in and I thought it was going to be Chris and me and PD. And it was like I walked into PD's backyard barbecue, essentially. And he had like, it was awesome. It was like so great. And me and Chris sat there and ate a big plate of food. And then PD passed away a few years later. Yeah. Oh, God. Yeah. Oh, Vinny Galanti. He looked peeled here. Yeah, he was always peeled. That structure is awesome. On the national level, look at his hamstring. It's your song, Ron. Right, right. It's the default one. Yeah, we got hamstring there. Yeah. I'd like to talk to these photographers about this long distance filming. Yeah. Yeah. We're going to need you to come in there, fellas. There we go. They tried to make bodybuilding dramatic. Right. You know, get the Jerry Bruckheimer shot. Yeah. Just kidding. It's like, so this is just a light heavies. Yeah. This is just a light heavy. So that was the end of that. And then from there, we went into the heavyweights. Let me find that one here. Here it is. Here's the heavies. Now, they didn't have supers back then. Yeah. Supers would have started the following year, 98. Oh. The weight will vary by about 60 pounds. Here's the lightest of them all, Garrett Downing. That's the first person I saw guest pose was Garrett Downing. Really? And he was blown out offseason. That was the craziest thing I'd ever seen. It was enormous. That's awesome. 5'6", 2'12". So, like, maybe he was 240 at his guest posing and you were just like... Yeah. Oh, my brain broke when I saw him. Yeah, yeah. He was 500 pounds in my mind. Yeah. Yeah. That's great. Bodybuilding caught him a bit by the ride. Every kid's first memory or young guy's first memory of, like, guest posers. Oh, yeah. You've got to remember, I mean, I was like a local... I wasn't even bodybuilding. I was just going to shows. So, you're used to seeing the competitors and then these guys walk out and you're just like, this is a different thing. The first guest poser I ever saw was Victor Richards. That's a hell of a start. Orville! Orville Burke! Oh, man. Still alive. Yeah. Remember? All of us who thought... I announced his untimely death. Yes. I love the light spread on him. He's big. He has the total package. When I say total package, I mean complete physique. He has the muscle. He has the leanness. He has the shape. Small little waist. He looks wonderful. Yeah. Orville wound up doing the Olympiad, didn't he? Yep. Did he? Yeah. Yep. Win. And he is looking strong today. We talked to Orville before the competition to ask him why he got into this sport. We're all trying to figure that out. I had a lot of sport when I was young. I was just attracted to muscle. Being considered strong. I think he was from the Caribbean somewhere, wasn't he? Yeah. He was from one of those Caribbean places, I think. At 15, he weighed 130. In White Sox. At 15, he weighed 130. Oh. That was funny. How about this? Okay. Tom Prince. He wins this show, I think. A familiar face here, runner-up in the heavyweight division the last two years. Little legs on him. Dude, the hams. Here they come. Look at his legs. Boom. That's a ham drop. Great hamstring from the side. He has a crazy leg. Then we're going to come to see him from the front on a hamstring shot. Thanks, photographer. Right? Those legs are just out of this world. Yeah, he was a scene. He got a lot bigger, too, once he was a pro. Oh, yeah. Looking at this. He put 20 pounds on, man. Because he looks great here, but he's not at his Tom Prince-iest. If I give him my best shots, and I come in the way that I know I can look, then that's all I can do. Very honestly, I don't come here with a goal of beating everybody else. The only person I really ever have to beat is, in my mind, is myself. So I'm going to say a controversial thing. What's that guy? If you are in great condition, and you still have a fat face, then you don't know how good your condition can actually be. Right. You know those guys are like, I look great, and you do, and maybe they win, but they're still the fat face. It's like, you can get probably crazy enough to blow people away if you just get your face like that. Yeah. Oh. You know what I mean? Like the next level. A little jumbo. He's got like the biggest glutes ever. He really does. Like his glutes are humongous. They really are. They're like on his body separate. Very nice and lean. The last couple years, he has in place probably where he wants to play, but he's smart, he's patient, he's listened to the judges, and this year, he's improved his physique and tapered it down and improved his symmetry. Damn, I can't hit shots every day when they say power. Yeah. That's a lot of work. Yeah, he was a monster, man. Palumbo really did everything he could. Oh, DJ. All right. 5'7", 216. DJ winds up being like 245, I don't know. He's going to fill out so much more. This is a young DJ. What a song choice. Yeah. I can't hear it. Oh, man. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. A little genuine. It's getting busy. Come here, honey. Muscle is the name of the game, most certainly. And the Murray is ready to help out with the most muscular award. Oh, you scanned away again. To recognize the most muscular athlete at the NPC Nationals means that you've not only trained hard, but you have the willpower and the discipline. Most muscular? Who do they give that to? I think they give it to Dennis. Dennis? Dwayne Sigler of General Nutrition Centers will present the most muscular award. The NPC show brings out the toughest competitors, and the toughest of the toughest and the most muscular is Tom Prince this year. Oh, there we go. That makes sense to me. I can see that, yeah. Yeah, he looked incredible here. I really like that look. Really? You look super. Thanks. It was an honor. I really appreciate it. He is my favorite so far. I think he wins this show, yeah. Tom would have been a great interview. Tom would have been a great interview. How long were you on that diet? The last 14 weeks just having Chad Nichols, you know, rip me apart. Also working with Chad. Day one, day two, all the way through to the day of the show. I'm telling you. I mean, I can't really give Chad Nichols enough credit for absolutely just, you know, destroying me an hour and 45 minutes on the cardio every day and eating next to nothing. Hour and 45 minutes on the cardio. I'll never be able to thank Chad enough for that. Well, congratulations. Thank you. The heavyweight results have been tabulated, so here's the order. As it turns out, the most muscular Tom Prince is also the top heavyweight, followed by Orville Burke and Garrett Downing. After two second place finishes, Prince is king of the heavyweight. The top four all go on to be Olympia level. Yes, I know it is. When people think of bodybuilding, when people think of mass, you just won the heavyweight class. So do you feel like going into the overall, you definitely have an advantage? Advantage in mass? I don't know. I kind of hope it's the whole package. I have Sylvester's and then the kid in the middle, which will look pretty damn big. So I just do my gift, go out there, hit my best shots, and give them what I got left. All right. Well, you go and get them now. Go in overall. We'll take it. All right. So from here then, we've got one more video, and that is the overall, which is kind of exciting because we don't know for absolute sure what's going to happen here because we weren't looking this up ahead of time. I'm sure that our listeners at home all know. All right. Pretend you don't while you're watching. It'll be better that way. Once again, anything bodybuilding, guys, go check them out. Welcome back now to the NPC Nationals. The five division winners of each are in their pro card with their performance. Now we're going to find out how they stack up to each other in the pose down to determine the overall champion of these Nationals. Back to the song. This is where the athletes have to dig in deep and show the judges exactly who they have Oh, who's that guy? He turns pro two. He's from New York. We've got the Bantamweight. We're walking to the end there. Martin Martinez. The middleweight Johnny Moya. Porter. Sylvester Solomon and the heavyweight Tom Prince. No, he's over by Tom on the end. He's just blatant muscle for muscle comparison to the judges. That guy right there in the blue. Oh. Johnny. Johnny Moya. Yeah. Johnny Moya from New York, right? Yep. Brooklyn or something. He's the most ripped. Yep. So it's between muscle and leaning. One last look at the five division winners on stage here in Dallas. It is pretty impressive how the smaller guys hold their own in size. Now, let's find out who will take it all. All right. Our 1997 NPC overall men's bodybuilding champion. I think Tom wins this. Yeah, I'm pretty sure. Took him a while. But he finally did it. Tom Prince. All right. So Tom Prince gets the nod to the dismay of some in the crowd. I hear some booze out there. But what a return to form for this man who finished ninth at the USA is just a short long ago. There's some solid guys. Yes, and I know he's happy. He's a professional. Yeah. Johnny Moya was good. He was sliced. He was very hard. Yeah. Now athletes all look great. They all turned pro though, I believe. All class winners. Yeah. Yeah. But what a moment for Tom Prince receiving congratulations from NBC President Jim Mannion. Those old trophies that they used to give were so awesome. Because remember, that's how, like, how did Dexter get his card? Wasn't he technically a light heavyweight at Nationals? I can't remember. I think so, yeah. It worked out okay for him. It worked out okay for him. Tom, congratulations to you. Is this a bit of vindication after what happened to you at the USA comp? You were devastated. Yeah, at the USA getting ninth and just getting smacked in the face with a shovel of reality that hard was just an eye opener. You know, it led me to, like, have a new train or a whole new outlook on life. Dealing with my wife, my kids, everything. Everything became just, like, more positive. And I was kind of like a bore ahead for this one and just, you know, throw away all the bad negative stuff from the USA. Wow. Congratulations. What did you do this year that was different from the last competition and last year? Trend. I guess the biggest thing was Chad Nichols there to help me, you know, take away all the stress, all the pressure. Let him do all my thinking. Kind of let him be my coach. And they just let me be an athlete so that all I had to do was train. And all I had to do was do my cardio and eat and pose. And he could do all the mental stuff. And he could, like, just take all that pressure. And, you know, it worked really, really well. Well, you're an excellent student. You did a great job. Thank you. All right, Tom. Congratulations to you again. That's pretty awesome, man. What a great era. And remember, everyone. Tom Prince, our overall champion tonight. Remember. Linda, the pose down was very tense. It really could have gone. Yeah, on ESPN. This is on the sports channel. Like, you're just surfing. You're like, oh, the kings are playing. And you turn to the next channel, you're like, oh, bodybuilding's on. Yeah. That was the era. Amateur bodybuilding. Amateur bodybuilding. Yeah. On a Saturday afternoon. See the NCAA scores down below? Yeah, it's so awesome. Running through. They'd cut. They'd go to a commercial. They'd show football scores. NASCAR scores. Whatever the fuck's going on. It was really crazy. Yeah. Cool time. And it's funny how bodybuilding now is, like, so much more mainstream in a way. Everyone knows a pro. Everybody knows some freaks into it. But bodybuilding would never be on mainstream. No. Yeah. It was a wild time. Yeah, that was great. Very cool. That was worth seeing. Yeah. Yeah. Those old backgrounds and, I don't know, there's something about that era. It was a great time. The conference isn't with us. Do you guys know how we lost him? Well, his kidneys failed on him. Is that what it was? So, I know, like, once your kidneys are gone and you're living on dialysis, I mean, technically, you know, a lot of other things can go wrong. So, I'm not sure exactly what happened. But, you know, it was a lot of that. So, it's just too bad. Also, too, I said that I thought Dexter turned pro as a light heavy. He did. But he actually won the light heavy and overall at the North Americans one year. Oh, okay. I thought he was a Nationals guy because he's light heavy. That's how most guys get their card when they're a smaller weight class, right? Okay. So, yeah. Yeah. Great time. That's fucking ESPN Muscle Mania and all that stuff they had on. We're going to NPC Nationals and shit. Remember the workout videos on ESPN, too? Oh, yeah. We've done reactions to a couple of those before. But did you see that meme I reposted? It was like Tiana, you know, the morning girls. They're doing press downs. It says why I'm so into muscle mommies at my age. I spent my Saturday mornings watching Monica Brandt and, you know, Tiana Kim or whatever working out on the beach. And now it's like, why do I like these girls so much? All came through from when I was six. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I was there. I was like 15. So it was even worse. Prime time for you. I got the hot shot. You know? At six, you're figuring out why you like these girls. At 15, you know why you like these girls. Like, I don't know why I like this show. I just really like it. And then when you're 15, put it on. Put it on. Okay. That's great. Well, thanks, everybody. Remember to like, share, subscribe, comment. And... Ring the bell. Yes. And remember, I am mutant.com. Get your hardcore ISO. Get your MindFK. Get your big greens. And everyone should get on the gear. And I don't say this often because I don't like to explain myself. But the gear is the essential amino acids. That's what that means. Oh. Because we've had the odd person think that that's just a joke that we say. Yeah. We're serious. Get on the gear. That's what the mutant essential amino acids is called. It's the gear. So get on the gear. But you can get on the other gear, too. It's okay. Yeah, you can get on the other gear, too. You'd probably be happy. I can give you a discount for that, though. No. If you're watching this channel, you probably already are. Probably are. We need to tell you. Okay. Yeah. There's no natties watching this show. But yeah, definitely. Use your codes BIGRON and Dusty. Get your shit. And you'll be very happy. Yes. Hey, that was a good one. I enjoyed that. Thanks, guys. Have a great week. Remember, it's just bodybuilding. It is. React. React. React. React. React. Thank you.