 naringin, No, he was definitely better than the Olympia. As like a, you know, six foot plus guy my whole life, I just love Krizzo's arms, man. They're so sick. When his wife took over at the end, it all worked. Now that she's had full control for a full offseason and three preps, it's never worked. Look, it walked him right in, and it honestly, it's because of his own personal insecurities, but I don't get it, man. You just freaking ghost somebody and don't even text them and be like, hey, you know, I'm going to do it my own way or whatever. Not that you even know what you're doing when you've never done it before. Hey, everybody. Welcome to It's Just Bodybuilding. I'm Big Ron Partler with your host, Dusty Hanshaw, and the producer, Scott McNally. Remember to like, share, subscribe, comment, and... Ring the bell. Yes, and remember, I am mutant.com. Go to IamMutant.com. Dusty and Big Ron are your codes. You can use whichever one you want. Alternate between them. Get your merch. Get your hardcore ISO. Get your MindFK. And everyone should get on the gear. Okay, Dusty. We're all geared up. We're ready for another show. How's everybody doing this week? Awesome. I am ecstatic following another great weekend of bodybuilding. I hate this time of year because I know it's about to slip away. Right. Right. The shows are about to end, and they've been so good. The competitors have been bananas. So it kind of makes it harder to let it go. I mean, the post-Olympia show was... That prog show was out of control, minus the backdrop. Yeah. Aside from the worst backdrop of the year... Maybe they were trying to do that just to kind of like draw... It does get a lot of conversation. You know, it's... What do they call that? Rage bait? Engagement? Rage bait? Was there... Have there been people talking about this topic? Oh, yeah. So they had red with black with shades of yellow and orange. Like, it was like a fire sort of looking back. I don't know what it was supposed to be. Okay. But just... It made me think there was like... They were like on a backdrop of like kind of fiery red, black sort of stuff. The only thing they could have done to make it any worse is have the actual color of protan somehow blended into the backdrop. Would have been the only way they could have made it more difficult to see. From what I've seen, Ron, according to some pictures I've seen of Scott, a brick wall is also a great way. Orange brick wall. Orange and brown brick wall. Orange brick wall. Reddish brown protan bodies in front of them. Yeah. Yeah. And then the lighting itself didn't even look good. Like, I saw all the back doubles and I had to like zoom in to see if the glutes were strided. Ah. Because nothing was like shining. You know, like... Nothing was popping. You're supposed to see cuts. Yeah. Yeah. And then, obviously, some of the guys, they just didn't have strided glutes because it was like that, oh, I peaked for the O and now I'm sort of like 80% look. It was on a few of those guys. Why don't I still hop into this? We can get into that. Yeah. Yes. So, Martin shows up looking better than the Olympia, possibly. Oh, definitely. Or was it just that he smoked everyone? No, he was definitely better than the Olympia. Better than the Olympia. You can say that on the backdrop we just described. Yeah. I'm thinking, what did he really look like? And, obviously, the big talk is Samson takes another big hit. Yeah. Big hit. What is going on? You're Samson. You win the Olympia. And a year later, in the following season, you lose to Arnold. You lose the Olympia. And then you lose to Martin. Yeah. He's a fourth, fifth guy, technically, at the O. You know? What do you guys, what do you take? What do you do? Well, the first thing, and I hate to go back to what we've already covered, but we talked about this last week, which is that, to me, is further proof that Martin should have stood next to Samson at the Olympia. Good point. Yeah. Yeah. That's a great point. Never put him next to him. Never put him in that group. We said, you knew who the top three were, for sure. Clear. So, let's see four, five, six, seven. Yeah. And see who dances there. So, I hope that they do that now, because we were at the Olympia, and I would have had Martin beat Samson there. And then, a few weeks later, granted, it was a better Martin and a better Samson, and Martin won. Yeah. And watching after pre-judging, I thought Martin would win. I had him winning, but I didn't know if they would do it, but I was like, he's winning. He is winning. I mean... He just... Yeah. And then, another thing I have to admit, and I mean, obviously, we just talked about not everyone was at their best, but, I mean, I looked at pictures, and again, I think the stage was a horrible representation of everyone, lighting and all that, but Keon was not anywhere near what he needs to be to do what we think he can do in the open. So, what did you take of the result with Keon? I mean, he still looked crazy. He's up there, obviously, looking unbelievable with the top guys, but, you know, I think he was off the mark to, you know, be a winner. But, do you guys think he can win a show like this? Well, first off, because we're going to get roasted for this, I have to remind people that this is not a personal thing. We like all these guys, but we're talking about the best in the world and what it takes to win. I think that Keon can win at the open level. I just don't know after, I posted a comment on the pre-Olympia post pictures of Keon, the videos, and I said that he's the best bodybuilder in the world right now. Right. And I feel like seeing it in person, seeing him stand next to the guys, I have to retract that because things change when you're standing next to guys. You know, he's still unbelievable, but I don't know that without getting out of the 212 class and growing. And having more size to. Yeah. He needs to put on more muscle to hang with those guys because as much as he has the prettiest, most flawlessly put together physique, there's just less overall structure, stance. You know what I mean? It's the Aceto thing. You're standing next to a 10-story building. You're a better overall five-story building, but you're a five-story building. You know, there's more attention drawn to the bigger thing. So he's going to have to move into the open to actually prove that. I still think he can, just like Derek. But he was definitely not as good, which surprised me. Yeah. I thought that he would be as good or better because I know he's disciplined. I know. And, you know, we all know there's a lot of things that goes into why you could be less at a next show. You know, when you're talking about like the younger, lower level guys, it's usually discipline. That's not the issue here. Travel, exhaustion, body just starts fighting. There's a lot of things that that could be. But I kind of forgot about how amazed I was of Keon because of how amazed I was of Martin. And then also that guy, and I don't know how to say his name, but Joan. How do I say his last name? He was bonkers to me. Yeah. Just. He got full. Pratelus. Yes. Joan Pratelus. Is it? Wow. Is it? Is it? Like, I don't know how to say that. Is that the proper pronunciation? But yeah. Somebody can phonetically spell that out for us in the. And then we'll still get it wrong in the future. But if you could do that, that would be appreciated. He has put himself on a map as a guy to watch at the highest level now. Yeah. I mean, he's always huge legs. And diced out of his mind. Yeah. And he also looks really young, which in bodybuilding, to look really young, you probably are. Because we all know that the things that you do to be that good age you. I loved his overall look. Massive. Yeah. He was awesome. You know, there's little things in him that I hope that would get rectified. Like, you can see that he hits his glutes too much with the shots. He's got scar tissue there. That's got to go. Oh, okay. If you look at the picks, Scott, I don't know if you can pull them up. But, like, there's a rear lat spread. And the first thing my eyes went to was, that's a rookie mistake. I'll throw that in post. I'll find it. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, again, picking apart someone who's phenomenal. But that's an easy fix. Yeah. You know. So, I did find some stuff where people are saying that it was the best key on ever. Huh. Okay. And there was, like, a great picture accompanied. But I also saw pictures where it didn't look like his glutes were in. But then I saw a video where his glutes did look pretty tight. So, like. But like I said. The problem with bad lighting and bad backdrop and all that isn't that everyone looks bad. It's just that in some pictures, you don't look the way you're supposed to. It depends on the camera. One person can be videoing you with better equipment that does better with light balance and all that. You know how it works, Scott. Yeah. You get less consistency in what you're seeing when the backdrop isn't helpful. Yeah. Because it changes the exposure. You know. Yeah. You're trying to meter up the backdrop. Well, look how shadowed his midsection is in that front double you just said. Yeah. Like, you could watch this video and go, well, that's not as. Like, he looks amazing. Yeah. He looks incredible. You'd be like, well, Theo, I think you look better than that. Right? Like, you could say that with certain images. And then you pull up another picture and you're like, oh, wait a minute. He just looks bigger and harder. Like, it's really screwed up. Yeah. So, here I see the glutes look pretty good. Is that Keon's, you know, is that Keon at his best? I don't know. Like, I certainly didn't think so when I saw the first photos. I'm surprised because I felt like having. So, that was the only thing I saw was prejudging at the Olympia in person. And everything else I saw was on video. I was, I'm a huge Keon fan, so I say that first. I didn't think that he nailed it, you know. And then from what I heard, they maybe filled him up a little bit too much earlier in the week. My guess is maybe they tried to, like, overcorrect. Fluid wasn't right by the day of the show. I would have thought if things were a tiny bit off, a couple percent off for that, prejudging, that they would have freaking nailed it here. You know what I mean? Yeah. That's true. I will say he definitely had his abdominal control way better at this show. Did he, where did he wind up? Was it third or fourth? Where was he? Fourth? I think he was third. I can't even remember the places. Yeah, third. And I think that guy, I could be wrong, but I think that guy, Joan got. Joan Pratis, yeah. Yeah. I think he got. Here's the placings here. No, he was fourth. I'm sorry. He was fourth because, yeah, I forgot about Krizzo. Krizzo was third. Oh, Krizzo was third. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Watching Krizzo pose pains me. Yeah. Krizzo is a unique looking dude, man. I told you about my one buddy that always forwards me the Krizzo videos being like, this guy looks like he'd kill everyone on stage. But then, you know, on stage it's like, he's got this, you know, and that. But he looked great at this show. I was surprised to beat Keon because we think a Keon is like, just the balance and structure would be hard for anyone to beat. You know what I mean? Yeah. So, but like you said, Dusty, you got to put that six foot guy next to that five foot five guy and see what happens. Yeah. I mean, he just has, he has a ton of muscle that's diced up his mind. And I think it's a little bit hard as a professional when guys don't adjust their posing year after year. Right. You know, like we've talked about that with Andrew Jack where you're like, if he would just learn how to pose, which he was way better this year. Yeah. Same with Dino. But, you know, when you watch his poses there, he's better than he shows as good as he is here. Yeah. You know what I mean? Yeah, yeah. I know what you mean. I remind like clients when I'm working with them, I'm like the judges judge what you show them, not what you have. Yeah. And another thing I just, as a, as like a, you know, six foot plus guy, my whole life, I just love Chris those arms, man. They're so sick. He's got crazy arms, crazy arms on that big dude. Yeah. Yeah. It's just a, you know, you see a six foot one guy or six foot tall guy with giant arms, like easy 22s or whatever. It's always impressive. You know, I mean, look at those arms from behind, even boom. He reminds me that freaks in bodybuilding will never go away. They will always be here because there will always be a chrizzo. You know, there's always going to be one of those, a few of those guys around that. This is just the way that they can look their best is to have that crazy muscle on muscle on muscle. Look, he's just, oh my God. He's doing press downs in high school and the, yeah. Everyone's like, yeah, yeah. Yeah. You know what? Like when I see guys with arms like that, like his. Yeah. I was saying, oh, you knew you. You were riding your bike when you were 12 and people were like, well, your arms, man. You know, I just, I don't know. I just feel like he must've always had something going on there. Look at those arms. Like they're crazy. They are. They are, man. He's insane. That absolutely elite arm from the front is just like, I just love that. It's sick. Psychological point of view, Samson, I can only imagine where he's at right now. You know, it's got to be rough, man. Like you said, to have been on top to then come back this season and really just get, you know, pretty beat up. It's like how you feel if you get traded from like the Patriots to the Browns. Ron's making football analogies. There's a lot of people that don't follow. And I totally understand. I'm like, you get, you get one, you get one last ring with Brady and new England. And then they send you to the Browns and you just sit there for a season. And you're like two and two and eight or whatever. Just like, it must be shitty. It's rough. And you know, you're good. Like, you know, you know, you're good. Like he knows he is one of the very best. And the thought had to be like, hey, well, I didn't get what I wanted here, but let's go to this next show because it's not going to be as big. I'm just going to walk right through. You know what I mean? Yet there had to be some confidence going into this one of like, well, just based off of who I am, based off of my, my physique, you know, I'm going to, I'm going to walk through this. And at least, because it really would have say he came back and he won this, that would at least he could then go into the offseason and feel like, okay, I still got it. You know what I mean? Versus now you don't get that nod from the judges and it's kind of like, well, hell, you know, what's going on? Yeah, because. But you lost so much, you know, it was like, so it's so much you could only do between then and now. 14 days. Yeah. It's not enough time to fill back out. The thing that's missing to me is everyone thought that he needed to fill out. I think he was lean enough. He lost muscle. Yeah. You're not, you're not just, you weren't flattened needed to fill out. That could be done in four days. There's muscle that isn't there currently that was there before. Yeah. So if, if I was him, if I was in his camp, I actually wouldn't take this as a negative. I would take this as, okay, we now know for sure. Cause I was, I, he probably said I was full. Everything was right. But this was as full as I could be with the muscle mass that I have. I just need time. I need to rest. I need to fill back up, put that muscle back on, which will take two seconds for him. Right. And then next year he's in the mix. The thing that I would hope is that, um, he's kind of got the Jay Cutler attitude after people started to write him off. And I hope that the, and he's one of the nicest humans on the planet. Yeah. I hope he finds a little anger for all the people writing him off. Cause I definitely, he is to me still at his best, the best bodybuilder in the world. So to me, just get back to your best. Don't worry about it. And then, you know, use this as fuel. Cause obviously everyone's telling him what he should do. He needs to get a different coach. He needs to do this. It's like you, I think he needs to get back to what got him to the dance in the first place. Yeah. Pretty simple. I I'm a huge fan of Samson's physique, man. I still think that, you know, the year he won the O I thought the front relaxed was the kicker because he looks like a Mr. Olympia is supposed to look in the front. Relax. Like it's just that front. Relax says everything about everything. I love about a massive Olympia bodybuilding champion. You know what I mean? You can't make that either. You know, you can't like, that's something you're, you have the genetics to be that, that waist, that shape in the arms, shoulder ratio, all that, you know? Yeah. I just want to see Samson do what he has to do to, you know, come back better than ever. And we've seen enough comeback stories in enough sports where people have that bad season, you know? Yeah. And, and, you know, maybe they're playing with an injury all year that they don't talk about or something, you know, and they just have that season that's like low productivity. And then, and then the next year they come back, you know, like it, it happens all the time. And, you know, I just hope Samson can, can get past it. I think what's probably the best, like, again, I have no idea what goes on in Samson's sphere. Right. But I think it's probably best to put minimal thought into what has just happened. Like, you know what I mean? Like, you just got to go, eh, Brady lost some Super Bowls too. You know, I, I did say before, I was like, well, look at, look at his coach's experience. I feel like everybody slammed me for, you know, questioning him being coached by his wife. Here's the deal. Like, so you're going up against a guy like Aceto, who's coached people multiple times, time and time again. And I'm not saying that she can't do it, but when you don't have as much experience, it takes you longer to figure things out. So does he need to leave her and go to somebody else? I would say that at this point, maybe not, maybe stick with her. Right. Because now they figured out a lot and it wasn't the things that they wanted to see this season, but they figured out a lot of the things that didn't work. So they know they can change that for next time. But that's what you have to deal with. If you work with a less experienced coach, Aceto or somebody who's been, they're in the trenches with multiple physiques through decades and does this day in, day out, he's going to be faster to get to the things that work. For somebody that doesn't have as much experience, it's not that she can't do it, but it might take her a little bit longer to get there. Which when I've said it, the term I used is it's a lot of pressure to coach at this level for her. That's what I mean. Because you don't, it's not a very forgiving sport, man. You don't get many chances, you know, it's like he had three chances in, in, in like now he's being judged as to who he is as a human being. You know what I mean? By the audience. My question for, for that scenario, Scott, on the opposite end of the spectrum is with that level of experience, do you know where you went wrong? Because that's the, that's the missing link. If you know what was wrong, then it's salvageable. But I also think like when I was younger and first started coaching, it would become, and you guys can both attest to this with experience. You don't question your decisions. Yeah. Like I have a rule when someone's really good, I make a decision and I hit send and I close out their pictures. Yeah. Because if you sit there for too long, you start, ah, well, maybe you got to go with your gut. Maybe we could be a little fuller. Maybe we could be this. Um, and I think the added pressure, if I was in her shoes and this has nothing to do with her being a her, this has to do with just experience and what's on the line for their team. It's one of those scenarios where you're like, do you get in your head more? Because now you've had three chances. They all missed. And there is a difference between taking over the last little bit of an Olympia prep and winning. Then there is taking the entire offseason and then the huge. And then coming in. Yeah. You know what I mean? I could take over anybody that's two weeks out and peeled. Right. We'll be fine. You just walk them in at that point. They're already ready. I mean, my first year coaching, I could have pulled that off, but I was nowhere near ready to take a full offseason, figure out where they need to be starting their prep, what their condition needs to be like. How rested are they? How long have they been off gear? How's their blood work looking? There's a lot of stuff that goes into nailing the peak of a show that takes place 30 weeks out. Thank you. Yeah. What do you guys think? I want to kind of move to the second part of this topic is a lot of the top guys changing coaches right before shows and in the middle of preps and stuff. And there's guys like Clarita who worked with, you know, Stefan and, you know, absolutely smashed it. And then midway through the prep this year, switch coaches. Well, four weeks out. Four weeks out. So what do you think goes on? I mean, obviously, I know nothing. I haven't talked to Clarita about this or anything. But what do you think kind of happens to a guy at that level? What has to happen to want to change coaches, you know, four, six, eight weeks before the Olympia? I personally can't even imagine. Do you think things were just going off the rails? Because I know Clarita, like, was dieting super hard at that point, which you said, like, maybe you're at your flattest and most depleted at that point. And you think. It wasn't that. I can't comment because I have information from Stefan directly. Ah, look at Scott. Okay. He had it off. It was off the record. So I didn't tell him, like, hey, I'm going to talk about this on the podcast. But it was nothing like that. It was just something that he wanted that had nothing to do with the actual bodybuilding. And they recognized, like, hey, this isn't going to. What you want out of coaching isn't what I need to do as a coach. So, you know, maybe a different situation would make sense. So it was amicable in that, but it didn't have anything to do with the coaching itself. I honestly, having seen the work that they had done, I would say that I would still give Stefan a huge amount of credit for that prep. Because like Dusty had just said in the previous conversation, like anybody can walk in and peek somebody that's already there. I'm not saying that just anybody can. I think that John did a fantastic job. Oh, yeah. I'll look forward to seeing what they do next. Absolutely. But, you know, John, I will say John wasn't responsible for getting him into the conditioning he was in. If he needed to get into better shape. He landed the plane perfectly. Landed the plane very well. Yeah, he landed the plane is what it was. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. If John needed to get him in better shape, it's like at four weeks out, it's too late, you know. Yeah, Clarita's not the type of person who's not in shape by four weeks out anyways. Good point. He's in shape before the night starts. You're dealing with an incredibly responsible. Yeah, yeah. You're dealing with like one of the most responsible pros you could possibly deal with at that point as far as like what he's going to do on his end. Yeah. So, yeah. Yeah. It's tricky though because I think what – I always think about what the fans see, okay? And this is a little separate topic. But I get clients who there's so much information now. They will message me. I mean they'll message me based off of a comment we made – I made on our show. And they'll tweak it into making sense for them. Oh, God, yeah. You know, hey, you mentioned you changed your bicep training because they were lagging. And I was wondering maybe mine are lagging. I'm like your whole body is lagging. Yeah. You're a year into this. Like we're not there yet. And the reason I bring that up is because a lot of these last-minute tweaks have worked. And it gets me nervous when clients start seeing that. Like, oh, maybe I need a real quick tweak at the end and someone else can bring me in flawlessly. I really – I still stand by the idea that if you get a coach where things are working, you stick with them. I've had people reach out to me and they'll say, hey, I'm already coached by someone else, but I'm thinking about trying another route. And the first thing I ask them is, why? Yeah. Why are you thinking you need another route? And there have been multiple occasions where someone's reached out to me. I talked them into staying with their coach. I'm like, no, no, you guys have so much data that you've accumulated over the last three years. Right. It would be a mistake to hire me. Yeah. And just tweak that. Like, you're making forward progress. You're just trying to speed it up. You're trying to see if we can go quicker. And this is a long game, you know. I look at the same thing. Like, when I see what happened with James at his show, I'm like, listen, dude, you landed the plane. I will agree that you were the right coach for this. And when James does his next show after a full offseason and beats this show. Because if not, what I know is Chris Tuttle got you ready. Got your digestion right. Got your midsection right. Helped with some injuries. Yeah. And then someone else essentially got to take all the credit for it. And I'm not saying that the guy won't. But until I see it, it doesn't matter. Yeah. You know what I mean? It's very similar to what I just said about Samson. Like, when his wife took over at the end, it all worked. Now that she's had full control for a full offseason and three preps, it's never worked. Right. I got to bring something up. I wasn't going to mention this today. Yes. I lost a client this past week. What did you do wrong, Scott? Yeah. Did I take him? What neglectfulness did you have? So he's the guy I sent you guys the pictures of. And I was like, this guy's- Told you it was coming. This guy's getting flaky. Real good, right? Like, he's never competed before. He's on point to basically walk in and win in overall. Right? We got him in the right conditioning. We dieted hard. Right? We're pushing. And he's got a very physical job. I pulled- I boosted the food up for about a week. Right? And he started saying- And I'm talking to the guy on the phone. Like, we're doing video calls. Right? And he told me, you know what? This shouldn't be here right now. He's pitching his side. He's like, I don't like this, man. I was thinking I almost was going to drop all my carbs and just cut it. You know? And just not even get a hold of you. I was going to do it myself. Just cut all the carbs for the next two weeks. I was like, what? He was like, yeah, see, like this here, this shouldn't be here, man. This is like our- Dude's got freaking shredded glutes, right? Like, and he's telling me this, this shouldn't be here. This is not a- Right, he's just pinching skin. Yeah, dude. And here's the thing. I shouldn't know when the guy has like a lot of anxiety, a lot of personal issues related to himself. You know? And that's what it comes down to is like he didn't have the confidence in this case. But so he gets a hold of the diuretics we're going to use. I want to experiment at two weeks out with these diuretics. I don't want to just walk into a freaking show. So I was like, okay, what we're going to do is we're going to, now you guys are going to hear my secrets. It's like, we're going to try- Wait, I got to get a pen. I'm going to write this down. We're going to try taking 6.25 hydrochlorothiazide before bed, like two hours before bed. I don't want you to change anything with your water. And he has a non-training day. I'm not thrilled with how you look today. Give me one more day. Let's see what you look like after your training day today. And he was like, oh, I was really hoping to start experimenting with diuretics tonight. Reason is, is because he was in his head. He's holding too much water at three weeks out, right? So after that, he never checked back in and fucking ghosted me. Fucking ghosted me, dude. I worked with him through the entire off-season. And obviously it was my choice to invest in him. But like I was tweaking his training, everything like helped him develop his back. You like took him, walked him right in. And it honestly, it's because of his own personal insecurities. But I don't get it, man. You just freaking ghost somebody and don't even text him and be like, hey, you know, I'm going to do it my own way or whatever. Not that you even know what you're doing when you've never done it before. Yeah, yeah, yeah. But man, honestly, I'm going to be completely honest. I lost sleep over that for a night and a half, maybe two nights. Like I freaking like woke up in the middle of the night and I was like pissed because I'm like, I could have freaking done this. Like we had this nailed. He just can't see it because he's, I'm literally, I'm sorry, 15 years of coaching experience. I'm eons ahead of anything he could have possibly known. Oh, yeah. Yeah. I've had the exact same thing. Like a guy's glutes are striated. Never had that happen before. It was upsetting. And I think also, too, some people have, they don't understand that you can't guarantee how good they'll look once they're ripped. Right. Like you get someone's glutes shredded and then they're like, oh my God, my legs are gone. And I'm like, you didn't really have big legs. Yeah. Like your legs are a weak point in the offseason. And they've been a weak point ever since. And you, you trained upper body for five years without training legs. You told me that. Yeah. And now you're playing catch up. So your legs are going to be a little undersized because they're not big enough to begin with. And you held your leg strength the whole prep. Like he would tell me, oh, my hack squats the same as when I started. I'm like, that's a great sign. He's like, all my leg weights are the same. I'm staying strong. Like that's the feedback through the whole thing. How's your strength? It's great. My, I'm actually stronger on the pendulum. Like, you know, this sort of thing is happening during the prep. And then, you know, a couple of weeks out, oh, I'm going to have to do my own thing. My legs are just shrunk way too much. Like your legs didn't shrink at all, dude. Yeah. You just don't have the muscle mass didn't change. We just removed the fat. So yes, they are smaller. It's a, it's a real, and I will give some credit, um, to anyone that, that struggles with this mentally because you're so invested in your, in your working so hard. I mean, I've told the story before about how a Cito had me doing three high days in a row at one point. And I got nervous. Yeah. And in my opinion, he's the best coach in the world. And I still was like, ah, I don't know if we should do this third high day because it was uncomfortable for me to not be suffering as much as usual. And that's what his, this guy's issue was. He's like, I should be. But you have to just, you have to just, when you hire someone, the best thing you can do, if you want to know if they're the right coach is let them fly you all the way in, get the result and then decide, but also be understanding, you know, like you guys were just saying, I got a guy that we're, we're just trimming down right now. And he's like, I am a little nervous. I'm losing a lot of size. I'm like where you were fat and fat takes up space. So yes, your arms are smaller, but they're not less muscular. You know what? Andrew Barry used the term. He said a lot of people aren't nearly as good as they think they are. What do we say about every first show? You're not as big as you think you are and you're not as lean as you think you are. Yeah. But if you come in peeled, you will get your best result. Even if it means that your legs are smaller than you thought they were going to be. Oh yeah. Now, and then you go into your offseason and you make the changes to hopefully not have that disparity at your next show. But no, it's a real balancing act. I had a guy, a great client just a couple of weeks ago. He did a show and after the show, he went and had his cheat meals and everything and he woke up Sunday morning vascular, hard. Everything was great. And between me, him and his wife, who also works with me, I realized that he was going to want a dirty bulk or dirty fill for the next show. Right. And I told them this doesn't, it doesn't work. It's not exactly the same because there's other factors. You've already depleted your water. The show is over. You're mentally relaxed. Now the stress is gone and you just go have a meal and you wake up the next day. You already loaded too. You know? Yeah. It doesn't just happen the same way on the show. Yeah. But I told him, I said, okay, you know, I know you want to do this. He's had a bad experience with a coach before me that didn't bring him in. Right. And I said, all right, we're going to do it. We're going to, we're going to do it. And, uh, I let him have the exact same meal the night before the show that he did the night after the show, the time before. And he woke up in the morning and he sent me his pics at 5am and I said, fuck, okay, you're spilled. And now we gotta, now we gotta bring it down. Um, and he also doesn't use diuretics. Doesn't want to use any of those things. So we had to like, I was like, you got a sweatsuit. Perfect. Perfect. Go for what time do you tan next? We have until then to sweat. Um, we pulled it off. He did great. He landed where he would have landed if we did it my way or his way. The two guys that beat him just had more muscle. We're, you know, we're, we're more, I like it when a client places in like a place that they couldn't have done better than nothing would have like if we'd have done it my way and he came in flawlessly. Yeah. I was saying the same thing. Same spot. So it was fine. And, but what would, what made it great was that he now understand there's a line between what he wanted to do and what we were already doing the previous show, which is what I was going to do anyways, which is, yes, you could have been more full, but at the end of the day, what he really realized, which makes him such a great client, he's like, I just have to be bigger. Don't I? I'm like, yes, you are bigger. That little bit of fullness doesn't matter. And I think it helped that he got fortunate enough. I mean, the show was awesome. I don't go to a lot of shows. The show was great. He, I was ecstatic with how we brought him in by the time after the morning, I was like, oh, it's probably my most successful save of my career. So the picture of the morning and it like, it hurt a little bit to see him. Cause I was like, I know what you look like on Thursday. Yeah. And here is Saturday and we're in trouble. But I, I think again, the reason I bring that up is because this is why you work with a coach for an extended period of time. This was our first two preps. We had 10 total weeks because he came to me from someone else. And now we both know we're going to work on the same page and he's going to get a lot of results. And like you said, Scott, a lot of communication. Yeah. Making sure that a client that, you know, has had some experiences that didn't work well, or in your case, the guy you had had no experiences. You do your best to at least let them know what you're doing, why you're doing what you're doing. Yeah. Because if they can at least understand why you're making the decision, it makes them easier to follow. Yeah. And I'm somebody who over, it tends to over explain and over educate. So I honestly, I, I've had to realize that like, there is nothing you can do to help somebody. No, that wouldn't have that much of a mental, you know, that wouldn't have helped him, but that helps the rest of your clients because on the other side of things, like I tell clients all the time, cause I've had people like, Hey, I kind of wanted to ask, but I don't want you to think I'm questioning. I'm like, ask the question. Yeah. Yeah. I don't have an ego. And if I can't answer why I'm doing something, fire me immediately. Yeah. Yeah. Because there are a lot of coaches. I've had guys tell me that, that they're like, I asked my coach and he just got pissed and I'm like, then he doesn't know why he's doing it. I also never get pissed at people for asking. I never get pissed at people for asking questions and there's more than one way to do things too. Yeah. So like, like some stuff you can, Oh, you want to do that? Yeah, we can do that. Like some stuff. I don't give a shit. There's three different ways to do something. You know, it's like, do you want to pick up groceries and then go get your hardware store parts or you do want to get the hardware store parts and pick up groceries and matter. Some stuff doesn't matter. There may be like certain things you have to then. But if we do that, we might not want to get ice cream. You know what I mean? Right. There's logistics to it. It does close at six. So we got, you know, don't be afraid to ask questions. And, you know, I also, I'm also big on like, I want your life to function. Like, I don't care where we put certain things in your day. You know what I mean? So like, anyways, you know what I mean? The reason I brought all that up, Scott, though, is exactly what you said, which is what made the peak work was when he woke up off. I told him we've spilled. Yeah. Yeah. And then when I told him what to do, there was no change in him. There was not a mental shift. I didn't feel any change. And I'm like, we're going to pull this off, not because of me, but because of how you handled where we're at. Yeah. And he was ecstatic with his overall look. But I'm thinking the whole time, I'm like, this is because you handled the, you know, the shock of this morning. Flawlessly. He was just like, what do I need to do? Such a good point. And he just rolled through. And that's why your guy was never going to work because it didn't matter what you said or what was going to happen. He was unsure. And that's the end. Like if he had been unsure with me, we would have been worse by prejudging, not better. I should have known in that everything flowed smoothly, you know, and then the end of offseason as it was coming to a close. And now we're like at a point where it's like, okay, this is finished. Now we're focusing on cutting. And that point comes where it's like, okay, this is as much muscle as I will have. If you start getting that in your head, like, okay, it's not going to get any better than this. He started freaking out. And there was like a 10 day period. He's like, I should have been a lot bigger than this. Like everything was smooth until he lost his mind. He's like, no, no, no, no. I said that my entire career. Yeah. No, no, no. I definitely need. But then after we got into it, he was like, oh yeah, no, this makes sense. You know, he's like, now I don't have to diet quite as hard, nearly as hard to keep the food up high all through the diet, continue growing all the way into the show, man. It's frustrating when you freaking care about what you do. I'll say that I feel for, I'm back to like the, the shows everybody knows about. I feel for Kyle Wilkes. Cause I know that he was really invested into Nick, you know, Nick, Nick, you know, fired him and I don't know where he's going to go next for coaching. But you know, I'm, I'm still a huge Nick Walker fan. I don't, I don't care if, if he didn't do great, you know, at the last couple of shows there, but I I'll say that I want to see him come back this next year and, and be his best. I would be curious to see what he does, but I know that, that Kyle, he did a podcast about it. He was definitely down about, you know, having lost that. Cause it's frustrating when you lose somebody, especially at that level, you know? I also think the one thing, if you're a good coach you've missed before. Yeah. I've missed twice where I, where I made the mistake that made someone coming off and I knew it and I had to tell them, this is where we went wrong. When I did this, it didn't go well. And what was funny is, uh, they handled it a hell of a lot better than I did. And it would haunt me for the long, cause I'm like, this guy gave me his full trust. I did everything the way I thought I should. And I was just wrong. And that's a brutal one. I mean, and again, I started coaching in 2001, so I should be happy that I can only say that twice, but I mean, I can still see the photos in my mind. No, dude, I have a time. Things went sideways and you're like, that's when I did this dumb decision. Yeah. Which didn't appear to be dumb, but it just was. So you're going to have those. So I feel bad for him. But at the same time, I will say, based on what I heard, he wasn't ready for that level. If I'm, if, if I'm Nick Walker, I'm kicking down a Cito's door. I'm kicking down honey's door, even though he doesn't coach anymore because you know, it's my neighbor's house is for sale. If I have enough money. Imagine getting with Cito. How would that go? I'd be curious. And my point is just that he needs to hire someone that he can trust a hundred percent and then forget about it. Cause it would be hard. Like after that show where some, where a mistake was definitely made, you need to be able to, that's why it was so easy for me to peek with Chris's. I didn't question anything ever when we would come in and it always worked exactly how I did. And a lot of that came back to, again, back to your client. It was just cause I was relaxed. I was like, Chris has got it. I remember the first time I did a North America. Sorry. It was my second North Americans, but I did my, it was my first year with Chris. And I said, Hey, it's a two day show. So like, like how do you approach two day shows? And he just kind of goes, well, at this point you're supposed to look good all the time. So it doesn't really make, it's not that hard. And I was like, Oh, true though. Okay. You know, he's like, well, you got to look good at prejudging. And then you just got to make sure you look good the next day. Like it's, that's his, that's as big as it was. And that's just minimizing the overthinking and the stress. And, you know, like a lot of, Oh my God, how do you do a two day show? Oh, there's gonna be some crazy secret formula to having a two day show. And Chris is just like, you're supposed to look good all the time right now. You've been dying for 20 weeks. You should just be peeled. So when, when you're in shape, it really, I, this was cemented to me when you're really in shape for the first time is what you mean. Really? Yeah. Well, so I did a, I did a photo shoot like five weeks out from a show at one point. It was at 10 PM, which means all of my meals were in, all of my water was down. And I was, I saw the pictures and I looked like I was, it was the day of the show. And I'm like, Oh, this is what happens when you're in. All right, guys. So a bunch of you had asked for tank tops. So the day has finally come that we've got them. If you're interested in one of our tanks, check them out at the merch store. I'll have links below. Who knows? You might end up meeting somebody else that listens to the shows too. I've had that happen more than once. Somebody's like, Hey, you listen to that podcast. I like those guys too. And before you know it, there's a budding bromance just waiting to happen. So if you want to look fricking checked and support the podcast, you guys can do that all at the same time. Just check out the shirts. Scott. You like that, buddy. You like that? I loved it. I love that you used that. We have a hand raise. So check this out. I wanted to throw this in once we were ready for it. We have a question that ties, like it just beautifully segues in to our listener questions. So I wanted to throw this one at you guys and see what you think. Let's go. All right. Check this out. So last week we talked about Sasan competing basically all through the season. And one of the points that we brought up was, Hey, he's probably not a guy that's hammering the gear like full throttle. If he can hold on to that for that long. Right. That was the main point. One of our listeners, Joseph, he said, Ron mentioned guys who do many shows in a season aren't blasting through all of them. I'd be really interested in hearing how they are structuring things to stay healthy while being in show shape for so long. Well, one thing, you know, with investing advice, it's not timing the market. It's time in the market. Right. And that's the same with like stress on your body from gear. It's like we've all been there. You can run trend for six weeks. You'll probably be fine. But if you try to run trend starting six weeks out of show one and you just keep it in because show two is like eight weeks after show one and then show three is six weeks after show two. And so you just stay on it the whole time. That's to me where you're doing stuff that is going to lead to more of a negative result than if you did things differently. So what I think a lot of these guys do, because it's what I have done and it's what I did when I worked with top coaches was let's say the first you do the first show and the second week shows eight weeks later, there's a whole bunch of stuff I wouldn't take for like three or four weeks. Yeah. You know, like a whole bunch of stuff be right back on the diet because you know, you're not going to get fat just because you didn't take trend. You're on a diet. You'll be fine. And I would like drop out stuff like that and get as many weeks under my belt as I could before I felt like I had to go in for my look or whatever. And I think that a lot of top guys do that stuff like they won't take anything at all for a couple weeks after the first show. They stay on the diet and there's still stuff floating around. They look fucking crazy. Yeah. And then they'll get back on or maybe they're just running a few things. And I just think it's trying to minimize the total stress is is what I think is a big part of, you know, still having arrested shredded dry physique, you know, by show five, seven months later. That's just my experience with it. I, you know, that's what I think is going on. That's what I would do. You're I agree a million percent. I think the other factor is that when you're working with a coach year round, he is aware of the fact that like a Sassan is going to do a lot of shows. Right. So, yeah, before that prep even starts, how long were they doing nothing? Yeah. Like making sure that the health markers were flawless at the start of that first 20 week prep. And then the other factor that I learned from Chris that I've utilized ever since is sometimes those things don't come back. You take them out. The physique is cranking along. And I mean, I know this because I had and I know I know you, Ron, have this and I know a bunch of other guys that work with Chris. I would message him like, hey, so, you know, that we're just on test and masteron right now. Right. And he goes, oh, we are. I'm like, yeah. He goes, all right, well, stay with that because it's working. And because I'm thinking in my head, like we're we're three weeks out now. The dog. Yeah. I'm like to add this in two weeks. Yeah. I'm on eleven hundred total milligrams between the test and the masteron and we're taking nothing else. And he's like, yeah, but you look fine. Lies. And then you look at the picture and you're like, dusty. And then there's other times where he's like, oh, that's a good point. Throw in some Anivar for a few days. Let's see what happens. And then you put it in. He goes, yeah, let's keep that going. That looks better. I remember I messaged Chris one time and I was like, you do realize I'm I said, hey, I'm 10 weeks out now and just double checking that you do know I'm supposed to be a super heavyweight, right? And then he just replied, oh, shit. In that case. And then he wrote like a crazy cycle. I just said insane cycle. I was like, OK, I get the point. I'm mocking you right now. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I think, too, knowing like orals is a big one. Pulling orals out between. Let's say you had three or five shows. Yeah. Yeah. But if you were going to use them, you know, but you and you may time that up. I feel like minimum amount of time for me to put Winstrel into a plan and get the absolute most out of it is three weeks. If I can get that in three weeks out, boom, I'm going to get everything we need out of it. Halo, seven to 10 days, something like that. So if I were to do that the last three weeks of this prep, the last three weeks of the next show, you know, and I really find I really find Winstrel gives the best look at 24 weeks. You got to ride that. Just never go off. Just getting a little bit harder. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Time in the market, Ron. Time in the market. Things like, you know, let's say you're using T3 clan. You might not even. Those are options like that. Yeah. You might not even need that. Yeah. Or lots of times. Lots of times a guy might be running like 37.5 Cytomel for the first show. And then it's 12.5 every second day for the second show. Okay. Yeah. And that sort of stuff. Right. Like just, just a little bit of extra gas on that furnace because you're already peeled as shit and you're dying and everything's going great. So I remember I asked, I asked Jay for 2003. I think it was that picture of the night of champions. Cause he didn't, Oh, three was like the year at Jay one, like everything. And I think I was holding a picture like night of champions. And I go, I go, how much Cytomel do you use for that show? And I think he looked at it and he's like, Oh, 12.5 tops. I think like for a few weeks. And I was like, yeah, like crazy. You know, people just have, they don't realize, you know, these guys are in shape already. They don't need to just gas everything sometimes, you know? And yeah, by that point, what's that is for show fourth win of the year by that point. Right. Yeah. You know, I think the other thing you can learn as a beginner and even intermediate bodybuilder is what you did in a previous show does not matter. Yeah. Cause like I said, I just listed, you know, that there was one prep where for the second show I'm on masteron and test. That's it. There've been other preps where I've got the kitchen sink in there working with the same coach. Sure. I tried it because that's what was necessary to have the look at that show. So I don't want this to sound like a, Oh yeah, you don't need to take anything. It's just some shows are different than others. Yeah. I am really sensitive with T3 and Chris would have to back it out a lot cause I would flatten out. He's like, Oh, pull the T3 and I want you to do a Paul Dillett cardio for the next four days on the treadmill. He's like, you know, just get excited about something and sit on the couch. He used to literally tell me, he's like, walk the dogs, but let them, but let them stop whenever they want. And it's, and it's just one of those things where, you know, you've got to know the individual. Like I never knew prior to that, the T3 could flatten you. And he goes, Oh yeah, we just got to pull the T3 for a couple of days. And like, he wouldn't change much of anything else. And all of a sudden I'd come back to life and you're like, really? Yeah. I didn't even know that was a thing. So that's a great question though. I'm glad that people are understanding that. You guys want to jump into some more? Yes. Yeah. I got some listener questions too. If you don't have another one, Scott. All right. I've got a few. Yeah. What do you got, man? Hit us with one. Well, let's hit another one. We'll kind of rapid fire them. Cause I got some good ones. So a great show. Really appreciate the channel question for the next show. Is it harder to put on size as a taller bodybuilder currently six to at two 15, 44 year old male seems like a lot of the shorter individuals put on size and thickness so much faster. Thanks. I don't. So I think we were using words incorrectly there. They're not putting on muscle faster than you. It just makes a faster visual difference, right? Like you added 30 grams of muscle. They added 30 grams of muscle, but their bone in their humerus is shorter. So that 30 grams is like going to be more crowded on that limb. So, so yeah, we sort of think of it as like putting on faster, but it's that it takes a taller guy, a lot more grams of tissue to accumulate the same amount of, you know, crowdedness on the back or the quad or the femur or the, you know what I mean? Like, so that's, that's all it is. It's just, there's, there's more yard. There's a lot more grass to cut, you know, like it's, it's just a bigger deal. So they don't put muscle on faster unnecessarily. It's just, it makes more of a visual difference. That's all. Well, we'll think of it this way. Um, and, and, and let's use the, instead of, instead of, uh, muscle, let's just use fat. So if post show, I put on 20 pounds by the following weekend, but I was 270 pounds at 510, you're going to see it. But if my client that's 411 and weighs a hundred pounds, puts on 20 pounds in a week, how much are you going to see it? Yeah. Disgusting. Yeah. It's like, what do you put on 20% body mass in a week? That's a problem. So I think that that's the biggest thing. My, what I tell clients that are taller is it's going to take you longer to look like a bodybuilder. But once you do, you're a better bodybuilder. Like, I don't want to stand next to a guy that's six, four, that looks as full as I do because he's way bigger than me. Yeah. Yeah. Well, you get a Crizzo. Yeah. Like, it's just, there's, there's too much mass because he's filled up just as much. Only his filled up version is 330 and mine's 270. It's like, yeah, he's a lot bigger. He's a lot better. Yeah. So I would just understand that bodybuilding is about just keep going. It's not about how long it takes. Yeah. I had one. Go ahead. Oh, go run with it. I, I did a question box a little while ago on my story and I got a, I get questions from other gym owners, right? Like they come in, other gym owners hit me up with questions. Sometimes it's equipment related. Sometimes it's like, Hey, what would you do in this situation? You know, like I've got this member that, Oh, I love this. Cause these, you know, like that sort of thing. Right. Um, so I had a gym owner contact me and it's funny because I've noticed this too. I never really put much thought into it, but I've noticed this too. He said he has a lot of well-known people at his gym. I'm not going to spit out who he is, but he has a lot of well-known people as Jim. He's got pros. He's got, you know, influencer types and all that stuff. And some, he said some like high level Olympians, um, come through his gym. He said that he noticed that a lot of the older guys and especially the guys will tag his gym in all the videos, but he finds that the younger influencer types do not tag his gym. Interesting. And he said, he's given many of them discounts, free clothing, toss them hats, stuff like that. And then he notices that they do not tag his gym in anything and they shoot content. They're a lot. Now I have a gym where people shoot content out a lot too. So I know how he feels, but he said, it's frustrating when an Olympia guy comes in for a workout and tags up his gym and says, thank you. And then these influencers who make their living off of all the videos they film. Yeah. In his gym, do not tag his gym or promote his gym ever. And he said he noticed it and it bothers him and he's wondering if it should bother him. And I'm like, oh, that's a great question. Cause I, I've seen that and I've noticed that too. Like there's people at my gym that never tag our gym. I'm like, oh, interesting. They never tagged the gym. And then I look and they have a lot of followers and I'm like, oh, they probably expect to be paid. Right. So I'm just wondering what you think of this culture. They're doing you a favor, Ron, by showing up at your gym, period. Right. Right. If they happen to decide to tag you, then you should definitely reach into your pocket. I'm just wondering. Yeah. So like, I thought it was an interesting question. Cause I've never really let it, I've never let it bother me before, but he said it's at the point. Cause he, he has a pretty, pretty busy gym with these people where he is. And, uh, he just said he noticed it. It's very common. So I'm just wondering. Yeah. Dusty's very quiet on this. I'm wondering what he's both. I have angry. Is Dusty angry? So quieter Dusty gets. It's worse. It's worse. It's really bad. Yeah. Really getting bad now. He still hasn't started talking. No, I think what, when I look at the situation, um, it, it bothers me because as someone who's, I mean, I, my entire career was thanks to people, places, letting me film content. Yeah. Um, everywhere I went, you know, uh, you got restaurants that have let me do content and all these types of things. And first off, uh, outside of Lance and one other gym, I have always paid, right? I want to pay. You've created a place for me to do this. You allow me to do it. I want to pay. Yeah. Um, I've had two gyms that just refused. They said, no, you bring us too many people. You were not taking your money. And then I said, okay, then I'm doubling down on how much I promote and actively try to get you guys clients. Um, I think that we're a little spoiled now there. You didn't used to have all these gyms and all these places that, because as filming has become normal now that your soccer moms are walking through the grocery stores, taking selfies, it's become more normal. And you don't realize that your lucky places let you do that. They don't have to. I'm running my business out of their business for free. That'd be like me training in your gym, training clients, Ron, that are your members that I'm taking from you and building my business in there and not cutting you in on the deal. Yeah. Like everyone knows that's not okay. This is the same thing. So when you create a gym where I can do this, where you allow me to do this in my head, even though I'm paying, I owe. Yeah. And I don't know how that gets missed. And the other thing is, is the gym appreciates it and you do get advantages. I have, I've had people come in, you know, for a couple of days to a gym. I'll text Lance and be like, Hey, flex is in town. Can you set him up with a 24 hour pass? I'll pay for it. And he's like, no one's paying. And of course I'll set it up. Those are the advantages you get by developing the relationship. I don't know why you wouldn't do that. It would bother me a lot as a gym owner. If that went on, because you're, you are also an inconvenience to a lot of other members and you don't know it. There are members in that gym that hate. Oh yeah. That these phones are out. Yeah. People have to realize there are members that loathe them and don't want to be anywhere near their video. So it's part of, so actually in the muscle factory contract, it's in your contract that people are allowed to film in this gym. If you don't like it, tough shit. Yeah. And they pointed out when you sign up, cause they want you to know, Hey, if you're somebody that's gonna be bothered that you're in the background, you probably shouldn't train here because we allow it. But that's another example to me of why you owe that gym. I'm with you, man. They're embracing it. I think if, if, if I was that gym owner, I would point it out. I would just say, Hey, you don't have to, but I want to let you know. That it, it, it bothers me. And I'm curious why you don't, you know, and then the, and the person doesn't have to, but I don't see any reason why you wouldn't ask because it's like, you know, I'd love to work with you. I'd love to get you some, whatever you want to do to make it feel like both sides are happy. That's how you build relationships. Yeah. You know, that's like, that's how I think like I've done everything is I, I want to try to give and you give freely where you can. And in return, then if there's a value to that, then that comes back to you. You know what I'm saying? I can prove that with Scott, Ron. Scott tells me one day, he's like, Hey, I got to order more, uh, mind FK. I'm like, what do you mean order it? He's like, well, it's not on the website right now. The flavor. I'm like, wait a minute. You're paying. Yeah. And he's like, yeah. I'm like, knock it off. What, what is that? So I get with Luke and I say, Scott's been paying for mind FK. He's like, what the hell? Pay for the supplements. So I get a picture from Scott like three days later and they sent him like 12 bottles of different products. I got like a hookup, man. Oh yeah. You should be getting it. Yeah. Yeah. Luke and George sent this stuff out. I got this bottle, by the way, at the Olympia. I love those jugs. So I realized, I didn't realize this is a one gallon jug. I have increased my water intake because I normally had like a liter and a half jug. So I'd fill it up less frequently. And you know what I'm saying? You run out. You don't quite fill it up. What you're saying is that buying the mutant jug online with code dusty or big Ron will actually save your kidneys. It may. Yeah. That's all I heard. Your blood work. It may. Yeah. Yeah. It will improve your blood work. Bring your GFR up. So speaking of which, I want to tell you guys, I have not tried big greens yet. But, and I was almost going to bring it up to you guys. I would like to do a taste test on the show with you. Yes. Maybe next episode or something. I thought that would be fun. Why don't we do it next episode? We'll do a big greens taste. Because that's the chocolate one. I haven't done it yet. Yeah. I haven't tried it yet. Yeah. It's chocolate. You guys have talked about it. I just, and I don't do a lot of vegetables. So I could really benefit from it. I'm so glad you said that. That's why I use it. I just told a client this the other day. He's having some digestive issues. And I, so my first thought was what greens are you taking? What greens are you eating? Yeah. Because I probably got to change them. And he goes, oh, I don't do greens. He doesn't eat any veggies at all. None. He doesn't like them. And I said, I never did either, but you got, I was like, I was like, do you like, uh, like chocolate milk like you who he's like, yeah, why? I'm like, those are the greens I want for you. So, so I told him to buy them. I was like, all I need to do is do one scoop before bed. Yeah. That's it. We're going to solve this whole problem. I get a text that night. This stuff tastes just like you who I'm like, yeah. And then about a week later, he's like, I guess that's why you have greens written in my diet, huh? Digestion's all perfect now under control. So I'm, uh, I'm, uh, maybe it's cause I'm Canadian or maybe it's just cause I am not the type of person that even looks at what's in the cooler at the gas station. But Clarita said to me when it first came out, he goes, oh, I taste just like chocolate you who. And I was like, I have no idea what you who is. I never had one in my life either. Honestly, I see you were abused as children. So what is you who is it? Like, so I thought you who was a, like a yogurt drink, like chocolate drink. No, cause it's you like I thought about maybe a yogurt drink. So it's just a chocolate milk. No, I see how you could come to that conclusion by the name, I guess. Like you who I sort of thought, oh, it's a play on yogurt, but it's just a chocolate drink, right? Yeah. Like chocolate milk. Is it chocolate milk or is it chocolate drink? No, it's chocolate drink. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. You guys were both abused as children. Like my mom gave me all the things that were horrible for you as a kid. Yeah. And that was one of them. KD and you who. Yeah. Like I think, and I don't know the ingredients, but my assumption is that chocolate milk is like a healthy thing. And then you who is like, we've also right. It's like, it's like orange juice. You have orange juice and then you have five alive. Yeah. And they're not the same, right? Yeah. Okay. But everyone likes five alive. Oh yeah. That's when the kids want. Okay. I gotcha. We're all set up. Okay. That's funny. Yes. That's a good question, by the way, Ron. What was your take, man? How do you even give me your take? I'm rambling. Like I know what's going on. What do we take on you? Who? I've never had it. No, no, no. On the gym thing, you know, cause you, you guys get that. I'm sure, man, you get, you get all sorts of people in there, right? Yeah. I just sort of chalked it up to, well, I'm 50 now, so I can say more stuff. That's the best thing about getting older. There's a line. There's all these lines. I'm realizing once you're 50, there's a whole bunch of things. There's a whole bunch of stuff you can say. Yeah. And people are like, yeah, fair enough. You're 50. You could think that. Yeah. You're not at the point yet where you can call the waitress sweetheart, though. No, that's like 60, 70, maybe. Yeah. Yeah. It's coming. Yeah. I got them loaded. I got sweethearts and honeys. I made a couple of honey buns. I got those loaded up. Oh, we go. That's 65. I might even throw a toots in there. Thanks, toots. Right? Really go old school. Hey. So anyways, I just chalked it up to like my cynical take that young people don't have real relationships. All of their relationships are transactional. Yeah. Especially females. And I just feel like that's the social media age, especially females that are like successful on social media. And I'm not bagging on females. I'm just saying this is kind of maybe something that comes with the territory that they kind of wind up trapped in. I'm not saying they're sitting around and strategically thinking of it. But I think that when you're one of those sort of influencer people, all of your relationships become transactional because every single thing is a business thing. Right? Like I'll go out with my buddies and like post a picture from dinner. Or if I go to a concert, I might post a picture with my buddy. But like I just feel like some of their social medias are 100% transactional and there's no like no real relationships in their lives sometimes. It's like a sad – I sort of feel like there's this sort of sad thing with some of the young people. I don't know. Is that too cynical? I think that actually makes sense because you're – everything is what do I get? What do I get? Yeah. Yeah. There's a level of selfishness. And I think that if you take it to the old person way where I look, I'm like I already got what I got, which is I'm allowed to do this in here. And it doesn't cost me anything to do that. Right. You know what I mean? I think there's just certain things that change. And if you want to be in the game a long time, you have to remove the transactional part. Like when we go out of town for Mutant, I don't bill them for every little thing. No. I can. Like if I sent every dollar I spent, they would send it back to me. I'm like I'm not doing that because they don't nickel and dime me. And I want to spend money at home anyways, right? Yeah. There's that. Yeah. Yeah. So you just – I think it's all really just like anything in life. It's perspective. And I guess the other side of it is I feel fortunate to train at your gym. So I'm bragging that I train at your gym. Right. I'm lucky that Carolina Iron is here. I'm lucky when I go to West Coast Iron. You know, I feel like I want to tell people this is where I'm at. So when you're in this area, you want to come here. It's awesome. Right. Yeah. I've noticed it on other people's social too. Like I'll see that all of their pictures are from their home gym. But I don't see their home – I don't even know where they train. Right. Mm-hmm. And some people might not think about it. Yeah. If they're an influencer, that's their thing. Then I imagine they probably do. Yeah. Just kind of interesting, you know? Mm-hmm. And, oh, another thing. He said that he did – he said he said to one person that came in once – he didn't tell me who it was. He said it was a men's physique guy. Yeah. He said that early on this one men's physique guy came in and he's like, oh. He's like, don't worry about it. He goes, you know, maybe just like tag us up in a picture or something. And the guy said to him, oh, I can't do that. I've got sponsors. Can't take – You have a gym sponsor? And he said, what do you mean? And he goes, well, I have sponsors and they pay me. So if I tagged you and they found out that you don't pay me, then my value goes down. And then they're going to say, well, why do we pay you? And he was like, what? Never mind. It's $20 for the pass. Never mind. It's $20. Yeah. Never mind. $30 a day. Let's just do this the way you want to do it then. I almost feel like it's going to backfire on you if you do approach the person. Like it's not going to go well. If you're like, hey, why don't you tag us? Yeah. I don't think that's going to go well for you. You're either going to have somebody who gets it and those are the people that are going to then not only provide you value, but then they're going to – it's going to be – I think it's a two-way street. They're going to benefit. You're going to benefit. Or you're going to have people that don't and those people just suck. And reality is they're probably not going to be around that long anyway. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. It's – Okay. I'm glad this question wasn't boring. You guys rambled. No, I think it's great because – but I do have to say that there are examples of guys, of course, at all ages that get it. There are a couple of guys that train at Muscle Factory that are really well-known, 300,000 followers. Right, right. And right when they come in and start training there, Lance is like, hey, let me comp your membership. And he's had a few that are like, no, I don't need you to comp my membership. That's cool. I'm all for that too. I'm all for that. It's such a cool stance when you see somebody – and there would be nothing wrong with accepting. Don't get me wrong. Yeah. They bring value. But when you have some of those guys that are like, no, I want to pay, that's a guy who now the gym owner goes, we're going to make sure to extend some extra stuff for this person. It's not the $60 a month. It's the fact that they're like, no, I pay. I guess if there was one thing – like I remember all through my years training in Edmonton. I trained at mostly Hardcore Gym, but I also had a World Health membership, so I would train at some of the World Health. And I just vividly remember other guys saying stuff to me like, man, the manager gives me shit there all the time when I make noise or we go heavy in the rack. Like how do you train there? And I'm like, no one's ever said a word to me. Yeah. Yeah. Not one word. I make noise on the leg press every single Tuesday and we're using the big dumbbells and dropping them on the floor because you get them down, kind of drop them, like responsibly dropping them. That's kind of a perk is kind of what you're getting at because of how you treated people. Yeah. And I'm like, are you nice to the staff? Do you say hi to the manager? Do you joke around with the manager? Do you say, hey, Tony, what's up? Like do you walk by the office and go, are you going to hop in the rack with me today? We're squatting. Like I would do that, right? And when you do that to people and you build relationships with the management and the front desk, say, hi, how is it going today? Like some people just don't get how easy it can be to move through the world. It can be really, really easy to move through the world. Another example, or at your range when you've developed the friendships with the people who work there and they say, hey, man, if you wanted to come in before we open so that you can have free range of it, just let us know. You know, it's like I don't think everybody gets that invite, but if you're nice to people and you treat them well, it's like you get that's what you get. And that's what I got. Yeah. I just don't get up early enough to go up there. I have a funny story for you, Ron. Thanks for the invite, but I'm not getting out of bed. Yeah. That you'll like. So I was training at Gold's here. My now Sunday training partner, John, was the training manager over there. And I was training one day in the gym and a guy came in. It's a pro. And he came to the front desk and he said, hey, this is my name, whatever, whatever. I want to I want a day pass. And John's like, all right, cool. It's 20 bucks or whatever it was. And he goes, oh, no, I'm a pro. And John goes, OK, it's $20. And he's like, well, I don't I don't pay day passes. I don't people give them to me. Oh, and he goes, well, if you want to train in the gym, there's there's a $20 fee to train in the gym. Yeah. And the guy was just a douche right from the beginning. So he starts to realize it's not budget. He's like, I think we got off on the wrong foot or whatever. And so he kind of starts backpedaling and he's trying to be fun. And he goes, what's with that guy out there parked that's not even really in a spot? Because there was a spot that was like next to a spot that I was used to back into. Yeah. Because no one would park next to me. And he goes, oh, that's dusty. Everybody likes him. He can do whatever the fuck he wants. And I just love that it was like another insult to the guy. And then he just had to like pay his $20 and walk through. And I'm like, I would never, ever assume I was getting something. I just walk and assume no one knows who I am. And I just want to train. So I'm just hoping they offer day passes. I like to pay for a day pass to refer to. Yeah. There's a lot of money in day passes. But anyways, great question. What else you got, Scott? Scott's hand is up. Yep. I got one more that I had to make sure we got on the show today. And this is by a gentleman called the real Lee Priest. Okay. Never heard of him. So we talked about politics last week. Because people asked us, they're like, hey, is there politics in bodybuilding? You know, what do you guys think? And our general consensus was they throw the high score up. They throw the lower score out. It's, you know, there's no more politics. It's not like what you think, right? And Lee said, there is politics. They can scratch the score. But they were told what is happening. Trust me, there was politics. On my documentary, they asked all the guys on the Lee kept it. If Lee kept his mouth shut, would he have placed better? They said yes. So I guess that's confirming there's politics. Well, Lee is a fantastic example of being an exception in many, many, many categories. Like, there's a lot of things that are rules in life, except they don't apply to Lee Priest. He's a different animal. There's different. He's got an exceptional story for a lot of things. Yeah. That's funny. Well, I know Lee didn't make it easy for anyone to ignore him, did he? I would say paid off in the end. Easy period, yeah. No. We got to get Lee on, man. We do. I can't believe he watches the show and pays attention to the show and comes on and comments on live shows and we haven't had him on yet. I know. Yeah. We're the worst. Let's make that happen. I don't know where he's at. I just don't want Lee to hate me. Is that what you're afraid of? Yeah, we'll get him on the show and it'll be 10 minutes in. And who's this guy in the middle? It'd be the best thing for my career if Lee hated me because people would know I exist. Oh, that's a good point. You can start a rivalry, you know? It's not much of a rivalry against him. They're like some guy that looks old. I just hope that if we do, we got to have him on. I'm really hoping he drops a lot of C-bombs because with that Australian accent, there's just nothing like a C-bomb. It hits. It lands every time. It's boom, boom. Yeah, Americans, we just can't do it the same. It doesn't sound right. No, no. I say it. It just sounds mean. Right. Yeah. You know? You know? It's just a word. It's just a word. It's a beautiful word. That was good. Yeah. Good work, fellas. I think we knocked it out as well as we could. Yeah, that was good. I'm glad we talked about the whole... Okay, congratulations to Martin, by the way. Yeah. Yeah. That rounds that up. That was a pretty nuts look and we'll see what happens this year. Shit. You know? I never gave Martin the respect he deserved when he was coming up. I always knew he was good, but I couldn't see how good he could be. Like, in my mind, he was a great win a bunch of second tier pro shows. I just did not know that when it would all come together, it would look that way. And that's not saying much, but usually the guys who get to his level, you kind of knew the whole time. He surprised you. That's what you're saying. Well, yes. That's good. That's a good thing, you know? Yeah, but now I'm not going to be surprised by anything because I feel like now I'm like, okay, there's no top for him. Yeah. He'll just keep going. It wouldn't stun me if he won an Olympia now just because I'm like, well, he's proven to me that I have no idea how good he is or how good he could be. You guys realize I've had Martin on the show since he, like, way back in the day with his very first coach ever when he was like, I think he just moved from North Dakota. Like, he literally was fresh and young in the sport of bodybuilding. Like, it was way back in the day. Now he's seasoned and young. Yeah, right. He's still young as hell. Yeah, he's still basically a kid in the sport, right? I remember when at the Dallas Pro, the last time I saw the Dallas Pro, he got second to Andrew Jacked. Yeah. But he beat Kuklo and he beat Kamal. And I still thought, because he was standing next to Andrew, I still thought, wow, he's really good. But I mean, he's a real small guy compared to, like, the big guys, like Kuklo next to him. And I was like, you know, he did really good, but I don't know if he's big enough to, like, move up much. Yeah. See? You were just like me. We're both dumb. And then, but I mean, now look at the top five at the O. Like, Hottie, Derek, they're not big guys, right? Yeah. You know, there's Samson and Jacked in there, which are like, obviously like the other end of the spectrum. And then Martin and fifth, like, okay, the tall guys are the, or the big guys are like the odd guys out now. You know? So, yeah, crazy man, what he's done with that physique. And it's. Absolutely. And I know that he's done it by carefully making sure he doesn't accidentally overtrain. Reps and, a lot of reps in reserve. Yeah. A lot of rest. You manage your fatigue on your days off, people. Puking in the garbage can. That's all I'm going to say. Leave it at that. That's all I'm going to say. Puking in the garbage can beats Samson. Nothing against Samson. But I'm just saying, all these guys, all this don't train too hard, super careful nonsense. Have you puked in the garbage can on leg day yet? Yeah. Because I know what that's like. A lot. If not, then you've got to do a couple more sets. Yeah. You've got to find it at least. Like, don't be afraid of it. Seek it out. It's like certain things in life you've got to do at least once. You know? I always say when I did something stupid, I had to cross the line to know where it was. Exactly. Which is kind of true. The only way you can know your limits is by kind of stepping over it, right? Whoops. That was too far. I've done that a lot in my life. Now I know where it is. There you go. There you go. Okay. Thanks, guys. Remember, like, share, subscribe, comment, and... Ring the bell. Yes. Remember, tag your gym. Yes. Yes. Okay. And like, share, subscribe, comment, and... Ring the bell again. There you go. Oh, Ron. I've got tanks in the merch store, by the way. Tank tops. Tank tops in the merch store. Yep. And two quick mentions to the last five-minute crew. I didn't want to hit all the other people with this. I can do that later. What's that? But I have two little things announcing. One's a big one. One's a big one. Oh, yeah. We're... Looks like we're doing another West Coast Iron in Edmonton, Alberta. So, if you've seen the social media for that, right now we're talking to all the contractors, looking at flooring and mirrors and all that stuff. And we're talking to Atlantis and Hammer and all these guys and all the reps. And we're... There's a lot going on. So, there... It looks like we're doing a West Coast Iron in Edmonton, Alberta. So, keep your ears peeled for that if you're from that area. And secondly, I haven't mentioned a word about it, but it's been like six months of building it. But I'm actually releasing an app. Oh, yeah. I'm actually doing a training app. Nice. And it's going to be called Train Like Hell. Oh. And it's the Big Ron Partlow app. And it's going to be my coaching app. It's going to be my low-ticket coaching item. Because, you know, we've got the one-on-one stuff. But I'm going to have a community app over there. I'm going to help. I want to help a lot of people that maybe don't need a full-time coach, you know. But they definitely want some help. They want workout structure. They want help with diet. They want me to be able to, you know, chime in on the app and, you know, talk to everyone about stuff. And I'm really excited about it. I went through it. I wanted to make sure it was simple with no stuff I don't need and none of the stuff that annoys me. Because I feel like apps have way too much stuff on there that I would just erase. Right. And so, I want to strip down basic quality. Like he likes his burgers. Like the way I like my burgers, you know. And, yeah. So, I want to be able to help people with a lower ticket coaching item. And I know there's a market out there. And so, yeah. I'm excited about the Train Like Hell app. It's coming out soon. I'm going to start posting about it soon. I didn't want to annoy the It's Just Bodybuilding crowd. But I thought I'd give you guys the update. I love it, man. I'll be posting about it, too. I have one question. So, Edmonton is east of Vancouver. One province over, yeah. How far east can you go and still be west coast iron? That's actually a question of Victoria Night Bulls. But you're good because they're in the Western Conference. Okay. Okay. In the NHL. They're the two-time champs. It stops there. We were excited for you. We saw that posted. And that was our question to you. So, here's my question. If you're eating at Tokyo Express, does it matter what city you're in? I've never been to Tokyo. But I've been to Tokyo Express a lot. I've been to neither. But I get the point. And I think it's a fair response. Boston Pizza. One of my favorite pizza places. Never been to Boston in my life. Invented in Edmonton. Not even from Boston. It's Canadian. I like it. Jersey Mike's. You know what I mean? His name's not even Mike. I wore California body wear for years. And I didn't live in California. There's a lot of things. We're bringing the West Coast iron vibe to Edmonton. I like that. We're going to have the West Coast feel. You know, we've got the woodwork on the staircase. And all. Like, it's going to have a real cool vibe. We're going to bring some West Coast sort of styling in there. And make it unique to something that Edmonton doesn't have any of. I want to add one thing that I'm really curious to see how you do. Sorry for those who don't care. But the thing that makes West Coast iron really special, actually, is your staff. Right. You guys have a staff that cares. I was just in Florida over the weekend. And we went to a bunch of restaurants. We went to a bar. And the first lady that came to our table was awesome. Then our waitress came. And she was incredible. And then I started looking around. I was watching the bartender. And I'm watching other things. And I go, oh, no. The owner of this business expects everyone to be this good. Right. And the experience was phenomenal. And it immediately made me think when I saw the West Coast iron thing go up. I'm like, that's the hardest thing to reproduce. Because when I come into your gym, I've watched members come in. Not mutant bodybuilders. Not that stuff. And I see the exact same thing. And that's something where when a new gym opens up down the street that has some fun new equipment, people might visit there. But they're not leaving. It's not family. Right. Yeah. Right. And it comes from the owners being around all the time with the staff. And the staff see how the owners talk to people. So then they take that on. And then they see how management talks to people. And they take that on. And it just becomes part of the expected culture. Right. You know. Yeah. It's like you just. You know. I remember bars I worked at where like the boss would say to me. I want you to say like hello to every single person. Like, you know, I remember early. And I remember as a doorman, every single person that would come up to the door. You know, you got a lineup. You're holding a lineup. Every single person that come to the door. I'd be like, how are you guys doing tonight? I'd be like, good. I'm like, where else have you been tonight? What's going on? Have you checked out? We were at a restaurant, another club. Like, talking to them, talking to them. And I remember like hundreds of times people would leave and they'd go, you're the nicest bouncer I've ever met. And I'm like, well, it's just because I was nice to you at the door talking to you and creating a culture before you come in. And when you take. I think one thing that I contribute to the gym because we all have our strengths is I have like 16 years of nightclub. And it's the people business. It's not about the booze. Yeah. You could have a shithole Irish pub like this one place I worked in. It was a, you turn the lights on and you're like, this place is a shithole. But you turn the lights down, crank some music, put a bunch of fun people in there. It's a fun, was it popping off every night? Yeah. So it's about the staff and it's about the vibe that the owners create with the staff and the culture of that. And that's just, you got to start there. So, you know. Yeah. I'm excited for you guys to bring that there though. I think that'll actually be the thing that sets you apart even more was kind of my point. Yeah. So looking forward to it. And I'll be there as soon as it opens. Yes. We're going to have to have it. It's just bodybuilding grand opening. So. Yes. Okay, guys. Thanks, everybody. Remember, I am mutant.com. Dusty, Big Ron. Get your I am mutant.com. Deliver it to your door. Avoid people. Don't leave the house. There you go. Get the jug. Thanks, guys. Remember, it's just bodybuilding. It's just bodybuilding.