a new golden age of bodybuilding. I was like, he's that's a great way to put it because like we're very lucky. This is a very exciting time. Champions getting beat like dynasty is not happening. Mhm. Right there. Like that is is tough now. It is not the same as it was. And and uh I mean who knows what's going to happen in Pittsburgh. Hey everybody, welcome to It's Just Bodybuilding. I'm Big Ron Partllo and of course I've got Dusty Handshaw and then the producer Scott Mcnal. Remember to like, share, subscribe, comment and ring the bell. Mutant.com. Remember I am mutant.com. Get your ISO surge. Get your all in. And everyone should get on the gear. Get on that gear every day all year long. Okay. Code dusty code big Ron. Use the codes. Keep us employed. Get a deal. Save money. get it delivered right to your door. You don't have to get in your car and drive anywhere. You don't have to go to put up with anybody, you know, hey, how's it going, man? What's going on? How's your bench? You don't have to have that conversation at the store. You just order what you want. Yeah, it'd be great. Okay, what's going on today? Well, we are going to run through the everyone's favorite topic right now, which is the Pittsburgh Pro because we are the show coverage specialists. Everyone knows this is where you come for shows. We're like the hitmen of show coverage. You call you need a professional job. Number one in contest coverage. Number one in contest coverage. Let's cover first, third, and fourth today. Yeah. Let's at least start it first so we get to first. Yes. Right. Okay. Very key. Okay. So, of course, the talk of the town, Derek Lunsford, is in the town. He posted, "We are in Pittsburgh." Which makes it all real cuz I'll be the first to admit I wasn't certain the whole time. Okay. Oh, you didn't know if he'd actually show up. Yeah, like I wasn't sure. Like I know cuz it was like, you know, he's he's going to do it and I was like, "Well, we'll see." And I know there's 100 grand online, but I I was just curious, but Chris informed me at uh FIBO that what we saw at the Arnold is nowhere near how good he is now, which is scary. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Chris did say that. He said, "I was in Derek's hotel room this morning. It's completely out of hand." Yeah. And that was like weeks and weeks ago, right? So, let's not forget also that he's seen a lot of out of hand. So, for him to say that. Yeah. Let's also not forget that when he says that, it often like is. Absolutely. So, so yeah. Um, of course, Derek, uh, there was those that photo that got released uh of the back double like five weeks out from the Arnold versus five weeks out now. Yeah. And it was like obviously condition difference because he was already in shape. So, it's like the glutes are like already, you know, lunfordish. Yeah. and uh everything like that. So, we'll see what happens with that. But do you think he's the man to beat just because he's, you know, the Arnold Classic champ? I think he's the man to beat because he's the best. There you go. Okay. If if he's at his best, if if he's at if he's at 90% of his best, he's the best. Yeah. So, so now how do you think So, what was the battle? You remove Derek from the show. Take Derek out of the show. Like before Dererick said he was entering the show and everyone of course is talking about Nick, Nick Martin, right? Good veto. Yep. But I feel like Nick and Martin are the are the conversation because they were close at the uh Olympia and then they were one and two at which show that that Derek New York. Yeah. That Nick won last year. Yeah, that that was the show they were close. That was it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I don't think No, Nick wasn't in the Olympia. Yeah, he didn't do the Olympia, but yeah, he did. They were close and a lot of people even thought I mean I know that Dave said last week that he actually thought Martin won New York. He did say he didn't. Yeah. So, and we've all seen and then from New York to the Olympia, Martin made drastic improvements and has made even more than that since the Olympia, which makes that showdown very exciting. Yeah, this is going to be a killer show. I think um obviously they got the 100 grand prize money, but also as a like, you know, because I've got some experience with promoting shows. This is gonna by far be their highest selling live stream that they've ever done it from this show. Like this is going to be crazy cuz uh I mean like like normally I wouldn't get up in the morning and pay for the live stream to watch Pittsburgh Pro. Yeah. And are they doing a free live stream or you pay you got to pay for it? I bet you have to pay for it. I just did the free one, right? Yeah. I'll find out for sure. If it is pay, you should pay cuz it'll be worth it. Yeah. Cuz normally, you know, if you just sit on Instagram while you're eating breakfast, you'll catch prejudging cuz I'm out west, right? Yeah. So, by the time I'm eating breakfast, prejudging is like I'm getting all the, you know, the 4K videos coming through. But, uh, this will be worth getting up early and um and watching the prejudging because it's going to be mental. Do we have a full competitors list, Scott? Can you throw that up? Yeah. Can't throw it up. Throw it up. Send it to us. Yeah. Uh, it's on the It's on our chat group chat in the text. I sent it yesterday. Yeah, I I think that that, you know, if we do have Derek taking first, if that does happen, I want to see how both Nick and Martin push him and then we can't forget uh and of course good veto. I want to see how he fits into all of that and I want to see how KZO fits into all that because KZO is looking freaking crazy. VJ I think told me that I think Kriso might have had I know Nick had an update picture you said right Dusty and and Good Veto had update pictures. I'll grab those in just a minute. Um, but uh I I from what I hear, what what uh VJ tells me that uh the insiders that are seeing Martin's pictures are saying that Martin is off the hook right now. So, yeah. And I have to give uh Kriso credit cuz I've got a good friend of mine. He he he doesn't follow bodybuilding the way we do like contest placings and the intricacies, but he's a big fan and a bodybuilder himself. And he he keeps sending me clips of Kriso and he's like, "This guy looks insane in the gym. How could this this looks like a this looks like the type of guy that no one could stand? Like what is going on? Have you seen this guy in real life?" I'm like, "Yeah, he's pretty crazy." But his head's actually not small. It just looks small on his body. Yeah. He's got this this this look like when he's doing the one the video of him doing the one- arm row. Oh, yeah. Yeah. You're just like, "Oh god." Like it's it's hard to imagine that that physique doesn't like just stomp everyone all the time, you know? Like if you were to take that look and go back in time, like it would just people's heads would pop off. He looks like AI. Like if you tell me like if you asked AI, like make a really crazy European looking bodybuilder that's just Yeah. Just with Pavo Jablancy conditioning but like way bigger. for those who remember Pavl and make it look impossible like something you really couldn't do in real life. I feel like you would get Kriso. That's what it would pop out for us. Yeah. And as my buddy says, he's got the dumbest arms I've ever seen. Those are nuts. Yeah. And he meant that as a compliment, right? Yes. Everything negative is a compliment in bodybuilding. Yeah. Yeah. Disgusting. Thank you. Disgusting. Yeah. Yeah. I'm I'm definitely excited to see that. I like I can't help it because I I know all the guys and I really want to see Nick. I don't care where he lands, but this it was funny. I I was telling Nikki the other day, I pull up a picture of him that he had posted and I go into the comments of people like he should retire. Somebody still are they still is there people still saying that? Oh yeah. And the thing I'm like, "Okay, let let's let's just say you're correct and he's not going to win the Olympia. So, you're saying that anyone who can't win the Olympia should quit?" Yeah. Because he's definitely top five on the planet. Top eight at the very worst. If he was off, that means you should quit. That's like out of all the bodybuilders that are doing bodybuilding everywhere in every gym in every city around the entire world. On every stage, at every show. So basically, if you can't beat Derek Lunsford, then you should quit bodybuilding. Now we're back to the days where Sergio shows up all by himself. Yeah. Yeah. Is that progression? That's that's what you think this is about. You know what I mean? Mindblowing to me. And it does appear based on the pictures his waist is way down. Um that back lat spread taper looks like like almost like he had surgery, you know, like like his arms look bigger because of it. Yeah. Slide to the the lat spread shot. All right. There we go. Legs look the sweep looks bigger. Yeah. You know, and those that can actually look at a photo and see shadows can see where his waist actually is. I mean, I I if that's retirement, then the rest of us should have never started. Um Yeah. I should have kept playing football. Yeah. Yeah. Mind mind-blowing to me. Um so, we know it's going to be him, Martin, you know, the the the four we said all in the top group. My big question is good veto based on the photo that he posted front of a bicep if he can land on stage and look like that. I don't know how that stands. If you want to pull that up, Scott, I don't know how that stands next to everyone else because it looks completely cartoonish. Oh, he he doesn't look real to me. I mean, and I and I know that we've seen him leading into shows before and it's it's had that effect, but like I what? That is just naughty. Yeah, he's got like a real hyper muscular look. Yeah, but but he's a mass monster, but where's the waist? Why is it And why is he vacuumed in on that shot? Like, how the hell do you do that, you know? And then we're sitting here saying that can't win is mindboggling. Yeah. You know, he's insane. He's insane. And then also too, um the fact that we haven't mentioned Bonak yet. Yeah. Who uh is one of those guys that I will admit we sometimes don't mention and then he comes in and beats half the guys we talked about and we're like, "Oh yeah, Bonak, two-time Arnold Classic winner. Duh. We didn't bring him up. Here's a bunny." Um because you know how it is. You know how it is. You got to stand on stage and line up against everyone and things all of a sudden change. Like we we we go through this every show and everyone goes through this every show, right? Everyone makes their predictions and then there's that one guy they're like, "Oh yeah, yeah." As soon as he stood in the lineup, he was three places higher than I had him. And well, think about Martin at the Olympia. Like if you'd have seen Martin when he walked out alone at the Olympia Yeah. You weren't thinking top five, right? I was thinking, man, he looks insane, but he's like one of the smaller guys. Yeah. And then just in your head, right? Yeah. Then you start see them next to each other and you're like, wait, why do my eyes keep pulling to him? Why did I think he was a smaller guy? Just cuz he's shorter, weighs less. Yeah. And then all of a sudden he's like, what? Like, oh my god, he's going to he's going to place in the top five. Like it just got every single shot. I was like, what the [\h__\h] Yeah. So, but that's one of the things I love the most. Like bodybuilding's boring when it's totally predictable. It's it's those moments that make a show exciting, right? Like that was one of the things that made the Olympia super exciting was like, "Yeah, Samson won. That was awesome." Like Sam's such a great guy, wins, really great top three and all that, but then one of the talks of the show was Jesus Martin. Yeah. you know, Martin shows up and like boom boom boom just like topples a bunch of guys and bam, right in there, you know, in that final call out and all that stuff that happened. And that's that's when, you know, that's when bodybuilding gets really exciting. And I would love to see something like that happen at this show. Like I want, you know, obviously everyone thinks, you know, Derek Derrick's hard to beat. Um, but there's a lot of exciting [\h__\h] that can go down like between the first call out and the last call out of the finals when they do that confirmation call out. There's a lot of guys that could get like bump bump bump bumpity bump and there's no promises just because we think Derek is, you know, potentially going to be the best. He's got the track record, you know, he's done so well. It doesn't mean that he's going to do it. You know, you know, he could eat some Lasix fish and have a bad show. Yeah. You never know. Wrong coach. Wrong coach. Um Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No, but if you think about though, it's the same like coach when you rewind time when when Gunter took fifth at the Olympia. That was the highlight of the whole show. He was who everyone talked about. He took fifth. He was the one that everyone was like, "Whoa, what?" And then same thing, I mean, you know, last year at the Classic, Bumstead wins, you expected that, but I would say half of the conversation, if not more, was Mike the Badass. Like, yeah. Where did you come from? Yeah. Why weren't we talking about you leading into the show? And the fact that Chris, for the first time out of all of his wins, wasn't straight firsts. Yeah. And everyone knew it. They were like, "Holy [\h__\h] Mike won a couple poses there. That was nuts." That was That was It's so fun. And And I love it when bodybuilding is fun cuz I'll admit, old, grizzled, jaded. I've got a beaten up heart, gentleman. years in the game. And I don't mean my heart's healthy. I just very I can show you that. Figuratively. Figuratively. And uh um and and it's uh it's it's super fun when when you get that like little kid feeling again, like you're watching something new and exciting happen. And uh and I'm I'm glad that like like when when Dave said on the show last week that he thought we were going through a new golden age of bodybuilding. M y and I thought about that after. That was actually one of the moments in the show I thought about afterwards when I was sitting there having my meal. I was like, he's that's a great way to put it because like we're very lucky. This is a very exciting time. Champions getting beat like Dynasty is not happening. Right there. Like that [\h__\h] is is tough now. It is not the same as it was. And and uh I mean who knows what's going to happen in Pittsburgh. And who would have thought they'd go to Pittsburgh to see this [\h__\h] right? Right. Because Right. What was the prize money in Pittsburgh up till now? Was it like a 10 grand show? It was. Yeah. It was I mean it was enough that it wasn't even the top list that people talked about. It was a tier three show, hasn't it been? I'm not someone correct me, but and all of a sudden it's 100K and you know, and Aceto's right again. Throw a bunch of money and people show up. Yeah. Yeah. No, I'm I'm really excited for it. And I do hope that there's some people that shock because that as a fan is fun. There's two Scots. That was weird. Um, double Scott attack. Are you seeing two? Cuz I should only We got a four. We got a four square. We got a four square on my on my laughing or something. Oh, now there we go. Oh, now I'm in the middle. And now Scott's frozen again. But he looks good frozen. Oh, there he is. He's back. He's back. But yeah, no, I'm excited for that part. I want to see I'm really hoping as a fan to see Good Veto come in like I see in the updates cuz I haven't seen that. I if I see the front double that we just saw on stage, I don't care where he lands. It's awesome. And then all of a sudden people are talking differently every time he does a show. So yeah, it'll be exciting. And all of it leads to an even better Olympia. No matter what happens, even it goes down exactly how we say, it makes the Olympia more exciting again. And like Ron said, I actually I actually told this to a guy at the gym the other day. He wanted to smack me. I skipped a couple Olympia finals that I could have went to because I was like, "Ah, I know who's winning." Yeah. And uh I'm good. I've seen, you know, so many of them. And now I don't miss the Arnold. I'm going the Olympia. I go like, we don't know going into the show. I mean, whoever wins the Olympia, it it's it still means the title changed hands because in everyone eyes now that Derek beat Samson, he's the best again. So, even if Samson wins the Olympia, it'll actually feel like a trade of power again, even though he's the standup. You know, Scott, you got to stop playing your random music during the show. Yeah, I was trying to pull up I was trying to pull up that post that you Great. You guys were looking at I figured I was going to try I I was trying to prepare in the background. I didn't the next segment. Yes. Look at him go. I didn't realize I got to turn the music down there before we get demonetized. Don't want to get a trademark on that note. Yeah. You don't want CCR to come after you, right? It's the last thing you want. John Fogerty calling you up. You're using my song. Vietnam movies only, son. There's no helicopter scene in this. Oh god. Good morning, Vietnam. Let's go. True. Oh, no. I saw Derek also said that he wanted to be the he wanted to be the first Triple Crown winner. And I'm like, oh, so are we now considering the Pittsburgh the Triple Crown like with the O and the Arnold. That So that is Oh, New York, right? Is that what you're going to say? Right. I would I would have thought if you would have asked me what's the triple crown of bodybuilding if you had to build one, I'd be like, well, it's Olympia, Arnold, and I guess New York pro. And I would put Chicago if you asked me for a fourth, you know. Right. Right. So now I guess the prize money I mean what's prize money in New York? Is it 100k? 25. Oh, I guess it's not 30. I guess it's not the trifecta anymore. Well then I don't know what the hell I'm talking about. Yeah, I'm pretty sure it was 25 last year. At least it was. So New York was always because that's the show everyone want. I mean it is the draw, right? I still have like that that remember when it used to be called Night of Champions. Oh yes. And it was like the like you know the night of champions ranging and like the whole it was like a big deal to win that show and it still is obviously it's the New York pro. It's the most vicious crowd in bodybuilding they say. Yeah. Speaks show up. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Agreed. Okay. We're off the contest coverage everybody. No real predictions. Not putting our balls on the line. Moving on. We we really didn't say anything like always. No. Well, we did say Derek. We we voted Derek and then we also immediately said, "But if he doesn't win, hey, I'll tell you what. I want to see Nick Walker earn the respect that he deserves." You know, he's already earned it. People just That's what I want to see. I want to see him shut people up. You know, I I like all the guys, but you know, I know Nick had a a freaking hard deal with couple uh you know, issues that had taken him out, and he he definitely deserves, I think, more respect than he gets. So, I want to see him up there, and I want to see him battle Martin. And may the best man win. You know what I mean? At the end of the day, if Martin wins, I'm not hurt by that either. You know, the best the best guy's gota gonna take it. But I want to see a freaking battle. Show me like you guys were saying basically, show me a battle, you know, and that I think it's going to be an excellent show no matter how it goes. What was this post you guys sent? Was this you, Dusty? You sent this one. Yeah, Dusty said it was so funny. And I just like this is me times a hundred at every every time Emily and I go anywhere. And we just went to Mexico, right? So this happened. This is You got to put it. Can you put it up or you going to do it after post? I'll throw it up in post. Uh, actually, yeah, that'll be the easiest. Another jacked guy at the resort gym this morning. Head nod. So, I'm at breakfast with our families. Head nod and a what's up, bro? Ran into him again on the beach. Head nod. My wife. Who's that? Me? No clue. Just some dude from the gym. They just don't get it. And it is. It is a thing. Everyone, anybody who does it knows that thing you do, you're like, "What's up?" Yeah. Yeah. I remember like I got I remember we get to Mexico, we go down, you know, get the get the sunscreen on, get Emily gets her chair. She's going to do the lay in the sun thing that she likes to do that I can't stand. And I'm like, "Well, I'm going to go do a lap around the pool." And I'm walking around the pool. I see a dude drink sitting there drinking a rum. And I'm like, and I thought, you know, tell the guy obviously trains. He's like got, you know, packs, big arms, sitting there, head nod. Walk by and guy ordering some food, looks over at me. I'm like, "That guy's jacked." You head nod like just there's like four head nods around the pool. I come back, she goes, "So, did you make some friends?" And I go, "Oh, yeah. Bunch of guys here." Well, you know, I I think I told you guys when we were uh on our trip in the Dominican, we're sitting up and they've got like a over top pool area where you just kind of chill. And we're sitting I see this guy across the on the same pool area. I'm like, "That guy's got some size on him." Yeah. And she goes, "Yeah." And he definitely looked out of place and we, you know, mention it. About 10 or so minutes later, him and his girl come walking up. He's like, "You're Dusty Handshaw." I'm like, "Yes." And he goes, "Oh, I watch the show all the time." We get talking. Of course, he competes the whole thing. I'm like, "Yeah, well, I I noticed you, so you're you're doing something very well." Uh, right. when I can see just your shoulders out of the top of the pool and I'm like that guy he he doesn't just train like that's a bodybuilder. Yeah. Yeah. Different. That's the thing I try to tell my clients like that's the goal. When I was when I first started bodybuilding you could see I trained but I could have been an athlete. I could have been yeah anything. And it's not until somebody started like people started saying, "Oh, you bodybuild." Like then I realized, "Oh, I've crossed that Mendoza line where no one's ask like obviously they can see I'm not athletic at all anymore." Yeah. So, I've crossed a line where he's definitely not an athlete, right? Yeah. Yeah. No, it's it's funny. And then especially the older guys, too, like uh like the one dude we saw at the resort was like, you know, he's probably 5 years older than me, like he would have been into his 50s. Yeah. Mhm. and uh and uh and you know we did the headnod like two breakfasts in a row and then finally on the third day he's like hey well you're you're you're with mutant right and I'm like yeah and he's like yeah yeah yeah and he starts talking and then he's like oh yeah he's like I actually knew rich back in the day he's like I lived in LA for like eight years and he was telling me how he knew Rich at the gym and then he trained at Golds a bunch of times and and I was just like it's just funny like the you know guys that have been around for a long time everyone knows to someone and you know. Yeah. So, we had we had a guy uh who commented on the show the other day and he was like, "Hey, I'm from Sioset, New York, and I knew Dave since before Dave was big." Like, he was scrawny and then he blew up and he was like there was like a two-year period where he just exploded, you know? Oh, that's awesome. You love the throwback ones. I told you guys this, but I had to mention on the show cuz I thought it was cool. So, two Saturdays ago, I'm training legs and uh I see this kid on the pendleum squat and he's starting to struggle a little bit, but I know he's got more in him. So, I don't say I just notice he doesn't have any AirPods in. So, I come over and I just say over his shoulder, I'm like, "Hey, I got you. Just keep jamming." So, he we force out a couple reps and then as soon as he racks it, I just walk away. I start my my next set. And I uh I I look at him and he's getting ready to get started. I said, "Hey, give me a minute. if you want another spot, I'll I'll spot you through another. He's like, "All right, cool." So, it was like his drop back set and at like 10, he's struggling. So, I push him through like five more reps. Like, it's barely moving. I'm giving him like a pound and a half of help, you know? And uh he racks it and I walk away. And then a few minutes later, he walks over and he's like, "I listen to the show all the time." And I'm like, "Oh god." I was like, "Well, you can now tell everyone that I uh completely ruined your workout. Have no idea how many reps you were planning on doing." Yeah. And you might have an injury you're dealing with, but now it's 10 times worse because thanks to I know I was like I got a Z. I was like, "All right, well, I'll forever remember that I uh didn't allow Doug to even let me know what he was looking for. I just made him do more." That's That's funny that that you mentioned that because I actually like, you know, when we opened the gym, I had a habit of like I'd be walking around the gym and I'd see somebody, I'd go over and I'd spot them. Okay. Yeah. And then I started thinking like not everybody wants forced reps. Ron made me. Yeah, you're getting them whether you want them or not. It's like one star. The owner made me do way more repar or it's some some guy who's following a 5x5 program and I just totally screwed up his math. He's like that was me right there. Yeah. You know, he did. He's like, "Fuck, this odor keeps coming over just destroying me and my volume and my output goes in the tank." And yeah, I'm really hoping that Doug wasn't leaving reps in re reserve as an RI kid, right? You know, I come over and make the ri kids hate you. So now I just leave people alone unless I hear screaming and there's like someone trapped under something, you know? You still come over and go, "Are you doing a negative or should I actually take this off?" Should I help? I don't want to like get sued, you know? Yeah. Yeah. I want one star. The moment he said that, I was like, "And I actually didn't ask." Okay, cool. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Things to be aware of. I have to throw something out there, guys. I have to say to the audience, everybody listening, first of all, we appreciate having you guys here. We need questions for the next shows. So, hit us up, leave us questions, everything you got. We had a bunch of them, Dusty, from uh you you cuz So, when we do the uh interview shows, we usually don't get a lot of listener questions. Um, so we didn't have a lot this week, but I dug back and I looked at uh that thread that you posted on Instagram the other week and I grabbed a bunch of those because we like I think that you put that thread up and then we didn't answer any of them. Do you remember that? It's kind of like our contest coverage. Ask for something and don't deliver. It's what we do. So, I'm going to ask you guys I want to ask you guys this one. This is one of the listener questions. How would Justin Compton do in today's lineup? Imagine him coming into Pittsburgh Pro like at his best extremely well. Yeah. I I consider Justin Compton. He is in the same category to me as Mike Francois. H yeah. I can see where you're going. like unbelievable potential and career just he had other things going on. Going to shut it down. He's probably making way more money now. Probably smart move. Yeah. Saving money by not bodybuilding. Saving money by but not bodybuilding. Great guy. You know, everyone likes Justin Compton. Everyone liked Mike Francois. He's very similar. Obviously, Mike had like severe colitis that like ended his career forcibly, like hospital surgery, life-changing sort of thing. And and and Compton has spoken about why he shut things down, too. Um but, you know, Compton's um I think Compton's doing great now. I mean, I haven't spoken to him for a while, but um uh but he's in that same category where like, you know, um we won't we didn't get to see Compton win an Arnold or anything like that, but he was that type of bodybuilder to me. And uh and a great guy, too. Like, I remember seeing him uh and the most I talked to him was in Australia one year because he was down there for the Australian Arnold. I think it was I don't think he competed. I think he was just there for the expo and I saw him at the gym and he was a he was the coolest dude. and uh spoken to him spoken to him other you know obviously through our technology. Yeah. Um but I consider him to be like that like we'll never really know what he could have done on stage but extraordinarily dangerous and um you know conditioning obviously off the hook all the time. Uh yeah. Yeah. I was going to I was going to say it's funny that you said me Francois because I was thinking Dennis Newman, right? Um, and the only thing I got to throw in there and is because I hate the word potential. Yeah. Because potential usually means you haven't done [\h__\h] And that's uh that's that's not the term I'm using in this regard because he was realizing his potential. Just need more time to continue doing the the path he was on. Yeah. Oh, drastically. And that's the difference. It's like I usually consider potential to be a negative word, but in his case, the only thing that stopped the meteoric rise that he was on was that he stopped. You don't care why he he chose to stop. But it wasn't like, oh, if he would have done this or stayed more f it was none of that. It just more time. You know, I I would not blink to assume at a healthy version that would have kept going would have won an Arnold, possibly an Olympia. And I mean, he's young enough he could he could still be banging. So, I agree 100%. I think uh sadly we did not see the best that we would have seen. And that's mindboggling because he was so good, you know. So, yeah, he'd do awesome. And that's um I wanted to segue real quick, Scott, while we're on the subject because Dave said something that rang to me, not because I've never thought of it, but because I say it all the time. What's that? When we asked him about the thing that separates the best guys from the rest, he said consistency. And um it blows my mind. I wanted to talk about with you guys because I know you guys can share the same point. Uh I have multiple athletes with very big goals. big aspirations. And it stuns me how you can have a goal of winning an overall or turning pro and simultaneously because that's one of the things I ask in their check-ins. Like, what are your goals? I want to know your short-term goal. I mean, what's your bee hag, as I call it, your big hairy ass goal that maybe you can't reach, but you're chasing. And those things are listed. And simultaneously, multiple times a year, I get how many meals were missed, how the training was a little down this week, how they did this. And I I when he said that, I just shook my head. And I actually responded to one of my clients. I said, "You either need to change your goals because your output does not match that or you need to change how you're approaching your bodybuilding." Yeah. Because what Dave said is accurate. Like when I was competing, I knew what I was capable of. Like the end goal I knew was not phenomenal, but I also understood the only way to get to the best I could be was to be insane. So when he was like, "Oh, I didn't miss meals for years." I'm like, "Neither did I." Didn't have down workouts. Like I I was obsessed with getting this done. And I think there's some confusion with some people that Derek Lunsford's life is somehow easy to get all this done or or or anyone's. I'm like, "No, when I was turning pro, I had five retail stores and was waking up at 4 in the morning and going to bed after training at midnight." And that's not like a oh, I'm hardcore. That's just how many hours were in my day. It was the only way to get it all done. And it, you know, like you were saying, Ron, with Ronnie, it never occurred to me that missing a meal was even a plausible option. Yeah. Yeah. And it it blows my mind how many people don't get that every single day, every single meal, every single workout matters. And how can you have this goal? And if if you're doing what you should be doing, your goal should be slightly out of reach and you should be hunting it down. Then how can you think that you're gonna not do everything every day and beat people who are genetically better than you? Yeah. Not gonna happen. Yeah. And it's it's just one of those things where and I don't think and for those that are listening, I don't think there's anything wrong with having that realization and saying those goals don't mean enough to me cuz I'm not willing to not have a week off or miss a meal because of work or whatever. That's okay. I'm not Mr. Hardcore. I think it's just important that you're a realist and say, "Yeah, I'm not going to do that." Yeah. And then you can, you know, change your mind and say, "Okay, I need to lower these goals. Maybe my my highest goal is just a state level win." Cool. That might be feasible with the way you're chasing, but these win a pro card, win an overall. That ain't going to happen. You know, I mean, I got five local guys here who don't miss meals ever, who train at 3 in the morning because that's the only way they can get it done before work because they got kids at home and they don't want to be coming home at 10 p.m. and not seeing their kids. How are you going to beat them? Let alone genetic mutants who also don't miss meals. I mean, Dave was a freak. Yeah. But he never missed a meal also. Yeah. the whole like, you know, talent versus hard work is like, well, there's talent and hard work and those guys. Yeah. Because you're just not going to touch them. Yeah. So, yeah. I just thought that was a simple point that Dave made that I that I feel should be played over and over and over. Like consistency, that's the magic. You know, people ask like, I mean, how many times do you have a bad workout? I'm like, I can't even remember having a bad workout. Also too, what's a bad workout? Like because you know what I mean, right? Literally. Yeah. So the I think another thing too is the ability to make mental pivots with how you perceive what's happening. Like if if I think, okay, well, I I didn't have bad workouts. I'm like, well, I had workouts that I could have perceived as bad. Yeah. But I shifted my perception and I changed gears and I did something different and I managed to get a really great pump that day. And then I didn't think of it as a bad workout and then it didn't like my mindset wouldn't go there, right? So it's also your ability to control your own mindset. like, you know, maybe I went to the gym one day and, you know, I had like a weak set on my opener, but instead of just letting that get me down, which I see I see this from people like, "Oh, my reps are down on my incline today. [\h__\h] shit." I'm like, I never did that. I'd be like, "Okay, I just had a bad set of inclines. I got five instead of eight. I'm gonna change gears. I'm gonna go over to this machine. I'm gonna blast sets of 15. Yeah. Blow the [\h__\h] out of my pecs. Then I'm gonna do that fly machine that I never use because I actually kind of like it. And I'm going to smash some sets on that and finish with another press. And then how was your workout? And by the end of your workout, you got this crazy upper your pecs are blowing out and your ar [\h__\h] triceps are blowing out from doing tries and you're like, "Awesome, dude. An awesome workout." Dude, I've I've worked with people occasionally. Uh, one guy I'm thinking of in particular, and I think he's changing that perspective now, but he would like he would get down on himself and I almost feel like bodybuilding became a like it would not be a fun thing if you're constantly disappointing yourself and like, oh, I didn't get those reps and I failed here. And I like that perspective better because you're constantly like you said, you're spinning it into something that ends up being a good thing, you know, and and I I I I have to touch on my hobbies here because I thought about this the other day. I that skill that I took and I don't know if I learned it from bodybuilding, but I definitely did 30 years of it in the gym. But that that perspective shifting perspective practice I had Yeah. with all of those potentially bad workouts that weren't bad workouts. I I find myself doing that now with my hobbies. Like I've got the bad hip right now. By the way, I'm looking I'm talking to surgeons about a hip replacement. Oh wow. Okay. I've got like consults coming up and stuff. Um it's really really I haven't really mentioned it, but it's really interfered with my riding. Mhm. Like there's a bunch of tricks I was starting to learn and I can't really lift my knee up high enough right now without some pretty bad pain. So I have to put those tricks all on the back burner. So what do I just not? No. I go out and I practice other things. Learn are there other skills I can learn where I don't have to lift my knee? Yes, there's a whole bunch of other skills. So let's shift your p shift your perspective. Learn other things. Get better in another way. And then when your hips's better, you're going to have it'll all come together. It's just a patience game. And then same with guitar. Like I'll have a session where something I'm working on I just I suck. I just I'm trying to learn a new song. I just like my fingers aren't listening to my brain and I just So I'll just you know what? I'll put on some stuff that's easy. Crank up the album and just jam with an album for like 30 minutes. And then I come out with a big smile on my face. all this positive bio stuff happening in my brain from having a blast and and jamming along and and I'll turn it into a great session and as a result you're going to want to do it again versus if you have enough fails enough times in a row then why am I even doing this anymore yeah getting stuck getting stuck on on like man my you know like that sort of [\h__\h] it's practice to be able to change to keep a positive perspective and find something positive to to go too. And and you know, Emily would be like, "Oh, I'll come out of the office and be like, "How was it?" You know, I've been in there jamming for 45 minutes. I'm like, "Oh, it was awesome." Yeah. You know, the the other thing about the bodybuilding side though with this whole thing is back to the consistency. If your food and your water and your sleep and all those things are correct, the odds of having this workout that you have to adjust are lower. Yes. True. Cuz usually that's the thing I can I can ask a client like, well, what what did you do different? Oh, you know, this morning I didn't I didn't get my water in, but okay, there you go. Yeah. Like that's half the reason you were weaker. Like, how'd you sleep last night? Oh, I was stressed. Okay. Now, you can't always avoid those things, but when you're consistent, then the odds go lower. Like if somebody said to me on May 14th, 2012 you trained back. What did you do that morning? I could tell you. I don't need to know the day. It's cuz I did the same thing every day. I woke up at the same time, ate the same meals, drank the same liquids, everything was the same leading up. So all the things that I could control were the same. Yeah. And I feel like that's a big missed part. It's like you can't necessarily control if you got a bad night's sleep. You know, that's I mean that just happens. But if you're letting a bunch of other things be, you know, everyone's so worried about exactly how they're performing a rep, but they're not concerned about how much water they drank and sodium they brought in before they went to the gym. If all that stuff's the same, then the odds of even having to have this right twist in your workout get lower. And then when it happens and it's so rare, it's a lot harder to get frustrated, you know, cuz when I go to the gym, like you were saying, Ron, if I could tell like, okay, I mean, we've all been there. I I always use the deadlift as an example. I put 135 on the bar. Sometimes it feels like I'd never done it before. I'm like, why is this awkward as hell and then sometimes I pick up 135 and I'm like, it's going to be a good day. And people like, how do you know? I'm like, because the bar moved flawlessly the very first time I pulled it, which means as I go up, that's going to continue happening. You can't control that. But on the days that are the days that are off and everything you've control that could control is there, it's really easy to go, you know what? The universe has decided today's workout's going to be a little different. So, we're going to beat the [\h__\h] out of ourselves with 405 on deads today because I already know what'll happen when I get into 600 lb and I'll get frustrated. So, I'm just going to skip it and not do that, like you said, and not allow my very first movement to derail or I'm sure you guys have had the experience where your first movement's a little off and you're like, "Ah, if you got in your head and said, "Oh, it's a bad workout." Well, then it's going to be one. But next thing you know, your second movement just moving like butter. And you're like, "Oh, well, that's good." Like, I guess it was just the incline was awkward today for some reason. You know what I mean? So I I definitely think you're right, Ron, is it's how you preface it, but also when you control all the things that you can, the odds of even having to do that are really low. And I think that's why I didn't experience many of those times because it was it was all controlled, you know, and and anything that popped up was only things out of my control. And I tell people that all the time, like if it's out of your control, [\h__\h] it. It is what it is. But if you're failing on things that you can control, well then fix it. That's not hard. So, but yeah, I was really stoked when Dave said that cuz I was I love that he said one word and went silent. He's like consistency and then just sat there and I was like then he went into it. But I'm like yes. I pulled out a couple good ones from the a couple more good ones from your uh your thread, Dusty. Here's one I wanted to hear what you guys had to say. When did the behind the neck press go extinct? When Kevin Leon retired. Yeah. Skip still does them. Skip loves the behind the neck press. He's wearing the Team Michael sweatshirt, too. Which, by the way, Ron, he told me that the same owner from all the way back in the day still owns T- Michaels. Still owns it. Still was selling the what did he call it? The the the big top shirt. You could still buy the big top. Yep. It's not too late. Run. You can get a an extra-L large big top instead of a 4X. I'm still a double XX, Dusty, a boy. I think I'm I think I'm I'm genetically a double X. Like I think Yeah, I don't think your bones aren't going anywhere. Yeah, I don't think I'm going to get narrower than I am now. Um, that's funny. When did the behind the neck press? Yeah, Kevin Levrone was a big one when the when when uh when he stopped making when he stopped doing 405 behind the neck. Yeah, I I still remember like when I stopped doing them. Um I was, you know, I started training in 1990 and behind the neck presses were a thing. Everyone's behind the neck pressing, right? Yeah. And I remember I was training with my friend John in Australia and he could do like three and a half plates behind the neck press like for reps. Like I'd unrackck it, let go of the bar, he'd crank out like six, seven. I'd spot him for a couple. And I remember it was that old school shoulder press, right, with like this the seats like straight. Yeah. Yeah. You know, and there's no railing on the front of the machine, right? It's just like you unrackck it and it's you are alone in space with that above above your head. Right. There's no safety rack. Yeah. And uh and I remember I'd press with him and and I could do like a plate and a half behind my head. Yeah. And you know, maybe two plates for five or something like that. Like heavy ass set. And I just remember I'd smack my head at least once every set like bang. Oh [\h__\h] Oh Jesus. Like and it would just never like I never had the mobility even as like an athletic more athletic young guy. I was going to say I don't know any big guys anymore. They're telling me all nowadays they're like I can't even squat with a regular bar. I have to use a safety squat bar. Try getting those arms behind the neck. you know. Yeah. Yeah. Like I couldn't even do it now with an empty bar. Couldn't even put, you know, so uh I'd say like early to mid 90s I stopped seeing anyone behind the neck press. Yep. Yeah. And I think probably Dorian's video came out too in 97 and he had the front military smith. Everybody started doing that, didn't they? And I think that was like the the final nail in the coffin, you know. You know, that was probably it. Also, after Dorian's V, after Blood and Guts came out, another thing bodybuilders greatly and largely reduced how much they were squatting. It was hacking, leg pressing, Smith machine squatting because everyone was on the Dorian plan. So, like the barbell squats really like went to like a small number of people. And then, of course, what happens after Dorian? Ronnie wins and then everyone starts squat front squatting parking lot lunging. It's it the people don't realize how those videos absolutely change training. Like every time a new Mr. Olympia dynasty happened or like Dusty said, Leon's videos had those crazy behind the neck presses and stuff, it it affected the whole bodybuilding trend thing. Look at the what's crazy, man. It's look at today. It's still happening, but it's not necessarily the Olympias. It's like the influencers, which I'm sorry, I'm going to call Jordan Peters an influencer. You know what I'm saying? Look at how many people are doing what he does now. You know, so here's a little message. I told this to one of my guys and he was like, "Really?" Cuz he's younger, right? And I said, "Until Jordan Peters came along. I never saw a bodybuilder on the adductor machine." H Yeah. Yeah. ever. Like I want the young guys to know that like Dorian, Kevin, all those that whole 90s era. Then you then you got Nasser, the mass monsters into the 2000s. Jay, all those freaks that came in that era, Phil Heath. Yeah. Seven Olympias straight. Every single guy. leg pressing, hacking, squatting, lunging, extensions, curls, stiff leg deadlifts. Y that is it. And now add a doctor and a gym pin. And and then Jordan Peters started doing adductors. Yeah. And everyone started thinking, "Oh, if I want to increase my adductor size, I have to do machine." Yeah. But man, nobody did them. Like look at Nasser's adductors. Look at every Don't you have to look at the guys that won shows. Look at the guys that are in like 10th, ninth, eighth. Yeah. Look at their adductors. They all had huge legs. Yep. Squatting, pressing, moving their feet around on the leg press. Yeah. Moving their feet around on the hack, lunging, especially single leg squats in the Smith. All types of stuff. Not a single guy used the adductor machine. And now it's like adductors in a gym pin. And I I I And I'm not saying it's bad. I'm just saying you guys need to understand this is brand new and completely isolated to your generation. Yeah. Yeah. And that's why adductors have a 200B stack on them because they're not made for JP. Yeah. It didn't even dawn on a doctor manufacturers that JP was going to add 300 lb to his adductor machine, right? Which then leads to me now, we've had two broken cables on the adapter because of gym pins. And we want to be a bodybuilder friendly gym, obviously. But guess how much the cable on the adductor machine costs? Yeah. What do those run for? It's not a normal cable. It's not like I just put a cable on and crimp a loop on it and attach it. It's a custom cable with a ball in it that has A-50 ton press that customizes it with the fixture already on it. You have to order it from Life Fitness. 650 bucks every time someone breaks that cable. Huh? And so someone broke it the other day putting like three plates on it and then it's down for 2 weeks cuz I got to order a cable from Life Fitness and then all the bodybuilders are complaining, "When's the abductor getting fixed?" I'm like, "You guys, this is not a cable stack with a press down on it where I just go crimp a cable and it's fixed." I had to order a cable and they're like, "Oh, it's 15." I see guys on Instagram, a $15 cable. Big deal. No, no, it's a $650 cable. It's a custom cable. That's not a normal cable. And so now we don't allow gyins on the inductor anymore. And the amount of heartbreak. And it's like, dude, nobody used this for that for like the entire time until recently. And then also when you break the adductor and it's down, think of all the girls now, like two and a half weeks worth of female members are like, "The doctor's broken." Dusty, did I trigger him by bringing a behind the neck press or did he trigger himself? I can't. It was a spiral. I'm glad. I'm just glad he was triggered. That's all. I just want to let the guys know it's not as simple as it sounds. I saw a video the other day of a kid doing a plate loaded row machine. Okay. It was an old Iicarian plateloaded row. Great machine. I like those. Yeah. Yeah. But we know the Iicarian machines their stacks were a little light, right? Yeah, he's got the full stack on. Then he has three 45s on the gym pin and he pulls on it and it snaps and he's like, "Oh, getting too strong for the gym." And the comments are like as a, you know, someone says like, "Oh, as a gym owner that's really annoying." And the number of people that literally go, "Shut the [\h__\h] up. I pay my membership. You can fix that cable in 2 minutes. Quit bitching." Oh, that's the type of respect gym owners get from some of these guys. Fair. Listen, to be honest, that's the type of respect anybody gets online if you don't agree with them. You know what I mean? Right. That's the way we react now. Right. And one comment was like, "That takes three minutes to fix." Yeah, of course. Yeah. If you ha if you have cable on hand, maybe you just ran out of cable cuz someone broke 10 other machines and they waiting for cable to arrive. So, like I just as a gym owner, some of the stuff people say online, I think you guys have no idea now that machine's out of order for at least a couple days and which annoys a gym owner cuz we want everything to work, right? Yeah. And also too, man, why don't you just use a chest supported tea bar? Yeah, you could fill it up, put seven plates on it. No one cares. Why do you have to use a cable machine and put three 45s on it? And like, hey, I used to put a plate on a lot of stuff. We used to take an extra pin, put a plate on the pec deck, put a plate on the leg extension. I remember those days. Yeah. But three plates, you're now you're like literally almost doubling the stack, right? It's going to be a problem. Well, the funny thing to me about the the gym pins is I found with certain machines because the the the weight actually moves that I don't even get the weight I think I'm getting because now the negative is dragging. So, I'm not feeling that. So, I've actually found on some pieces I have to keep it with one. Mhm. Yeah. And just get more reps because it doesn't work out. Like I'm like, "Oh, I actually get more out of doing a single plate on this where it's not throwing it off." If I'm not lucky enough to like some of the pieces I have, I can put a gym pin on each side and balance it out, right? But if you can't, it's like pay attention to both your eccentric and concentric on the pole and you're going to realize this isn't benefiting anyway. on the way up and down. Yeah. And then also too, one trick is you put the gym pin as low as you can. Yep. So there's less tilt to the stack cuz if you have it up higher, it's going to really tilt more. But so some machines like the some of the presses, if you put the gym pin really low and you put one plate on and then put a band on the handles, yeah, you've got the plate and a band and now you can overload it without like just loading the stack with plates. Okay. Yeah. So, you just got to try to But yeah, just think about think about the gym pin stuff's getting a little out of hand with some of the kids that are doing the five rep everything, right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I love that. Uh, by the way, you can edit that whole thing out, Scott. Sorry, dude. No, this is the best part of the show. There's going to be people who want that. They're waiting for the rant, actually. Oh, I wonder if it's up. One second, Scott. I need to see something. I might send it to you. All right. do. And I hate to tell you, your membership, your one membership is worth less than 25 to 35 women that complain about the machine being broken. So, just sort of do the math. Scott, I'm going to send you something to uh your Instagram real quick. Perfect. I can pull up Instagram easier than I used to now. So, this is good. Can you pull this up? I want people to see this. It's It's very valuable information. Oh, no. All right. All right. Give me just a minute, gentlemen. I think I know what this is, Dusty. All right. Are we doing this? I know. We're We're definitely doing this. Let's see it go up. I'm getting good at this now. Here we go. There we go. Not that good. I'm still waiting. That How much is my band actually assisting? Yes, we talked about this. Braden did a video to show everyone. Oh, wow. How much the band is actually helping you when you load it up on this. This is pretty cool. Yeah, he does a great job with this video. I reposted it. This is my training partner, Braden. And then this is his home gym in his garage. That band is giving you 155 lbs of assistance at zero. Now, also keep in mind as it stretches and gets lower, it's even more than that with no band when he pulls on it. So So well that's the right type of band. He's got the right type of band on. So it takes 40 lbs off the bottom. It deloads 40 lbs. Okay. Oh, I see. I see. So, he's seeing like what the sled weighs without the band. Yeah. And then he figures it out, right? I want to know how much my uh body master's uh sled weighs cuz it's freaking heavy. Real heavy. So, he's got the light band, like a lighter band, so it's zero at the top cuz it's got slack, right? Yeah. And then he drops it down and he sort of estimates like for his height, you know, where he actually bottoms out. So, he pulls it up to about He's like, I'm about there. Yeah. And he weighs a sled and it's a 40 lb difference. Yeah. With the lightest band. With Well, it's not. Yeah. It's his lightest band, but you could go smaller if you wanted. Yeah. Yeah. But it's a great way to show people cuz I see guys using the thick band. Oh, yeah. And and I started using the banded ones for my knees later in my career, and it definitely helped. But how you set the band is gamechanging. Yeah. Yeah. Like if you're putting a huge band and then you're wrapping it long ways like he did there, it's giving you like three plates aside. I mean, it's obscene, you know? So, be mindful of that when you're loading the machine. And I I still am, and I don't need to do it anymore, even with the knee. Like, I don't have to put the band on, but it is something to note when you're adding that. Don't get overly caught up in how much you're doing. It's assisting a lot more than you think. I put bands on my uh my chest press, but to the the opposite way to resist. Yeah. Yeah. To make it harder. And it changes the strength curve. You can get like the little short elite bands, like the little red minis, and throw that on your hammer strength press, and it'll completely change that strength curve. It's It's kind of cool because, you know, it's still going to be easier in the hole where it's the hardest, but as you push up and you get stronger, it gets harder, too. I love doing that. I mean, it's not like I'm saying like, "Oh, you got to do that if you ever want to be your best." But if you get like if you've done 10,000 reps this year on that machine, uh, you know what I'm saying? Like you want to do something a little different, it's fun to throw the band on there. But yeah, it's something different. It's less of a thing than it was, but for a while there, like the amount of people that were banning like everything Oh, yeah. I'm like, "No, to make it easier." I'm like, "Yeah, they're misunderstanding." Yeah. Yeah. like yeah they they because I think actually Luke started the banding because that's where I got it. I was like you know I am doing 10 plates aside. It probably is a good idea to get that little assistance at the bottom and I knew I was getting extra reps because of it but I was like yeah because he he explained it to me and he's like yeah with the knees at that depth going below parallel. I was like that's probably a good idea and I definitely saw the reps go up but I could I could see how over time that was it was worth it. I was like that's fine. Yeah. So the way the I remember John said something once uh Meadows used to say the purpose of changing the strength curve is to make the whole rep harder technically right. So like you know intensity is how much work can you do in a period of time. Yeah. So if you think about your rep and if half the rep is really easy and half the rep is really hard if you make the whole rep equally hard then you've raised your intensity in his mind. Right? Yeah. So that was a that was so you you want to band enough to make the rep feel equally hard all the way through. You know, as you get mechanically stronger, the weight gets heavier and it stays equally hard all the way up. So that was the thing that never got lost on me, but clearly got lost on a whole bunch of people. Like Braden put that post up and he say it's frustrating because he gets messages from people. They're like, "So it makes it easier." He's like, Oh god. Okay. Not really what I was trying to point out here. Yeah. Yeah. You know what I used to reverse band that I loved doing was the squat in a rack. Yeah. And uh and that was when I got from John. It was back and I couldn't afford it at the time. VJ bought is like right when I started training with VG and uh he bought the the Mountain Dog uh elite band set. So it was like four different sets of bands, you know, and so we're like, you know, John's using bands, we're using bands, we're banding everything, and I found that the So we'd hook it at the top of the squat rack, you know, you could go from the bottom up, right, and make it harder. Dangle it down and it'd use like the I I can't remember what it was, the green band, though. So it was like a a narrow band, but it was stronger. And I could get like an entire additional plate. And I would feel that plate almost all the way down. And it was still like hard as hell in the hole, but it was like no stress on my low back or you know what I mean? No addition. It loaded a bit. It loaded a bit. Loaded. Just And then as you're driving up, oh my god. Like it got harder than I had ever been able to handle. You know what I'm saying? Like two like Yeah. two3. Well, now you're handling an extra plate. Yeah. 23 of the way up, man. It was cool. I like doing that. It was fun. So, I remember one of the funnest things I ever did squatting was right when all that was coming in. I don't know what year that would have been. Is that like 0 8? Yeah. Right there to 12 maybe. Later than that. 13. I was training at a gym that had a bunch of chains. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. And so, I would hook the small chains. They would hang down and then I would have the bundle at the bottom. Yes. Y And of course, most people didn't have any idea what to do with chains. They were just hanging a chain and it wouldn't even touch the floor. Yeah. And they'd squat down and it was like maybe like six or seven links would coil and they'd stand back up. I'm like it's like literally a 10 lb. Yeah. If that. Yeah. The point is you want the cluster of chains at the bottom to kind of always touch so they don't swing. Mhm. Right. You don't want them swinging around. You want them to kind of always just have enough drag on the floor that they stay still. But then as you squat down, like 50 lbs of chain on each side would de lo to the floor. Yeah. in the bottom third of the rep, right? Yep. And I remember I figured it out. I got all the lengths. I'm counting links and writing it down like, "Okay, 22 links down. I got I got six six cluster, you know, three clusters looped on each side with 10 links hanging." And I would like I made the notes on how I like to squat. And I was squatting with chains for a little while. And it was like fun. It was fun. It was just, you know, there's a feel to it. you know, as you come out, you feel them load onto the bar and you have to drive through because you know it's going to get harder. So, you're trying to accelerate, which is also why powerlifters would do it to help build acceleration and and speed, right? Bar speed. Um, so it was fun. And then one day I was coming up out of the squat. I had three and a half plates aside with about 50 lbs of chain on each side. Okay. So, it was about a 450 squat. Yeah. And I was about 14 weeks out from my show. Okay. I was just starting my prep and I'm coming out of the hole and as the chain loaded onto the bar, loud crunch in the front of my quad. Pop pop pop. And I got to the top and [\h__\h] dumped the bar. And I and right at the top of my teardrop, about halfway up my leg on the inside of my thigh, the top of my teardrop, my quad was just spasm, spasm, spasm, spasm, spasm. And I had to rub it out and it hurt like [\h__\h] Sure as [\h__\h] I tore some fibers. It It didn't look different. That wasn't the tear. That wasn't the tear, but that was one of the That was a tear I had on my on my other leg. There was a tear I had on my on my right leg and it bruised up and my whole leg turned purple and it was like a month of purple leg and my foot was all purple and great way to start to, you know. Yeah. And I had to go to the Arnold that following week with this purple leg, swollen foot, standing at the booth every night. Go straight back to my room, put my leg up to try to drain it out. It was a mess. And Rich, I showed Rich my leg. That was that was 2013. I showed Rich my leg in my room and he goes, "Oh, well, you can't do the show." And I was like, "Oh, yeah." It's like, "I got, you know, 13 weeks." Yeah. And um I remember all the way to the show that leg didn't quite come in. Yeah. And that was my worst placing at nationals ever. I had one quad that just wasn't as separated. Y it just didn't quite clear out in time. It took months for it to all go away. It's the worst. Pop pop pop. Oh, that's the worst sound. Oh, yeah. Pop. Like, yeah. Yeah. There's There's something about that sound. I I a friend of mine tore his tricep doing uh uh basically like a French press. Yeah. Yeah. And I was spotting him and I heard it sound like Velcro. Yeah. So, I mean, as soon as I heard it, I yanked the bar. I mean, I just pulled it out of his hands, put it down, and he looks at me and I his face is already white, right? And I mean, this is a guy, he doesn't compete. He's just like a hard training dude. And he's like, "All right, I think I'm out for the rest of the tricep workout, but I'll stay and spot you." I'm like, "No, you will leave. Go to the doctor." Like, "No, no, I'll be fine." I'm like, "I'll be fine finishing this workout." Like, I heard the Velcro, bro. I don't need to ask a doc what's gone on. I I know what happened just now. Like, yeah. Yeah. It's crazy. All right. I had that other one I wanted to ask, too. That was very important. Guys, how important is the pump? Well, it's not the beall end all. It's not the I mean, just the pump itself isn't directly linked to any growth. Like, you could get a pump on a on a with a 20 pound band, right? Yeah. Um, but I think the pump is great feedback because like let's say you're training back and after you do your pull downs and your rows, your biceps are pumped. Yeah. And your rear delts are pumped, but you don't feel like your back is pumped. I think that's great feedback that your back's not doing the majority of the work and you're using your arms and rear delts too much. Whereas if you do like, you know, like a very experienced bodybuilder like like us, I go in the gym and I we do our warm-up sets on the pull down, right? And my back's already full of blood. Yeah. And my I'm like, "Oh, because I'm so good at using my back." So, it's a good feedback mechanism that you're using the right muscles. And I don't think it could possibly be a bad thing to deliver nutrients and and, you know, hormones and growth factors and all that stuff to a muscle. There's people now saying it's you don't want a pump because it causes fatigue. I'm just like, "Oh god, I just hung up. I just hung up. Don't go to failure. Don't get a pump." Yeah. Don't get a pump. A pump will restrict your your your power or your strength on your next day. You don't want a pump. Don't want to get a pump. I would like to know how I would would do a curl without getting a pump. Yeah. How am I supposed to train without getting a pump? I get pumps instantly. I get pumps. Only negative I have with the pump is if people confuse the value because for example if you're doing an ex well not even just that but if you were basing the pump on whether or not a movement is good then you would say extensions are better for quads right than a hack squat right yeah because when you do you know in hell let's let's go light in weight and do 150 reps right like your legs are going to feel like they're going to pop when you do that Now, if we're if we're calling the pump the beall endall, then that is better than an extension set that's heavy to 10 at failure or way better than a squat cuz like how pumped do your quads feel in comparison to an extension when you squat. Yeah. You know, so that's the only area where I find it could be tricky. Um, I also worry about the word pump when you're dieting because I'm like, yes, when I ask you how the pump is, I'm not asking compared to when you had pizza last night and then came in and trained. I'm aware that you're on 50 grams of carbs, right? You know, really, I'm just asking, are you feeling the muscle contract and fill up in any way that, you know, so I only ask really advanced clients about their pump because I've made that mistake before and then I realize I'm like, "Oh, I asked a question they can't answer. This isn't good. You know, there are people that and I had this happen with my doctor even because I can't remember what it was and you know, I was talking about like symptoms of the long bug and all that. I was like, I can't get like I haven't been able to get a pump. She's like a pump. I was like, you know, when you're working out, the pump. She's like, what is that? I've had two people say that to me, like, what's the pump? And I I find that so interesting because I think in our lives, the circles of people that we know, the pump is the cure. There's I don't know anybody else like it shocks me that somebody wouldn't know what the pump was. I just tell them to go watch a pumping iron and ask Arnold. He'll tell you. Yeah, I was going to say, yeah, young hand her a se hand her a DVD. She probably still has one if she doesn't know what the pump is. We know what's better than We know what the pump is better than. Exactly. Um, you should just said that it's better than sex. Wait, what's happening? Yeah, but you're right. Newer people should just concentrate on getting stronger. They shouldn't worry about They shouldn't even worry about where they're feeling it. They should just worry about getting stronger. Like, is your bench going up? Is your squat going up? Is your form getting better? That's all they should think. And that'll all come later. That whole like feeling also, Ron, like think about if you're, you know, like the the push on on hip thrusts, right? You can really feel your glutes if you're doing them right. And I'm I'm not an anti-hip thrust guy, first off, but you can really feel your glutes. I don't feel my glutes on a leg day until two days later when they're just smoked and in pain. And I'm like, apparently going below parallel did its job. But during the training, I'm never like, man, my glutes are really firing on this hack squat. Right. Yeah. Yeah. Well, hey, that's another thing. Like glute training wasn't even a thought for bodybuilders at all. We had quads and hams and glutes just got trained because you're leg pressing 14 plates aside and you're hack squatting 700 lb and you're barbell squatting 400 to 500 all the time and you're lunging. So glutes just got hammered. Yeah. You know, and we'd think like, oh, lunges are good for the glutes. Look at Ronnie. But we weren't thinking like, I have glute day today. Yeah. Yeah. It never occurred to anybody, you know. So apparently the secret is skating because I had to be careful because of years of hockey to try not to get the glutes involved because they made my hamstrings look smaller. Huh. Really? My like if you look at like if I were to post a picture of like when I started bodybuilding, I was all legs. Oh dude, every hockey player I've ever worked with like I look at them, they send me pictures. I'm like, "Did you play hockey?" They're like, "Yeah, 15 years." You know, just all legs. Yeah. It's like legs and glutes are what you have. So, I had to really be cautious though on like finding that sweet spot. Like I didn't break parallel in the beginning of my career on purpose. It was like touch parallel, come back up. Okay. I did not want to cuz I I had weak hamstrings to begin with and overdeveloped glutes. So, it's like you're just highlighting your weakness, you know? Right. Like like no one says, "Oh, he has great glutes." They say he has small hamstrings. Like, yeah. You know, so it's one of those. Um, I had a couple uh questions that we that uh Nikki threw in as well that I thought were interesting for you guys. Uh, first one is peaking for shows. Is it necessary for everyone? And what are some peaking myths? Well, a peaking myth is that it's necessary for everyone. Check. Right. Um, a peaking myth is that you need diuretics. Um, you don't. I've just had some very recent success with none at all several times. Um, uh, peaking myth is that you should load into a show. Like, it's all all of them are myths. It's it it it should be how do you look, right? Like, yeah, I I think the best plan generally is to be ready early. And I'm talking like almost two weeks out. Like, you better have your glutes in. You better look pretty damn good. and and and don't rely on feeding up right before the show. I mean, that's that's strategy that can and has worked for a lot of people, but ideally, you want to start feeding up like a week out. Make sure the guy feels great and looks good. How you feel in the gym? Oh man, I'm so glad my fatigue is gone. I'm cutting back on cardio. Like, that's ideally the situation. And then you just try to maintain that position. Like I've had lots of guys Friday before the show they're back on their diet. Like they're back on their lower carb day because they're already like they maybe did high carbs Monday, high carbs Wednesday and medium carbs Thursday and they wake up Friday and I'm like, "Hey, let's just just do the normal diet day. You look great." Yep. You know, so um a myth is that you should do a whole bunch of [\h__\h] the last week. If a if someone's ready, the coach should have very little to do the last week. Like, hey, just repeat repeat repeat yesterday. Don't change anything. Repeat. That's that's a great place to be. Oh, yeah. Agreed. What about you, Scott? Anything to add? Yeah, not really. I I think that that pretty much nails it. There are times, you know, like where things just aren't aren't right, you know, like like that's the ideal situation, and I would say that I love when that ideal situation happens. So, all of the I can't hear you. It's like really Yeah, you sound like a robot. No, it says uh trying to reconnect says trying to reconnect. I I would say start start over. Okay, I'll say that that is the ideal situation that you don't have to do anything. But yeah, everything is going to be completely unique. You know, every situation is unique. So, yeah, I agree just that the that the only myth is that there there is anything that you're supposed to do other than relax. That's one thing everybody should another one. Husband wife coaching relationships. Do they work? Why or why not? Would you coach your spouse? They can work. It just depends on the dynamic. Um, and I I did help Emily. I was her coach when we met. I was her coach for like years before we got together. And then I coached her for like her last few shows. I coached her for the Arnold when we went to Spain and she did the Arnold and placed really well. Um, made the finals and everything at the Arnold. Um, so that was cool. And, uh, but we're also very levelheaded and she works really hard and I know she's not cheating on her diet and you know all that stuff. So, it just, you know, it it worked for us, but you know, some people obviously is not going to be a great idea. Um and and you know also too like just it also depends on the division like you know there's lots of factors but she was doing bikini and at the time it worked well but you know would I coach her again? She'd probably coach herself again. Probably just do it herself you know like I I helped Nikki for her shows there cuz Dusty was like I'm going to help her in the gym and beat beat the crap out of her. Yeah. And you can do the numbers cuz I want I want nothing to do with it. And it worked out really well. Like Nikki looked amazing at her shows. Yeah. I I like that from the side that um they almost told her she was overconditioned, whatever they did with her placing at that last show. I didn't want like for for me as as somebody who coaches like I wanted to just bring my pom poms and show up. Yeah. Cuz that's fun. I wanted to just be the the fun part and I didn't I took the pictures and made zero comments and moved it on and didn't think about it. It was a lot more fun for me. I've done both. Um and I can say this from experience. I helped a girl that won everything we ever did and she was a machine. And then later on in life, we were dating and I helped her and then there were questions. Yeah. Then there was, "Do I really need like things that never came up before and she didn't place as well at that show and I was like, there it is. We we lost that thing where you just do what I say, you So, that was uh that was definitely a tricking part to me. And I think you're right, Ron. It is person to person. I helped my first wife for her shows and then she, you know, I was like, "Hey, why don't you try hiring someone else and see how it goes?" And it went horrendously and I bit my tongue the whole time. And then after she came off for prejudging, she's like, "You knew the whole time, huh?" I'm like, "Mhm, I did." And then she came back and worked with me for the rest of her career. So, it just it does really depend on how it works. Um, we got time for more. We We have enough. Scott, I have a few more. It says, "I'm trying to reconnect again. I'm having issues here." Um I Scott's a robot. Yeah. Wrong. Should we do another one? Yes. Scott has no opinion. I'm happy to do another one. I got one thing I want to touch on before we go, but it's not bodybuilding. Cool. Well, actually, the one I'm going to uh check on is not bodybuilding either, but it could be. Um, so first quarter of the year is uh obviously said and gone and uh I'm curious with our listeners how many people set goals for their year and uh if they're on pace or or beating them or if they even knew to set a goal. I'm sure you guys have some set and uh curious how yours are going. You don't have to get specific, but I think it's important. I've talked to a lot of people recently about this and I'm shocked how many people just don't. This was I turned 50 this year in October and uh I mean I've known this was coming for a while now and it's lit a real fire under my ass. 49 years got to take a while to prepare. 49 years I knew I Well, no, it's more like I was going to I was hoping I would turn 50. I had some I had some it was a little bit sketchy there for a while. Um, but uh I h had a a goal this year and I I told Emily I said this year I am going to bury myself in work that seems impossible to get done and because I'm I this is the setup year like I am this is a year that is going to dictate you know the rest of our lives like I want to do some really big stuff this year income-wise, investment wise and everything, you know, you know how things you start building these little relationships and things start to and and it's I've got a couple of projects on the go right now that are going to be very important and uh I'm very excited and things are starting to roll and uh I'm uh I I'm definitely on track for a big year of a lot of hard work. It's my like say yes to every job I can take on type of year. Love it. And um you know even like from from you know stuff mutants asking me to do to stuff related to the gym to stuff related to my training business to other things with other projects and uh I'm working on more things at once now than I ever have. Mhm. And I think uh just taking on the workload, taking on responsibility, um putting myself in a position where I have no choice but to succeed. Yep. um and taking some risks and that's what this year is all about and uh definitely putting my balls on the line with a couple things this year. Okay. So, I will keep you posted. I can I can vouch for that. Yeah. Yeah. And and and also too like you know another like my hip's been a mess for two years. I'm [\h__\h] done. Yep. I'm talking to private clinics now. If they can't get me in for the Canadian free [\h__\h] I'm [\h__\h] buying a hip. I don't give a [\h__\h] I'm done. I talked to Mike Van Wick. He paid for both of his hips. He said he didn't want to wait. They told him like crazy weight times because we're in Canada. And so he just paid for his hips, went to a guy in Montreal or Toronto or whatever. And he gave me the guy's contact. And I'm talking to the guy. I got I sent in my forms, you know, my like I sent him my MRIs and I sent him my forms. I'm waiting for a consult. And I've got a consult with my doctor about meeting a surgeon for the free hip. Um, and I got some names from my brother of good orthos that do sports guys and uh, so whatever I can get in, if the wait time isn't too bad, I'll wait for the free surgery, but if it's going to be silly, I'm just going to pay for it. And, uh, just getting things done so I can get on with [\h__\h] I like that. What about you, Scott? Well, I took a hit so far this year. My my game plan has been to build a website to replace Patreon. And I invested some money in that with somebody that I guess I shouldn't have invested money with. And I lost a,000 bucks is flat out what ended up happening. And then it became one of those things where like it's Cheers to it only being a,000. Yeah. Yeah. It's well 12250 to be exact, but it sucks to lose anything, you know? and uh it it kind of like drugg on and then I'm reaching out to him and and and he's telling me like oh it's all set but I don't have I'd never given him any of my stuff to build the site you know so I think it's all like and he's like oh well I need you know money to get this up now so that I I was like well can we have a meeting as of last week and he was like yeah I'm going to need another you know $300 to get this hosted and I was like I thought that's what part of the 12250 was for you know right and so I just I decided I I don't trust this guy I'm not going to go through with it. But if anybody out there who's listening knows a good person who could do a website, you know, basically there's so many like only fans type sites out there. We got to be able to do something like that. You know what I mean? And uh I'm not getting Well, no, not that part. Not I I meant the Wow. I once the words came out of How much money is it again? Yeah. Once the Never mind. I'm back. Sorry. I have some goals, too, and this might help. Let me say that again. The structure of the site, you know what I'm saying? there's got to be some way to set something like that up. Uh so I I need some help. But that's one of my goals this year is to try to move to that because it'll give us more freedom for me to be able to like say things that I can't say on because Patreon at the end of the day is still a social media platform and they do have their rules and regulations and they don't like everything we do in bodybuilding. Anyway, yeah. So I'm kind of bummed and uh I haven't talked about it at all yet. Like my wife knows. I'm glad I put you on the spot. My wife knows. Well, I was like, you know what? I'm going to say it cuz it kind of sucks. But guess what? Life isn't always awesome, right? So, you know, that was a crappy thing that happened, but it's not holding me back. And another thing that I wanted to do was my health this year. Like, I really wanted to step it up. Like the January 12th or 15th, I started deciding like, hey, I'm going to start doing cardio consistently. I'm going to start getting in shape. And I have not felt this good in a really long time. So there's a loss and there's a really good win, which ultimately I think is even more important than a thousand bucks. You know what I mean? Absolutely. So real quick, because it's something I thought of while you were talking, Ron, um, when I was like 22 years old, this conversation about goals and plans and having multiple things and all this would seem like, how do you even get to that? You know what I mean? It it just it sounds like a conversation at 22 years old that I didn't need to be a part of. And that couldn't be further from the truth. So, what advice would you give to somebody who's young and maybe as they're listening to this or hearing that and thinking, well, they're talking about businesses and, you know, websites and stuff. I that's not me yet. I'm barely getting by. How would you suggest someone like that first off changes that mindset and second off finds themselves in a positions where that could be possible at at the current moment and of course advance down the line? H man that's tough. Um, you know, I think well, one thing that I didn't do, and I'm sure it all contributed, but I never spent money on dumb [\h__\h] Mhm. I did. I know you bought like stupid cars and stuff. You went through some phases, and there's some expensive girls in there, too, I think. Um, but uh I I didn't spend money on dumb [\h__\h] Like I didn't I didn't care about watches and jewelry and I didn't care about designer clothes. I just didn't give a [\h__\h] And um I I I I I know that contributed a bit to just like saving when I was young, but um it also is me now. Like I don't own any jewelry. I don't own a watch. I don't have AI don't have anything. I don't care. I just live a simple life. Um, people spend a lot of money trying to impress people that they don't even like and that don't like them. Um, so keep that in mind. Um, investing a little bit goes a long ways over the course of 30, 40 years. Yeah. So, if you're out there and you're 20 years old, I know you don't have much money right now because everyone's, you know, everyone's busting their ass, but you should be putting like a hundred bucks a month into like your your your funds or buying S&P 500 or doing something, right? And just trust me, don't worry. It's going to go like this. Yeah. But like in 30 years, you're going to look and you're going to go, I got a chunk of money here, and now I can go to the bank and borrow some money. because they go, "Oh, you got money." Cuz that's how rich people get rich, right? They don't use their money. Yeah. They just show their money to the bank and then the bank gives them money. And so, you got to start thinking about building wealth 10 bucks at a time. Y and um it's a slug and it doesn't come fast, but it man, time's going to fly by. You're going to wake up tomorrow and you're going to be 35 and you're going to have $200,000 in your funds. Yeah. Y and you're going to be like, "Oh [\h__\h] okay, that's great." You know, um and then you, you know, just that sort of thing. I've talked about it a bunch of times, but also too Dave made a very good point. He said, "Be nice to people." That was awesome. That was a cool part. And I can attest that right now I have a project on the go that is extremely interesting and exciting. And it is because I developed a relationship with someone based on just mutually respecting them, being nice to them. I knew this guy for a long time. I didn't know him real well. I knew him as like a good dude. We worked together many years ago. And uh I was like, "Oh, it's a good guy. He's, you know," and then I respected what he was doing. He respected what I was doing. We were always cordial to one another. I'd see him around. Hey, how you doing, man? like and just developing relationships like that. I had no idea that there was going to be a future, you know, possible business opportunity come up with this guy. It's not like he was being nice to me to get something out of me. And it's not like I was being nice to him for any reason at all other than he's just a good guy and I'm nice to people. and we got to know each other, started chatting on Instagram a lot more the last while, like, hey, start like, you know, and now all of a sudden there's a very exciting project happening with this guy because we're both nice guys, right? Like, you never know what opportunities are out there. And if you go through life with the always [\h__\h] resting face and you don't say hi to people and you walk into the gym and don't talk to the staff and you don't you walk around the gym scowlling everyone, there's going to be hundreds of potential opportunities that just never come to you because everybody thinks you're a [\h__\h] Yeah. And and I and like I'm not I'm not any brilliant businessman or anything. I know what I happen to know. But he came to me because I know those things. Yep. And he's like, "You know some stuff that I need and I've got some stuff that you need and if we hook up, we can do something." And I'm like, "You're [\h__\h] right. We can't." Yep. And so I'm excited about it. And And so that's just my little reiteration of what Dave said, like you have to create opportunities for yourself without meaning to do so. Like remember when we were in uh we were in Germany, Scott? Yeah. And uh it's the last day FIA. We're smoked. We're sitting down. We're eating. And this guy walks by and he's like looking at us and he finally stops by and he's like, "I know you." To Ron. And Ron's like, "We're in the hotel lobby eating." Yeah. Hotel restaurant. Okay. Yeah. And uh and Ron goes, "Yeah." He goes, "Uh, what did Oh, we I sat next to you at a banquet of some sort." And and long story short, they go back and forth, you know, exchange conversation. And I looked at Ron, I said, "It's so funny that that guy stopping is a move people don't do. They see him, they go, "Oh, I know that guy." And they just keep walking. And I I Ron could tell you this. I literally said, "In 10 years, this could be something." Maybe not. Yeah. You never know. But he paused and you guys had a short conversation, introduced me or this whole thing. It's all because that guy stopped and because he obviously Ron left a a impression on him from their last meeting and he's very much in the wheelhouse of what we do. And I it was just funny because when he left I said that to Ron I was like people don't do that and it blows my mind. Yeah. He's a CEO of a major fitness chain here in Canada. Okay. Yeah. Like a massive uh uh franchise. Yeah. and I sat next to him at like a business development banquet that I got invited to because of West Coast Iron and I just happened to be put at his table and we start chatting and he's like, "Oh, I run all the blah blah blah." And I'm like, "Oh, yeah." And then we start chatting. He's like, "Hey, I like what you guys are doing. You know, it's not what we do, but I really respect you guys like really cool niche going on. Like it's awesome." And then when he It's cool that they recognize you when you're so far out of their lane, you know? Yeah. It was like 5 years ago. Okay. Yeah. And and then and then uh he sees me and he's like, "Where do I know you?" And I'm like, "I'm from Vancouver." And he goes, "You own West Coast Iron." And we start chatting and then this and then like Dusty says, you know, that's how guys wind up like owning stuff together. Yeah. And [\h__\h] is like those types of things, but people don't take advantage of those opportunities, you know. Great guy. Really nice guy. But but he was there too to like just look at equipment and stuff. Yeah. And so yeah. Yeah. Yeah, it was very cool. Create opportunities for yourself. Go up to people, say hi. Y, I like that. It's enormous. So, yeah, I thought that was a a good note to uh finish out with. Yeah. I got one thing. Yes. One thing. I did not watch hockey for about 20 years. Okay. You're welcome. I used to be a big hockey like I grew up watching playoff hockey all the time, right? Like it was a thing. I used, you know, it was just a thing. grew up can you know we're Canadian but I kind of stopped watching hockey for years I went to a couple Oilers games when I lived in Edmonton you know some playoff games versus Dallas it was super exciting I won and over like I was you know and I knew the Oilers I used to pour them drinks at the bar you know Ryan Smith used to drink off me Doug Wait would give me his credit card I'd run it through run a tab for the boys like I knew those guys the hockey that we have seen for the last two years in the playoffs including the first round that we just witnessed is the greatest hockey I have ever seen in my life. And I am so happy that Americans and obviously Americans have always loved hockey to a degree, but a like the viewership is skyrocketing. Oh yeah. And people are saying stuff like, "I'm not going to watch the NBA. The playoff games are happening at the same time. I'm watching hockey." Okay. It is the I have always said this. It is the playoff hockey is the perfect television sport. It is fast. It is extremely exciting. The camera can follow it very easily. You know, on soccer, you get lost in the field and nothing's happening for a while. There's like lots of violent contact, lots of exciting hits. The game we saw last night between Winnipeg and St. Louis that Dusty and I watched Yeah. That is like absolutely mindblowing how exciting that game was. That's cool. And and it also was a perfect showcase of how precise the skill is with some of the stuff they're doing. Like those two tipin goals. Mhm. That that guy got just people don't realize. They think you're shooting the puck at the net and it goes in. No, no. They're doing like there's like 100 mph slap shots and the other guys are holding their sticks up and just tipping the puck, changing the angle by like 10° right onto the goalie's arm. Like some amazing [\h__\h] And that tying goal with one second left. Scott, the team, the the Jets are down two goals with under two minutes left in the game. Okay. They score a goal and then they end up scoring the tying goal with 1.6 seconds left. kidding. And then they win in double overtime, which holy crap. 30 plus minutes of hockey later, Ron texts me at like 11 p.m. my time. Have you watched this game? I'm like, you're damn right I'm watching this game. That's epic. And another thing, the Dallas game the night before, which I also watched, was incredible. And when and also both were home team wins. Dallas won in Dallas, Winnipeg won in Winnipeg in double overtime. Both came from behind. both came from behind in the third period. That guy scored a hat-tick in the third period. All like just crazy. We're just seeing these performances from players that are like just putting their guts on the line and like guys playing with bloody mouths and smashed faces and broken bones in their foot. And it is like the showcase of what hockey is all about. And you know, we watch soccer players take dives and we watch basketball guys fall down. They didn't even get hit in the face. Oh my god, my face. And then you watch hockey and you're like, nobody's leaving the game. Well, to give you to give you an idea, Scott, after the Florida series, um two Florida teams played, um Nikki's team won the series, but Victor Hedman that plays for the Tampa Bay Lightning. They never they never say what injuries are during the series. Okay. And then they let you know after they let you know afterwards he was playing on a broken leg. You're kidding me. Well, listen, I get it now cuz I [\h__\h] thing up. I watch tape it up. all the seasons of Shoresy. So, I might not be an actual hockey fan, but I live in Detroit. Everybody around me is, and I watch Shores, so I know, man, it's cool. That's crazy. Yeah. Plus the uh the the added bonus for the Dallas game that I got to throw in for anybody who's interested is um this guy played for the Avalanche and his contract was coming up. Yeah. And he wanted he wanted his he wanted his money and uh the Avalanche said, "You're not you're not worth what you're asking for. you won't fit our budget. So, they let him go. Okay. He ends up in Dallas where they pay as soon as he gets there, which he was traded elsewhere and then he came there. Uh he went to Carolina first, but uh as soon as they brought him in, they signed him to an 8year $12 million a year deal. And uh he ends up being the one that scores three goals in the third period and knocks the Avalanche out of the playoffs. The guy you let go, I was like, "Oh, that had to be a little bit fun." The ultimate revenge. It was the ultimate revenge. like of all player revenges of all traded players that have ever gotten revenge on a team like here's your 12 million 1 2 3 go play golf. Yeah. Yeah. And and also when the the hockey crowds is is there a better hockey crowd than a hometown overtime win crowd? Insane. That building explodes. Like it comes through your TV like oh my god. like it's like a bomb goes off when that puck went in with 1.5 seconds or whatever to tie it that TV just the noise that comes out. People hit the roof and I mean I used to go to games and I left the game every single time with no voice. That's how loud you are in the crowd. Like I would leave and you couldn't even talk on the way home cuz your voices are all shot. Best time of your life. So I'm glad that Ron is back to the addiction because I I know he's in after last year. I'm like, "Oh, good. I've got somebody to send hockey. I was going to say now you can send him stuff and talk about it. You got some money. Exactly. Yeah. We just want to let the viewers know if you've never watched NHL playoff hockey. Pick a game. Round two is about to start. We got some crazy matchups. Oilers in Vegas. Let's go. And uh who's your team right now, Dusty? Who's left for you guys? The Panthers. And they're playing that they're playing Toronto. So So Florida's playing Toronto. That would be a good series. The Leafs have been like dog [\h__\h] for how many decades? Oh, forever. But he's finally out of the first round for the first round. Yeah, the Leafs have just been like, you know, Toronto's heartbreak for like so long and now all of a sudden, round two, let's go. I guarantee you we have hockey fans watching this show right now. So, they should definitely let Ron and Dusty right now. Let Ron and Dusty know who are you who are you rooting for, right? Yeah. So, it's just a little thing. It's just been so fun, man. This the the games have been awesome and uh you know, kind of makes me a little extra like a little extra Canadian pride there, too. That It's our kind of our export. So, glad it's doing well. Okay. Is that it? That's it. Okay. We did pretty good today, gentlemen. That was a fun show. Okay. Remember, like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. Ring that bell. Remember immutant.com. Get your discount. Don't you want to save money? Don't you want to take your money to Costco and buy some food? And you have enough lef over for a bottle of gear. There you go. You're good, right? Because of us. Okay. Yeah. Bottle test. bother test. Okay. So, yeah, Dusty and Big Ron are your codes. Get your ISO surge. Get your all in. Everyone get should get on the gear. I'm talking about the EAAs. Yes. And then if you, you know, with the money you save, you can buy a bottle of test. There you go. Okay. Thanks everybody. Remember, it's just bodybuilding.