I've got enough GH to do 60 units per week. How do I split that up? Take all of it. Yeah, like on the first of the month. Don't even bother with weekly. Welcome back to Blood, Sweat, and Gear. I'm co-host Skipp Hill and Scott McNell. Exactly. What's up, guys? Welcome back to Blood, Sweat, and Gear with coaches Skipp Hill, Andrew, Barry, and myself, Scott McN. We are brought to you by truenutrition.com. Use our code think supplements.ca for Canadians. Of course, we are brought to you by Patreon. And today, we are joined by Big Paul Barnett. What's up, Paul? Thanks for joining us, man. What's up? What's going on, guys? We just do like a a crossover episode. Everybody loves crossovers, you know. Sounds fun, man. do the things we do but with Paul. We listen to Skip tell us all sort of crling stories about rambling one armed Paul. I'm not big Paul anymore. Oh yeah yeah yeah. So before we end the show today we are going to go in deep to talk about uh you know all your stuff. Uh we want to hear all about it. But I saw you posting those pictures you showed us uh before we started. Uh you just had your surgery done. I want to hear all about like the peptide protocol and all that stuff. Yes. And all the plans for that stuff. Um but we do have a bunch of lister questions. We're going to start with those. And uh you know, I thought this one was kind of interesting the way he worded it. He said, "I've got enough GH to do 60 units per week. How do I split that up to get the most out of it for making gains? And of course, we should definitely turn to our guest host, Paul, to give him the floor first on this one. Take all of it. Yeah. Like on the first of the month, don't even bother with it weekly. Yeah. You know, I've I've I've tried every sort of GH protocol that there is, and I've honestly where I have landed is take as much as I can afford and tolerate and do it before bed. I what I what I I'm diabetic, so I'm acutely aware of my glucose levels. I I keep a CGM going so I can monitor what's going on. And what I've noticed when during contest prep, I will split up the doses for the lepotic effect of it during the day. But what I've noticed is if I take it during the day while I'm eating carbohydrates that my glucose levels get a little too high during the day. Um, and what when I what I've found it seems to keep my glucose levels the best when I just take it all before bed in one single bolus and do it that way. And what I've it I've seen no difference in IGF-1 levels or any anything like that when I when I do it that way. But contest prep, usually I'll split it split it up. I'll take half in the morning and half before bed. And then that's usually how I do it. I know a lot of guys say take it before fasted cardio, but it's not even going to be peaked before two hour. It takes about two hours for it to peak anyway. So, it's kind of pointless doing that unless you're going to get up 2 hours before you do your fasted cardio. So, I mean, that's sort of my take on it. It's it has about 6 hour halflife but the IGF-1 effect of it um from what I understand is like 36 to 48 hours that it stays IGF-1 will stay elevated when you're taking growth hormone. So really like the whole splitting it up really the only compelling reason I can see to do so is for fat burning. Yeah. What do you guys think? Think everything you said is wrong. This is everything I said is wrong. Good controversy gets just in one of those. No. And I'm totally I'm totally kidding. Skipp Hill destroys Paul just out of the blue like I don't know he was having a bad day or something. Got Paul while he was in a sling all onehanded and everything else. Couldn't even come back. I'm also I'm also lazy and I don't want to take four different shots during the day. I know guys that'll break it up into multiple doses. Yeah. Yeah. Or they pretend they like the shots. They get all excited like it's some kind of adrenaline. I'm like, who? I've been doing drugs for 30 years. I still don't look for I wake up, I go, ah, it's gear day. Half the time I even forget to take them. I was thinking about like since I've had my surgery, like I was thinking today, I'm like, when was the last time I took a shot of testosterone? I'm thinking to myself, and it's been like [\h__\h] two weeks. Now, the Here's what I I I was going to ask you or or make the point. I don't think it's necessarily taking and I'm asking all you guys what you think. It's not necessarily I think taking the GH prior to cardio makes it more of a necessarily fat burn, but it will help to counter the raise or the rise in blood gluc. It's easier to say BG levels. So I I I guess I always looked at it from that standpoint versus man, I'm going to burn so much more fat with and maybe people assume that. Maybe I'm misreading. Maybe that's the I don't want to say myth, but I mean that's the understanding. Well, it does shift you to lipid metabolism. GH is lepotic. So, it does in really at the end of the day, it's a very expensive fat burner. I mean, it's probably not as effective as taking climbuterol or something. Well, that's what I mean. Where do we rank it? It's kind of like it's there. It's like there's green tea here, there's GH, then there's everything else. I would say it's one of those drugs that makes you look leaner all the time without necessarily burning fat cuz like like you we all know like well now we're talking about us now but back in the day I remember seeing guys that were like who could afford mass amounts of GH you know when I was in my 20s and they were in their 40s and and these guys were you know had veins popping everywhere and like when you saw them without their shirt on you're like oh they're not actually that lean it's just that the peripheral you know the yeah the peripheral like the arms and legs veiny and made you look think that they had this conditioning level that they probably didn't have. So, I think it's kind that they would have fullness. Yep. Fullness. So, I think it's definitely an aesthetic compound. But, um, in terms of like how to split it up, you know, if he's training five days, I would just take it on training days, 12 units, whether it's one bullish shot at some point during the day or split it up six and six. You know, here's here's the biggest thing I've noticed with GH. If you're taking enough of it, it works regardless of when you take it. That that's the theme, right? like cuz I've done like Paul said I've tried every different you know dosing mechanism and and and mode to to get it in and you know I think my ve very best was I was taking a bottle of Serim right after right after training every day and you know I I I blew up and everything was going great you know um would have been different if I would have broken it up like nine nine and done like you know nine fasted nine before bed or nine fasted nine post-workout or even nine pre-workout n everyone Everyone has their I guess superstitions on when to take it but I think the bottom line is just take it get it in consistently. GH what it does it stimulates um HSL hormone sensitive lip pay so you do get increased lipotic effect it frees up triglycerides to be burned while you're taking it and it also limits LPL so you actually you have this dual effect of it where it actually blocks fat storage and increases liberation of fatty acids while you're on it. But that's also why guys get high glucose levels too because you're shifted towards um lipid metabolism and not glucose metabolism. So it's sort of like a temporary effect of um I guess glucose in insensitivity specifically in the or sorry insulin insensitivity specifically in the fat cells. And that's why you can kind of play with it. Like if you're playing with insulin with GH, you can force, especially if you're lifting, you can force glycogen synthesis while you're limiting fat storage. But long term, you might make yourself a diabetic doing that. So that's the that's the downside of it. But did you get huge and ripped? I mean, let's keep our priorities. No, and you make a good point right there, uh, Paul, because that question, Andrew, I don't know if you remember, but that question came up and I posed it to you a few weeks ago. I'm like, we got to bring this show up on the show because a lot of people, I don't know if it was just a cycle, but and when I say cycle, like a trend where I was getting asked a lot about the timing of insulin dosing versus GH and essentially the idea that if you take them too close together at the same time that they it's like they cancel each other out. See, I think I went the other way with that, though. I I I feel like there's more synergy taking them fairly close together. In terms of excuse me, insulin will help transllocate IGF-1 receptors. So, if you're taking the um GH, you know, you're getting your liver to produce IGF-1, more more transllocation, easier attachment to the receptor. So, I see the benefit of of putting them close together, not necessar. Then the it begs the question where did the the protocol um call it antiquated if you want it's been around for a long time of there's a 15minute gap between I did it I I mean I went along with that guideline too of you know 15 minutes and then hit the insulin almost implying there's this window don't go screwing it up don't cross that line because then they're going to cancel each other out I think we sometimes need to be careful as trainers and and people who I hate to say influence but people who people who influence other people without calling ourselves influencers with things that we say because they can be they can be taken so so literally black and white when we're not really saying that it's black and white. They're just giving parameters and then the people or the perception is oh this has to be this is this is what it is because so and so said this this is it's like well we're just giving you parameters there just guidelines here. So I think if if you look back at you know pros that were started using heavy GH and insulin in the early 90s and then look at pros in the 2000s and then looked at people today because and I say pros because back then I feel like it was only pros that really had access to growth hormone and insulin. I didn't know a lot of local guys um you know when I was coming up in the 90s and early 2000s that were blasting those those two peptides. Um there's a lot of different protocols and they all got huge and ripped and every method worked. You know whether it's oh I take my GH before and I take my insulin with a bunch of carbs after training or even reversing it and taking you know insulin and intraarbs and taking your GH post it all works. You know, I think I think guys I think the bros heard that insulin and GH are counterregulatory, which is true, but um that, you know, insulin's going to promote nutrient storage. Um GH is going to promote liberation of fatty acids, but specifically in our situation, like if we're taking insulin preworkout and we're lifting, we're going to promote glute 4 transport. And you can block lipolysis at the same time. That's why guys get lean while they're taking GH and you can kind of force the issue with glycogen storage while you're working out. And if you're pairing it up with uh you know kind of like Mila Sarf style like the high volume training that he does and slamming a bunch of carbs and taking um insulin around the workout you can it seems to there seems to be some sort of super comp compensatory effect that happens with glycogen synthesis and then you're also limiting um the lip you know limiting lipogenesis through the effects of GH and how it um limits lipogenesis. So it's it's kind of like, you know, the end result is you get fuller and you have less fat storage on top of it. So it's kind of AI would add I would add to that too by adding um injectable carnitine to the mix just amplifies that even more too with enhanced glycogen retention and and increased fatty acid utilization at at other times. But ultimately I mean I think for us like in an offse like for the way I look at it with GH there's different purposes for it. Like I look at it the use of it differently on offseason than I do for contest prep. Really really for like offseason. Ultimately what we're looking for is the elevated IGF-1 levels, right? Because we want to increase um mTor um lower amk and and and then increase um hypertrophy. So really like a single bolus dose is really all you need during the offseason. We're not too that too concerned. I am worried about guys getting their blood sugars and A1c too high in the offseason and creating insulin resistance as well. So I just that's kind of like my logic, my long- winded answer and I believe me I thought about this a lot. So we talked about splitting it up through the day or not. What about days on versus days off? He has 60 units. So if he split that up every day that comes out to like eight and a half units per day over seven days. Would you guys do seven days a week or would you say do it on training days or a specific setup? I'm every day. Yeah, I run it every day. But then there's there is an argument where if you take a bigger dose that you might get an a bigger IGF-1 spike. I I have seen that that compelling argument too. You know, like sort of the whole 18 units of Sarah Stem before bed. That's why they dose it that way because you get more of a um you get more of a anabolic effect from it from taking the higher do single bololis dose. So I I you know I know the old school guys used to run it five day was it five on two off like Dorian Yates and those dudes but I think that was mostly because they were limited by budget but uh I don't know I think once you get north of 10 units it kind of becomes a mood point and how much fluctuation is there with IGF levels once you're peaked out. I I just really don't see that. So I when I say I use it every day, I don't know that it would matter if I went three on, one off, five on, two off. You're not getting much fluctuation once you're at those. The the only compelling reason I could see for taking some days off would be to prevent insulin resistance if you're just trying to give yourself a a break in that aspect. Particularly in the offseason, I think, you know. Yeah. Yeah. Like so like if you were doing some sort of carb cycling or caloric cycling, maybe it would maybe it would make sense not to take it on your low day. Um you know because IGF-1 production is going to be lower when insulin and carbs are lower too. So that's that's possibility. It's just a fat burner on those low days. So I don't know. I'm just thinking abstractly. But long story short, I take it every [\h__\h] day. Exactly. I think we're all kind of in the same uh same agreement there. single bolis every day on the offseason. Long story short, break it up into a couple doses on contest prep if you're trying to burn fat. And you know what, for fun, let me piggyback off that and just ask you, Paul, you said you break it up into a couple doses. That's what I'm doing. What's your timing? What's all of our timing for those two doses? Well, I mean, if you look at the active life on it, it's six to eight hours. But the way I structure my meals when I'm on prep, um I like my usually it's first four meals are no carbs, then I work out in the evening and I have my carbohydrate meals. So I take it in the morning and then I take it at night when I'm in a low carb state to increase lipolysis and then I kind of yank it out before my workout and then use that as uh an opportunity to promote glycogen synthesis. So that's sort of my thought process. Now you could break it up. I've heard guys break it up into three doses. Pre-workout, morning, um, before bed. That might make more sense because it it's active for about 6 to 8 hours, somewhere in that range, depending on how your body metabolizes it. So, if you wanted it present for the fat burning effects all day long, probably three doses would make the most sense. Just curious. I run my when I wake and then prior to training because it ends up being about eight hours later. And I'm not a pre-bed. I've talked about it before. I can't do pre-bed because it messes with my sleep horribly bad. Quality goes to crap. I get better sleep. And I've heard that from other people, too. And I think that's why that part, I think, is individual. Uh it just wrecks mine. It'll it'll chop my It'll chop twothirds of my remedy out. I'm the exact opposite. I sleep like a baby when I take it at night. And I've heard that. I'd like that. I mean, I sleep like a baby anyway. I've never had sleep is thankfully sleep issues in my life, even as parents. sucks very very well. What about IM versus subq? I I had always done it IM thinking like, oh, I'm going to get my levels up higher this way and uh then I hear, hey, maybe subq might be more beneficial. What do you guys think? Yeah, I mean, I've talked to Kurt quite extensively about that. I mean he did a lot of research on GH and from what I understand that there's actually there's some concern that I am that the peptide itself might get ruined or damaged by enzymes actually in the muscle tissue um and that it was the drug was designed to be administered um subcutaneously. Are you telling me cut off all my gains? I spent a lot of money or not potentially. Now you will get a it's going to be metabolized quicker. I am right. So you're going to have a quicker higher peak. um it's going to be in and out faster. But I mean the way the drug I mean if you look at the insert packet on on Sarah stem it says administered pre-bed in a single bololis. That's the way the drug was designed initially to be used for but in defense of that it was also designed primarily for kids who weren't HIV patients. Yeah. Not to throw it out the same. They also tell you too. Yeah. Yeah. We all do that, right? Yeah, definitely. Definitely. You don't need that. I'm recalling conversation with Scott Stevenson a couple years ago that I had about all right, let's say let's just say the same example, 60 units of GH. And yeah, the theme was like, well, why not just divide it into two doses that week and take like 30 a bullish 30 dose on Monday and another 30 unit dose on Thursday. And I can't remember the exact, but I think like the results are about the same based off like literature. And obviously underweight kids aren't, you know, lifting heavy ass weights and eating tons of food and doing what we do, but I think in the studies versus daily versus, you know, once two week basis dosing, they're about the same for what they're looking for. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, if we think about it, if the IGF-1 levels are raised for 36 to 48 hours, you could probably get away with taking it a couple times a week. You're not going to get the alipotic effect from it, the fat burning effect that we're looking for. Talking strictly growth. Yeah, we're we're talking strictly for hypertrophy or growth or muscle sparing muscle wasting as in HIV, how they use it um for anti catabolic effects. But, um it's a good question though. How about this one? Sorry for the long-winded answer. That's good. That's what we're here for. If you're in the market for protein powder, check out trueenutrition.com. They literally have like every protein powder under the sun. I go with their cold filtered whey isolate or their team skip blend. I prefer the chocolate peanut butter cup, but there's a few flavors that I like. Let me know if you have any questions about that. Victoria, my wife, she gets the pea protein isolate. That's rare to find a pea isolate. Most of them are concentrate. So, the isolate is super low in carbs. regardless of your diet, they they will have a protein powder for you and you get to flavor it how you want and buy it by how many pounds you want. So check them out. Trnutrition.com. They're the first company that ever supported our podcasting. So we support them. You can support us by shopping with True Nutrition and using our code think. How about this one? And we're 10 days late on it. He said, "Emergency question." So 10 days later, we're answering. And this won't come out for like another day or so. Uh he says, "I'm coming toward the end of a blast. About 20 weeks, made insane progress, but I'm starting to lose strength. Diet and training hasn't changed. Could it be overtraining? I tried taking a D load and it did nothing. I don't want to come off cycle until I gain back my peak strength to maintain during my cruise." What do you guys think of this one? Well, I think number one, it doesn't qualify as an emergency. So, there's that. It's a muscle emergency, man. Yeah. Just a little cheap shot. It depends on your perspective. Yeah, exactly. It's gains, bro. Is this dude a powerlifter or a bodybuilder? He's got to be a body bodybuilder, I would assume. I'm guessing. Guessing. Probably a gym bro. Yep. Yeah, probably a gym. I mean, to me, it's like your body's giving you signals. It's It's had enough. It's It's had enough. And at this point, you're probably wasting drugs. you're wasting calories and you're wasting energy getting from overtraining or overreaching into overtraining. And like you you you want to be a little greedy, but you don't want to stretch it till the wheels fall off when it comes to blasting off seasonason. I I would rather quit a little early and get into rest period in a surplus of energy, growth potential, less fatigue, etc. be able to take that de lo and then and um cruise and then be able to get right back into it in six to eight weeks and hit it hard again. That's just me. When do you guys usually see that the wheels start to fall off with an offseason? Like week wise or like in terms of Yeah. week wise. I think it depends where it started too. You know what I mean? Like how how lean was the person? Yeah. How lean? What other stressors are in their life? What about even for ourselves? Because I I know myself, I proactively de lo. I think I'm one of the few. Do you? Okay. I don't program anything in. If I wake up and I'm like two days in a row and I'm like I'm not feeling it this week, I just won't go to the gym, you know? Yeah. But that's more that's a little bit more reactive. I mean, I will literally force myself at the sixth, seven week even if I'm feel feeling like a million bucks. And I preach this to my clients too. Proactive de loing will always have you come back in a better position. It's just hard to do psychologically because you're like, "Oh, I can get another week. I can get another two weeks." Once you step into the I think once you step into that reactive mode, at least in my experience, then I'm too far. Then I'm the hole that I have dug is just a little bit too big proactively. Then I always come back stronger. That was my argument when I said I'm doing this every other week training. I've said it for years. I'm tired of taking a week off and then I come back and I feel like a million bucks. So when I take them proactively, that always happens. And and the vast majority of time it happens with clients too, but we tend to do them reactively. Not not that it's bad, but sometimes when you take them reactively, you don't come out of that cruise necessarily at 100%. So that's my argument for the proactive. You can't lose, I guess, is what I'm saying. Even if things are going great and you're like, I can ride this a couple more weeks. The only time that I think, okay, it's probably a good idea is if you know something's coming up in a in a couple weeks where you're going to not be able to train, then I can see extending it a little bit because you know that you're going to have that time. But my boring life with no kids or anything else anymore. I don't get that. I go on vacation to see the kids. I'm still training. It just it's the same boring life no matter where no matter the demographic or what I'm doing. I usually see the wheels fall off somewhere in that 16 to 20 week range. It seems at least for at least for me. I mean that's about that's about the maximum I can push and that's what I've seen with my clients with the drugs, the food, the peeds. And like you said, Skip, if you program in some D loads in there, I can probably get I like I remember it's funny because Dante was doing D losses before D losses were cool. I remember when he was training me back in the early 2000s, it was every fifth week there was a there was a D lo, you know, it was four weeks of four weeks of blasting, I remember. And then that fifth week was a D load. And then you I could get probably three of those blocks in before I needed like a break. Like I at least that's what I've noticed now. And it's it's like I I what I've seen too is like two like it's weird with the strength. It's like when I pull back and go on cruise. I don't know if you guys have noticed this. Like a lot of times my strength will start going back up. Mhm. Yeah. When I go back on a cruise. We've talked about that recently, too. Like there might be a point with this guy that it's like just too much. Who knows? He might get stronger coming off. Right. Well, the inflammation is what Andrew and I were talking about because I have a similar thing where every time I go TRT, I swear my progress is better in the gym. I feel better. The strength is up. the the weights don't feel very heavy. That's probably the first six weeks of TRT and then it kind of levels off. It's funny you say that because I've been three weeks on 15 milligrams of test a day and uh what was that work out to? 70 like 105 is that right? 105 milligrams a week and Okay, my strength is right there if not even a little bit better over the last two or three weeks. So yeah. Yeah, it's wild. That's what I've always seen too. So it makes you wonder if it's not toxicity of the drug. I always say toxicity or or maybe maybe just the central nervous system is over overt tax from all the androgens. That's possibility too or all of the above. The other thing is you know the the the body does sense in a lot of ways peeds as a foreign invader and that's why a lot of guys have immune responses. We've all heard of test flu right? I think there's there's extreme cases of that, right, where a guy takes four or 500 milligrams of test a week and he actually has like those crazy flu-l like symptoms, but I do think there is a very imunosuppressive effect on varying levels for all of us based off of peed loads. And maybe it doesn't exhibit itself as the flu-l like symptoms, but fatigue and um lethargy and uh poor digestion, more inflammation, all all those different uh markers. And it builds slowly. It's kind of a frog in the boiling water uh metaphor where you don't you don't see it until you finally realize, oh [\h__\h] like I'm I'm not in a very good spot right now. I was talking to Dr. Dean St. marred about and he brought up an interesting perspective that I never really considered when you're pushing um anabolics really hard for a long time is he talked about that um you'll see guys like initially like they're they can handle it their blood work doesn't go south things h hold up but after a long period of time you everybody ends up where their blood markers start to go south and he speculated that your body when you're pushing super physiological doses of stuff eating a lot of food and training hard that all of your stem cell resources are being used for hypertrophy rather than repairing organs and that you have to pull back. You have to pull back the food. You have to pull back the training. You have to pull back the peeds for a period of time to true TRT maybe like a 6 8 week 12week period of time and let your body recover and get that let that stem cell pool recover so that your organs can regenerate and repair themselves. that that was I'd never really considered or thought about that but that was kind of a interesting thought. I think that's why it's important that we have people who are smart, educated, yeah, academia, you know, in the industry as as well. It makes for a a good combination because that I agree with you. That's not even something that I would have I mean that's that's way over here and then Skip is over here. I'm medium smart. I'm in the middle somewhere. Bro smart. Right. Right. Body fat percentages. Uh, how uh do a lot of these guy gym bros uh look at themselves and say that they have uh so and so body fat level? My gym bud has a decent six-pack and he says he's around 10 to 12% body fat. Do they actually know what they are looking at to determine this? No. Uh, how many how many times have you guys had a client come to you and tell you they're 12% body fat and they got to lose 50 pounds on prep? Yeah, it's that's such a fact. It's, you know, and 90% of them say 10 to 12. The other 10 is 12 to 15 when really you you can all I mean sometimes you can literally double it 90% of the time. Yeah. Just add 10% to whatever they say and that's probably where you are. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. It's it's not usually very close. I think it's a What is it? Is it just AI think and I don't mean this, you know, in a bad way, but it's kind of just ignorance to understanding what a percentage of body fat looks like. You're going to be damn good at 10%. Because I've had someone send me there's like a there's like a meme or an image on Google search of like what 10% looks like, what 5% looks like, what you know what I mean? I think they're kind of comparing like the good stuff and they're not remembering, oh wait, I still got the love handles or I have my my my glutes and hams don't have any lines. It's just one straight piece of meat going down, you know. Um but how about one other thing? Do you guys get people that send you the inbody scans? Oh god. Oh god, terrible. Please don't. And I'm just like, hey, I don't even look at these. I'm sorry. Like first off, it's a flawed mechanism for calculating your body fat. It's based off of an estimation for one thing and secondarily what does it matter what your body fat is if if a if we're in a prep like it matters what you look like on you don't bring a card that says I reached 4.2% body fat you know the only person I know that actually checked their body fat with hydrostatic Wayne was John Meadows when he was like 3.3% back in 200 Yeah. Okay. So like when when when if he was measured university in a university setting hydrostatic Wayne at 3.3 and I'm like you don't look anything like him bro like like yeah you got your abs and you got some glute lines but your skin is not translucent like his is when you shine a light through it. U you're probably more like 5.1 or 4.9 maybe. I don't think people realize how lean 10% is. Yeah I completely you're not far from being stage ready. You look damn good at 10%. Okay, so let's piggyback off that. Let me ask you guys, what do you think the average person is from a body fat percentage on stage when they're in really good like they're just peaked and wow that not like the most shredded guy on the stage but the average person probably about five 5.2 two 5.3 I would have said six. Same thing. High fives, low rate around five to six. I get my guys to get Dexa scans at the beginning of prep and at the end. And I always do and now who knows how [\h__\h] accurate a DEXA scan is, but um like I always like six to seven always looks decent on a DEXA scan. I I've I've I've been as low as the high fours on a DEXA and I've been like last year I was right at six when I got on stage on a DEXA. Yeah. So, just again, I'm going to piggyback. Which look was better on stage as far as fullness, just overall total package. I'm betting I'd have put a million on the six. The six was a better look. Way better. People just want to We all want to be shredded. We all go after that. And they want to put a number on it, too. Do you know what I mean? Like, we're looking for like something tangible. I'm this percent and I want to get to this percent or I weigh, you know, you see people who are like, "Hey, I weigh this much. My goal is, you know, I'm going to look good at this weight. This is my goal. 200 lb. Let me correct you though. They don't weigh this. They're sitting at Oh, thank you. No one ever says I weigh. They say I'm sitting sitting at 220 right now. Yeah. Sitting at 250. Everybody Everybody severely overestimates how much muscle they have. And and um they underestimate how fat they are in my experience. Everybody thinks at 250. You're sitting at 250. I was always the opposite. I always underestimated the other way when I when I whenever I'd send pictures of John like I'm probably fat as [\h__\h] right now. I'm probably 20%. Keep working hard. That's why you were successful. Yeah. I mean I honestly Well, it's like well well you're only fooling yourself right when you when you make statements like that. Like cuz everyone else is like what? Like if you're a coach and you get something when someone's saying they're 10% you're like bro you're clearly 17 to 19 maybe even 20%. Like, so, so it's only playing a game where now I have to convince you right now that you're going to have to work a lot harder than you think you do because we're not going to show up at 10 - 4% of what you think 10% is. Sorry. You know, Yeah. Can I tell you something about a DEXA that blew my mind? What's that? What's that? I tested at a percentage about a year and a half ago that I literally laughed at. Always. always thought the DEXA was incredibly incredibly reliable, arguably the best practical measure or the most accurate measure that you could get. And the the uh body fat level came to and I'm like, that's not I'm not that lean. And she's like, oh no, you definitely I said, I'll tell you what, I'll come back because they only let you take at least this place only lets you take a DEXA because they consider it an X-ray every three months. So, I went to a different place about three weeks later and I had to literally beg them to do the DEXA on my stomach almost 4% different. Oh, no kidding. Yeah. And I knew it. I I say I knew it. I had a really good idea because I think we all know I didn't think this when I was younger. I was like, "Ah, this is [\h__\h] That that doesn't make any sense." But typically as we age, we the body fat. You don't carry body fat evenly from the front to the back. I was always lean as hell from the back. And now I carry I mean I can be damn near ready from the front and I'm nowhere near ready from the back. Almost 4% different in that three weeks. That's pretty substantial. That blew that blew it right there for me. I'm like, well, don't know how accurate that now. Clearly, it would probably still be accurate with all things being equal, the same variables. If I were to always be on my back and I see those numbers come, it's like a scale, weight scale that's off by four pounds, it's still going to read accurately from that first that first read. So, you're either progressing up or down, but it's still at the end of the day, it's not it's not an accurate weight on the scale, and it's not an accurate assessment of body fat. At least in my situation. Now, it was a different DEXA. It could be argued that it was calibrated differently. I get that. But almost 4%, no. I don't think that's a very good margin of error there. Well, they have a From what I understand, it's a plus or minus 2% either direction margin of error. So, it could there could be a Yeah. Either direction. Yep. Plus or minus. That's larger than I would have thought. Yeah. And hydration thought. Not just hydration. Well, I mean, who knows if that's accurate, but hydration also affects it, too. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And not just that stuff, but I um it's not as accurate as we like to think because I I I remember we had this. Do you guys remember when Ronnie Coleman did that interview with Joe Rogan and he said I was negative 2%. And everybody completely went off on him and they're like that's impossible. You would be dead and all this. and uh recording with Scott Stevenson at the time he he broke down how the DEXA works and he had said he was like you know the the reality is it's still going to be a flawed measurement he explained why I couldn't repeat it was several years ago now and he had mentioned he's like the only way in scientifically the only true accurate measurement we can get is if we dissected you it's the only way we could know for sure Yep. Yep. Where can we get that done? put you in a meeting. You know, somebody was listening going, "Is that?" Oh, no. I can't do that. Yeah. I mean, the Dex is going to be the closest affordable thing. Hydrostatic tank or an MRI is probably going to be the most accurate, but even still, there's a margin of error. Yeah. So, just take it with a grain of salt. Ultimately, the pictures are what matters, right? Exactly. Yeah. But to answer the kid's question, no, your buddy's kind of blowing smoke. Yeah. Yes. Took us a minute to get there, but that's okay. Well, we'll get to the answer. I think people were interested in hearing about body fat and you know real real calcul or real visual calculations from coaches that look at people's body fat all day and the take-home point of don't use the inbody scan skip right that I've had people sucks they're at the like just usually it's like a a gen pop person and that they're at their gym and and somebody cons them into it they're like oh you're doing really good you want to do an inbody scan and they get them my you know this the trainer at my gym is going to have me weigh in every week now. He says, "I'm doing such a good job." I'm like, "Yeah, okay, whatever." And then the message. Yeah. Or they or they're fishing for a client, you know, and you get the message all of a sudden, oh my god, I'm, you know, we have to change something. I've lost five pounds of muscle and I've gained three pounds of fat and how did this happen since Monday, you know? Well, hey, the new scales that use BEI, I mean, it doesn't get any more outdated than that. So, you know, people ask me all the time, and not in the industry, but friends and family, hey, you know, what scale should I get? Uh, one that just tells you how what you weigh because everything else is a giant waste of money. Yeah. Yep. All right. Question for the next show from Lightweight Baby. He says, uh, um, says he's planning on doing, uh, test decaninoate, deca, and EQ. plans to start 100 milligrams of each compound Monday, Wednesday, Friday. So, taking a total of 300 milligrams um each weekly. Uh is this a good ratio? Uh I have used these compounds before, but never together. uh in an experiment with EQ, I once ran 800 milligrams along with 200 milligrams of test to see what it did to EQ and it tested at 9 uh PG. Uh normally on 200 test with nothing else, my estradile sits at 40. So EQ does have some effect on my estradile. Uh just that uh info might help with your answer. Are you married? Do you like to have sex? Does your wife or girlfriend like to have sex? That's gonna matter. That's test deco. Who Who the hell uses that? Yeah, that's the first thing I thought of. Bizarre cycle. Yeah. Yeah. I would also say well I guess I would ask the guy what your goals are. Are you just trying to dabble a little bit? I guess like to me that that's not TRT, but it's also like it's Well, it's 300 tests. No. Oh, no. Yeah. No, it's not. Never mind. Sorry. 300 deca. Yeah. I thought for some reason it was 300 each three times a week. That would be a cycle. But never mind. That's what I'd get. That's I was actually going to be like if you want to really, you know, see see what these compounds could do. I would do 300 of each Monday, Wednesday, Friday versus 100 milligrams. Especially if he's well, especially if he's coming from, well, I used to run, you know, 200 test and 800 EQ. It's like, okay, so you're someone that's probably used to running some decent milligram cycles. I don't think you're going to I don't think you're going to see what you want out of 300 of each um you know, Monday, Wednesday, Friday. That's just my or I'm sorry, 100 of each Monday, Wednesday, Friday. It's a cruise unless you're running a gram. There's an honest statement. Double the test. Let the let the deck and the EQ make up roughly 50% of the rest of it. That's what I would do. Yeah, that's Yeah, and it's it it's kind of a spin the wheel with uh DECA anymore whether or not your dick's going to work. For sure. For sure. We always get somebody in the comments, though. They're like, "Oh, I do DECA only all the time, and it works great." You know, there's always that one. That We're so happy for you. I've been married for 33 years. My wife hasn't had to step out yet. I'm not going to give her a reason. That doesn't mean she hasn't. I'm just saying I haven't given her a reason. Ah, but I'm Um, all right. We had some stuff at the stream here. Uh, Gamboni Gamboni Law, our favorite lawyer who watches the show. He says, "Uh, great show, guys. Any thoughts on adding DIM and bourberine to my vitamin stack during the summer with TRT if you are already 10% body fat?" And he might be a legit 10. I We're going to beat him up. He might be a legit 10%. He's 18. He's lean. He's good. Yeah. Yeah. I know if I'm ever in any legal trouble, I'm calling this cat. He's a good dude. Yeah. I I guess I would ask him what is the reasoning that he's thinking he wants to add him in. Um I mean bourberine is usually a staple in most of my plans anyway, especially if someone's pushing food in any capacity and for other health benefits as well, but um is it is he trying to maybe put on a little bit more mass and he's going to push his food a little harder? Uh, is he concerned about his his estrogen and his and his estrogen recycling in the liver uh for the DIM? Um, I guess I would ask him I I I guess I would want to see like, well, what are you taking? And then are you using any AIS with it? Are you where's your blood sugar at regularly? That kind of just just some more information to because I'm a kind of guy like I don't want to just I don't give a blanket list of supplements that everybody has to take because I don't want to I don't want people wasting money if they don't need to waste money. Yeah. And um so I guess I would want to know a little bit more information and and like I guess in this case using Skip's example, I'm reactive to what their labs and and what their feedback is in terms of the supplementation. It's not just like here's a blanket list of 20 things, start taking them. Yeah. Do you guys think DEM actually does anything? I've never noticed that it makes much difference. In men, no. No. In women maybe a little bit in women. And especially I found like with natural like bikini competitors, girls who aren't taking anything. I've seen a benefit there, but not to the point where I would say like, "Oh man, we got to get our hand like it's not like a, you know, game changer kind of thing." And I wonder if he's natural because that may be more the And if he's a true 10%. Here's he said with TRT. Oh, TRT. Okay, I missed it. My apologies. If he's a true 10% and he's not pushing size, I don't care if you use Bourberine. you're probably quite insulin sensitive at that point anyway if it's a true 10%. So yeah, if you're maintaining condition, there may be this thought of ah maybe I'll be a little drier, maybe it'll help a little bit with estrogen, you know, I'll get a little crisper look. I won't hold as much water. Not going to hurt. Not going to, but I don't see a huge benefit there. And I don't see the benefit of bourberine unless he's pushing. I don't think it's bad, but at the same time, I don't think it's necessary. Yeah, you got to be careful with bourberine, too, because sometimes it can jack up your stomach, too. There is that, too. Sometimes guys will get diarrhea, explosive diarrhea from bourberine. I've had I've had a few situations where that's happened. You guys feel that people create treat it as more of an innocuous um supplement than I don't want to say than it is, but than it is. It it it's certainly not bad, but like it's just put it in there. It's almost like an insurance. I call it an insurance supplement. I did that with a lot of overthe-c counter supplements, though, you know. Yep. True. Well, guys are proactively taking things for stuff that they probably don't need to proactively take them for. Yeah. I I do like some bourberine in there for, you know, if you're running growth hormone and needing a [\h__\h] ton of carbs to keep some insulin sensitivity in check, but uh you know, probably for the dude on TRT, um just working out, just the gym, bro, probably unnecessary to be honest with you. Probably both of them are unnecessary. And if you're having an estrogen issues, just take an AI. Yeah, just that there is, but yet at the same or some primo. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I was going to say take out a DHT. Rather do that. Yeah. if you can find it. Have you guys heard from your resources about uh Primo still not being available or what's because I'm not paying attention. Primo I hear was not available. Hard to find. But Primo's back, but Masteron is incred like more expensive than Primo right now. Really? Okay. Interesting. So, I'm sitting on a gold mine is what you're telling me. I was going to say everybody's on the Everybody's made the run for Master. Yeah. Yeah. What do I do now? because of the primo shortage and everyone's like, "Okay, I'm going to switch to mast and so everyone overbought mast and stocked up and now they're just a little bit of a shortage of master." That's kind of what I'm thinking. I can see I also think John's all the time talking about Masteron, too. So, I think a lot of people were on his protocols. Um, there ma, you know, Chase, all those guys. Master was pretty popular last year in the test mass GH combo. So guys tend to follow what everybody else is doing. It seems like I remember Skip, you're you're old enough, man. You remember when Master was considered a [\h__\h] steroid? Nobody Nobody would take it. Like why you taking that? That's what girls take. I had it on that list, too. I was like, nah, it's useless. Yeah, Primo, too. People were like, Primo had its run of being the worthless drug for a while and then it just turned out people weren't taking enough of it. Well, I remember back in the day it was like you had to take 700 to a gram to get anything out of Primo. That was the the thought. It's interesting how things have changed now. We did a podcast recently about like lowd dose compounds and and people were I mean we Dave and I did this and we you know threw out some really low doses but I expected this. People even were like oh you think that's low? No, you should be taking you know 50 deca. I've been making fantastic progress with 50 DECA a week. Okay. Okay. Well, placeos work sometimes. True. There's that. It was a good podcast though. Like we got a lot of views on what's the lowest dose, the lowest, you know, the lowest effective dose. We had a guy in the stream who says, and I asked him how much he took. Yeah. Asked him how much he took. Uh he didn't I don't think he got back to us yet, but he has said I took a lot of rea and I started throwing up. Why was this? What would you guys consider a lot of rea? Well, I mean, if you look at the phase 2 clinical trials, they went up to 12 milligrams. Yeah, that's a spicy dose. Yeah. I I mean, I imagine 1.75 Exactly. I'm like 1.75. Yeah, that's about where I am. I'm going to two now. I'm going to two now. Yeah, I was running a milligram every fifth day and then I went up to two and it was too much and I back back down to a milligram every fifth day. I I'm going to say like I think the trend is 1.5 to 2 milligrams is great for bodybuilders. That's what I'm seeing. That's what I'm using with people. I I think more becomes overkill and let's say less for most people doesn't really do much of anything. like if you're trying to stick to less than one milligram a week. But um yeah, I'm finding that 1.5 to 2 milligram is like that sweet spot for most people. I can agree with that. Yeah. We got asked recently about filling out, trying to fill back out while on Rea. What have you guys experienced with with that? Full. You what? I get full as [\h__\h] But I'm able with my dose to be able to push 900, 1100, 1200 grams of carbs, uh you know, on a high day. So, I think if my dosage were higher and I was limited on the volume of food, cool. I I'm It's just a really good balance. If it were higher, I probably would struggle to get that in. Um I've seen I've seen I don't know. I've seen a people have a hard time keeping full on it. It seems like it flattens out. Yep. Tepide did that to me like on a very low dose and so I pulled it. Um, but if if we're talking like a bodybuilder trying to carve up for a show and present, I I would pull it um probably 10 days out personally. Well, I mean it is a glucagon agonist which is going to affect uh glycogen synthesis in theory only with the liver, but I mean so that is something of a concern. I mean if you're eating enough carbs and taking insulin then you probably can force the issue. True. Yeah. Exactly. After I mean two meals in I'm like wow. Yeah, I've kept my carbs really low and I got super flat through the put it this way. I, you know, I'll be more sensitive than anybody else looking at me and I'll be like, "Oh man, I look really small right now." You know what I mean? And I'm I'm walking around and and I'll say that to like my wife and she'll be like, "No, you look fine." You know, you I can't tell the difference. But it was at the point where she was like, "You know what? You're looking small right now." So if she said it, that meant and I could see it, too. I was like, "Oh, yeah. No, I know. She saw it." And that's when I a little bit after that I I because I realized I'm not filling out. So I backed the dose down, figured out how to fill out and I needed insulin with that too to make it work. Uh but now we'll see. I'm going to try to push back up. See what I would I mean I don't know how you guys are handling but on prep if I'm if I have guys running it and I'm yanking it two weeks two weeks out. That's what I'm saying. That makes sense for for like filling out for a show. Absolutely. You also got to tell the person like, "Hey, be ready to get hit with a wave of hunger." Like a lot of people it hits them like a wave and they're like I I want to cheat. I want to eat everything. Like I Yeah. It's like this the the the noise has been like doled and then all of a sudden you just put these like high quality speakers in their ear and they're like I want to eat everything, man. Yeah. I put it back in on on the post show. Y time to put it back in. Yeah. My doctor just Oh, go ahead. I was going to say my doctor just put me on Marjaro, so we'll see how that goes. Okay. Stefan had said it wasn't for me. Uh he said uh what did he what did he say there? He said um took.5 milligrams of Brea and life was hell for a week. Hiccups, burps, nausea, threw up twice, and diarrhea. I hadn't heard that literally from anybody at dosing like that. Have you guys? I mean, some people are just super sensitive. Uh I had one client that got really sick. I mean if you look at the clinical the phase two clinical trials there was a small percentage five I think it was 5 to 10% I don't recall the exact number that got really massive gastric symptoms like like throwing up diarrhea um just there was some issues with skin sensitivity too like guys would report their skin burning. Heard about that. Um yeah there's some other other strange side effects. I didn't honestly other than the sulfur burps and sulfur farts when I first started it and that went away. A little bit of acid reflux and some elevated pulse, but that went away after a couple weeks. Then it settled down. I didn't really have any problem with it. I get a lot of people reporting that it makes them, how should I say, constipated? More solid. Not necessarily solid, but if you are loose, solid like in bed. No, you're doodoo. You're dookie. Yeah. Yeah. That's That's what I've noticed. I've had I'm trying to stay away from that. I've had to up my protocol with magnesium and stuff to keep things regular. Well, I mean, it's going to slow gastric emptying, so that would make sense. Yeah. Um, you know, so that's that's potential. And I I've noticed actually because I have IBSD, the opposite problem. Um, you got all the stuff, man. Between Dude, I'm all [\h__\h] up. I'm old and [\h__\h] up. It's amazing. I like I look back I'm like how the [\h__\h] did I get my pro card with all the [\h__\h] that I have going on. Uh I just ignore all the health problems and just push through everything like a true pro. But I I've noticed like it it actually helped my digestion digestive issues when I when I got on it because probably the slow gastric emptying helped me out. And then like I speculate um because my diabet my diabetes is pancreatic insufficiency is what I have. I have a type type 1 B. So I suspect that a lot of guys that are older bodybuilders maybe have pancreatic insufficiency and a lot of the digestive issues that they have is from lack of p pancreatic function and then you don't you aren't making enough digestive enzymes and possibly the effects of the reachide on how it increases pancreatic function could potentially increase digestive enzyme production. I don't just speculation that's just me. I know I have better We know when you speculate like that and then like 5 years later there's going to come a research study that comes out that confirms it. How many times have you had ideas about a compound or a drug and you're like this is probably why this is doing this and then someone did a research study and and you're like confirmed, you know? I mean that's bodybuilding, right? Exactly. I think I always tell people like bodybuilders are like 5 to 10 years ahead of of like science. Even if the drug they're a drug that pharmaceutical companies have developed, their true actions and and and side effects and and all the different benefits like bodybuilders have experienced that a 100 times over and it's a known thing in our community. But if you tell somebody that outside of the community, they will laugh mockingly. They used to. But I think I think I think they're like cuz I I'll talk to people. I talk to my parents about stuff like with all my my dad has a lot of autoimmune issues and I put them on a whole bunch of different things that have helped and like he was like well I ran these by my doctor and the doctor's like you don't know what you're talking about. I'm like well they're supposed to say that because that's the track that they were taught and they don't know what they're talking exactly you know and I'm like respectfully I'm not saying they're stupid. I'm just saying that like they don't look at things the same way bodybuilders and coaches do in general on on different applications of things. And sure enough, now like the doctors approve or how about something as simple as this? How many year what 10 years ago we all started using BPC57, right? And the medical community had no idea about it. And I remember when I partially tore my bicep and I'm going in, I'm telling the doctor what I'm doing with BPC, GH, and TB and all the other stuff. And he was like, "What? What are these things?" And then I pulled up three or four research papers and he's like, "Why don't I know about this? I'm AI'm AI'm a um I'm a surgeon and I help people get better. Like, why don't I know about this stuff?" And I'm like, "Bodybuilding is like 5 10 years ahead of everything, dude." And so he had me keep on consulting with him and sending him stuff and he's like, "I'm bringing this to my practice." That's cool. Yeah. Uh and now I mean every clinic in the world is is talking about BPC-157. So Yep. Well, if they're progressive and they're not 60-year-old white doctors stuck. Why you say white? It's a it's an old white guy thing. We like we get stuck in our ways. Hey, speaking of PPC, that's a great segue. Let's talk about uh your surgery, your recovery, Paul. What's going on with all that, man? Well, it's plenty of pizza, as I mentioned earlier. Now, uh I tal it this was hilarious, man. when I went in to do my surgery um or when I went in to do the consult before the surgery, the doctor looked at me and he goes, "I know you." He's like, "I saw you on a podcast with Dr. Mike Israel." And I'm like, "Yep, that was me." Yeah. So, I'm like, "All right, well, I know you're down with what we do." Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, so if he's watching Vigorous Steve and watching uh Dr. Mike, he he he knows stuff. But anyway, like his his advice was and he and I never really considered this. He told me to wait a couple weeks post surgery before I start throwing the peptides in uh because the accelerated scar tissue. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Um accumulation cuz he said the the peptides are going to increase collagen synthesis. So, I'm holding off until two weeks postsurgery. Um and his suggestion was to wait until I get into re full I did my first rehab session today. get into the rehab and then I can start introducing that stuff in to make sure that there's no let let the body do its initial healing process to heal up the wound site. So, I heard that, but I didn't ever hear a time frame on it. So, he's saying two weeks. That's interesting. He told me two weeks. Um he told me to wait two weeks. So, I'm going to do that. Yeah. Um I'm going to do the the typical stuff, some BPC, TB-500. Um I'm on TRT right now. I'm going to run um GH at, you know, five, six units. nothing crazy. Um, and then probably a little lowd dose anavar for um, antavar is good for collagen synthesis and wound healing. Um, it's originally what it was designed for. So that was what I used when I did my ACL tear and I was able to get back in six months from the ACL tear. They told me about five months recovery for this. So if I can cut it down to like three or four, I'd be I'd be happy with that. Nice. Nice. And then it's back to training. And I would like would like to do a show next year possibly. We'll see. When I spinatus Oh, I'm sorry. I think there's a leg. Go ahead. I was say I'm the lightest I've been in a long time though, right now. I'm really downsized. Yeah. To be expected though. Yeah. Yeah. I I was going to add Dante told me to use collagen. That's when I first got hooked on it when I tore my suppinatus. And I I was using growth. No, was I using growth? I can't even remember at the time. But I remember though that I got that. The one thing Yeah. I wasn't using growth at that time yet. And I remembered that the one thing I noticed is with GH I always noticed my fingernails grow a lot faster. Mhm. And I got the same effect from just taking collagen. I was like, there's something to this. So, you know, you can't you can't really tell if it worked or not, but I I I'm a believer after seeing the the side effects I got. Well, it's kind of like um you got to think about it this way. The collagen is just proteins, right? They're amino acids. So, your body is going to break those down and do with what with it whatever they need to. But if you have the stimulus there to increase collagen synthesis, so you know, the the growth hormone, the the BPC, the anavar, uh taking some collagen peptides could potentially help with the um additional collagen synthesis. But if you're eating plenty of protein, there's probably enough amino acids present anyway. But it's just they're just amino acids at the end of the day. I feel the same. Yeah, that's why I always tell Scott. I don't know if I get Dante will talk to you about that. I'll tell you. And here's the thing. I mean, I always say, oh, he messages me when he says or if they work for anybody else. That's cool. I just on paper breaking them down. I I even have a few guys that I went to school with who were doctors and I'm like just settle me on this and they're like I can't. They're amino acids. Well, you know, Skip, there were also uh horse and carriages before they were cars and those people Well played. Well played. I was waiting on that cuz I was like he says he's he's so against you guys weren't there with us before. I'm trying to find my notes on it. I did a video on this recently, but yeah, when I looked into it, it's just it's the raw there there are certain amino acids necessary to synthesize collagen, and that's what's in the collagen peptides. Yeah. Um, now your body will do whatever with them if you're if you don't have the right tools in place to increase collagen synthesis. They're doing nothing at the end of the day. So, think of it like delivering bricks to a construction site and there's no construction workers there. Yeah. So the the HGH the um the anavar the BPC's are like the construction workers the collagen's like the bricks to the construction site. Yeah I mean I think you have some analogy I would believe you have some of your own workers without it but you have super you know what I mean with those if you are old like me there might not be many workers at the job site. So what's the what's the recovery on this? Like what do they what do they say? How long is this going to take? um told me about five months about five months and then I can start going back to full activity. Uh four to six weeks in the sling. Uh the main thing is with the bicep tendon, the shoulder he wasn't worried about, but the bicep tendon because of the way they drill a hole through the bone and anchor it through. And he was worrying about because of the muscle mass that I have ripping that that um graft out of the or ripping that um that where they the anchors out of the bone where they anchor that thing in. Basically, they screw it into the bone. Yeah. So that was the that was the worry. Uh, no. I have to take my time. I had a And how did this happen? How did you get to this point? Just wear and tear is what they told me. They said it was just years and years. That bicep tendon gets loose and then it starts rubbing across the suppinatus, the labreum and the bone up there and it just basically gets sawed off over years and years and years and years of wear and tear. He told me specifically there's some exercises that are probably long-term cause this type of stuff. Like he was telling me like if you we always talk about stretch mediated hypertrophy, but he was talking about like if you're getting like big stretches on things like dumbbell flies and um if you're doing wide grip bench presses with your arms out like this. See how much I'm sweating? um that those uh those put a lot of pressure on that tendon and stretch that tendon out over time. Pull-ups, like if you're or pull pull downs, like if you're letting yourself stretch really far at the other end of it. Um he said it might be best not to not to go for a full stretch on those things to save the bicep tendon long term. And he talked about like distal bicep tendon ruptures like at the bottom. Um, a lot of guys do that on preacher curls when they get that really long stretch at the end of preacher curls. They snap that distal tendon. That happened to you, Andrew? I didn't snap the tendon, but I tore a piece of muscle off the tendon and Yeah. a day before show or two days before show. So, yeah. And that's like the worst time to get hurt, too, because you're so dried out from the drugs. Yeah. It was a 20 or a 25 pound dumbbell. Like last exercise of the prep, literally last set of the prep. Holy [\h__\h] That's like I'm like, "Oh, [\h__\h] Something just happened." And then, uh, yeah, I was supposed to go to Bev's gym and pose for Steve and do a photo shoot that day, but I canceled that. And I still did that. It was uh, Eastern USA's 2018, and I still did it. And then when I was on stage flexing my bicep in the first front double, cuz I hadn't hit a pose cuz I was kind of scared. I'd done like some very light posing. And the first time I hit a pose, I heard another little pop. And I'm like, "Mother, did I just And I look over, I'm like, did I just tear the whole thing?" And luckily I didn't. But you remember Bumstead when he um when he did what was it 2022 Olympia where that bicep was like kind of cloudy or it was you know the deep that's how it looked on stage for me like it was the size was there but it just the inflammation and and all that. It just didn't have the same peak and oddly though like because of that little tear it was kind of like the Jay Cutler tear. It gave me a better peak on that side going forward once it healed back up. Yeah, it was a better better uh better look on my bicep overall. Go back and you tried to tear the other one. Well, I asked the doctor. I was like, "Hey, when when he said there was nothing to fix on this one, he's like, "There's nothing I can really do. You tore the muscle off the tendon, not the tendon off the I was like, "Well, can you do it on this side for me?" He looked at me like I was crazy. They did tell me that because they pulled the uh the bicep tendon down lower and inserted it lower that I would have a higher peak. I I have really flat biceps to begin with cuz I have really long long tendency. said that that should give me more of a peak. So, I'll have to hide the one arm. I don't know how to figure out how to do that chest from that side here. Yeah, do that. Yep. There we go. Nice. Well, listen, we appreciate everybody tuning in and Paul, we appreciate you taking the time to hang out with us, man. Yeah, man. Great talking to you, Gus. How are things going over at Anabolic Bodybuilding? What do you got coming up? Um, good. I'm just doing my thing, man. And I got the anabolics e course up if anybody wants to go a deep dive into peeds that that's there's about 60 hours of content on there right now 100 or so modules. I've worked on it with Kurt Havens. We put a lot of work into it. Um I think it's a pretty pretty solid course. Sorry my dogs are going off in the background. But other than that, just making content and coaching and helping people. Oh yeah, that's cool. And you said you're going to be out at um what was that? Masters. you going to get? Yeah, I'm going to Masters Nationals. I'll be there um probably at USA's North Americans. Um I don't think I'm going to do the Olympia this year. I got some [\h__\h] going on around the Olympia, so I don't think I'm going to make the Olympia. We'll see. Okay. How about New York? You going to New York at all? No. No, I don't I'm not going up for that one. Yeah. And then um I know you wanted to do possibly Tampa this year before the injury happened. What are you looking at for possibly 2026 or is it not even on the menu yet? We'll see. I want to get through the rehab first. So, like kind of that would put me back into training again full force, you know, early fall, September, October, if I could get a short offseason in and then do a prep for a summer show. So, probably the uh I was I was thinking the Tampa or maybe Chicago Pro there. There's not many pro shows that have masters divisions. Well, so actually I did know I did look up the thing because I was oddly looking myself earlier today. The Hurricane and the St. Pete show either one of them or both of them have the Masters 40, 45, and 50 CL Tampa. Tampa does too. Yeah. But but I'm saying like if you're looking for shows even later in the season if you needed to push that timeline back a little bit. Um they're like, you know, September and October or maybe even November. So, you got a little bit more time if that if if recovery just wasn't happening and you wanted a longer offseason before you started. Yeah, I'm down to about 240 now. I was on stage at 250, so I need to put some size back on. But I I just been cruising on TRT pretty much since my show. I just been with that break though, you may come back real fresh. That's what I'm thinking. Very well, you know, recover. And you might rebound really, really well. I've been eat like my diet. I just I get tired of eating, man. I've only been eating like three times a day. That's kind of what I've been doing the last three maybe four. Well, digestion still bodybuilding food. Yeah. Yeah. Break might do good. But I'm looking forward to getting back to a structured diet, though. Yeah. We appreciate you guys tuning in and uh of course we've got Paul's link in the description. Head over to see him at Anabolic Bodybuilding. I'm sure you guys already are. We're we we we we have a good crossover here, I think, because your channel is one of our more watched channels. So, I think that everybody who watches us is also watching you, too. So, people always love Well, your channel is my favorite. You're my favorite bodybuilding channel. We appreciate that, man. We appreciate that. And of course, go to bodybry.com, reach out to Andrew for coaching. Go to teamskip.com to reach out to Skip and hit me up mcnal diets@gmail.com. Thank you to trueenutrition.com. Uh, use our code think to get your hydrayed beef collagen to high to to fix your bicep tendons across the country. And of course, uh, supplements.ca for Canadians. And uh, guys, if we have any Patreon questions, we'll be tackling them on the next show. In fact, Patreon people, you guys better step it up. Start leaving us some more questions for BSG. Thank you guys.