 progesterone, progesterone, progesterone, progesterone, progesterone, progesterone opposes estrogen, you know, it protects heart function, which gigantic because when you're on T3, you're probably using some yohembe and you're probably using some clonbuterol and it is still going to calm those adrenals. We can take T3 that doesn't get used in our body because we're our cells are not able to take it. Those enzymes that Andrew is alluding to, they aren't able to put it to use. So progesterone is going to calm the adrenals because if we don't have it in, then now you have high T3 that you're taking in, that your body can't use, which is likely going to result in some of it being converted to our T3, which is going to result in adrenals overcompensating. So now we have T3 intake high, adrenals high, and we're just, and you feel horrible. What's up guys, welcome back to Blood, Sweat, and Gear with coaches Andrew Barry, myself, Scott McNally. Skip couldn't be with us, unfortunately, and we are joined by our guest, coach and bodybuilder, Justin Mahaley. Thanks for joining us, brother. Hey, thanks for having me on. You know, we tried doing this like a year ago. Remember how weird that was? Oh, it was the worst. What happened? Like that? I don't know. I blocked it out of my head, but thankfully we got it figured out today. I'm traumatized. Guys, all of our programming is brought to you by truenutrition.com. Use our code THINK over there for additional savings on high quality third-party tested supplements from a company that you can trust. Supplementsource.ca for Canadians. Great deals that change week to week. And thank you to everybody from Patreon. The next episode is going to be Andrew and I knocking out Q&A. So look forward to that and we'll take your Patreon questions there. But for now, we're just going to hang out and we're going to talk shop with Justin Mahaley. So Justin, I want to like just launch straight into this. We don't want to get your whole background. Like when was the first time you ever picked up a weight? But what got you into bodybuilding? Let me ask you this way. So Andrew and I combined, we've been coaching for like 30 plus years. If you put us both together, how long have you been bodybuilding? When did you decide to get into coaching? Let's start there and then I know we've got a bunch of good stuff to dig into after that. Yeah. I'll try to be a master of brevity. My mom and dad, they tell an amazing story about when I was four or five years old. We would go to the grocery store and they would give me a muscle and fitness or some sort of magazine about muscles at the start. And I wouldn't ask for toys. I wouldn't ask for candy. I'd flip through the pages and I would look at dudes. My dad thought I was gay for him. Yeah, I was going to say. That's the next thing that pops up. I'm sure all of our parents did. All my parents did. But, you know, one day I saw Greg Plitt and, you know, I wanted I just wanted to be like that. So always an athlete. I was a really good athlete in high school. I got to run Division I at University of Cincinnati track. Absolutely sucked in college. But, man, I love our weight room. I'm not sure how many D1 weight rooms you guys have been in. I'm talking spectacle. Like whatever the best bodybuilding gym is, get shit on by a good D1 weight room. Different purposes, different functions. Yeah, different functions. Yeah. But, yeah, they've got all the good stuff. Jam, just stuff you don't normally see. Yeah, you definitely don't normally see. It was crazy. Went into school for exercise physiology. Wanted to be a strength coach. Had a little taste in that with Cincinnati St. Xavier with UC basketball team. And, yeah, that wasn't for me. So then I started training people in person. L.A. Fitness became a master trainer. And me and Vince Pistick were training at the same gym at the same time in L.A. Fitness. And he had started coaching people online. And this guy named Jason Theobald, who you guys might know, started coaching people online one or two times. And Alan Kress was coaching people online. So I started coaching people online for $25 a month. I had a big Twitter following. Okay. So I started coaching people online for $25 a month. And, you guys, I was 21 when I did this. So I'm 32 now. I've been out at 11 years. So between the three of us, we're 40 years in. Can I sign up for that $25 coaching? Yeah. No kidding. Yeah. Can we get into that? Yeah. My bio. That's funny. Oh, man. That's funny. So that's my genesis. But then track, it didn't work out in college. You know, I'm not sure how close you guys fall to sports. I know when we were younger, we all probably followed it a good bit closer. But, man, there's a lot of guys who are great in high school. And, man, you get to college, you find out what great is. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, boy. We talk about genetics and bodybuilding. But genetics and, like, speed sports, football, it really all comes down to speed. All right. Let me give you an unpopular truth. You take one sprinter from the U.S. track team and you train him bodybuilding. Or you take a linebacker from the NFL, you train him bodybuilding. And bodybuilders won't have a chance with those guys. Those are freaks. I mean, I'm talking these guys' cleats don't even – their feet don't even look like they're touching the ground. They're just propelling forward. And I'm like, brother, are you floating? Does gravity not exist for you? Because I'm feeling gravity right now. And I don't think you are. What events did you run in? 200 and 400. Okay. Wow. Yeah. So I was a sprinter. I was about 160 pounds when I quit track. And then my all-time biggest in bodybuilding, I did hit 300. It was not a pretty 300. When I stopped bodybuilding, I'm not sure if Andrew – you know, Andrew and I were talking a lot around this time. It was around the time you were on my podcast, Andrew. I was 298. You guys, I was fucking shy. You looked uncomfortable. I was uncomfortable. But I – it didn't matter what I touched. It was getting moved. I can – if you guys have known that feeling, like put anything in my hands and I'm going to move it right now. Yeah. That's one of the best feelings in the world though. That's one of the reasons that I see guys that are still at it at that level. And I think of that feeling. You know what I mean? I know. And it's like – I don't know if you guys feel this and speaking for myself, but I'm sure you guys are close to it. Like it's hard now post-bodybuilding to just kill it in the gym every day. When I'm not training for a show, I'm never going to hit a PR again. And I find that to be challenging. You guys struggle with that? Andrew, you're still – well, Andrew, you're still hitting it pretty hard, man. Yeah, man. So I still train like with my pro clients. So you know what I mean? Like they keep me on my toes and stuff. Like my training partner right now is a figure athlete who's very – she's a really good athlete, but then people are flying in all the time to train with us. So I kind of mentally have to get it up for that. You do. I just don't abuse the PEDs like I used to. But I'll tell you what, like strengths of mindset. You know what I mean? Like I've programmed my brain to think that. And the only thing that's holding me back these days is when I get hurt. You know, like I think I might have a partial meniscus tear, little things like that, tendinitis that are probably more prevalent now than they were when I was actively competing. But yeah, you know, and I also always say like you never know if I'm really done. You know, because like every now and then like I catch a good burst and I'm able to get my six meals in every day and supplements in on time and all that stuff. And I'm like, man, I can do this. And then the next day starts and you have 100 emails and you're like, oh, man, I can't even go to the gym today. So it's a love-hate up-and-down type thing. But I want to ask you though, Justin, what made you – did you decide like you're done competing? You've had enough? Um, never. Come on. Never. That's what I'm getting at too, yeah. I mean, I'm feeling good. I'm about 244 right now. I can still lift, you know. I'm happy if I go in the gym and I can stack every machine. I'm pretty happy with that. And I understand like that's a blessed position to be in. Most people never do get to that point. But come on, like when I was at my all-time freakiest, like it's not close. Man, it would take a lot. I'm going to start a family in the next couple of years. I've got an unbelievable woman. We're about to move into a pretty insane home. It's – it would take a lot. The businesses have fortunately exploded and – Early 30s. I'm like 98%. Early 30s have the kids and then, you know, you have more time after they, you know, get to be a few years old and – If you were to have 50, I'll do like a master's program. 50, huh? Well, but it is interesting, right? Because you always dream about living the bodybuilding lifestyle and then you start doing it. But you also start coaching. Yeah. And obviously other avenues and opportunities come your way financially. Yeah. And things kind of come into perspective in that route, right? Like in terms of am I going to, you know, possibly shave a few years off my life by really hitting this really, really hard or am I going to be healthier and build my bank account, my finances, my connections and go that route? I mean it's all just about like what appeals to you, you know, as you continue to develop and evolve as a human. I don't have that same chip on my shoulder I used to. And I think a lot of it is, you know, the financial and professional success. It's after Reagan King won the NPSC National Championships last year in open bodybuilding, I mean that really felt like it cemented it for me that I'm cool. I'm good. And I love watching you still get after it. I mean you, you know, you and I never compete against each other. I love watching people like you dominate coaching, people like Shane dominate coaching. I'm enjoying watching from the sidelines, man. Right on. And you said, so you were about to move into another house. You told us like you moved again. You're down in Austin. You had mentioned before we started you were up in Ohio. And what was the big thing? Like why did you decide to pick up and leave beautiful Ohio for Austin? Why'd you settle for Austin? Why did I settle for Austin? I think you guys can relate to this. Something about something that bodybuilding taught me was if I'm comfortable, I'm not going to get any better. And I don't want that to come off cliche. What I wanted to come across as is I was in Ohio. And I was the best coach in Ohio. And I was young. And there was a lot of competition. And I wanted to go be around people that pushed me. So I wanted to go to Dallas. I wanted to go to Houston. I wanted to go to L.A. or wherever. And this was 2018. This was before everyone moved to Austin. There wasn't much of a gym scene. And my girlfriend at the time and I came down here. And I wasn't feeling very motivated by a lot of things in Ohio. I wonder why. And man, you come here and it's like, oh, people here are like, they're not just making six figures. They're making seven figures. They're making eight figures. They're busting. They're working. The coffee shops to work in, like really the only thing it didn't have was great gyms. And I was like, you know what? There's a great gym 40 minutes north of downtown. It's called House of Gains. I can drive up there on the weekends. I can get my fix. But I have this optimistic delusion that I live in that if I come, other things will come, right? Like opportunity follows me. I attract that shit. So now we have insane gyms in Austin. I'm not saying it's because of me. I'm not taking that credit. I'm not saying that at all. What I'm saying is I moved here for the environment. The people pushed me. I love who I met. At the time, every one of my friends was a bodybuilder. And I want to be diverse. I want to be able to talk about everything. Unfortunately, I don't have a lot to tune in on on the subject I hopped in on, which was guns, which is surprising. I'm the one who lives in Texas. But I want to talk about everything. And I want to be well-versed. So we couldn't live here. But we came. And we made it happen. And we prospered. Well, let me ask you, because you are a big personality. And I know you've had so many clients over the years. When you moved down there and you started talking up Austin, Texas, how many of your clients were like, yeah, you know what? I'm going to think. I'm going to maybe make the move, too. And then followed you. It was unreal. And, you know, at the time, that was my dream. I want to have my clients that train with me every day. Like, I watched you and Nate do that. I watched Matt and Dallas do that. I watched, like, Martin and Brett training together. You know, you watched Nick and Kyle were training together years and years and years ago. Still are. And now they still are again. I wanted that. That was my goal. And then, you know, I was lucky enough to get an opportunity with an unbelievable athlete, Ashley Jones. And we were able to, you know, really, that was my first taste of that was my first pro win. That was my first Olympia. That was my first everything. And that wouldn't have happened if I didn't come to Austin. And like I said, you know, if anyone who tunes into this and listens to my scruffy voice over the next hours takes one thing, like, put yourself in position to where you are, the low man on the totem pole. Because Austin changed everything about me. It changed my whole life. And there's been a lot of heartbreak. There's been a lot of tough times. Like, it's not been easy. Like, all those clients that Andrew was alluding to that moved down, like, you know, things didn't end the best with them. And oftentimes that happens. And if I can move forward and they can move forward with a clear conscience, then it's all love for me. But at the time, that was my dream. So it was like, there was like a, what, like Matt Jansen made Cam Jansen. Like, there was definitely Cam Mahaley down here. Yeah. Yeah. Now, I remember just over the last couple of years, just, oh, no, I trained with Justin or I'm coached by Justin. Oh, where are you from? I'm from Austin, too. It's like, oh, okay. Like, you definitely built a community down there. I took this city over. I'm not going to lie. I did. Well, honestly, I don't think anyone was talking about it as like a bodybuilding destination, right? Because I know you guys got like three pretty good gyms within a 20-mile radius. No one was talking about it as like a bodybuilding potential destination until I think I heard you move it down there. And then within a couple years, now you got, I mean, I know like Austin Espy moved over there, what, last year? Best friends, man. Yeah. I mean, like, and he was at another bodybuilding hub over here in Tampa for a while. So, yeah, no, it's definitely on the map as like a bodybuilding destination, place to live for quality of life, good gyms. We had Jess Reyes Padilla when she moved up to number two in the world. She was training here. We were training at the same gym. She is a spectacular athlete. Oh, my God. Yeah, she's crazy. You know, we had Ashley Jones. She moved down here and we were attacking. At one point, I had like seven or eight IFBB pro clients who turned pro with me who were down here. And, yeah, man, I mean, that's amazing. But there's not enough attention to go around. That was my fault. I was young, dude. I was young and I just thought that I could appease everybody. Yeah. Well, it's hard to do that and stay on top of your own progress, right? Yeah. They took the priority. They took the precedent. But I would do it the exact same way again if I could because the memories that I have with people, whether we talk or not or whether we're on good terms or not, those memories. And, man, you never, you never, ever, ever, ever will get those memories again. And I would never give them up, man. Yeah. I can really, thinking about some relationships I've had with clients over the years. Let me ask you, what is the difference? How should I put this? What makes a good coach a great coach? Man, let's be honest. Not a lot separates us in the technicalities. We have our system. I've learned from Andrew. I hope that I've been able to teach somebody. But I don't do Andrew's system. Andrew doesn't do my system. There was a client a couple years back who failed miserably with me that went to Andrew and they turned pro. Who's that? Gosh, I can't think of their name off the top of my head. Male or female? When it came to me, it was a female. Bikini? Who? Bikini? Dude, it was a bikini or a figure? Was it Brittany? Yes, Brittany. Gotcha. Brittany. Yeah, yeah, yeah. She failed terribly with me. I wasn't the right coach for her. Andrew was the right coach for her. I think there's two things, Scott, and I think it's a great question. I think there's a lot of intricacies that we can kind of go upstream and say, number one, you've just got to communicate in the manner that that client likes. Yeah. There's only, you know, at that time when Brittany worked with me, I was kind of trying to not be friends with all my clients. I was terrified of a bad reputation, so I was being very safe because I had made it. And I was young. I was like 26 or 27. And I was terrified that one mishap would, the ice would fall out underneath me and I would just go drown. And so I was trying to, I was in protection mode, in survival mode because my nervous system hadn't been able to comprehend, no, I'm good and I'm making a lot of money. We're winning a lot of shows because I am good at what I do. I didn't have that belief yet. I thought it was, I thought it was all going to be taken. So you, the coach has to communicate in a manner that the client loves. And also, I mean, it's love languages, right? In a relationship, if two people can, can, can sacrifice so much to be together. But at the end of the day, if it's not a fit, it's not a fit. That's one of the pieces. But then another piece, I mean, you know, it's kind of why I don't train a lot of people anymore. I coach maybe 20, 25 people max now is my God, you've got to love the game and you've got to love going to shows and you've got to love the process. And you've got to love waking up at 4 a.m. to check them on Saturday. And you've got to love the whole thing. And I mean, man, you know, I did that with a roster of over 100 people for a very long time. And it's hard. But Matt Jansen had a chat with me. And then I'll hand it back to you guys after this. Matt Jansen, you know, I was with Revive. I was one of their first athletes. I didn't leave on the best terms. It was my fault, 100% my fault. He's someone who changed my life more than probably anybody else, including, you know, my own father. He would be very real and honest with me about the ebbs and flows of riding the midline. Don't let the wins go to your head. Don't let the losses go to your heart. I learned that a little bit too late. But he knew that I was going to do something pretty spectacular, like what I'm doing now with ECA. He knew I was going to do something pretty spectacular outside bodybuilding because I just I love building companies. I love business. I love entrepreneurship. He and he it just always stuck with me when you don't love it anymore. Don't force it. Yeah, it's really interesting. You bring that up, you know, not letting not let yourself get too high off the wins, not letting yourself get too low off the losses, because it's funny. We all know Don Cusa. We've had him on the show. We're my best friend. I just saw him a couple of weeks ago at the Michigan. We hung up on stage. Yeah. So, you know, I'm sitting there hanging out with him and a coach that he mentors had just had an athlete make it make a top five at the junior nationals. Looked amazing. It's just some of the athletes were a little bit better. And he's like hanging his head and has this long look on his face. And I'm like, what's his deal? And he and Dom's like, oh, dude, you know, he just takes every every non pro card win or every non win as a loss. And I'm like, oh, he just hasn't done this long enough. Like you win some, you lose some in your friends with the coaches that coach the athletes that beat your athlete. Like it's yeah, it's kind of like I would imagine it's probably how parents are when they go and they know each other and they're on opposing teams. And, you know, Johnny's baseball team is playing against, you know, Frankie's team. And it's like, yeah, we just want them to have fun and to perform their best. You know, obviously, we kind of keep score with with with the pro card wins and the placings and stuff. But at the end of the day, it's all about improvement in the sport. And that's what I told him. I'm like, dude, your athlete looks amazing. He improved from two weeks ago when he was just won a show. Like you should be excited and happy. You know, the problem with winning too much too early is it does go to your head and it gives you confirmation bias. And you you don't learn anything from winning. You will never learn anything from winning. You just I just I say you guys can disagree with that. I know a lot of people do. I don't believe I personally have not learned from winning. I learned from losing. And I would I want more people to put themselves in position. This has nothing to do with bodybuilding. I want you to put yourself in position to just lose a little bit more. I'll half agree. I'm going to have to agree with you because I do think you do learn something from winning. Part of it is like the confidence and the proof, you know, that you can do it. But I will agree that I'll put it this way. I feel like some of my most difficult clients were the clients who won the most. Yeah. I'll follow that up, though, with with because I tend to agree more with Justin on this. Well, I am agreeing with Justin. I'm not saying though, if you're 50 50, I'm 80 20. Yeah. Right. Because I do agree with you, because if you win, it means that the way you prepared and what you plan for the expected outcome happened. True. True. Whereas when you lose. OK. And by losing, I mean, in our case, we can't control who shows up. We can't control if some guy who has gotten second place at nationals three years in a row shows up and it's just his time. We can't you know, we're not messing with that. Yeah. But if we set up variables that we could control dryness, fullness, those types of things, preparedness. And we didn't if I have an athlete that like I wanted to get him drier based off of his qualifier show to this one and it didn't happen. That's something I can learn from. What did I do wrong in that two or three week period of time or in the last two to three days before the show? That's that's the learning thing. And that's what I'm taking from this conversation that Justin brought up about. You learn more from your losses than your wins. I think Scott brings up a point to like, I think the three of us were probably in a blessed position to talk about this conversation. Like, yeah, we we've won a lot. And so maybe it's hard to think back on like when a client missed a pro card at junior nationals and at the time that was everything. Yeah. At a certain point, he got to get a W or else you're not going to have any client. I told this story before and you'll appreciate this, Justin, because, you know, Shane and you remember the year. I don't know if it was twenty seventeen or twenty eighteen, but Shane had forty six pro cards in that one year. It was OK. That's a career for a lot of people. But in one season, he had forty six. The following year, it had been like junior nationals and junior USA had already gone and he hadn't had a pro card yet. And after junior nationals, he's just got this look on his face like, I guess I'm getting a real job. I guess I'm done coaching. I have no idea what I'm doing. And even like the first day of universe, when I saw him, he was kind of pacing around, like had this look on his face like, I guess I suck now, you know, until he won like three or four that day. But it was just like, Shane, dude, like save some for the rest of us. You know, like you had forty six last year. That's amazing. I don't know if anyone will ever do that again. I won't listen to anyone who doesn't tell me. And yeah, we can get to schematics and technicalities. I won't listen to anyone that would tell me that Shane's not up there with the goats. Oh, he's in my opinion. He's he because here's the thing. The guys that we typically coaches, we typically think of as goats, you know, they get Ferraris to work on. Yeah, you know, they get it already Olympia, already Olympia qualified people like proven talent. Very few of them build people up. They usually work with other coaches and then they move on to them when they just need that little extra sprinkling. And I'm not convinced that some of those goats are as good as we think they are because are what they do are the athletes looking their way the way they do, despite what the coaches are doing or because of it, you know, whereas Shane takes like your average looking people and like in six, 12, 18 months, turns them into IFBB pros to where you're like, that is mind boggling, dude. Like props to you. Like, you know what you're doing. Actually, I want to take that a step further. Shane, Shane Hughley. You're talking for anybody at home. Yeah, a few years ago, as we all have been blasted on Reddit because of lifestyle we live, there was this huge thing on Reddit about Shane pushing these drugs and doing this thing and doing that thing and all that. Shane has more natural pros than if there's someone more natural pros, show them to go meet them because he Shane's dialed. He posted a transformation earlier today. It was a girl in like two months or maybe that was dramatic. Maybe it was four or five months, whatever it was. Natty, who looked like a normal person and then hired Shane and now is about to compete. I don't know when she's competed. I don't know how far out she is. Her glutes, when she hits a backshot, look like professional glutes. Shane did that. Yes. And I will, you know, when things have been tough my way, Shane has always stood up for me and always reached out for me and I will always stand up for that guy. That guy hit his, to me, you know, Matt Jansen had a huge effect on me. So he's on my Mount Rushmore and Shane's on my Mount Rushmore as well. For sure. You know, a lot of people talk about Matt like, well, he got Dallas, he got this, he got that. Man, Matt made me look absolutely insane when I was just a dude. I was just a normal dude. And then I, you know, Matt had me dominating shows. So I saw the process with him. But man, Shane, he might have that first face on Mount Rushmore with me. I feel like there's a lot of coaches that are from Shane's line of thinking, or I should say a lot of people have this opinion of coaches like him or like AJ Sims where, oh, they're just making you work harder for no reason. And it's like, no, like they're making you work as hard as it takes to look that way because the athlete looked that way on stage that day. That's what it took. So whether it's two and a half hours of cardio, whether it's zero carbs for two months, like he finds the hardest workers, both of them find the hardest workers in the room and just direct them and channel that energy into greatness. And I think that's a sign of a great coach, being able to recognize who are going to be the hardest workers in the room, who wasn't just born with these great genetics or, you know, who's willing to work hard when it's not easy. I think that's a good trait of a good coach is finding those people. I like that. That's a great point. I like that. Hey, on the note of PEDs, you know, back, back in the day, I'd say when I first started into bodybuilding, they weren't talked about as much, but you know, a good decade or so ago, maybe even a little bit longer. I feel like, I feel like there was a lot more like openness that started happening. And today, man, I go to my Instagram and just like person after person is telling me what I need to do with this drug and how to manage that drug. Do you think that we're in a better place today with all of the PED education that's out there? What a good question. Do I think we're in a better place? It depends how the information is kind of straightforward. So, you know, I love peptides and leveraging peptides. And I just, man, my God, what peptides are able to do to a physique, to your mitochondrial health, to your metabolic health, to your recovery, to like the greater, I promise I'm not going to go on one of my little just in the Haley rants about the mitochondria. But it's all right. We're here for that. The greater your mitochondria can utilize ATP, the greater your body is able to recover because the immune system activation and not over activation, the greater you can sleep, the greater you can do these things, the way better, less PEDs work. And I mean, we were talking about Reagan King, who just won the MPC national championships. You guys would be amazed at the cycle going into nationals and you'd be amazed that ever since then, you know, he's on two to three hundred makes a test a week and training three days per week. And he's 280 pounds and just like he's primed for his pro debut next year and he's going to be a threat in his pro debut. And it's not because I'm a good coach. It's because we're leveraging peptides and he's doing the recovery and he's doing the thing. I think that there's there's so much education about PEDs. But then there's also glorification of things like like, you know, Trent. And like, do we all like how we feel the first couple weeks on Trent? Absolutely. But we've got to also understand the downside of that is not a lot of core function that your body's happening. I have a little bit of an unpopular opinion that I don't think after a show we should just pull Trent out because we have to be able to get our cortisol back online before we pull it out. Interesting. Flat, so emotionally flat. And that takes time. That takes keepering. Also, you know, transgrade and nutrient partitioning after a show. You know, a lot of people, you know, there's no right or wrong. I have a system in my system. We're not pulling T3 right after a show. We're pulling T3 when we get things like body temps and whatnot back online. Food super high. Cardio super low. So I think there's an over glorification of things. And the reality is the best biohack that a man can do in their body is take testosterone. And the best biohack a woman can do in their body is take some sublingual progesterone. And I'll stand on that till the end of time. If you can leverage testosterone, then you're going to go. I mean, dude, there's no better. I can't disagree with anything you just said from the post show to the leveraging hormone. Yeah. None of that. I 100% agree with that system. Yeah. I appreciate that. I like that. What do you think is the most? And I feel like you kind of said something about trend right there. But what do you think is the most misunderstood compound out there right now? Or one of them? It has to be trend. Yeah. It has to be trend. Like, if it's not trend, I guess I would just, I guess I would be, you know, pretty surprised. I mean, you know, as soon as you, as soon as you take trend, it kind of shuts off your, your cortisol at the pituitary level. But, you know, then along with that, we're going to stress this. We're going to stress this stress signaling or increase the stress signaling at the brain, at the receptor. So it's like, we don't have like cortisol resistance. You'll feel wired or you feel flat or you feel anxious. You might feel inflamed or we have HPA desensitization. So on and forth. And it's like, man, you know, I've personally, I don't think I've ever put trend in someone where I just like see all this muscle start being gained. Have I put trend in somebody to see them look better? Yeah. If it's done at the right time and they're freaking seven weeks out and they're pretty dang lean. Absolutely. That happens. But I mean, I think that there's a misunderstanding of maybe cortisol. I think there's a misunderstanding of kind of how all these compounds work together. I think there's an overuse of things like DHEA when we're on trend, when our body's not quite sure what to do with downstream sex hormones and so on and so forth. The reason why I'm focused on trend is because there's just 20-year-old dudes taking it. And like, dude, I don't, even if you're a 20-year-old dude prepping for a show, and I'm not saying I'm perfect by any means of how I prep people. But I'm just not, I'm not sure that's a very good way to run this drug. But I already talked about trends. So, I mean, I guess like windstrawl. Windstrawl is going to make me dry and veiny. Like, yeah, if you're already dry and veiny. Yeah. It's going to make you dry and veiny. Well, to that, you know, point, I think, well, here's what I get a lot. You know, when we get around the seven-week mark or six weeks out mark, I get a lot of people like, hey, when are we going to throw the windstrawl in? Or when are we going to throw this in? And my whole thing, I'm always like, look, I want you to look a certain way before we throw it in. Because I don't want to fool my own eyes with thinking that you're a little drier, a little harder than you really are. You know? Because like pictures and seeing someone in person or on stage are very different things. And, you know, oh, you know, when I'm a little bit dehydrated at the gym, but I got a good pump at the same time, that might make me think a certain thing that we're right on track and we got a three- to four-week outlook. Whereas, like, I don't want you to be using those hardeners until we actually have that look solidified. That way it's like a guarantee that you're going to show up in shape and I'm not fooling myself, you know? Yeah, I love that. You know what another one might be, you guys, just to maybe add a little bit more value here is T3. I think T3 can be better utilized as well. You know, I'm a huge nerd on, I'm not sure if you guys have seen any of the stuff I talk about with like the body temps and whatnot. Yeah. Go into detail about that. I think our listeners would like to hear about the body temperature. You have your athletes tested pretty much every check-in, right? Every check-in. We have two or three days of body temperature. So the TLDR here is your body temperatures are a direct measurement of metabolic health. Yeah. So, yeah, we can look at T3. We can look at RT3. You know, TSH is, it's not overly important as a standalone in context with everything else. It's very important. We look at prolactin. We look at estrogen. You know, if we have high estrogen, low progesterone, then that estrogen is going to be an antithyroid, right? And also, you know, I think AIs might be a little bit overused. But I think if we just clear liver detox pathways and have good gut health that we can really get rid of a lot of estrogen recirculation just through that. So the body temps is a really huge thing to measure the metabolic health. Why is this? Your body takes food and food gets broken down. That food is supposed to be used as fuel and to create ATP. So when we create ATP, there's, that's adenine triphosphate. It takes some heat to do that. So after a meal, your body should heat up. And you can measure this by, we do fasted first thing in the morning, body temp measurements, and then 30 to 40 minutes post meal one and two. And we should see this gradually go up during the day. Now, at night before bed, if you have healthy circadian biology, then we're going to start seeing this drop back down even after meals and whatnot, right? That's just your body working very healthfully even after you consume meal five and it's 8 p.m. Body temperature is going to rise a little bit, but we really want it to come back down, right? So how I utilize T3 in a prep is, well, once these body temps start dropping, one, we're not going to start prep under a 97.6 facet body temperature, which pretty standard. That's where a healthy metabolism should wake up. And then we want to eclipse 98.6 during the day. You know, 98.6 is, that's a very healthy metabolism. Man, if someone's eclipping 99 on the day, like, dude, we're running. Like, we're running pretty dang hot. So as soon as this starts dropping down, every one degree that it drops, you lose 10 to 12% of your BMR. This is super important because this has to be overcompensated for. So if it drops down to 96.6 and you're doing the same output, eating the same diet, eating the same whatever, this is just metabolic downregulation, right? This is your metabolism adjusting to what you have been doing in your protocols. Well, contest prep is very high output and low intake. So the first mover we do is super high carb days. I pull protein down crazy low. And carbohydrates, especially like white rice, like carbohydrates, even sugar, which is so demonized. Put someone with low body temps, have them literally have like a teaspoon or a tablespoon of sugar and watch what happens. And their body temps is going to go up. That forces more T4 to T3 conversion to happen as long as you have good liver health. So with the body temps, once we stop seeing the rays from the refeed, then that's when we bring T3 in. Now, I simply, you know, before I really understood body temperatures and the effects that it has on us, I was basing my high days and my refeed days solely off of training performance, how your feet feel when you wake up in the morning, off of your look. But what I've noticed is after leveraging Progest E, that's sublingual progesterone. So I don't use oral or cream, that's sublingual progesterone mixed in vitamin E and MCT oil. That calms your adrenals. It's like a little blanket. Like when you're sick and you're shivering there as a kid and your mom comes and puts a blanket on you, it calms you down. Well, during prep, we have way more adrenal turnover than in an off-season phase when food is high and output is low. So progesterone also, because it calms the adrenals, way less water retention, way more fat burn because we have way greater metabolic health. As soon as our adrenals start overcompensating with their hormones, that's what's using your food. And so your body temperatures won't rise. And you can tell this by simply taking your body temperatures. Every single refeed I do now is just solely based off of the body temperatures. If I'm doing a refeed, we're going to have a rest day. We're not going to do cardio. We're going to do 6,000 steps or so and make that food stick. So the body temperatures, if they go low, that just means there's low cell power. So inside of your cell, there's not a thyroid deficiency. We're just not turning over ATP the way that we should. So we bring in the T3 at that point. We want to see temps over 97.6 upon waking. Oh, another one. People love this super low pulse rate. Like, oh, my gosh, my pulse rate is 48 beats per minute. That's not great. That means your body is not pumping blood or pumping nutrients through it the way that we want it to. So, you know, we want to see that pulse really staying over 60 and entire prep. And then, you know, when we see those temps drop, how I use T3, this doesn't mean it's the right way. This is my system, is we're going to start and the first stage is going to be 6.25. I'm going to gauge when we start T3 off of, damn, we just had three straight refeed days. The temperature is just not sticking. So we know that after we have these super high carbs, which are not going to be coupled with high fats or high protein. I mean, this is a carb-heavy meal plan. We know that we're giving the body the energy that it needs, and it's not getting where it needs to go. Bring T3 and 6.25. You just assess the temperatures and make sure they go up in the way that you want. Now, most people, 6.25 isn't enough of a mover. That does kind of get into some mitochondrial health and whatnot. But in most people, I mean, it's kind of amazing to see how far 12.5 mics goes. And, you know, I think that – I think it's a really good way to do it because when we – of course, I think it's a good way to do it. It's my way. But when we bring T3 in, it just – they feel better. The fatigue gets way better. It's just like Trent, if it's brought in at the wrong time, it's not going to do a lot for us. Like that first week after we bring T3 in, it's like, oh, shit, this is a five-pound drop. The waist measurement went down a half of an inch. Now what do we get to do? Now we literally get to, for a short period of time, add more food, get more fat loss, and make them more resilient. And also, food is dopamine when you're hungry. So now we have more dopamine. Now we have more drive. Now we're able to get to the gym. Now we're able to really attack things. So I know that's kind of a long rant. It's good. It's something that's really passionate that people can leverage. And also, I think it does kind of foolproof the prep. Now, before that same process that we did to go on T3, we repeat that process before we bump the T3. So when I get you – you're going to end up at 12 and a half mics. Before I bump you to 25, which I'll touch on that in a second, bookmark that. Before I bump you to 25, three straight days, Tim's aren't quite getting where we need them to go. So then that's when we bump the dose. And I do subsequent 6.25 microgram dosages throughout the day. So we'll do 12, 5 in the morning, 6.25 four hours later, 6.25 four hours later. We don't want to take it before bed because now in the middle of the night, the pulse rate's going to go up. When the T3 starts hitting, your body temp's going to go up. And we want to be real nice and calm. Now, the last note that I had promises to be the last note on this rant. We bring in T3. We have to use glycine in the evening to ensure that our body is cooling enough at night to still get you into a deep sleep. One thing I'll add to that, because people might be wondering, like, why is 97 or 98.6 so important? That's the temperature that our enzymes need to be most bioactively available, to be doing their most work. So it's kind of like, and how you're describing it, Justin, once you get the engine running, it almost has an additive effect of its own for making the processes that we want to have happen, whether it's detox, whether it's fat loss, just energy production in general. Getting your body temperature up, it's more than just like, oh, I'm not sick today or I'm optimal. There is a reasoning behind it. It's what the enzymes need, the heat point they need to be as active as possible. Yeah, I think that's an amazing point. Can I make one more note that promises? Of course, dude. We're here for you, man. We're here to listen to you talk about this, bro. I will also say that there's not a lot of black and white. I think the glycine with the T3 is black and white. And I think for men and women both, I think that progesterone alongside T3 is, I would say it's 99.99% of the times it's going to be absolutely needed because, I mean, it's going to calm the brain. So we're not going to be as excited. It's going to support thyroid receptor sensitivity. So, you know, you got, we've all had people that need like 50 mics of T3. Dude, they don't need 50 mics of T3. They don't have receptor sensitivity to make that T3 work. Progesterone opposes estrogen. You know, it protects heart function, which is gigantic because when you're on T3, you're probably using some yohembin. You're probably using some clonbuterol. So, and it is still going to calm those adrenals. We can take T3 that doesn't get used in our body because our cells are not able to take it. Those enzymes that Andrew is alluding to, they aren't able to put it to use. So progesterone is going to calm the adrenals because if we don't have it in, then now you have high T3 that you're taking in that your body can't use, which is likely going to result in some of it being converted to our T3, which is going to result in adrenals overcompensating. So now we have T3 intake high, adrenals high, and we're just fucked and you feel horrible. Well, it's also to add to that, and it's going to confuse the coach or doctor who's looking at your labs and says, wait a minute, your T3 is through the roof. Why aren't you dropping? Yeah. And if you do have those high levels of T3, you're probably dealing with digestive issues as well. You're probably having diarrhea multiple times a day and not having solid movements. Great point. I mean, just there's a whole host of other side effects that will manifest other than the important stuff you're talking about, like bowel issues, for instance, irritability, lack of being able to sleep. So the point about the glycine and the progesterone, I think that's a great take-home for people that are using any type of thyroid product in general. And you're talking about with dosing for the progesterone, what are you looking at? So I used to progest ease. So like I said, it's sublingual. Usually I have it on me. Here's another huge cheat code that I have in preps is the magnesium oil. Yeah. Okay. I like it. Man, I just love it all over, like all over upper body. Rub it into like everywhere before bed. It's gigantic. Can we cut to a video of him? Just like oiling up? Just rubbing it on himself. Can you do one of those for us later? Everyone else is getting glazed and I have magnesium lotion on me. Yeah. Put some good meat porn music on there. Yeah. I picture it now. Yeah. On a couch. Wait, now it's getting me. Maybe my dad was right. Hey, what's up guys? I wanted to take a break from the podcast and do something that would be a little bit different to keep you entertained while I do my true nutrition ad. So I brought Maddie with me. I want to let you know. Oh, she doesn't like the mic. I want to let you know that the code think now offers 10% off at true nutrition. That's the main thing I want to tell you. You know, I talked to the people over there. We got that set up and now I get commission on order. So I get 5% off or you guys get 10% off. I collect 5% commission. There's people coming. Don't you bark. There's a dog walking by. It's okay. You're all right. Anyway, I'm going to put a link in the description. And I think that if you use that link, it'll add, it'll put the code in automatically, but it's code think it helps to support the show. You guys get awesome supplements in the process. Let me know if you have any questions. I'm going to place an order myself this weekend for the cookie butter flavored whey isolate cold filtered Maddie. She's got nothing to say on that one. Anyway, that's it guys. We appreciate you guys watching the shows. Appreciate you supporting the programs. Let's get back to it. Um, when you have high stimulants, which there's not a lot of preps that don't have high stimulants, calcium and magnesium get even more important because you use so much more of it. Magnesium's like that's not to put one electrolyte over the other electrolyte. Like we're really getting into semantics at that point. And that's probably not the ratio, but magnesium. Yeah. I mean, every cellular process in the body near nearly uses magnesium. So like you don't want to go to fish and now in calcium to the. So calcium is interesting because when you start like losing your losing your, your, your, um, um, contractions, like when you're super flat, um, and you're like, well, you know, my, my potassium is four and a half and my sodium six a day. Uh, which by the way, if you're drinking too much water, that doesn't matter. You're still dehydrated. But if you had calcium in there, um, and I like wholesome sources of calcium, the supplementation, like sure, whatever. Uh, you guys, my days is crazy. Like I'll use some A2 milk and prep to get calcium to get that vitamin D to get that vitamin K. Like as an owner of a supplement company, I still say, um, let's get it from whole foods as much as we can. And, and, you know, I'll, I'll bring that in and it really does help a lot. But again, we have to think about the athlete's mental state. You start posing and you're flat, but flats where you need to be to lose more fat. They're in the gym and they're frustrated and they're texting their girlfriend. Like I feel so small. This sucks. I can't feel anything. Yada, yada, dude. If we can get two more days out of a push because we're able to get contractions back through leveraging calcium. And of course, this is assuming that potassium and sodium are taken care of. Yeah. Man, two more days of a push when your body's depleted and we're really moving. There's not a lot of glycogen. We're really moving fat. Oh my gosh. I mean, that's, that's the difference between you got shredded as hell for stage with every muscle fiber popping, or we had to refeed a bit too much and you were 95% there, which will win most regional shows, the MPC. You didn't quite get there. Yeah. For, for me, that's, that's, that's a really big one. Yeah. I love that. I agree. I love that. Hey, I've got something else that I know we're going to set you off straight into the next rant, but you, you mentioned mitochondrial health and optimizing mitochondria a couple few times now. And this is something I'm absolutely fascinated with. Uh, I won't go into my whole story, but I had gotten sick several years ago with, uh, the, the bug that everybody was talking about in 2020 dude unraveled my life in through working to improve my mitochondrial health. I'm finally like able to consistently train again. My brain finally doesn't feel foggy like it was. And I, um, it's such a huge change that I'm getting. I want to learn from you. Like, you might have some stuff for me, man. So like lay it on us. Like, what do we need to look at? Yeah. So how I kind of view the body, anything that happens, it starts in the mitochondria. And then we just kind of work up from there all the way to like symptomatology, right? Our mitochondria uses all fuel. Our body responds to everything. That is the backbone of our entire life. And, you know, we have great metabolic, um, um, mitochondrial health. We're going to have great metabolic health. Um, when we have great mitochondrial health, that's why, um, you know, like food becomes fuel. You grow way more. Stress just becomes a signal, which is a good signal. Like stress is a signal for the body to change rather than a signal for the body to shut down. Drugs become leveraged. Like a little bit of testosterone goes a really long ways. Um, and we think about, think about, um, like fat loss. So if we have high oxidation, then we're probably going to be in a storage mode because your body doesn't feel very safe. So when we have great mitochondrial health, which to me is some body temp related, it is a feeling of wellbeing in terms of your mental state. Um, it's your, your resting pulse rate, all of that. When we have great mitochondrial health, we're not going to have this hormonal collapse. We're not going to have a lot of muscle loss during prep because the food becomes storage. Mitochondria that, that, that regulates protein synthesis that regulates, um, near your, your entor pathways. It regulates androgen receptor, uh, activity regulates nitrogen retention, which once nitrogen drops during a prep, that's how we, uh, that's how we start sparing amino acids abuses fuel. Um, so we're going to have fuller muscles from that, even on fewer carbs. But if we have mitochondria dysfunction, we have poor aromatase clearance, which just means aromatase is just, that's how much of the, uh, aromatizing drug you're taking in like testosterone or MPP, uh, Tremblone. We have to clear these things out. We want them to pass through our body one time and then clear out. If we have poor mitochondrial dysfunction, they're just going to kind of clog in there. Right. Thank you. Thank you. Because we have so many people that say I'm a high aromatizer when in reality, it might be that they're just not clearing it. You're, you're just not clearing it. If you have gynet comastia, you don't have good mitochondrial health. If you have mood swings, you're not going to have great mitochondrial health. Um, you're going to have lower ROS, reactive oxygen species. These are inflammation. We're going to have more NAD, which is cellular, um, cellular, not health, cellular cleanup. I kind of view NAD as what goes into the cell and it sweeps everything up and then it gives it to the, to the liver to be able to push out in the bile. Right. Um, we're going to have, uh, less prolonged soreness. Um, we're going to have faster turnover for more muscle building sleep results. A huge one. We're going to have healthier CO2. People stop losing fat when our CO2 goes real low and our body's not actually getting the CO2 turnover that it needs. Gobble response. This melatonin response. This, um, like the entire body works based off of what are mitochondria able to do? Are they able to use food as fuel? Sleep as fuel? PEDs as fuel? Peptides as fuel? So on and so forth. Or are these things are, is this going to be a lock? If, if you have poor mitochondrial health, it's a lock on the physique. We're not able to make progress. Um, so I, I think that prep, there's nothing that pushes the body like a contest prep or like a marathon prep or whatever the case may be. And your HRV goes to shit. Your room sleep goes to shit. I mean, did like, so it's, it's insane what happens, but maybe the most important part is our immune system. Our immune system is just, our immune system is what signals to the body to build more muscle to a signals to the body to recover signals to the body to fight off infection. Um, and so, you know, we, we, if you want to have the best physique of your life, we need to support mitochondria health. Um, ubiquinol, you know, creatine, apple lipoic acid, um, you know, methylene blue can be good in a prep, but I mean, the reality is take some goddamn SS 31 peptide, and that is going to rebuild that mitochondria right up. And you take that throughout prep that plus glow glow is TV 500 BPC-157 GHK see you all together. Take those two during prep and tell me you don't have the best fucking look, um, uh, of your life. I mean, you're, you're absolutely going to, and you're going to get there with less mood swings, with less irritability, less PEDs. Um, mitochondria health is everything. If you have something wrong in the body, if you have even, you know, Andrew and Scott, do you guys realize when we reverse somebody out of a prep successfully, you just reversed a short-term autoimmune condition? Oh, a hundred percent. I feel that way. A hundred percent. Every autoimmune condition is when we have poor mitochondrial health and we have poor metabolic health, all these chains are getting yanked on. Yeah. So, you know, women who have a PCOS or women who are men who have like sleep apnea, whatnot, which some of that, yes. When you get to a muscle density to where there's so much in here. Yeah. You know what? That's not like a mitochondrial thing, but it's also not normal to have sleep apnea. Like, um, we're humans gorillas. There's not a lot of, of cases of sleep apnea and gorilla. And now I know different things. No, that's a good point though. One hundred bodybuilders will get crushed by one gorilla. Well, maybe the gorilla is going to get tired eventually, but we are all coach from the sidelines. I don't want in the action. Yeah. But, um, uh, I, I, I, I think that it's, um, I just, I think that it's very important to keep these things in mind while we prep, because the reality is, um, there's a point in the offseason where a lot of guys become a short-term type two diabetic. Um, there's a lot of times, I mean, an autoimmune condition is your immune system is not acting right and responding right. So you can even look at SIBO. You can look at, you know, obviously Crohn's is autoimmune, obviously IBS, like all this stuff. It really is fixable. And I hate that, you know, people don't know that, but it starts in the mitochondria. As soon as you have poor mitochondrial health, you're just yanking the chain. Which, you know, why people don't know about it is because medical doesn't know about it. You know, like for instance, if like, like my dad has a couple autoimmune diseases and yeah, I kind of sat behind the sidelines and I'd throw in my two cents here and there. And I was like, listen, you need to talk to your doctor about this, this, and that. And sure enough, she was very open-minded. Luckily. Yeah, luckily. Exactly. Yeah. You know, and, um, within like two months, his condition started to like improve drastically. And this is a guy who wasn't unhealthy, overweight or anything. He exercised every day of his life, but something in his life was causing his autoimmune disease. It actually got triggered by, um, full body, um, what do you call it? Poison oak. He got poison oak one time, full body. And then that started triggering all these autoimmune diseases for like the next 10, 15 years. And I was just looking at the traditional, you know, Oh, hit it with prednisone, hit it with this and that, like mask the condition, mask the symptoms, but don't actually treat. And I, not to go into a long story about my own father, but it was just, I think that my, back to my main point is that medical doesn't understand this. Well, think about how many times, Justin, do you look at a pair, at a set of female labs and you can see clear cut estrogen dominance or no, you ask them to get it. And they're like, okay, I'll go to my doctor. The doctor doesn't even order progesterone or they didn't talk about what time of the month to get their labs done. Or they refuse to order certain labs that you think are very important. It just shows you the lack of understanding with your GPs and even your hormonal specialists on some of these conditions. Yeah. I started figuring some of the stuff out on my own with it, just through trial and error of looking at these different things that would help. And I found ubiquinol was, was one that I noticed. I noticed a difference. So I started ramping the dose up and seeing, well, what happens if I take a little more, what happens if I take a little more? And it's really expensive, you know? So getting up to like 600 plus a day was, you know, no easy, no cheap task. But yeah, Andrew, I went to my doctor and I said, I'm not sure why yet, but I noticed this is making a big difference. And she says, well, that's good for your heart. You know, that's like all she could, that was the beginning and the end of it, you know, for her. So yeah. What SS 31, I don't know much about it, but it's somebody put that in my ear and that is one that I've been suggested to check out. So I'll have to look into that. Oh, you're on mute or we lost you. One of the two. Oh, we still lost you. If you look down at your speaker and your microphone on the, uh, is it on the screen? No. There you go. We got you. We got you. Good. It's my bad. I've got this real light mute button over here that, uh, skip does it all the time. It's like the space bar and like, but he freaks out. Um, progesterone super fast. I would love the chat about that. So an issue that we have with progesterone is when a female is low progesterone, um, it's pretty, it's about 80% the same in men, but obviously progesterone is a progestation hormone. So in a female, after, um, conception occurs and, uh, the body is going to raise progesterone to protect the fetus. So we have a healthy pregnancy, right? That means that progesterone is what makes the body feel safe issue with oral progesterone. And even I have seen transdermal progesterone. If we have issues going on, like any autoimmune issue, um, we are going to put it. So in an autoimmune issue, the first thing to go is the gut and the liver, the gut and the liver have been compromised for so long. And so that's where we're going to start to fix these issues, right? We have to get bile flowing, which people do not have good detoxification. Our environment is set up for this. And, you know, we can dive into all that. If you guys really want to go down that rabbit hole, I'm sure some people would enjoy it, but think that things like hormonal birth control, things like SSRIs, things like aluminum heavy vaccinations, do they do cause and effect? I'm not saying don't, you know, get vaxxed. I'm not saying I'm not making a stance. I know what I would do and not do. And that's not for me to share with other people. What I'm saying is if we're going to put an oral progesterone into a gut that has dysbiosis and into a liver that has poor bile flow, and we're going to expect that this progesterone is going to get used in the body. Then I, I mean, I think that we are just, we're like, are we Harry Potter? Is this magic all of a sudden? No, it's not going to get used the way we want it to get used. The liver can't even convert T4 to T3 in this state. What alone get a progestation hormone broken down and into the bloodstream? And we just look at your girl's labs when they go from oral progesterone to something like a progesterone. And no, I've no affiliation with progesterone. I don't think they know I exist, but I did notice that they've raised their prices about $9 since I started talking about it. So maybe I should have some equity. You should. But if we take the progesterone, the progest E, again, MCT, vitamin E, and micronized progesterone, and we put that under our tongue or, you know, even put it on your skin, but I usually go under the tongue, that goes right into your bloodstream, right under our tongue. We have a shit ton of blood vessels, capillaries, I guess just blood vessels. That this is going to go transdermal directly into the body. So for men, because Andrew asked me about dosing a long time ago, I went on a rant. Men, we're going to start about two drops in the evening. Women will typically start about three or four. And if somebody starts waking up and they have really low body attempts, we'll do one of those drops in the morning as well to kind of calm the adrenals a bit more, empower the metabolism to unlock. It makes a gigantic difference. But, you know, to the point, Andrew, I'm sure your dad's in a similar situation as mine. Like yours actually listened to you. Mine's struggling to come around to realizing that, you know, doctor, you know. Unfortunately, my dad's life has been greatly shortened by statins. And it's tough. Every time, you know, we FaceTime every other week. And each time, he looks a little bit older than he did last time. Not really, but he's 62. That's way too young for that to be happening. But it's an age thing, by the way. Give him like eight to ten more years and he'll start listening more. I feel like it's also like people in our parents' age, like they still think everything that like Fox or CNN News tells you is the truth. And like regardless of whatever side they're on, like if the news says it, then it must have happened. There's no spin on it. So it's kind of funny because you're like, dad, I literally help a thousand people a year with very particular health issues. Like just sit down and like let me be a consult with you. Let me tell you a funny story about that. So, you know, recently, and this is not a political statement at all. There were some protests and whatnot. But Austin, Texas, you know, it was on Fox News. Austin, Texas had all these protests and whatnot. So I wake up from a great slumber because I took progesterone before bed with some glycine. And I woke up from an amazing slumber and my dad is very concerned. Justin, they're rioting and Austin. They're protesting all the time. What's going on? So I FaceTime in the morning on my stroll across town. I walk to Lifetime Fitness, about a 15-minute walk. And my dad, like everything here is perfectly fine. Like you cannot be more downtown than I am. And it is not happening. But, you know, like you just, you can't believe all those things. But their generation, they struggle. They struggle really bad with it. But, you know, it's sad. I saw what, you know, the medical industry did to my grandfather. And, you know, he was a vegetable at 70. And it's like, Dad, like, come on. Let's not go down that same route. So, yeah, that's my little rant about the news sources. I don't have a lot of good things to say about them. I've got a couple fun questions to ask you here. I thought we'd kind of wrap things up on kind of a light note. What is the most bro science myth that you want to believe? It's just an amazing question. Let me take a second on this one. Yeah, no, no, no. It's a good one. Take your time. I'll fill one in while you think about it. Please do. If you inject GH into your unit, it grows. Oh, that would, yeah. It would be a lot of guys with, you know, very well endowed out there. That's a good one. One of my best friends here, he's a transgender surgeon. So, imagine that career. Not poor, though. Let me tell you that. Good God almighty, that health is unbelievable. He has guys come to him to do like these penis lengthening surgeries. I hear those can go okay or terrible. I've heard that too. He has a pretty world-renowned reputation for them. I think they go okay, but I'm like, holy cow, that sounds, oh, oh, that sounds bad. I have one. I would love to believe that more volume equaled more hypertrophy because then, if that was true, I would have been 350 goddamn pounds. I would have been big Rami if that was true. One thing about me is I could put some volume in, and unfortunately, my physique showed that. White Rami. The white Rami. What do you got? You got one, Scott? Yeah. I think I've got a couple more here. I had a bunch. No, I mean, did you have one? Oh, man, I don't know. Because some of the myths I think I do kind of believe. Like, you know, there was the thing like the fish thins the skin. You know, we used to all say that, and then there was this whole pushback about, like, fish is just another protein source and blah, blah, blah. But then I really do see results with switching to fish. So I kind of feel, you know, we were talking about that. Was that with Dusty that we did on Blood, Sweat, and Gear, or was that with Ron that we talked about that? Because another one was. I think it was Ron. Okay. Another one was fasted cardio. And I'm not going to say fasted cardio is what everybody needs. In fact, there's probably a – no, there's not probably. There are people that fasted cardio is going to be, like, a direct negative for them. But I think that in certain cases, fasted cardio can be good. But there's, like, the whole step movement where people don't even believe in getting their heart rate up. They just need to get their steps in. So I'm going to say my two are fish thins the skin and fasted cardio. Those two. That's what I'm going to go with. Listen, I'm dying on the hill of fasted cardio, but it's part of my system. Me too. I understand thermodynamics, and still I'm like, our insulin is low. Yeah. I think the hormonal milieu that's going on in the body is primed for fat loss with fasted cardio. Don't tell calories in, calories out. Crowd that. They'll come at you. Yeah. You know, you try to have a conversation with – and I used to have these conversations in my, you know, nutritional biochem classes and whatnot that, no, like, it doesn't work that way. Because I was competing back then, right? Yeah. And I'd be like, this is my diet. This is what I've eaten for the last 17, 18 weeks, okay? Yeah. You do the math on that versus my output. It doesn't make sense with your system that you're talking about. So where is this extra energy coming from the ether? Like, where is this happening, you know? Right. Yeah. The other thing is, like, wouldn't – if you have an – like, my favorite setup is, like, fasted cardio and you're training at least three meals later, okay? So we have a fat-burning phase of the day and we have more of an anabolic retention board. I like that. Right? And – but here's the thing, though. Like, at some point, a lot of athletes need to do a double cardio session. True. I don't want an athlete doing an hour-and-a-half cardio session in the morning because there's no way that on that 46th, 49th, 50th, whatever minute that they're going as hard as they were on their 20th. True. So the output is going down, right? Yeah. So I would rather break it up. Maybe call it for mental stimulation of just not getting bored of doing the same monotonous thing. Mental stimulation alone so that they're getting – and they're getting multiple points during the day where they're raising their heart rate, you know? So I think there's – and I'm not saying this is a rule for everybody because we all have genetic freaks that don't do cardio. They get 5,000 steps a day and that's all they have to do. And you just titrate some calories down and you don't even have to really think about the same kinds of things you do with, like, your more average genetic people. All right. I've got two more. I've got two more. One of them is what's one exercise that if you had the ability to just, like, remove it from existence? Bulgarian. Oh, you knew right away. I didn't even have to finish the question. I – for my clients, go do some Bulgarian. For you. For me, the question is about me. Yeah, yeah. What the fuck can I do to get those results? Because, come on, Bulgarian split squats is – man, there's a lot of really good lower body movements, like a pendulum, like obviously a heel elevator squat. God, a Bulgarian split squat. I hate it. Really? And it's one of the best. I love them. I love the pain. I love the feeling of them. You're an animal. Yeah. But on the other side, I don't – I never liked deadlifts. Okay. Just, you know, being taller, it just wasn't a fun exercise for me. You know, and even when I was strong at them, it was still – all it takes is like one bad movement and my back is out, and now I'm not training properly for the next three, four weeks. You know? So, I toss those aside seriously when I turn probably 30. Yeah. And then I would do them intermittently if John wanted me to do them here and there. Yeah. But it wasn't like a staple, you know? Yeah. I might have to lean into that, either that or the four-way back machine just because nobody needs it. A four-way back machine? No, neck machine. You ever see that? Neck machine. Oh, my God. Yeah. It takes up like eight squares. Like, what are you practicing? Yeah. All right. One more, and this is the most – possibly the most important question we've had all day. Pick one compound to bring to a deserted island. You can train, but the food is going to suck. Let's assume you can take tests with you. I'm assuming, you know, your test – That's a given? Yeah. You've already got your test. Okay. Anadrol. Come on. You caught me with 15 migs before I walk into Lifetime, and I am him. Yeah. I love Anadrol, and it's like, man, how's come everything just moves so easy today? Dude, that is my – if I feel a little small, if I feel a little down, I'm going to crush 15 migs before I go train. That's it. There's 15, you said, right? Did you say 15 or 50? 50. Oh, okay. I heard you wrong. I'm talking about like teenage girls. Yeah. Yeah, 15. Come on. Yeah, I thought I must have heard you remember that. I'm not that small. Yeah, yeah. Andrew, what's yours? Are we counting GH? Well, no, no. That's not sexy enough. So we can bring that also? Yeah, you could bring – well, no, like GH is not – yeah, you could use GH. It grows on the trees. No. GH grows on the palm trees. It's in the water. Already preloaded. Nordy pens. Let's go. Andrew's stretching. He's like, I've got my test there. The GH is going to be at the island. Well, yeah. Well, no, because I'm thinking like I actually feel really good right now. And I'll say – like I'm just doing 15 mg of testosterone a day. Okay. And I like eight or nine units of GH a day. And I've had – like yesterday I had like three people being like, are you getting ready for a show? Yeah. And I'm like, no. Like I actually feel small, but I'm also kind of dieting. But anyway, if I could bring one compound, it's going to be Trent. Trent? Like I love Trent. And I'm not talking like, oh, 600 mg a week. I'm talking like 30 mg a day to go with a little bit of testosterone. I think more because it gives me the look. It gives me – I'm strong. It's also the very first drug I ever took. I don't know if you knew that, Justin. But back in the day – You just – Back, back, back. Well, here's the thing, though. It was 2000, right? And it wasn't like Amazon Prime of your PEDs today where kids just like send a Bitcoin and they get it delivered two days later. You need a Venmo. It's real easy now. Yeah. I mean, no, but now like a lot of them, they're all switching to Bitcoin and most of them are. Yeah, yeah. But anyway, you had to, you know, track down the Phenoplex H pellets and then you had to get one of the kits or locate all those things off eBay and then convert it to a – Get some coffee filters. I couldn't even find testosterone. So my first cycle was 180 milligrams of Tren a week and – No test. 40 to 60 milligrams of D-ball a day. Oh, okay. How much weight did you put on? Oh, like 22 pounds. And keep in mind, like I was in college, so I was eating cafeteria food, but I was still eating – like I didn't measure my food back then, but it was like three times a day, two big bowls of tuna with like two probably fatty burger patties on each of them and then just bowls of cereal. So caloric intake – and I was playing college football, but like my caloric intake was probably 6,200 to 7,000 a day easily. The answer just to say he's taking Trent and playing college football here and I feel terrible for whoever lined up against him. So full disclosure, everyone knows this. A lot of people already know this because we did a full episode on it, but I ended up having to leave school because there was a certain sting operation set up to bust me. So – Yeah. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. So we did a full episode with me and Skip with both of our times being arrested for – Andrew was on – was it CNN? Were you on – Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's insane. Holy cow. We even did a consult with Rick Collins. My attorney and me, we did a consult with Rick Collins who's, you know, the leading PED – Stairway lawyer. Yeah. Yeah, lawyer. Yeah. I don't – we should have him on sometime and see if he remembers that. He probably doesn't. It was a thousand cases ago, right? Yeah, yeah. But, yeah, no, it was a different time in my life. But coincidentally, I then started competing in bodybuilding after that, like a year and a half later after being completely clean and because I was getting tested or at least I thought I was. And competing as a natural for my first show, which some can argue, was that natural? Is that not natural? But I was not using any PEDs for at least a year leading into that show. Natural enough. We'll give it to you. It's like that you didn't know enough of what you were doing anyway to think that, like, the gains didn't stick. Yeah. You know what I'm saying? Yeah. If – Well, it turns to me, Scott. I think – so the listeners will already know my answer is injectable D-ball. But the problem is I love D-ball, but D-ball doesn't love me anymore. So I'd run it for three days with, like, great aspirations of everything that I was going to get out of it, and then my appetite would go to shit, and then I'd have to stop using it. So it would be a rotation of three days on and then, like, three weeks off. And then I'd get it in my head again, like, it's going to work this time. Maybe next time it'll work. Yeah. Exactly. Exactly. I feel like – because I do that sometimes with, like – and we've talked about this before, like IGF-Des or IGF-LR3. Like, well, it hasn't worked the other eight times I tried it over 20 years, but maybe I'm going to try it this time. And I'm just – maybe this is the – Dose it a little different bilaterally, you know. Yeah. Exactly. Like when you go to the fridge and you know there's no food in there. You go to the fridge. Maybe you miss something. That's a great analogy, actually. That's a great – and you just stare at it. Yeah. I spent $80 on this. Why doesn't it work? Justin, tell us about the Grow or Die podcast. Tell us about everything that you're doing, man. And I'm going to make sure to put all this stuff below, too, so that people can follow you with everything that you're up to. Yeah. Well, first, I appreciate you guys having me on. This is super cool. I know Andrew knows this. I don't think you know this. When I was early in – or in my last two contests, perhaps, I definitely listened to you guys on the show a lot. I've learned a ton from it, so I appreciate you all having me on. I love that, man. Thank you. Absolutely. My main thing is very much of the Elite Coaching Academy now, which is so much fun for me. Started off as a mentorship to just teach coaches the things I know about the human body manipulation of it. I owned Team Mahaley and the Together More Fitness for seven years, and for those seven years, we were over seven figures in income, and I realized, well, maybe we can start to just teach other people how to implement these systems. So now I make online fitness coaches rich, and it's a lot of fun. I think it's great. How does that work? The Elite Coaching Academy. Yeah. You come in. We have three different tiers. We have a zero to 10K tier, and that's tier one. And so it depends on your income, like where you at. And then we have a 10 to 22K tier, and then we have a 22 to 50K tier. And then after 50K a month, people will come to me, and we'll work one-to-one together. My team actually goes inside their business and does things. So it's really cool. You know, people from, super quick, people from zero to 10K, they don't have enough attention. We've got to get more attention. That's top of funnel. People from 10 to 22K, they just don't have enough trust and enough personal brand, so we build your personal brand. And then people after the 22K mark, they need systems, because you guys know, making 20K a month as an online coach, you are busy. And so now you can't scale beyond that, because you just don't have systems in place. And people don't know, you know, we have some very impressive stuff that we're doing. We leverage a lot of AI within our company, and the onboarding process, even customer communications within ECA. There's a little Justin bot that answers a lot of questions in the community. I have four lead educators that they kind of take care. They've been one-to-one mentees of mine for nine plus months, and they take care of all the protocol questions now. So it's really cool. You know, I don't want to bog down the show with self-promo, but the Elite Coaching Academy, we have some amazing results. We now have eight operators that have scaled over 50K with us, and I'm really proud of that. That's cool. Yeah, I appreciate that. It feels very impactful. This is really what I've always wanted to do. And there's enough wealth in the world for all of us to absolutely kill it. But the Grow It Eye podcast, we got booted off YouTube. We were really killing it. We were doing a million views a month on YouTube. And last March, I had Dr. David Brownstein on. He's actually up there. He's in Ann Arbor, Michigan. Okay. Absolutely fascinating, fascinating guy. And he was just sharing his thoughts on, you know, what happened in 2020 and what the injectable did to us. And this was all public knowledge, but YouTube didn't like it very much. We got banned. So that was really hard. You know, a million views a month. We were printing a good bit of money at that point. But I'm grateful it happened because that's where ECA was born out of. I also teach people in that second cohort to launch a podcast and crush it. Like, I know you guys crush it with this podcast and lead generation. It's fantastic. And then the Grow It Eye podcast, we have a new season launching July 1st. We have 18 episodes recorded now. But I rebranded that to the Elite Coaching Cast as it is all 100% geared towards online coaches and anyone of the like who we talk really in-depth out of immune stuff, bodybuilding, PEDs, business scaling, all of that stuff. So we have some really cool stuff happening. But, man, it's really cool for me to be on this show. And I really appreciate you guys talking a ton. I hope there was some great value added. Dude, this is freaking awesome, man. This is the first time we've gotten to talk. I've watched some of your content and stuff. And I've been wanting to have this conversation for like a year, you know, literally now. I'm really glad that we could finally do this, man. And I got to tell you, Justin, just getting a chance to hang out with you here, I love your energy, dude. Like you are a very positive, cool person. I can see why people would gravitate. You know, you're like wherever I go, I can get people to gravitate. I can see why, man. Because it's like an infectious energy that you carry. And I think that's pretty cool. And it's special. Not everybody has that. I tell people that Justin's like the real voice of bodybuilding. Like, you know, that other guy, Bob, whatever, like, you know, screw him. Like, you know, we didn't. One thing I wanted to mention is or bring up, you're doing a great job doing the play-by-play. An actual bodybuilder that understands what goes into a contest prep, dryness, fullness, et cetera, for the Texas shows. Are you still doing that? Yeah. Yeah. So I'll definitely be doing that, you know, every year. I would love an opportunity to do it at the Olympia. And, you know, those convos have happened. You know, there's a little bit of politics in play there. But I appreciate that a lot. I also I hope to bring unique insight. But I think that the spotlight and bodybuilding needs to be more on the athletes rather than individual egos. And I hope when I commentate shows that that comes across. So the kind remarks from you guys really means a lot. I think that the way that we show up every single day is a choice. And the way that we leave people after we interact with them is a choice that we make. And I hope I leave you guys with a very positive interaction and be happy the rest of the day. And I encourage everyone else to do that, too. There's so much negativity. There's so much crap going on in this world. Why not us? Why can't we change? And there's no there's no answer other than we can. So you got that. That just it means the world to me, man. Thank you guys so much. And Olympia, bring me in to commentate this show. Let's go. Hell. Got my vote. Yeah, me too, man. This is cool. All right, guys. We appreciate everybody tuning in. And of course, leave us questions for the next show. Comment. What did you think about this one? If you have any follow up questions for Justin, you know, let him know. I'm sure that he'd be happy to answer. Head over to his social media. If you got questions for us, let us know. Of course, go to BodyBerry.com to reach out to Andrew for coaching. Go to I was going to. I guess you can still go to TeamSkiff.com if you really want to, even though he's not here. And hit me up at McNallyDiets at Gmail.com. Plus, of course, TrueNutrition.com. Use our code. Think over there. SupplementSource.ca for Canadians. And on the next show, Andrew and I are going to knock out a bunch of your Q&A from Patreon, guys. For another episode of Blood, Sweat, and Gear, we'll see you soon. Thank you, Justin. Yeah, thanks, guys. Peace. Peace.