Uh progesterone opposes estrogen. Um it, you know, it protects heart function, which gigantic because when you're on T3, you're probably using some yuhimine, you're probably using some climbuterol. Um and it it it um is still going to calm those adrenals. We can take T3 that doesn't get used in our body because we're our cells are not able to take it. Those enzymes that Andrew is alluding to, they aren't able to put it to use. So progesterone is going to calm the adrenals because if we don't have it in, then now you have high T3 that you're taking in that your body can't use, which is likely going to result in some of it being converted to RT3, which is going to result in adrenals overcompensating. So now we have T3 intake high, adrenals high, and we're just you feel horrible. What's up, guys? Welcome back to Blood, Sweat, and Gear with coaches Andrew Barry, myself, Scott Mcnal, Skip couldn't be with us, unfortunately. And we are joined by our guest, coach and bodybuilder Justin Mahaley. Thanks for joining us, brother. Hey, thanks for having me on. You know, we tried doing this like a year ago. Remember how weird that was? Oh, it was the worst. What happened like that? I don't know. I I blocked it out of my head, but thankfully we we got it figured out today. Traumatized. Guys, all of our programming is brought to you by trueutrition.com. Use our code think over there for additional savings on highquality thirdparty tested supplements from a company that you can trust. Supplements.ca for Canadians. Great deals that change week to week. And thank you to everybody from Patreon. Uh the next episode's going to be Andrew and I knocking out Q&A. So uh look forward to that and we'll take your Patreon questions there. But for now, we're just going to hang out and we're going to talk shop with Justin Mahaley. So Justin, we're I want to like just launch straight into this. We we don't want to get your whole background. like when was the first time you ever picked up a weight? But what you know what got you into bodybuilding? Like let me ask you this way. So Andrew and I combined, we've been coaching for like 30 plus years if you put us both together. Uh you know, how long have you been bodybuilding? When did you decide to get into coaching? You know, let's let's start there and then I know we've got a bunch of good stuff to dig into after that. Yeah, I'll try to be a master of brevity. My mom and dad, they tell an amazing story about when I was four or five years old. We would go to the grocery store and they would give me a Muscle and Fitness or some sort of magazine about muscles at the start and I wouldn't ask for toys. I wouldn't ask for candy. I would flip through the pages and I would look at dudes. My dad thought I was gay for Yeah, I was going to say that's the next thing I thought. So, I'm sure I'm sure all of our parents did well. All my parents did. But, you know, one day I saw Greg Plit and, you know, I wanted I just wanted to be like that. So, always an athlete. I was I was a really good athlete in high school. I got to run division one at University of Cincinnati. Um, track absolutely sucked in college, but man, I love our weight room. I'm not sure how many D1 weight rooms you guys have been in. I'm talking spectacle. Like, whatever the best bodybuilding gym is gets [\h__\h] on by a good D1 weight room. U different purposes, different functions. Yeah. different functions, but yeah, they've got all the good stuff. Jam, just stuff you don't normally see. Yeah, you definitely don't normally see. It was crazy. Um, went into school for exercise physiology, wanted to be a strength coach. Had a little taste in that with Cincinnati St. Xavier with UC basketball team. And uh, yeah, that wasn't for me. So then I started training people in person in LA Fitness, became a master trainer and uh me and Vince Pitstick were training at the same gym at the same time in LA Fitness and he had started coaching people online and this guy named Jason Theabold who you guys might know started heard of that people online one or two times and Allan Crest was coaching people online. So I started coaching people online for 25 bucks a month. I had a big Twitter following. Okay. Um, so I started coaching people along 25 bucks a month. And you guys, I was 21 when I did this. So I'm 32 now. I've been at it 11 years. So between the three of us, we're 40 years in. Can I Can I sign up for that $25 coaching? Yeah. No. Can we get in on that? My bio. Oh man, that's funny. So that's my genesis. But then track it didn't work out in college. You know, I'm not sure how close you guys fall to sports. I know when we were younger, we all probably followed it a good bit closer, but man, there's a lot of guys who are great in high school, and man, you get to college, you find out what great is. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, boy. Well, we talk about genetics and bodybuilding, but genetics in like speeds, football, it really all comes down to speed. Like, all right, let let me give you an an unpopular truth. You take one sprinter from the US track team and you train him bodybuilding or you take a linebacker from the NFL, you train him bodybuilding and bodybuilders won't have a chance with those. Those are freaks. I mean, I'm talking these guys cleats don't even uh their their feet don't even look like they're touching the ground. They're just propelling forward. And I'm like, "Brother, are you floating? Does gravity not exist for you? Cuz I'm feeling gravity right now." And I don't think you are. What What events did you run in? Uh 200400. Okay. Wow. Yeah. So, I was a sprinter. I was about 160 lbs when I quit track. And then my all-time biggest in bodybuilding. I I did hit 300. Um it was not a pretty 300. When I stopped bodybuilding, I'm not sure if Andrew, you know, Andrew and I were talking a lot around this time is around the time you were on my podcast, Andrew. I was 298. You guys, I was [\h__\h] g I was You looked uncomfortable. I was uncomfortable, but I it didn't matter what I touched, it was getting moved. I could if you you guys have known that feeling like Yeah. put anything in my hands and I'm going to move it right now. Yeah. That's one of the best feelings in the world, though. That's one of the reasons that I I see guys that are still at it at that level and I think of that feeling. You know what I mean? I know. And it's like I don't know if you guys feel this and speaking for myself, but I'm sure you guys are close to it. It's hard now post bodybuilding to just kill it in the gym every day when I'm not training for a show. I'm never going to hit a PR again. And I find that to be challenge. Do you guys struggle with that? Andrew, you're you're still Well, Andrew, you you're still hitting it pretty hard, man. Yeah, man. So, I still train like with my pro clients, so you know what I mean? like they they keep me on my toes and stuff whether like my training partner right now is a figure um athlete who's very you know she's she's she's a really good athlete but then people are flying in all the time to train with us so I kind of mentally have to get it up for that you know I just don't abuse the peeds like I used to but I'll tell you what like strength's a mindset you know what I mean like I programmed my brain to think that and the only thing that's holding me back these days is when I get hurt you know like like I think I might have a partial meniscus tear little things like that tendinitis that are probably more prevalent now than they were when I was actively competing. But um yeah, you know, and I also always say like you never know if I'm really done, you know, cuz I every now and then like I I have I catch a good burst and I'm able to get my six meals in every day and um supplements in on time and all that stuff and I'm like, man, I can do this. And then the day start the next day starts and you have a hundred emails and you're like, oh man, I can't even go to the gym today. So it's it's a lovehate up and down type thing. But I want to ask you though, Justin, what made you did you decide like you're done competing? You've had enough? Um, come on. Okay, that's what I'm That's what I'm getting at, too. Yeah. I mean, I'm I'm feeling good. I'm I'm about 244 right now. I can still lift, you know? It I'm happy if I go in the gym and I can stack every machine. I'm pretty happy with that. And I understand like that's a blessed position to be in. Most people never do get to that point, but come on. like when I was at my all-time freakiest. Like, it's not close. Man, it would take a lot. I want to start a family in the next couple years. I've got an unbelievable woman. Um, we're about we're about to uh move into a pretty insane home. Um, it's it's it's I would take a lot. like the businesses have fortunately exploded and early 30s I'm like 98% early 30s have the kids and then you know you have more time after they you know get to be a few years old and maybe even when I'm 50 I'll do like a master's program 50 well but it is interesting right because you you always dream about living the bodybuilding lifestyle and then you start doing it but you also start coaching and obviously other avenues and opportunities come your way financially and and things kind of come into perspective in that route, right? Like in terms of am I going to, you know, possibly shave a few years off my life by really hitting this really really hard or am I going to be healthier and build my bank account, my finances, my connections and go that route. I mean, it's it's all just about like what appeals to you, you know, as you continue to develop and and evolve as a human. I don't have that same chip on my shoulder I used to. And I think a lot of it is, you know, the the financial and and um professional success. It's after Reagan King won the NPC national championships last year in open bodybuilding. I mean, that really felt like it cemented it for me that that I I'm I'm cool. I'm good. And I I love watching you still get after it. I mean, you you know, you you and I never compete against each other. I love watching um people like you dominate coaching, people like Shane dominate coaching. Um I I'm enjoying watching from the sidelines, man. Right on. And you said, so you you were about to move into another house. You told us like you moved again. You're down in Austin. You had mentioned before we started you were up in Ohio. And what was the big thing? Like why did you decide to pick up and and leave beautiful Ohio for Austin? Beautiful Ohio. Why'd you settle for Austin? Why did I settle for Austin? I I think you guys can relate to this. something about something that bodybuilding taught me was if I'm comfortable, I'm not going to get any better. And I don't want that to come off cliche. What I want to come across as is I was in Ohio and um I was the best coach in Ohio and I was young and there was a lot of competition and I wanted to go be around people that push me. So I wanted to go to Dallas or I wanted to go to Houston or I wanted to go to LA or wherever. And this was 2018. This is before everyone, you know, moved to Austin. There wasn't much of a gym scene. My girlfriend at the time and I came down here and I wasn't feeling very motivated by a lot of things in Ohio. I wonder why. Um, and man, you come here and it's like, oh, people here like they're not just making six figures, they're making seven figures, they're making eight figures. They're busting. They're working. The coffee shops to work in. Like really the only thing it didn't have was great gyms. And I was like, you know what? There's a great gym 40 minutes north of downtown. It's called House of Gains. I can drive up there on the weekends. I can get my fix. But I have this optimistic delusion that I live in that if I build, if I come, other things will come, right? Like opportunity follows me. I attract that [\h__\h] So now we have insane gyms in Austin. I'm not saying it's because of me. I'm not taking that credit. I'm not saying that at all. What I'm saying is I moved here for the environment. the people pushed me. I love who I met. Um, at the time, every one of my friends was a bodybuilder and I wanted I want to be diverse. I want to be able to talk about everything. Um, unfortunately, I don't have a lot to tune in on on the subject I I hopped in on, which was guns, which is surprising I'm the one who lives in Texas, but um, I want to talk about everything and I want to be well verssed. So, we couldn't live here, but we came and we made it happen and we prospered. So, well, well, let me ask you because you are a big personality and I know you've had so many clients over the years. When you moved down there and you started talking up Austin, Texas, how many of your clients were like, "Yeah, you know what? I'm going to think I'm going to maybe make the move too and and then followed you." It was unreal. And, you know, at the time, that was my dream. Um, I want to have my clients that train with me every day. Like, I watched you and Nate do that. I watched um Matt and Dallas do that. I watched like Martin and Brett training together. you know, you watch Nick and Kyle were training together years and years and years ago. Still are. I And and now they still are. Again, um I wanted that. That that was my goal. And then, you know, um I was lucky enough to get an opportunity with an unbelievable athlete, Ashley Jones, and we were able to, you know, really that was my first taste of that was my first pro win. That was my first Olympia. That was my first everything. And that wouldn't have happened if I didn't come to Austin. And like I said, you know, if if anyone who tunes into this and listens to my scruffy voice over the next hours takes one thing like put yourself in position to where you are the low man on the totem pole. Um because Austin changed everything about me. It changed my whole life. And there's been a lot of heartbreak. There's been a lot of tough times. It's not been easy. Like all those clients that Andrew is alluding to that moved down like you know things didn't end the best with them. And often times that happens and if I can move forward and they can move forward with a clear conscious then it's it's all love for me. Um but that at the time that was my dream. So it was like there was like a what like Matt Jansen made Cam Jansen like there was definitely Cam Haley down here. Yeah. Now I remember just over the last couple years just oh no I I train with Justin or I'm coached by Justin. Oh where you from? I'm from Austin too. It's like oh okay like you definitely built a community from that city over. I'm not going to lie. I did. Well, honestly, I don't think anyone was talking about it as like a bodybuilding destination, right? With because I know you guys got like three pretty good gyms within a 20 mile radius. No one was potential destination until I think I heard you moving down there and then within a couple years. Now you got I mean I know like Austin Espie moved over there what last year. Best friends, man. Yeah. I mean like and he was at another bodybuilding hub over here in Tampa for a while. So um yeah. Yeah. No, it's definitely on the map as like a bodybuilding destination place to live for quality of life, good gyms. Um, we had Jess Reyes Padilla when she moved up to number two in the world. You know, she was training here. We were training at the same gym. Uh, she's she is a spectacular athlete. Oh my god. Um, you know, we had Ashley Jones. She moved down here and we were attacking. At one point, I had like seven or eight IFBB Pro clients who who turned pro with me who were down here. And yeah, man. I mean, that's that's amazing. But there's not enough attention to go around. Um, you know, that was my fault. I was young, dude. I was young and I thought that I could appease everybody. Yeah. Well, it's hard to do that and stay on top of your own progress, right? Yeah. They took the priority. They took the precedent. But I'm I I would do it the exact same way again if I could because the memories that I have with people, whether we talk or not, or whether we're on good terms or not, those me, man, you never you never ever ever ever will get those memories again. And I would I would never give them up, man. Yeah. I I can really thinking about some relation relationships I've had with clients over the years. Uh let me ask you, what is the difference? What how should I put this? Um what makes a good coach a great coach? Man, le let's be honest. Um not a lot separates us in the technicalities. We have our system. Yeah, I've learned from Andrew. I hope that I've taught been able to teach somebody, but I don't do Andrew's system. Andrew doesn't do my system. There there there was a client a couple years back who failed miserably with me that went to Andrew and they turned pro. And it's Who's that? Um gosh, I can't think of their name off the top of my head. And male or female? Come to me. It was a female. Um who? Bikini, dude. It was his figure. Was it Britney? Yes, Britney. Gotcha. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. She failed terribly with me. I wasn't the right coach for her. Andrew was the right coach for her. I think there's two things, Scott, and I think it's a great question. I think there's a lot of intricacies that we can kind of go upstream and say number one, you've just got to communicate in the manner that that client likes. And there's only, you know, um, at that time when Britney worked with me, I was kind of trying to not being friends with all my clients. I was terrified of a bad reputation. So, I was I was being very safe because I had made it and I was young. I was like 26 or 27. And I was terrified that one mishap would the ice would fall out underneath me and I would just go drown. And so, I was trying to pro I was in protection mode in survival mode because my nervous system hadn't been able to comprehend, no, I'm good and I'm making a lot of money. were winning a lot of shows because I am good at what I do. I didn't have that belief yet. I thought it was I thought it was all going to be taken. So you the coach has to communicate in a manner that the client loves and also I mean it's love languages right in a relationship if two people can can can sacrifice so much to be together but at the end of the day if it's not a fit it's not a fit. Yep. So that's one of the pieces. But then another piece, I mean, you know, it's kind of why I I don't train a lot of people anymore. I coach maybe 20 25 people max now is my god, you've got to love the game and you've got to love going to shows and you've got to love the process and you've got to love waking up at 4:00 a.m. to check them on Saturday and you've got to love the whole thing. And I mean, man, you know, I did that with a roster of over a hundred people for a very long time. And uh it's hard, but Matt Jansen had a chat with me. Um and then I'll hand it back to you guys after this. Matt Jansen, you know, uh I I was with Revive was one of their first athletes. I didn't leave on the best terms. It was my fault. 100% my fault. Uh he's someone who changed my life more than probably anybody else, including, you know, my own father. He he would be very real and honest with me about the es and flows of riding the midline. Don't let the wins go to your head. Don't let the losses go to your heart. I learned that a little bit too late. But he knew that I was going to do something pretty spectacular like what I'm doing now with ECA. He knew I was going to do something pretty spectacular outside bodybuilding because I just I love building companies. I love business. I love entrepreneurship. He and it he it just always stuck with me. When you don't love it anymore, don't force it. Yeah, it's really interesting you you bring that up. Um you know, not letting not letting yourself get too high off the wins, not letting yourself get too low off the losses because it's funny. We we all know Don Kuza. Um we've had him on the show a couple times. I saw him a couple weeks ago at the Michigan. We hung up. Yeah. So, you know, I'm sitting there hanging out with him and a coach that he mentors had just had an athlete make make a top five at at the Junior Nationals. Looked amazing. It's just some of the athletes were a little bit better. And he's like hanging his head and has this long look on his face and I'm like, "What's his deal?" And he and Dom's like, "Oh, dude." You know, he just takes every every nonpro card win or every non-win as a loss. And I'm like, "Oh, he just hasn't done this long enough." Like, you win some, you lose some. And you're friends with the coaches that coach the athletes that beat your athlete. Like it's it's kind of like um I I would imagine it's probably how parents are when they go and they know each other and on opposing teams and you know Johnny's baseball team is playing against you know Frankie's team and and it's like yeah we just want them to have fun and and to perform their best you know obviously we kind of keep score with with with the pro card wins and the placings and stuff but at the end of the day it's all about improvement in the sport and and I that's what I told him. I'm like dude your athlete looks amazing. He improved from two weeks ago when he was just won a show like you should be excited and happy. You know, the problem with winning too much too early is it does go to your head and it gives you confirmation bias and you you don't learn anything from winning. You will never learn anything from winning. You just you I just I say you guys can disagree with that. I know a lot of people do. I don't believe I I personally have not learned from winning. I I learned from losing. And I would I I want more people to put themselves in position. This has nothing to do with bodybuilding. I want you to put yourself in position to just lose a little bit more. I I I I'll half agree. I I'm going to half agree with you because I do think you do learn something from winning. Part of it is like the confidence and the proof, you know, that you can do it. But I will agree that it I'll put it this way. I feel like some of my most difficult clients were the clients who won the most. Yeah. I'll follow that up though with with because I I tend to agree more with Justin on this. Well, I'm I am agreeing with Justin. I'm just No, I'm not saying I'm If you're 50/50, I'm I'm 8020, I'll say. Right. Because I do agree with you because if you win, it means that the way you prepared and what you planned for the expected outcome happened, right? True. True. Whereas when you lose, okay, and by losing, I mean in our case, we can't control who shows up. We can't control if some guy who has gotten second place at nationals three years in a row shows up and it's just his time. We can't, you know, we're not messing with that. Yeah. But if we set up variables that we could control, dryness, fullness, those types of things, preparedness, and we didn't, if I have an athlete that like I wanted to get him drier based off of his qualifier show to this one and it didn't happen, that's something I can learn from. What did I do wrong in that two or three week period of time or in the last two to three days before the show? That's that's the learning thing. And that and that's what I'm taking from this conversation that that Justin brought up about you you learn more from your losses than your wins. I think Scott I think I think Scott brings up a point too like I think the three of us were probably in a blessed position to talk about this conversation like yeah we we've won a lot and so maybe it's hard to think back on like when a client missed a pro card to junior nationals and at the time that was everything. Um yeah at a certain point he got to get a W or else you're not going to have any client there. Okay. I've told this story before and you'll you'll appreciate this Justin because you know Shane and um you remember the year I don't know if it was 2017 or 2018 but Shane had 46 pro cards in that one year. Okay, that that's a career for a lot of people but in one season he had 46. But the following year it had been like Junior Nationals and Junior USA had already gone and he hadn't had a pro card yet. And after Junior Nationals he's just got this look on his face like I I guess I'm getting a real job. I guess I'm I'm done coaching. I have no idea what I'm doing. And even like the first day of Universe when I saw him, he was kind of pacing around like had this look on his face like I guess I suck now, you know, until he won like three or four that day. But it was just like Shane, dude, like save some for the rest of us, you know? Like you had 46 last year. That's amazing. I don't know if anyone will ever do that again. I won't listen to anyone who doesn't tell me. And yeah, we can get into schmantics and technicalities. I won't listen to anyone that that that uh would tell me that Shane's not up there with the goats. Yeah. Oh, he's in my opinion, he's he because here's the thing. The guys that we typically coaches we typically think of as goats, you know, they get Ferraris to work on and you they they get already olymp already Olympia qualified people like proven talent. Very few of them build people up. They usually work with other coaches and then they move on to them when they just need that little extra sprinkling. And I'm not convinced that some of those goats are as good as we think they are because are what they doing? Are the athletes looking their way the way they do despite what the coaches are doing or because of it? You know, whereas Shane takes like your average looking people and like in 6 12 18 months turns them into IFBB pros to where you're like that is mindboggling, dude. Like props to you. Like you know what you're doing. Actually, I want to take that a step further. Shane Shane Hugley, you're talking for for anybody at home. Yeah. A a few years ago, as we all have been blasted on Reddit because the lifestyle we live, there was this huge thing on Reddit about Shane pushing these drugs and doing this thing and doing that thing and all that. Shane has more natural pros than if there's someone more natural pros, show them to go meet them because he Shane's dialed. He posted a transformation earlier today. It was a girl in like two months or may maybe that was dramatic. Maybe it was four or five months. whatever it was, Natty who looked like a normal person and then hired Shane and now is about to compete. I don't know when she's competed. I don't know how far out she is. Her glutes when she hits a back shot look like professional glutes. Shane did that. Yes. And and I I will I will you know when when things have been tough my way, Shane has always stood up for me and always reached out for me and I will always stand up for that guy. that that guy his his to me, you know, Matt Jansen had a huge effect on me. So, he's on my Mount Rushmore and Shane's on my Mount Rushmore as well. For sure. You know, a lot of people talk about Matt like, well, he got Dallas, he got this, he got Man, Matt made me look absolutely insane when I was just a dude. I was just a normal dude and then I, you know, Matt had me dominating shows. So, um, I saw the process with him. Um, but man, Shane, he might have that first face on Mount Rushmore with me. I I feel like there's a lot of coaches that are from Shane's line of thinking um or I should say a lot of people have this opinion of coaches like him or um like AJ Sims where oh they're just making you work harder for no reason and it's like no like they're making you work as hard as it takes to look that way because the athlete looked that way on stage that day. That's what it took. So whether it's two and a half hours of cardio, whether it's zero carbs for 2 months, like like he finds the hardest workers, both of them find the hardest workers in the room and just direct them and channel that energy into greatness. And and I think that's a sign of a great coach being able to recognize who are going to be the hardest workers in the room. Who wasn't just born with these great genetics or you know who who's who's willing to work hard when it's not easy. I think that's a good trait of a good coach is finding those people. I like that. Man, that's a great point. I like that. Hey, on uh the note of peeds, uh you know, back back in the day, I'd say when I first started into bodybuilding, they weren't talked about as much, but you know, good decade or so ago, maybe even a little bit longer, I feel like I feel like there was a lot more like openness that started happening. And today, man, I go to my Instagram and just like person after person is telling me what I need to do with this drug and how to manage that drug. Do you think that we're in a better place today with all of the peed education that's out there? What a good question. Do I think we're in a better place? It depends how the information Well, some of the information is kind of straightforward. So, you know, um I I I love peptides and leveraging peptides and I I just man, my god, what peptides are able to do to a physique, to your mitochondrial health, to your metabolic health, to your recovery, to like the greater I'm I promise I'm not going to go on one of my little Justin Haley rants about the mitochondria, but the That's all right. We're here for that. the greater your mitochondria can utilize ATP, the greater your body is able to recover because the immune system um activation and not overactivation, the greater you can sleep, the greater you can do these things, the way better less peeds work. Yeah. And I mean we we were talking about Reagan King who just won the NPC national championships. Um, you guys would be amazed at the cycle going into nationals. And you'd be amazed that ever since then, you know, he's on two to 300 mix of tests a week and training three days per week and he's 280 pounds and just like he's primed for his pro debut next year and he's going to be a threat in his pro debut. And it's not because I'm a good coach. It's because we're leveraging peptides and he's doing the recovery and he's doing the thing. I I think that there's I there's so much education about peeds, but then there's also glorification of things like um like you know trend and yeah like do we all like how we feel the first couple weeks on trend? Absolutely. But we've got to also understand the downside of that is there's not a lot of core function that your body's happening. I have a little bit of an unpopular opinion that I don't think after a show we should just pull trend out because we have to be able to get our cortisol back online before we pull it out or you're interesting flat. so emotionally flat and that takes time that takes tapering also you know trends great and nutrient partitioning after a show you know a lot of people um you know this there's no right or wrong I have a system in my system we're not pulling T3 right after a show we're pulling T3 when we get things like body temps and whatnot back online food super high cardio super low so I think there's an over glorification of things um and the reality is the best bio hack that a man can do in their body is take testosterone. And the best biohack a woman can do in their body is take some sublingual progesterone. And I'll stand on that till end of time. If you can leverage testosterone, then you're going to go I mean, dude, there's there's disagree with can't disagree with anything you just said from the post show to the leveraging hormone. Yeah. None of that. I 100% agree with that system. Yeah. I appreciate that. I like that. What do you think is the most and and I feel like you kind of said something about trend right there, but what do you think is the most m misunderstood compound out there right now or or one of them? It has to be trend. It has to be trend. Like if it's not trend, I I guess I would just I guess I would be, you know, pretty surprised. I mean, you know, as soon as you as soon as you take Tren, it kind of shuts off your your cortisol at the pituitary level. But you know then along with that we're going to stress this we're going to stress this stress signaling or or increase this stress signaling at the brain at the receptor. So it's like we don't have like cortisol resistance. you'll feel wired or you'll feel flat or you feel anxious, you might feel inflamed or um we have HPA desensitization so on and so forth that it's like man, you know, tr I've personally I don't think I've ever put Tren in someone where I just like see all this muscle start being gained. Have I put Tren in somebody and see them look better? Yeah. If it's done at the right time and they're freaking seven weeks out and they're pretty dang lean, absolutely that happens. Um, but you I mean I I think that there's a misunderstanding of maybe cortisol. I think there's a misunderstanding of kind of how all these compounds work together. Um, I think there's an overuse of things like DHEA when we're on trend, when our body is not quite sure what to do with downstream sex hormones and so on and so forth. Um, I I I the reason why I'm focusing on trend is because there's just 20-year-old dudes taking it and like Yeah, dude. I I I don't even if you're a 20-year-old dude prepping for a show. And I'm not saying I I I I I'm not saying I'm perfect by any means of how I prep people, but I'm just not I'm not sure that's a very good way to to to to run this drug. But I already talked about trends. So I mean I I guess like Winstrol Winstrol is going to make me dry and veiny. Like Yeah. Yeah. If you're already dry and veiny. Yeah. Make you veier. Well, to that, you know, point, I think, um, well, here's what I get a lot, you know, when when we get around the seven week mark or six weeks out mark, I get a lot of people like, "Hey, when are we going to throw the wind straw in or when are we going to throw this in?" And my whole thing, I I'm always like, "Look, I want you to look a certain way before we throw it in because I don't want to fool my own eyes with thinking that you're a little drier, a little harder than you really are, you know, because like pictures and seeing someone in person or on stage are very different things." and you know, oh, you know, when I'm a little bit dehydrated at the gym, but I got a good pump at the same time, that might make me think a certain thing that we're we're right on track and we got of a three to four week outlook. Whereas, like I don't want you to be uh be using those hardeners until we actually have that look solidified. That way, it's like a guarantee that you're going to show up in shape and I'm not fooling myself, you know? Yeah, I love that. You You know what another one might be, you guys, just to maybe add a little bit more value here, is um T3. I think T3 can be better utilized as well. Um, you know, I'm a huge nerd on I'm not sure if you guys have seen any of the stuff I talk about with like the body temps and whatnot. Yeah, go into detail about that. I think our listeners would like to hear about the body temperature. Um, you have your athletes tested pretty much every check-in, right? Every checkin, we have two or three days of body temperature. So, um, the the the TLDDR here um is your body temperatures are a direct measurement of metabolic health. Yeah. So yeah, we can look at T3, we can look at RT3. You know, TSH is it's it's not overly important as a standalone in context with everything else that's very important. We look at prolactin, we look at estrogen. You know, if we're if we have high estrogen, low progesterone, then that estrogen is going to be an anti thyroid, right? And also, you know, I I think AIS might be a little bit overused. But, um, I I think if we just clear liver detox pathways and have good good gut health that we can really get rid of a lot of estrogen recirculation just through that. Um, so the body temps is a really huge thing to measure the metabolic health. Why is this? Your body takes food and food gets broken down. That food is supposed to be used as fuel and to create ATP. So when we create ATP there's that's adinine triphosphate. It takes some heat to do that. So after a meal your body should heat up and you can measure this by we do fasted first thing in the morning body type measurements and then 30 to 40 minutes post meal one and two and we should see this gradually go up during the day. Now okay at night before bed if you have healthy circadian biology then we're going to start seeing this drop back down even after meals and whatnot. Right? That's just your body working very healthfully. Even after you consume meal five and it's 8 pm, body temperature is going to rise a little bit, but we really want it to come back down, right? So, how I utilize T3 in a prep is well, once these body temps start start dropping, one, we're not going to start prep under 976 fastid body temperature, which pretty standard. That's where a healthy metabolism should wake up. And then we want to eclipse 986 during the day. You know, 986 is that's a very healthy metabolism, man. If someone's equipping 99 on the day, like, dude, we're running. Like, we're running pretty dang hot. So, as soon as this starts dropping down, every one degree that it drops, you lose 10 to 12% of your BMR. This is super important because this has to be overcompensated for. So, if it drops down to 966 and you're doing the same output, eating the same diet, eating the same whatever, this is just metabolic down regulation, right? This is your metabolism adjusting to what you have been doing in your protocols. Well, um, contest prep is very high output and low intake. So, the first mover we do is super high carb based. I pull protein down crazy low. And carbohydrates, especially like white rice, like carbohydrates, even sugar, which is so demonized. put someone with low body temps, have them literally have like a teaspoon or a tablespoon of sugar and watch what happens. And their body temps going to go up. That forces more T4 to T3 conversion to happen. As long as you have good liver health. So with the body temps, once we stop seeing the raise from the refeed, then that's when we bring T3 in. Now I simply, you know, before I really understood body temperatures and and the effects that it has on us, I was le I was uh basing my high days and my refeed days uh solely off of training performance um how your feet feel when when you wake up in the morning off of your look. But what I've noticed is after leveraging ProJest E, that's sublingual progesterone. So I don't use oral or cream that sublingual progesterone mixed in vitamin E. Um, and MCT oil that cal that calms your adrenals. It's like a little blanket. Like when when you're sick and you're shivering there as a kid and your mom comes and puts a blanket on you, calms you down. Well, during prep, we have way more adrenal turnover than than um in an offseason phase when food is high and output's low. So, progesterone also because it calms the adrenals, way less water retention, way more fat burn because we have way greater metabolic health. As soon as our adrenals start overcompensating with their hormones, that's what's using your food. And so your body temperatures won't rise. And you can tell this by simply taking your body temperatures. Every single refeed I do now is just solely based off of the body temperatures. Um, if I'm doing a refeed, we're going to have a rest day. We're not going to do cardio. We're going to do 6,000 steps or so and make that food stick. So the body temperatures, if they go low, it just it's it's that just means there's low cell power. So inside of your cell, there's not like there's not a thyroid deficiency. We just we're just not turning over ATP the way that we should. So we bring in the T3 at that point. We want to see temps over 976 upon waking. Oh, another one. People like love this super low pulse rate. Like, oh my gosh, like my my pulse rate's 48 beats per minute. That's not great. That's means your body is not pumping blood or pumping nutrients through it the way that we want it to. So, you know, we want to see that pulse really saying over 60 an entire prep. Um, and then, you know, when we see those temps drop, how I use T3, this doesn't mean it's the right way. This is my system is we're going to start and the first stage is just going to be 6.25. I'm going to gauge when we start T3 off of damn we just had three straight refeed days the temperature is just not sticking. So we know that after we have these super high carbs which are not going to be coupled with high fats or high protein. This I mean this is a carb heavy meal plan. We know that we're giving the body the energy that it needs and it's not getting where it needs to go. Bring T3 and 6.25. you just assess the temperatures and make sure they go up in the way that you want. Most people 6.25 isn't enough of a mover. Um, that does kind of get into some mitochondrial health and whatnot, but in most people, I mean, it's kind of amazing to see how far 12 and a half mics goes. And um, you know, I I I think that I think it's a really good way to do it because when we of course think it's a good way to it's my way. So, but but when we bring T3 in, I just they feel better. the fatigue gets way better. It's just like Tren, if it's brought in at the wrong time, it's not going to do a lot for us. Like that first week after we bring T3 in, it's like, oh [\h__\h] this is a five pound drop. This the waist measurement went down a half of an inch. Now what do we get to do? Now we literally get to for a short period of time add more food, get more fat loss, make them more resilient, and also food is dopamine when you're hungry. Yeah. Now we have more dopamine. Now we have more drive. Now we're able to get to the gym. now we're able to really attack things. So, I I know it's kind of a long range really passionate that that people can leverage. Um, and also I think it does kind of foolproof the prep. Now, before uh that same process that we did to go on T3, we repeat that process before we bump the T3. So, when I get you you're going to end up at 12 and a half mics before I bump you to 25, which I'll touch on that in a second. bookmark that before I bump you to 25. Three straight days, temps aren't quite getting where we need them to go. So then that's when we bump the dose and I do subsequent 6.25 microgram dosages um throughout the day. So we'll do 125 in the morning, 6.25 4 hours later, 6.25 four hours later. We don't want to take it before bed because now in the middle of the night, pulse rate is going to go up. When the T3 starts hitting, your body temp's going to go up and we want to be real nice and calm. Now, the last note that I I promise this will be the last note on this rant. We bring in T3. We have to use glycine in the evening to ensure that our body is cooling enough at night to still get you into a deep sleep. One thing I'll add to that because people might be wondering like why is 97 or 98.6 so important? That's the temperature that our enzymes need to be most bioactively available to be doing their most work. So, it's kind of like in how you're describing it, Justin, once you get um once you get the engine running, it almost has an additive effect of its own for making the processes that we want to have happen, whether it's detox, whether it's fat loss, uh just energy production in general. U getting your body temperature up has it's more than just like, oh, I I'm not sick today or I'm I'm um I'm optimal. You know, there is a reasoning behind it. It's what the enzymes need, the heat point. They need to be uh as active as possible. Yeah. I I I I I think that's an amazing point. Uh can I make one more note that promises? We're here for you, man. We're here to listen to you, bro. I I will also say that there's not a lot of black and white. I think the glycine with the T3 is black and white. And I think for men and women both, I think that progesterone alongside T3 is uh I would say it's 99.99% of the times it's going to be absolutely needed because I mean it's going to calm the brain. So we're not going to be as excited. It's going to support thyroid receptor sensitivity. So you you know you got we've all had people that need like 50 mics of T3. Dude, they don't need 50 mics of T3. they don't have receptor sensitivity to make that T3 work. Uh progesterone opposes estrogen. Um it, you know, it protects heart function, which gigantic because when you're on T3, you're probably using some yohim. You're probably using some climberol. Um and it it um is still going to calm those adrenals. We can take T3 that doesn't get used in our body because we're our cells are not able to take it. Those enzymes that Andrew is alluding to, they aren't able to put it to use. So progesterone is going to calm the adrenals because if we don't have it in, then now you have high T3 that you're taking in that your body can't use, which is likely going to result in some of it being converted to RT3, which is going to result in adrenals who overcompensating. So now we have T3 intake high, adrenals high, and we're just [\h__\h] and you feel horrible. Well, also to add to that, and it's going to confuse the coach or doctor who's looking at your labs and says, "Wait a minute, your T3 is through the roof. Why aren't you dropping?" Like, you know, and if you you do have those high levels of T3, you're probably dealing with digestive issues as well. You're probably having diarrhea multiple times a day and not having solid movements. Great point. Yeah. Yeah, I mean a whole I mean just there's whole host of other side effects that will manifest other than you know the important stuff you're talking about like you know bowel uh issues for instance irritability lack of being able to sleep. So the the point about the glycine and the progesterone I think that's a great takehome for people that are using um any type of thyroid product in general but uh and you're talking about with dosing for the progesterone what are you looking at? So, I use the ProJest E. So, like I said, it's sublingual. Um, usually I have it on me. Here's another huge cheat code that I have in uh Preps is the magnesium oil. Yep. Okay. I like it. I I man, I just love it all over like all over upper body. Rub it into like everywhere before night uh before bed. It's gigantic. Um, can we cut to a video of him like like just rubbing it on? Can we Can you do one of those for us later? Like it's getting glazed and I have magnesium lotion on. Yeah. Put some good meat porn music on there. Soft. I picture it now. Yeah. On a casting couch. Wait. Now it's getting My dad was right. Hey, what's up, guys? I wanted to take a break from the podcast and do something that would be a little bit different to keep you entertained while I do my True Nutrition ad. So, I brought Maddie with me. I want to let you know Oh, she doesn't like the mic. I want to let you know that uh the code think now offers 10% off at True Nutrition. That's the main thing I want to tell you. You know, I talked to the people over there. We got that set up and now I get commission on orders. So, I get 5% off or you guys get 10% off. I collect 5% commission. There's people coming. Don't you bark. There's a dog walking by. It's okay. You're all right. Anyway, uh I'm going to put a link in the description and uh I think that if you use that link, it'll add it'll put the code in automatically, but uh it's code think. It helps to support the show. You guys get awesome supplements in the process. Let me know if you have any questions. I'm going to place an order myself this weekend for the cookie butterflavored whey isolate cold filtered. Maddie, she's got nothing to say on that one. Anyway, that's it guys. We appreciate you guys watching the shows. appreciate you supporting the programs. Let's get back to it. Um, when you have high stimulants, which there's not a lot of preps that don't have high stimulants, calcium and magnesium get even more important because you use so much more of it. Magnesium's like that's not to put one electrolyte over the other electrolyte. Like we're really getting into semantics at that point and that's probably not so important but magnesium. Yeah. I mean every cellular process in the body near nearly uses magnesium. So like you don't want to go deficient and now and calcium too though. So calcium is interesting because when you start like losing your losing your your your um um contractions like when you're super flat um and you're like well you know my my potassium is four and a half and my sodium's six a day which by the way if you're drinking too much water that doesn't matter hydrated but if you had calcium in there um and I like wholesome sources of calcium the supplementation like sure whatever uh you guys might think this is crazy like I'll use some A2 to milk in prep to get that calcium to get that vitamin D to get that vitamin K. Like as an owner of a supplement company, I still say um let's get it from Whole Foods as much as we can and you know I I'll bring that in and it really does help a lot. But again, we have to think about the athletes mental state. You start posing and you're flat, but flat's where you need to be to lose more fat. They're in the gym and they're frustrated and they're texting their girlfriend like, "I feel so small. This sucks. I can't feel anything. yada yada. Dude, if we can get two more days out of a push because we're able to get contractions back through leveraging calcium. And of course, this is assuming that potassium and sodium are taken care of. Yeah, man. Two more days of a push when your body's depleted and we're really moving. There's not a lot of glycogen. We're really moving fat. Oh my gosh. I mean, that's that's the difference between you got shredded as hell first stage with every muscle fiber popping or we had to refeed a bit too much and you were 95% there, which will win most regional shows, the NPC. You didn't quite get there. Yeah. For for me, that's that's that's a really big one. Yeah. I love that, man. I love that. Hey, I've got something else that I I know we're going to set you off straight into the next rant, but you you mentioned mitochondrial health and optimizing mitochondria a couple few times now, and this is something I'm absolutely fascinated with. Uh I won't go into my whole story, but I had gotten sick several years ago with uh the the bug that everybody was talking about in 2020. dude unraveled my life and through working to improve my mitochondrial health, I'm finally like able to consistently train again. My brain finally doesn't feel foggy like it was and I it's such a huge change that I'm getting. I want to learn from you like you might have some stuff for me man. So like lay it on us like what do we need to look at? Yeah. So how I kind of view the body, anything that happens, it starts in the mitochondria and then we just kind of work up from there all the way to like symptomatology, right? Our mitochondria uses all fuel. Our body responds to everything. That is the backbone of our entire life. And you know, we have great metab um mitochondrial health, we're going to have great metabolic health. Um when we have great mitochondrial health, that's why um you know, like food becomes fuel. You grow way more. Stress just becomes a signal, which is a good signal. Like stress is a signal for the body to change rather than a signal for the body to shut down. Drugs become leverage. Like a little bit of testosterone goes a really long ways. Um I mean, think about think about um like fat loss. So if we have high oxidation, then we're probably going to be in a storage mode because your body doesn't feel very safe. So when we have great mitochondrial health, which to me is some body temp related, it is a feeling of well-being in terms of your mental state, um it's your your resting pulse rate, all of that. When we have great mitochondrial health, we're not going to have this hormonal collapse. We're not going to have a lot of muscle loss during prep because the food becomes storage. Mitochondria, they that that regulates protein synthesis, that regulates um your your mTor pathways. It regulates androgen receptor uh activity, regulates nitrogen retention, which once nitrogen drops during a prep, that's how we uh that's how we start sparing amino acids to use as fuel. Um so we're going to have fuller muscles from that even on fewer carbs. But if we have mitochondria dysfunction, we have poor aromatase clearance, which just means aromatase is just that's how much of the aromatizing drug you're taking in like testosterone or MPP, uh, trembolone. We have to clear these things out. We want them to pass through our body one time and then clear out. If we have poor mitochondrial dysfunction, they're just going to kind of clog in there, right? Thank you. Thank you. Because we have so many people that say, "I'm a high aromatizer." When in reality, it might be that they're just not clearing it. You're you're just not clearing it. If you have gynecomastia, you don't have good mitochondrial health. If you have mood swings, you're not going to have great mitochondrial health. Um you're going to have lower ROS, reactive oxygen species. These are inflammation. We're going to have more NAD, which is cellular um cellular not health, cellular cleanup. I kind of view NAD as what goes into the cell and it sweeps everything up and and and then it gives it to the to the liver to be able to push out in the bile, right? Um we're going to have uh less prolonged soreness. Um we're going to have faster turnover for more muscle building sleep resilience. A huge one, we're going to have healthier CO2. People stop losing fat when our CO2 goes real low and our body is not actually getting the the CO2 turnover that it needs. GABA response this melatonin response this um like the entire body works based off of what are our mitochondria able to do. Are they able to use food as fuel, sleep as fuel, peeds as fuel, peptides as fuel, so on and so forth or are these things are is this going to be a lock if if you have poor mitochondrial health, it's a lock on the physique. We're not able to make progress, right? Um, so I I I think that prep, there's nothing that pushes the body like a contest prep or like a marathon prep or whatever the case may be. And your HRV goes to [\h__\h] your rim sleep goes to [\h__\h] I mean, did like, so it it's it's insane what happens. But maybe the most important part is our immune system. Our immune system is just our immune system is what signals to the body to build more muscle to it signals to the body to recover. to the body to fight off infection. Um, and so, you know, we we if you want to have the best physique of your life, we need to support mitochondria health. Um, ubiquininal, you know, creatine, alipoic acid. Um, you know, methylin blue can be good in a prep. But, I mean, the reality is take some goddamn SS31 peptide and that is going to rebuild that mitochondria right up. And, and you take that throughout prep, that plus glow. glow is TB-500, BPC-157, GHK-Cu al together. Take those two during prep and tell me you don't have the best [\h__\h] look um of your life. I mean, you're you're absolutely going to and and you're going to get there with less mood swings, with less irritability, less peeds. Um mitochondria helps everything. If you have something wrong in the body, if you have even, you know, you Andrew and Scott, do you guys realize when we reverse somebody out of a prep successfully, you just reverse a short-term autoimmune condition? Oh, 100%. I I feel that way 100%. Every autoimmune condition is when we have poor mitochondrial health and we have poor metabolic health, all these chains start getting yanked on. Yeah. So, you know, women who have PCOS or women who or men who have like sleep apnea, whatnot, which some of that, yes, when you get to a muscle density to where there's so much in here. Yeah. You know what? That's not like a mitochondrial thing, but it's also not normal to have sleep apnea. Like, um, we're humans. Gorillas, there's not a lot of of cases of sleep apnea and gorilla. And now, I know these three different things. No, that's a good point though. 100 bodybuilders will get crushed by one gorilla. Well, maybe the gorilla is gonna get tired eventually, but we are I'll coach from the sidelines. I don't want in the action. Yeah. But, um I I I I think that it's um I I just I think that it's very important to keep these things in mind while we prep because the reality is um there's a point in the offseason where a lot of guys become a short-term type 2 diabetic. Oh, yeah. Um there's a lot of times I mean an autoimmune condition is your immune system is not acting right and responding right. So you can even look at cybo, you can look at, you know, obviously Crohn's is autoimmune, obviously IBS, like all this stuff, it really is fixable. And I hate that, you know, people don't know that, but it starts in the mitochondria. As soon as you have poor mitochondrial health, you're just yanking the chain, which you know why people don't know about it is because medical doesn't know about it. You know, like for instance, if like like my dad has a couple autoimmune diseases and yeah, I kind of sat by on the sidelines and I'd throw in my two cents here and there and I was like, "Listen, need to talk to your doctor about this, this, and that." And sure enough, she was very open-minded. Luckily, we very luckily. Exactly. Yeah. You know, and um within like two months, his condition started to like improve drastically. And this is a guy who wasn't unhealthy, overweight, or anything. He exercised every day of his life, but something in his life was causing this autoimmune disease. It actually got triggered by um full body um what do you call poison oak? He got poison oak one time full body and then that started triggering all these autoimmune diseases for like the next 101 15 years. And I was just looking at the traditional, you know, oh, hit it with predinazone, hit it with this and that, like mask the condition, ma mask the symptoms, but don't actually treat. And I, not to go into long story about my own father, but it was just, I think my back to my main point is that medical doesn't understand this. Well, think about how many times, Justin, do you look at a at a pair at a set of female labs and you can see clear-cut estrogen dominance or or no, you ask them to get labs and they're like, "Okay, I'll go to my doctor." the doctor doesn't even order progesterone or they don't even talk about what time of the month to get their labs done or they refuse to order certain labs that you think are very important. It just shows you the lack of understanding with your GPS and and even your hormonal specialists on some of these conditions. Yeah, I started figuring some of the stuff out on my own with it just through trial and error of looking at these different things that would help and I found ubiquininal was was one that I noticed I noticed a difference. So, I started ramping the dose up and seeing, well, what happens if I take a little more? What happens if I take a little more? And it's really expensive, you know. So, getting up to like 600 plus a day was, you know, no easy, no cheap task. But, yeah, Andrew, I went to my doctor and I said, I I I'm not sure why yet, but I noticed this is making a big difference. And she says, well, that's good for your heart. You know, that's like all she could that was the beginning and the end of it, you know, for her. So, yeah. with SS31. I don't know much about it, but it somebody put that in my ear and that is one that I've been suggested to check out. So, I'll have to look into that. Oh, you're on mute or we lost you? One of the two. Oh, we still lost you. If you look down at your speaker and your microphone on the uh Is it on the screen? No. There you go. We're good. We hear you. We got you. We are. Goodness. My bad. I've got this real light uh mute button over here that I think I tap. Um Skip does it all the time. Oh, it's like the space bar and like mutes, but he freaks out. How's it happen? Um progesterone super fast. I would love to chat about that. So, an issue that we have with progesterone is when a female's low progesterone um it's pretty it's about 80% the same in men, but obviously progesterone is a proestation hormone. So in a female after um cons conception occurs and uh the body is going to raise progesterone to protect the fetus so that we have a healthy pregnancy right that means that progesterone is what makes the body feel safe. The issue with oral progesterone and even I have seen transdermal progesterone if we have issues going on like any autoimmune issue um we are going to put and so an autoimmune issue the first thing to go is the gut and the liver. The gut and the liver have been compromised for so long. And so that's where we're going to start to fix these issues, right? We have to get boflowing, which people do not have good detoxification. Our environment is set up for this. And you know, we can dive into all that if you guys really want to go down that rabbit hole. I'm sure some people would enjoy it. But thing that things like hormonal birth control, things like SSRIs, things like aluminum heavy vaccinations, do they do cause and effect? I'm not saying don't, you know, get vaxed. I'm not saying I'm not making a stance. I know what I would do and not do and that's not for me to share with other people. What I'm saying is if we're going to put an oral progesterone into a gut that has dispiosis and into a liver that has poor bile flow and we're going to expect that this progesterone is going to get used in the body, then I I mean I think that we are just we're like, are we Harry Potter? Is this magic all of a sudden? No, it's not going to get used the way you want it to get used. The liver can't even convert T4 to T3 in this state, let alone get a proestation hormone broken down and into the bloodstream. And we just look at your girls labs when they go from oral progesterone to something like a proestee. And no, I I have no affiliation with Pro Jessie. I don't think they know I exist, but I did notice that they've raised their prices about $9 since I started talking about it. So maybe I should have some equity. Um, you should. But but if we take the progesterone, the protest E again, MCT, vitamin E, uh and and and micronized progesterone, and we put that under our tongue or um you know, even put it on your skin, but I usually go under the tongue, that goes right into your bloodstream. right under our tongue, we have a [\h__\h] ton of blood vessels, um, capillaries, what you I guess just blood vessels that this is going to go transermal directly into the body. So for men, because Andrew asked me about dosing a long time ago, I went on a rant. Men, we're going to start about two drops in the evening. Women will typically start about three or four. Um, and we if if somebody starts waking up and they have really low body attempts, we'll do one of those drops in the morning as well to kind of calm the adrenals a bit more, empower them the metabolism to unlock. Um, and it makes a gigantic difference. But, you know, to to the point, Andrew, I'm sure your dad's in a similar situation as mine, like yours actually listened to you. mine struggling to come around to realizing that you know doctor you know my my unfortunately my dad's life has been greatly shortened by statins and um sorry to hear that it's it's yeah it's tough every time you know we FaceTime every other week and each time he's he looks a little bit older than he did last time not really love he's 62 that's way too young for that to be happening but it's it's an age thing by the way give him like 8 to 10 more years and he'll start listening more you know I feel like it's also like people our parents age like they still think everything that like Fox or CNN News tells you is is the truth. And like regardless of whatever side they're on, like if the news says it, then it must have happened. There's no spin on it. So it it's kind of funny because you're like, "Dad, I literally help a thousand people a year with with very particular health issues. Like just sit down and like let me be a consult with you." You know, let me tell you a funny story about that. So you know, recently and and this this is not a political statement at all. There were some protests and whatnot, but Austin, Texas, um, you know, it was on Fox News that Austin, Texas had all these protests and whatnot. So, I wake up from, uh, from a great slumber because I took progesterone before bed with some glycine. Um, I woke up from an amazing slumber and my dad is very concerned. Justin, they're they're writing and all and they're protesting all the time. What's going on? So, I FaceTime in the morning on my stroll across town. I walk to Lifetime Fitness, about a 15-minute walk. I'm like, "Dad, like everything here is perfectly fine. Like you cannot be more downtown than I am and it is not happening." Um, but you know, like you you just you can't believe all those things. Um, but their generation it they they struggle. They they struggle really bad with it. Um, but you know, it's sad. I I saw what, you know, the the medical uh industry did to my grandfather and, you know, he was a vegetable at 70 and it's like, "Dad, like, come on. Let's not let's not go down that same route." Um, yeah, that's my that's my little rant about the news sources. I don't have a lot of good things to say about him. Yeah. I've got a couple fun questions to ask you here. I thought we'd uh kind of wrap things up on kind of a a light note. What is the most bros science myth that you want to believe? That's just an amazing question. Let me take a second on this one. Yeah. No, no, no. It's a good one. Take your time. I'll fill one in while you think about it. Please do. If you inject GH into your unit, it grows. Oh, that would Yeah, there'd be a lot of guys with, you know, very well endowed out there. That's a go. one of my best friends here. He's a uh he's a transgender surgeon. So, imagine that career. Not poor though, let me tell you that. Good God almighty. That house is unbelievable. Um he has guys come to him to do like these penis lengthening surgeries. I hear those can go okay or terrible. You know, I've heard that, too. He He has a pretty uh worldrenowned reputation for them. I think they go okay, but I'm like, "Holy cow, that sounds Oh, that sounds bad." Uh, I have one. Uh, I would love to believe that more volume equaled more hypertrophy because then if that was true, I'd have been 350 godamn pounds. I would have been big Rammy if that was true. The one thing about me is I could put some volume in and unfortunately my physique showed that. White Ramy. Yeah. No, I hit Ramy. What you got? You got one, Scott? Yeah, I think I've got a couple more here. I had a bunch, but No, did you have Oh, I Man, I don't know. You know, I cuz some of the myths I I think I do kind of believe like, you know, there was a thing like the fish thins the skin. You know, we used to all say that and then there was this whole push back about like fish is just another protein source and blah blah blah. But then I really do see results with switching to fish. So I I kind of feel, you know, we were talking about that. Where was that with with uh Dusty uh that we did on Blood, Sweat, and Gear? Was that with Ron that we talked about that because another one was I think it was Ron. Okay. Another one was fasted cardio. And I'm not going to say fasted cardio is what everybody needs. In fact, there's probably no there's not probably there are people that fasted cardio is going to be like a direct negative for them. Uh, but I think that in certain cases fast and cardio can be good, but there's like the whole step movement where people don't even believe in getting their heart rate up. They just need to get their steps in. So, I'm going to say my two are fish thins the skin and fasted cardio. Those two, that's what I'm going to go with. Listen, I'm dying on the hill of fasted cardio, but it's part of my system. I I I understand thermodynamics and still I'm like our our insulin is low. Yeah. Our our I think the hormonal mu that's going on in the body is primed for fat loss with fast. Don't tell calories in calories out crowd that they'll come at you. Yeah. You know, you try to have a conversation with and I used to have these conversations in my, you know, nutritional biochem classes and whatnot that no like like it doesn't work that way because I would I was competing back then, right? And I'd be like, this is my diet. This is what I've eaten for the last 17 weeks. Okay. It doesn't make sense with your system that you're talking about. So where is this extra energy coming in from the ether? Like where is this happening? You know, um yeah. The other thing is like wouldn't if you have an like my my my favorite setup is like fasted cardio and you're training at least three meals later. Okay. So, we have a fat burning phase of the day and we have more of an anabolic retention port, right? And but here's the thing though, like at some point a lot of athletes need to do a double cardio session. I don't want an athlete doing an hour and a half cardio session in the morning because there's no way that on that 46th, 49th, 50th, whatever minute that they're going as hard as they were on their 20th. True. So, the output is going down, right? Yeah. So, I would rather break it up. not maybe call it for mental stimulation of just not getting bored of doing the same monotonous thing. Uh mental stimulation alone so that they're getting and they're getting multiple points during the day where they're raising their heart rate, you know. So, I think there's and I'm not saying this is a rule for everybody because we all have genetic freaks that don't do cardio. They they they they get 5,000 steps a day and that's all they have to do and you just titrate some calories down and you don't even have to really think about the same kinds of things you do with like your more average genetic people. All right, I got two more. I've got two more. One of them is what's one exercise that if you had the ability to just like remove it from existence plus Oh, you you knew right away. I didn't even have to finish the question. I for my clients, go do some Bulgarian for you. For me, the question's about me. Yeah. What the [\h__\h] can I do to get those results? Because come on, Bulgarian split squats, man. It there's, you know, there's a lot of really good lower body movements like a pendulum, like obviously a heel elevator squat. God, a Bulgarian split squat. I hate it. And it's one of the best. I love them. I love the pain. I I love the feeling of them, you know. You're an animal. Yeah. But yeah, but on on the other side, I don't I never liked deadlifts. Like, okay, just, you know, being taller, it just wasn't a fun exercise for me, you know, and even when I was strong, Adam, it was still all it takes is like one bad movement and my back is out and now I'm not training properly for the next three, four weeks, you know. So, I I I toss those aside seriously when I turn probably 30 and then I would do them intermittently if if John wanted me to do them here and there. Yeah. But it wasn't like a staple, you know. Yeah, I might have to lean into that. Either that or the four-way neck machine just because nobody needs it. A four-way back machine. No, neck. Neck machine. Do you ever see that? Neck machine. Oh my god. It takes up like eight square. Wait, what are you practicing? Yeah. All right, one more. And this is the most possibly the most important question we've had all day. Um, pick one compound to bring to a deserted island. You can train, but the food is going to suck. It Let's assume you can take test with you. I'm assuming you know your test. Yeah, you've already got your test. Okay. Hannah draw. Come on. You want me with 50 migs before I walk in lifetime and I am him. Yeah, I love anatrol. And it's like, man, how's come everything just moves so easy today? That's the dude. That is my If I'm feel a little small, if I'm feeling a little down, I'mma crush I'm gonna crush 50 Migs before I go train. That's it. There's 15 you said, right? Did you say 15 or 50? 50. Oh, okay. I I heard you wrong. Talking about like teenage girls. Come on. Yeah, 15. Come on. Yeah. I thought it must have hurt. Yeah. Yeah. Andrew, what's yours? Uh, are we counting GH? Well, no. No, that's not sexy. So, so we can bring that also. Yeah, you could bring G. Well, no, like GH is is not Yeah, you could use G. It grows on the trees. GH grows on the palm trees already preloaded. Nordy pens. Andrew stretching. He's like, I've got my test there. The GH is going to be at the island. Well, yeah. Well, no, because I'm thinking like I actually feel really good right now. And for I don't I'll say like I'm just doing 15 migs of testosterone a day. Okay. And I like eight or nine units of GH a day. And I've had like yesterday I had like three people being like, "Are you getting ready for a show?" Yeah. And I'm like, "No." Like I actually feel small, but I'm also kind of dieting. But anyway, if I could bring one compound, it's going to be trend. Like I I love trend. And And I'm not talking like oh 600 migs a week. I'm talking like 30 milligrams a day to go with a little bit of testosterone. I think it more because it gives me the look. It gives me uh I'm strong. It's also the very first drug I ever took. I don't know if you knew that, Justin, but back in the day back. Well, here's the thing, though. It was 2000, right? And it it wasn't like Amazon Prime of your peeds today where kids just like send a Bitcoin and and and they get it delivered two days later. It was real easy now. Yeah. I mean, no, but now like a lot of them, they're all searching to Bitcoin and most of them are. But anyway, you had to, you know, track down the pheniplex uh H pellets and then you had to get one of the kits or or locate all those things off eBay and then convert it to a coffee. I couldn't even find testosterone. So I my first cycle was uh 180 milligrams of Tren a week and no test 40 to 60 milligrams of dbol a day. Okay. How much how much weight did you put on? Oh, like 22 pounds. Like and and keep in mind like I was in college, so I was eating cafeteria food, but I was still eating like I didn't measure my food back then, but it was like three times a day, two big bowls of tuna with like two probably fatty burger patties on each of them and then just bowls of cereal. So caloric intake and I was playing college football, but like my chloric intake was probably 6200 to 7,000 a day easily. Did Andrew just say he's taken Tren and playing college football here and I feels terrible for whoever lined up against you. So full disclosure, everyone knows this. A lot of people already know this because we did a full episode on it, but I ended up having to leave school because uh there was a certain sting operation set up to bust me. So yeah. Oh yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So we did a full episode with me and Skip with both of our times being arrested for Andrew was on was it CNN? Were you on Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's insane. Holy cow. We We even did a consult with Rick Collins, uh my my attorney and me, we did a consult with Rick Collins, who's, you know, the leading peed um uh uh steroid lawyer. Yeah. Lawyer. Yeah. Um I I don't we should have him on sometime to see if he remembers that. He probably doesn't. It was a thousand cases ago, right? Yeah. Yeah. But um Yeah. No, it was a different time in my life. But uh coincidentally I then started competing in bodybuilding after that like a year and a half later after being completely clean and because I was getting tested or at least I thought I was and and competing as a natural for my first show which some can argue was that natural is that not natural but I was not using any PEDs for at least a year leading into natural enough we'll give it to you. Well it's like that didn't you didn't know enough of what you were doing anyway to think that like the gains didn't stick. You know what I'm saying? Yeah. If it turns to me, Scott, I think so the listeners will already know my answer is injectable dbol, but the problem is I love dbol, but dbol doesn't love me anymore. So, I'd run it for three days with like great aspirations of everything that I was going to get out of it, and then my appetite would go to [\h__\h] and then I'd have to stop using it. So, it would be a rotation of three days on and then like three weeks off, and then I'd get it in my head again like it's going to work this time. Maybe next time it'll work. Exactly. Exactly. I feel like uh because I do that sometimes um with like and we've talked about this before like IGF dezz or orr3 like well it hasn't worked the other eight times I tried it over 20 years but maybe I'm going to try it this time and just maybe this is the perfect bilaterally you know. Yeah. Exactly. You go to the fridge and you know there's no food in there but you keep opening the fridge. That's a great analogy actually. That's a great and you just stare at it and I spent $80 on this. Why doesn't it work? Justin, tell us about the Grow or Die podcast. Tell us about everything that you're doing, man. And uh I'm going to make sure to put all this stuff below, too, so that people can follow you with everything that you're up to. Yeah. Well, first I appreciate you guys having me on. This is super cool. Um I know Andrew knows this. Scott, I don't think you know this. when I was early and or in my last two contest preps, I definitely listened to you guys on the show a lot. I've learned a ton from it, so I appreciate y'all having me on. I love that, man. Thank you. Absolutely. My my main thing is very much through the Elite Coaching Academy now, which is so much fun for me. Started off as a mentorship to just teach coaches the things I know about the human body manipulation of it. Um, I owned Team Mahal and the Together more Fitness for seven years and for those seven years, we were over seven figures in income. and I realized, well, maybe we can start just teach other people how to implement these systems. Uh, so now I make online fitness coaches rich and it's a lot of fun. I think it's great. How does that work? The elite coaching academy. Yeah. You come in, we have three different tiers. We have a 0 to 10k tier and that's tier one. And so it depends on your income like where you at. And then we have a 10 to 22k tier. And then we have 22 to 50k tier. And then after 50k a month, people will come to me um and we'll work onetoone together. my team actually goes inside their business and does things. Okay, so it's really cool. You know, people from super quick, people from 0 to 10K, they don't have enough attention. We've got to get more attention. That's top of funnel. People from uh 10 to 22K, they just don't have enough trust and enough personal brand. So, we build your personal brand. And then people after the 22K mark, they need systems because you guys know making 20K a month as a per as an online coach, you are busy. And so now you can't scale beyond that because you just don't have systems in place. And people don't know, you know, I've I mean we we uh have some very impressive stuff that we're doing. We leverage a lot of AI within our company. Um and and and the onboarding process. Um even even customer communications within ECA. There's a little Justin bot that answers a lot of questions in the community. Um I have four lead educators that they kind of take care. They've been onetoone mentees of mine for nine plus months and they take care of all the protocol questions now. So, it's really cool. Um, you know, I don't want to bog down the show with self-promo, but the Elite Coaching Academy, we have some amazing results. We've now have eight operators that have scaled over 50K with us, and I'm really proud of that. That's cool. Um, yeah, I appreciate that. It feels very impactful. This is really what I've always wanted to do. And there's enough wealth in the world for all of us to absolutely kill it. But the Grow Eye podcast, we got booted off YouTube. Um, we were we were really killing it. We were doing a million views a month on YouTube. And last March, I had Dr. David Brownstein on. He's actually up there. He's in Ann Arbor, Michigan. Absolutely fascinating, fascinating guy. And he was just sharing his thoughts on, you know, what happened in 2020 and what the injection what the injectable did to us. And this was all public knowledge, but YouTube didn't like it very much. We got banned. So, that was really hard. You know, a million views a month. we were we were printing a good bit of money at that point. Um, but I'm grateful it happened because that's where ECA was born out of. Um, I also teach people in that second cohort to launch a podcast and crush it. Like I know you guys crush it with this podcast and lead generation. It's fantastic. Um, and then the Growite podcast, uh, we have the new season launching July 1st. We have 18 episodes recorded now, but we I I rebranded that to the elite coaching cast as it is all 100% geared towards online coaches and okay, anyone of the like who we talk really in depth autoimmune stuff, bodybuilding, peeds, business scaling, um all of that stuff. So, we have some really cool stuff happening. But man, I it's really cool for me to be on this show and I really appreciate you guys talking a ton. I hope there was some great value added. Dude, this is freaking awesome, man. This is the first time we've gotten to talk. I've, you know, I've watched some of your content and stuff and I'd been wanting to have this conversation for like a year, you know, literally now. I'm really glad that we could finally do this, man. And I got to tell you, Justin, just getting a chance to hang out with you here. I love your energy, dude. Like, you are a very positive, cool person. You're I can see why people would gravitate, you know? You're like, wherever I go, I can get people to gravitate. I can see why, man. Because it's it's it's it's like an infectious energy that you carry. And I think that's pretty cool. And it's special. Not everybody has that. I tell people that Justin's like the real voice of bodybuilding. Like you know that other guy Bob, whatever. Like you know, screw him. Like I And you know what we didn't One thing I wanted to mention is um or bring up you're doing a great job doing the playbyplay. An actual bodybuilder that understands what goes into a contest prep, dryness, fullness, etc. for the Texas shows. Are you still doing that? Yeah. Yeah. So I'll definitely be doing that, you know, every year. I would love an opportunity to do it at the Olympia and you know those those convos have happened. You know there's a little bit of politics in play there but I appreciate that a lot. I also I I hope to bring unique insight but um I I I think that the spotlight in bodybuilding needs to be more on the athletes rather than individual egos and I hope when I commentate shows that that comes across. So the the kind remarks from you guys really means a lot. I think that the way that we show up every single day is a choice. And the way that we leave people after we interact with them is a choice that we make. And I hope to leave you guys with a very positive interaction and be happy the rest of the day. And I encourage everyone else to do that, too. There's so much negativity. There's so much crap going on in this world. Why not us? Why can't we change? And there's no there's no answer other than we can. So you got that it just it means the world to me, man. Thank you guys so much. And Olympia, bring me in to commentate this show. Let's go. got my vote. Yeah, me too, man. This is cool. All right, guys. We appreciate everybody tuning in and uh of course, leave us questions for the next show. Uh comment what did you think about this one? If you have any follow-up questions for Justin, you know, let him know. I'm sure that he'd be happy to answer. Head over to his social media. If you got questions for us, let us know. Of course, go to bodybry.com to reach out to Andrew for coaching. Go to I was gonna I guess you can still go to teamsk.com if you really want to even though he's not here and hit me up at mcnal diets@gmail.com plus of course true nutrition.com use our code think over there supplementsource.ca for Canadians and on the next show Andrew and I are going to knock out a bunch of your Q&A from Patreon guys for another episode of Blood Sweat and Gear. We'll see you soon. Thank you Justin. Yeah, thanks guys. Peace.