What's going on everybody? See who's with me here. See, got a few people who are already commenting. Justin Montgomery is with us. Hey Justin, I have a question for you. Let me know if you're hanging on the stream here, brother. Got kind of a a special project uh I wanted to do today. uh and uh it would require uh playing your video because I wanted to talk about it. I wanted to talk about the things that you were doing in it that I thought were really good and I wanted to talk about like well what are some things what are some ways that we could even step that up to even another level because I know that you were training really hard in that. So let me know if you're here in the stream. I already had pulled it out believe it or not. I've got it I've got it queued up here and I figured well you posted it so it's kind of fair game but since you're in the stream I'll even go a step further and ask you if you mind if we talk about that today. What's up guys? Get on the gear gains for hire. What's going on man? This is uh it's good to see you guys. I I asked you last time um where is everybody from? Where are you at right now? What are you doing right now? Uh I would be curious. let me know because it was crazy. We had people commenting from literally all over the world from Australia. Don't ask me what you're doing up in the middle of the night like this in Australia. Uh to of course we had people in England and the UK uh and then all over the United States and Canada. Uh we even had some people that was that were from uh South America that joined us and some some various other European countries. So that was really freaking cool. Cool. Justin, do you mind if we play your video and we talk about it today, man? Because I saw your comment. You were like, "Man, I was really proud of that set and I get exactly where you're coming from, and I could totally actually relate to your reaction because I had an experience that was very similar to yours." All right, here we go. South Alabama. So, not just Alabama, but South Alabama, California, and shaving my mustache at the moment. Zionic is with us from Detroit. We'll get into everything in just a couple minutes, guys, but I wanted to make sure that I um got to everybody here. I wanted to see where everybody was coming from. Justin Montgomery is from Chicago having lunch. Oklahoma, what's going on? And of course, Lucas, are you the furthest away? Uh he's out in po uh Poland doing his uh cardio right now. All right. Yeah, Jacksonville, Florida. Yes, Chris, what's going on, man? We got New Jersey. Okay, cool. Thanks, Justin. We will then. We got New Jersey. So, see, here's the thing, man. I feel like bodybuilders in New Jersey are automatically they've got like a 10% up on the rest of the world. You guys just have I feel like bodybuilding in your blood with like the Jersey Shore and that East Coast attitude. Like, you're born with you like already have a little bit of a bicep peak out of the womb. You know what I'm saying? Maybe a little. You could see the six-pack abs just showing through. If you're born in Jersey, that's that's the way I see it. Colorado. Tina's with us. What's going on, Tina? Welcome. She's from Santa Cruz. Hope you guys are having a good day over there on the West Coast, the East Coast. Peter from the UK. Yeah. Where at in the UK, Peter? Because the UK is a big place, man. There's a lot of UK. Turns out it's all over the place over there. Birmingham, Alabama. What's up, Bill? How's it going, man? GTL. What is GTL? The greater something something. I bet. Huh? Malta. Okay. Wow. Malta. You guys have that massive cannon. You know what I'm talking about. There was a massive cannon that was installed on the island like in Malta. uh that they they had like the the biggest uh round ever designed. I don't know exactly the stats on it. My father-in-law went to visit Malta because he's a big fan of like World War II history and stuff and he went and he toured that massive gun and the whole bunker that they had set up the Jersey Shore. Yep, that's what it was. Gem Tan Laundry. Yes, you guys in Jersey, you've got bodybuilding in your blood. Whatever happened to the guys from the Jersey Shore, I feel like that was really short-lived and they all went down hard. Do you know what I mean? Like that was not that was not a pretty thing. I think Mike So Mike the situation I remember that when he showed up on the scene, there were guys on the message boards that were like, "Oh yeah, I know him. I know that guy Mike, you know, he's in the bodybuilding scene and uh you know, he deals you know stuff. I'm not going to say the words. Uh, not not what we use, but like recreational stuff. He sleeps on people's couches. Guy's a dirt bag. Like, everybody knew Mike the situation. I remember people posting about him. I knew nothing about him. All right, Middlesborough up north. All right, we'll get this thing going, guys. We'll get this thing started here. So, I appreciate everybody being here. You guys are freaking awesome. Shout out to uh Charlotte, North Carolina, and everybody else who's hanging with us. So, here's the thing. for anybody. I I kind of have a little bit of an outline to work with and I want you guys to post up questions, too. Topics. It doesn't even have to be bodybuilding related. Like anything that you want to talk about, I'm good to hang out. All right. Normally, I record with Ron and Dusty on Mondays, but they were out at Fibo. They're just getting back today, so we weren't able to record, so I was like, "Oh, man. This is a perfect time." Plus, I had some stuff that I wanted to tell you guys about. So, format for the day, we're going to cover a bunch of your listener questions. Um, I want to talk to you about low a lowd dose trend experiment that I may or may not be starting or may or may not have already started. We'll get into that and I want to hear from you guys. You can wait on this one, but I'm going to ask you what you think a low dose of trend is. Like what's the lowest effective dose of trend? We'll talk about that. And um I want to tell you about loading on right a true tide because it is a freaking different ballgame than uh loading without a GLP-1. Uh and maybe I'll start with that. I think I've got a picture here or maybe even a video of So here's the deal. I I've been dieting hard, right? You guys know that. And uh I hit an all-time scale low uh in the past couple weeks. I'm down to like I was like 187 depleted and I see that like as this is happening I'm losing like any shape I still had left from bodybuilding going away and I'm like I got to load and I'm not able to load hard enough. I need to start pushing harder because what I was doing is you know not going too far off plan. I think I told you guys like I'd have a club sandwich. That would be my big cheat meal, 500 calorie meal. And then because of that, I'd be like kind of full and maybe not eat a lot more food through the rest of the day if I had it at like 3:00. And you know, my calories would kind of cancel out. So, I decided like I need to up my game. And two weeks ago, we uh we were downtown. We do I do Fridays. It's our our date day. Uh we get to go out of the house, do fun stuff. We went down to Eastern Market in Detroit and I found this place, good Mexican food, and they had like these awesome street tacos, which were like twice the size that they thought they were going to be. I ordered three of them, had like pulled chicken and salsa in them and everything. And I got the the soft corn tortillas, you know, and I I ate two out of the three of them. And then we immediately went to this restaurant where I ordered this French toast. And here's what the French toast here was my meal. I got French toast with bacon on the side. This stuff was really good. All right. Like it was so freaking decadent, though. Like that syrup stuff there was like some sort of maple glaze. That butter on the top is like infused with all sorts of sugar. It's got those candied walnuts on it. Um and these three pieces of French toast. Absolutely. Like, so I I if if it were up to me, I would have eaten like one and a half and then saved the other one and a half for 30 minutes and then ate it again. But we're sitting cuz my stomach just like so much sugar. I blew through the whole thing and then we were going to go across the street to go grocery shopping and I swear to God I was going to vomit. Like I was so freaking sick. I've never felt that way in my life. And I'm only using it was one milligram of reatride every four to five days, right? So it's not a high dose being that the research on reatride is being done on four milligrams a week, 8 milligrams a week, and 12 milligrams a week. So me taking one milligram every four days is a pretty low dose, right? Well, here's the thing, man. I realized like I first of all I think it was the sugar but I realized I can't just load in one sitting. Okay. So, uh fast forward to the and it was terrible. Like, you know, I didn't want to eat for the rest of the day. I felt like garbage. Um and and thankfully after about an hour, I did bounce back, but there was a minute there that I wanted to barf. Well, about an hour I wanted to barf. So, anyway, the following week, it's time to load again. I'm back down to like 187. I need to get in a substantial amount of food. I need to be able to push myself up to like if I'm 187, I need to get up to like 193, you know, would be perfect, right? And then from there now, I'm going to be filled back up. I'm going to have strength in the muscle. I'm going to be able my metabolism is going to be rocking. I'll wake up the next day starving. I'll have strength in the gym to carry me through my next several days of training. So, it's really imperative that I get this solid load in. So, it it actually worked. I spread everything out. I went to Culver's. I got a double cheeseburger and a fries. Uh then I got three of these beautiful doughnuts. I didn't get a picture of the donuts. I was just too uh focused on eating them. And uh then from there, uh what else did we have? Oh, and I I bought a like a large thin crust frozen pizza and I ate that over the course of like an hour or so. That basically what it came down to. The pizza was like 100 g of carbs, um, 40 g of fat. The donuts were about 30 g of carbs each, so about another 100 gram of carbs. You limited fat in the donuts, plus the burger and the fries was probably, you know, another I'd probably call it 50 gram of carbs and 40 gram of fat. So I I I got somewhere in the neighborhood of, you know, 250 plus carbs in on on in, you know, for a load, which traditionally on my normal days, I'm getting under 100 gram. So the long and the short of it is is what I realized with Reddit True Tide and possibly with other GLP1s, it's freaking hard to get loaded. You know, I talked to Keith over at Parabolic, who's one of our um affiliates. I I can't mention codes and uh you know URLs and stuff on YouTube. You can you know hit me up in other places. We'll talk about that. But um he said that he found that it's it is hard to grow muscle. It's hard to get loaded. It's hard to get full while on rea while on GLP1s in general. You know I I think it really comes down to dosing. But man, I really would have thought if the dose if the if the research is being done up to 12 milligrams on reatride and I'm taking like, you know, 1 and a half milligrams per week, I thought that I'd be low enough to still be able to fill out well, but it turns out I'm I'm struggling to fill out on a very low dose of rea. So I wanted to throw that out there to you guys because ultimately you know I think there is really good benefit to this stuff but you know at the same time we are in this game for bodybuilding. It's not just about fat loss. It's not just about weight loss. You know we want to be able to retain tissue and grow in the process. So anyway I'll uh that's my spiel on that one. And uh and I'm going to continue experimenting with this. I found that at this point I need more carbs now. I started finding that like I just wasn't interested in training anymore to the same to the same degree because my energy levels and the muscle like the muscle was just it. It's not that I was weak. I just didn't have the get up and go because my carbs were so low. You know, I started out with basically one carb meal per day, 45 grams preworkout. And then I over time have now built that up to the point where now I'm at around like 100 gram, 120 gram with a high day load. And next time when I load, I think I'm going to go a little bit higher. I'm going to shoot for like 300 g because I woke up the next day and I was like I think the same weight or one pound up. I really it wasn't that much of a change. So I know that I can handle more, you know. Anyway, thanks Tina. I appreciate it. Tina says, "Looking great, Scott." You know what? I feel great, too. You know, it's been a it's been a a great year for me. Um, you know, I I really I wanted to start this thing out. I got ahead of myself um with saying if you guys don't know who I am, which I I think most of you do. Uh my name is Scott. I'm a coach. I've been doing this for a decade full-time, and uh I started coaching about 5 years before that. That said, I I want you to understand that everything I tell you guys is just my opinion and my experience. You know, I I sit at this desk and I work with people all day long. This is literally what I do. So, my experience is with, you know, a a lot of different people. Uh, and over the course of time, it's literally been thousands. So, I've figured out how to do things in a way that that gets us to our goals. But that doesn't mean that my way is the only way. All right? So, I would never claim that anything I'm suggesting or anything that I figured out is the only way to do things. I'm just letting you know here's what I've figured out as somebody that does this all the time. So, I want to make that clear. I I don't have the corner on being right. You know what I mean? In fact, and and I can make mistakes, too. You know that. So, I I I don't claim to be perfect at any point. that site. If anybody is interested in reaching out to me for coaching, mcnal diets@gmail.com is where to hit me up. And right now, I have a weight list set up. Basically, I'll be able to get you started within two weeks. I I put a lot of attention and energy into each person that I work with. So, I don't want to just be like, "Here's your plan. Go check in in a week." I like to get to know each person. And that's a process. And I'm grateful that I'm in a position in my life where I don't have to just like, "Give me your money. I need to pay my bills." you know, I can I can set it up and we can take our time and we can do things the way I think the way I enjoy doing it because at the end of the day, I do this [\h__\h] because I'm trying not to swear on the live stream. I do this stuff because I freaking love it. Anyway, let's get back to the stream. See what you guys are saying. All right, Zionic, you guys have some questions for me and I am going to talk about trend too. um interviewed uh as you've coached and interviewed countless athletes. Uh are there any common traits or habits you've noticed in the most successful bodybuilders? Yes. Absolutely. Yes. And I just told a client about this this morning. I've got a guy that I work with who he uh he's he's doing a transformation contest. Looks incredible, too. Like he's he's made a hell of a transformation. Not a big guy. He's only like 15060 pounds, but he's like he's contest lean. I told him, I was like, "Dude, if you want to do a men's physique show, we could get you on stage looking like this." And he was like, "No." He's like, "I just want to do this transformation. I don't want to step on stage until I'm a legit bodybuilder." Fair enough. You know, I can respect that. But I looked at his diet. He had actually gotten sick. Uh he's got a small child and I think he caught something from his kid and uh has the runs for like several days straight. I've been having him send him pictures on text every day. I look at his pictures this morning and he's super depleted. It's a non-training day, so his carbs would technic they'd normally be lower. I said, "Hey, can you do the training day carbs?" And he said, "You know, my appetite's still not great yet. It's a lot of carbs to eat." And I said, "Well, let's do this. Let's pull all of our protein sources back by 1 ounce today. That way, it'll give you a little bit more room, less protein. four ounces of meat per meal plus a cup of rice or two cups of rice and just do what you can. He was like, "Hey, no problem. Sounds good. I've got all my food in ziplockc bags. I'm taking it to work. I'll just figure it out as I go." So, that's one way to answer the question. You know, another way is to freak out and lock up and say, "I already have all my meals prepared." You know, resiliency. Uh Kate Denunzio is a woman uh that I've had on the podcast a couple times. She's what is called a change expert. She works with businesses and individuals to help them actualize change. Like when businesses go through big changes, she said to me, "The people who are the most successful in life and in business are the people that are the most resilient." And I thought about it and I was like, "Yeah, you know, I work with some people who I I tell them like,"Hey, you know, we were going to do a cheat meal tomorrow. Can we move that up today? We need that cheat meal. It's a load. Like, we're getting ready for a show. It's important. There's timing involved. We need to get that load in now, you know, to keep you so we don't get you too depleted." And they freak out. I had a guy saying, I had one guy who lost his mind on me. You're like, lost his mind. He couldn't handle that. He was like, "Can you make up your mind?" you know, you told me Sunday, now you want me to do it Saturday. Which is it? And I was like, well, I'm basing it off your pictures. Anyway, that was a whole other story. Somebody who was on trend that shouldn't have been and had anger issues to begin with and a record. It turned out I found out later due to those anger issues, you know, we're not all capable of handing handling every compound. Um, that said, the the faster that you can adapt and embrace change and adjustment, the faster you're going to be able to make the most out of it. You know, those are the people that are the most successful. I've seen it freaking time and again. So, it and it's a challenge. It's a challenge, I think, for all of us. There are times that I can be like locked in my ways. Sometimes it's like there's no reason I needed to be. It's just, you know, it can be hard to change even if it that is just removing an ounce of protein from your meals cuz you're like, "Wait, I already have it figured out." Hold on. Step back. Did it really need to be that big of a deal? You know? All right. D. Let me see what else we have here. You guys start to load me up with some questions here and I will be getting back. Oh, Andrea Watson from Germany. What's going on? Transplant. So, Andrea Watson is a friend and a client of mine. She is from the US and she freaking decided, I'm going to move Germany. You know, she got her citizenship there and now she literally is living abroad. She she speaks fluent German. Uh she kind of even has like a little bit of a German look, you could say, you know, uh and and she she's fitting right in over there. So, good for her. She just went to Fibo. She had a good time out there, it sounded like. Let me see what else we have going on here. All right. Try to see. We got some more people commenting on where everybody's from. I love that. Paulie from the Jersey Shore is still a big-time DJ. Good for him. He invented that hair. Do you remember the that hair thing that everybody was doing? That was quite a look. You know, it got very popular. Uh let me see. Sorry, I'm a little bit congested today, guys. We have some uh a lot of lot of pollen going on in the air here. Okay, super interested Scott as I am four weeks out currently and taking 1.5 milligrams of red tide per week. Thinking of dropping it out and um dropping it out this week. What do you think? You know what my question to you Gavin would be? Are you loading along the way? generally, you know, I I I try to run somebody on um a cyclical diet of some nature, you know what I mean? Where we're slowly or quickly depleting down, depleting down, then a high day or some type of a load meal or a load day. And that starts giving me the information I need to see like, well, how do they look when they're loaded? How much does it take to load them? And then we apply that into loading into the show. You know what I'm saying? So, have you been getting any kind of a load in now? And is it working for you? Because if it's working for you, more power to you. You know, one thing I haven't messed with yet is insulin. insulin might be the answer for me. I might actually need insulin to drive more carbs into the muscle. Um, and maybe I'll try that this next week as an experiment on my load and see if I can get the scale to budge a little bit more. And yes, KS Berry, those were definitely candied walnuts. I'm telling you that thing was freaking a crazy meal. 1 milligram 7 days. Okay. Culver is so elite. You know what? VJ, you guys know VJ from Bodybuilding Nerds. He absolutely loves Culver. I took a picture of my Culver's and I sent it over to him. In fact, I wonder if I still have that. Oh, I sure do. Here was my uh here's my Culver's burger from the other day. What do you think of that? Was it like a double patty and those those crinkly fries? Those were something else. They were they were good. You know what I'm saying? It was like a throwback. That reminded me of like fries that my grandma would have made me in the oven or something like that. Why don't people use more tren than uh most choose acetate? You know what? That's a great question. I mean, if we look at it, long acting compounds like Tren E or let's even say Masti or let's even say Testy, they're more cost effective, right? I mean, you might pay what $10 more for a Tren and F8 vial compared to a Tren ace vial, but you get 200 milligrams per milliliter versus 100. You know, there's definitely some advantages there. Um, I guess it depends on how you look at your cycles, you know, I I've seen trend because it is such a powerful compound and I I look at some compounds and once again like I said about everything, this is just my perspective and my experience and and my opinion. So, I'm not saying that I have a corner on knowledge and that, you know, you guys even have to agree with me, but I I kind of look at cycling as for males especially that we have our compounds that are kind of our our heavyduty background compounds that we are going to run through the cycle. I would look at say for instance test as being that, right? A lot of times I don't even touch the test through the entire cycle. that's just running in the background at whatever dose we choose. Uh maybe we have EQ in there. EQ would be another great compound. We're running test and EQ or DHB. Dihydrobolden is a freaking beautiful compound. We're running those two long-term in the background. Then I like to look at my something a powerful compound like Tren ace. I like to get in there and and and hit you with it in a surgical way that we can we can get the effect we want when we want it and tweak that effect and see the results almost instantly. You know, if we look at trend ace as being a contest prep scenario, generally I would add that in uh toward the end, last eight weeks of the prep maybe. All right, let's say that 16 weeks out we start test, 12 weeks out we add mast E and then from there we add in trend acetate. Now you know I how would we split that up? I'd probably start with two times a week if if your volume of oil was low enough for the the test and mast and then when we got up to eight weeks out and added the trend as in I would split everything up into every other day. I just prefer that. That way every shot is consistent. you're taking the same amount of oil every time you take a shot. There's not like one big massive shot on Monday followed by, you know, a half a cc on Wednesday. It's it's it's all consistent. Um, if we don't like how you feel on the trend, we can immediately change that with trend Ace. We can't do that with trend E. If and and and let's look at it in the opposite. Let's say that we're two weeks out, but we could use a little bit more punch. I generally try to stay pretty conservative with trend. So if we have a lot of room to go up at two weeks out, you could add more trend ace in and and have plenty of time to get really strong effects. In fact, you could add in additional trend even in the last week of a prep and still get an effect from that visibly, you know. So, I I like to look at trend as being something that I can the best word I can use is I use it more surgically and I try to pinpoint with it versus my my blunt my blunt instruments are are going to be my longer acting compounds that I run in the background. That said, you know, I do have uh situations where tren might be of benefit. Uh, you know, god forbid we run tren in the offseason, right? Uh I I I don't have a problem with it. I think that trend can be a great compound, but we do have to recognize, you know, the toxicity, potential toxicity of trend, the fact that it is just a really strong compound prone to a lot of side effects, right? So, we're probably going to also think of dosing, but you know, if if you were a really good responder to trend and I've worked with guys that like we give them EQ and they get nothing. We give them deca, they don't feel good. you know, there's something wrong with, excuse me, every compound we use. Well, maybe we find they just get on really well with trend. I wouldn't have a problem with it. I mean, let's say that you're a guy who's doing, you know, 500 test and 400 m or excuse me, 500 test uh um 400 EQ and 300 primo. And you run a cycle like that. I wouldn't have a problem doing like 500 test, 300 primo and 200 tren for an offseason. Like if you get on really well with trend, let's try it. You know, let's see how you do as just running it as one of those longer term background compounds where, you know, we we're going to we're just using it for an offseason mass builder. I I could definitely see that. Um, even in a even in a a non-competitive cut, I still prefer Ace, though. I do. I just I like the control of it. Um, I do though usually tend to go with long acting mast. I find that as a coach, I haven't seen a difference between mast E and mast P, you know. So generally my thought is is that if we can get twice as many milligs per milliliter, it's going to be logistically easier to get that in your body than, you know, taking twice as much oil from prop. So if we have it in there long term, you know, we're going to get what we want out of it. You know, I'm not looking to like surgically crank that up at the very end. Generally, if we wanted to do that with a DHT, we would then rely on an an oral that we would layer in say uh you know, Winstrol for instance, you know, if we wanted to get a stronger drying effect instead of trying to lay on more mast, then yeah, I'd add in maybe a little bit of Winstrol just to kind of hit it from that perspective instead. So, it's a really good question though. I once again just my perspective and you know what there are always going to be um there are always going to be exceptions you know because there is that guy that just does really good on trend and his labs look fine on it too doesn't get sleep issues and that he could run it in the offseason even you know I'd say go for it parabolic in the house oh yeah lowd dose train is legit. All right, I now that we're talking about it, what's up, Parabolic Peptides? And uh definitely great supporter of our shows. I can speak no further about that on YouTube, but uh if you guys are listening on audio, then you hear the commercials. So anyway, let's talk about this. I I'm sorry, guys, because with this pollen and stuff, I have to use my nasal spray and blow my nose. I apologize. I This is normally where I would like turn it over to Ron and Dusty and just lean out of screen for a minute. I got nothing. I got nothing. I'm gonna put you on mute though so you don't have to hear this. All right, let's reconvene. Appreciate your patience. So, here's the deal. We were uh you know we were talking about my last cycle that or my cycle that I I started up and uh I started this cycle up with the intention of you know really trying to retain if not rebuild muscle and I started out with 800 test uh 600 EQ and I I didn't really think ahead. Okay, I haven't personally run my own cycles in a long time now. It's been a while. I actually even had to go out and get this stuff. I didn't have like extras lying around. Initially, I didn't plan on doing EQ when I got stuff, but when I got stuff, I had bought a bottle of EQ. So, anyway, long story short, I'm saying, "Yeah, I'm going to do the 600 test, you know, or 800 test." 600 800 test 600 EQ, right? And lo and behold, I get into it and then I realize, you dummy, you only bought one bottle of EQ. This is not going to last long for you. And I realized that that's not going to work. So I thought to myself, well, that's when I said, "What else do you have?" I had a bottle of MPP. I've got some Deca. I also use um five 5 AR topically. I use topical finasteride. So, you know, I my hair is already thin enough as it is. It's holding on. Hairline's pretty close to what it was 20 years ago. I can't complain. I've always had very high hairline. Thankfully, it hasn't gone too much further. That said, um I I don't want to lose it any further. And if you are using finasteride with Deca with Nandrallone, it doesn't allow the nandrallone to convert to dihydroangelone, which is gentler on the scalp. So, it's actually a harsher compound, you know. So I thought I don't even want to mess with that and I might have bottle or two of trence later on. Yeah. So let me ask you guys that leads me to this. You know this is a question for you guys. What do you guys consider a low dose and I'm talking very conservative dose of tren ace per week? All right. What do you consider to be a low dose of trend ace per week? And also keep in mind I want to talk low effective dose. I met this guy on um uh DM uh yesterday I think it was. Uh he's a crossfitter and he's told me, "Hey, I am doing TTRT." You can guess what that is. TTRT, test trend replacement therapy. He didn't call it that. I just made that up. Right. TTRT. I like that. Um, and he's taking like I think I think I can't remember what the doses were, but it was like 230 test per week along with like I think it was like 30 trend something like that. And he said he feels increased performance benefit. Now, increased performance benefit and actual like muscle growth are two different things, right? You know, I've worked with a ton of guys, not a ton, but I've worked with my fair share of people that are uh performance athletes, and the cycles for those guys are way different than what we do for hypertrophy and bodybuilding. You know, we can dose as low as 5 milligrams of Anavar, and you're faster on the field. You know, 5 milligrams of Anavar, spoiler alert, is not going to get you jacked and massive. Yes, it will increase your performance. you will feel stronger in the gym, you know, but you're not going to get the most out of it. Like, it's not going to be a very effective mass builder for you at 5 milligrams. Uh, it'll feel good, you know, you will notice that, but feeling good, noticing it, and actually reaping the the benefits of laying down new muscle is two different things. So, let's see what we got here. Brian Dasser, what's up with the super chat, man? Thank you very much. I always appreciate and respect your insight in insight, Scott. Thank you very much, Brian. I appreciate you, brother. And let me ask you, Brian, what do you consider to be the lowest effective dose of trend? Spoiler alert, by the way, guys, I'm going to ask Dave the same question tomorrow, but it's just going to be like, what's the lowest effective dose of each steroid? That's what we're going to talk about. So, Brian, I know you have a ton of experience as a competitor. I want to hear what you have to say, man. And thank you again for the super chat, brother. Dude, this is greatly appreciated, man. Parabolics with us. What's up, Parabolic Peptides? By the way, um I am a huge fan of uh the just seeing your name, I want to mention that the SLU protocol is still going fantastic. It uh it has absolutely been a game changer for me. 25 to 50 milligrams weekly. I disagree, man. I feel like 25 to 50. Okay, 25. What does that break down to? Hold on a second. I got to do I got to break out the calculator to figure this out. All right, what are we looking at? Let's just go 25 divided by well, we'll call it four. So that 6.25 milligrams every other day. I don't I I don't buy it. Sorry. I don't agree. And we cannot agree and still be friends. By the way, guys, that's okay. Like, we are allowed to have disagreements. Um, I'm Oh, I'm I'm going to hear some more. Okay, here. What else do we have here? I have my thoughts and I'm going to share I'm going to tell you what I'm doing, but I'm going to wait to hear what you guys have to say first. All right. 25 milligrams daily of trend works well for me, but I don't lose my crap from that amount either. Is 25 milligrams every day a low dose? Let's do the math on that. What is that? 25 times seven. 175 per week. Okay. I think we're out of the lowd dose territory. But we're close. I feel like we're close, you know? I mean, I want to be straight with you guys. When I first started using gear in bodybuilding, we were told on the message boards, you took 400 milligrams per week. Like that was the dose you start with. That was the starting dose, 400 per week. When I started competing though, several years, number of years later, and I thankfully was able to work with a local guy who coached me. He had me run it for the last, I believe, 8 to 10 weeks of my prep at 50 every other day. So 200 a week basically. And I was mind-blown at how effective that dose was. In fact, I got better results with 50 every other day than I had uh running it on my own before at 400 per week because I was doing everything else right, you know. So I I would say we're getting closer. I'd say we're getting closer. We got uh Matt Sharp with us from Sharp Home Solutions. She says, "Um, but I have had people on as low as 25 milligrams and had great results." Is that 25 milligrams a week? Okay, you might be in there with the parabolic range. So, parabolic also said 50 milligrams per week. Let me see what does that break down to? 50 divided by 7 is what? 14 milligrams every other day. Man, man, I'll tell you what. I gotta shut a window here. I hear something running in the background. I'll tell you what. I Here's what I've noticed. So, you know, I I ran trend that first time. I had that terrible experience because it was 400 milligrams every every excuse me, every week. Um I then brewed my own out of the uh finipellets, right? I don't know if you guys remember those. You could go to like a cattle supply place online and for about 30 bucks, you'd buy this little plastic cart filled with pellets. And these pellets would be, you know, um basically uh implanted into cattle uh to help beef them up right before they went to slaughter. Well, these pellets were filled with all sorts of glues and binders and they're like a nasty bright yellow color, you know, and we would break them down and dissolve them and filter them through coffee filters with oil and solvents and then we would use that. We would inject that uh as as clean as we could these finipellets. Um and and you know it's it's trembolone. So anyway, I brewed my own and I tried 25 every other day and I I do feel like I got something out of that and I was able to um I was able to to avoid side effects and then but I didn't stay there. I just continued to slowly build back up to a higher dose. So I'm going to tell you guys uh what I've what I've started doing here and I've only taken one shot so far. So, we'll see how long I actually stick with this. I'm going to break my shots up into three times a week, which that means I'm one day behind on my shots right now. I have to do my shot literally when we're done with this live stream. Um, I've got what does it break down to? It would be about 100 milligrams per week is is where I'm at. Uh, split into three shots. So, we'll see. We'll see what I get from it. So far, one shot in, I obviously don't notice anything. But I I will say this, you know, we talked about lowd dose effective cycles on drugs and stuff last week and I will say that if you have a really strong compound and you take a a small amount of like you're you're if you don't have a lot of money, you're probably going to do better with a lowd dose of tren than a low dose of primo. You know what I mean? or you're going to do better with a low dose of trend versus a low dose of equipoise. I don't know. This isn't this is kind of beyond what I do in coaching. We don't really mess around with like what would happen if you know I I don't have anybody that we've just run 100 milligrams of trend with per week. Nobody's wanted to. Uh you know, we use more traditional things. you know, common cycles for the guys I work with, if they're an offseason type guy who just wants to look better, feel good, get into good shape, you know, maybe we'll do like a 300 test, 300 EQ or excuse, excuse me, 300 master, 300 test, 300 primo, something like that would be like a pretty standard dose cycle that a lot of the guys I work with use. I want to see what other uh questions you guys have. So, that's my that's my story. I'm thinking that that's that's ballpark about what I'll probably stick with here for a little while. About 100 milligrams per week. And uh and I had to pull the test back a little bit. I I I just didn't need 800. So I'm going to be more at about what will that be? Uh 550 600 test something like that with 100 milligrams of uh of Tren ace. So we'll see. I'll keep you guys posted on it. And uh you know everything's going good. I'm getting more consistent or I've been consistent with training. Uh cardio is going great. Uh I don't expect to get any kind of side effects from this. So that's just my thoughts though. Lucas says he'd go with 100 as well. You kind of answered my question then. Uh I think I'm going to 30 milligrams every other day uh to my test. Yeah, I I think 30 milligrams every other day. I think that you're going to get something out of that. I mean, I guess it depends on what you want out of it, Stephen. You know, are are are you looking to, you know, I mean, at the end of the day, it really comes down to your diet and your nutrition and that the the gear is is just going to help push those things in the right direction. You know, I I've found that in the past running lower dose trend that I definitely felt a little something. You know, obviously the more you take, the more you feel, the more you get. But I, you know, I don't think you're gonna go wrong with it. And if you don't like it, if you get, here's the other thing with a fast acting compound like that. If you don't like what you're getting out of it, you could always bump it up a little bit later, you know. But yeah, I would much prefer starting low and then, you know, building it over time, something like that. What does Jordan say here? He says, "I never ran less than 200 mg weekly, never more than 400 mg, but I think you could get some benefit from 100 grams weekly. I don't think you'd see feel anything from less than 75." I don't know. I mean, I I don't know about like results like seeing muscle growth, seeing like additional like physical ch. I bet you you would feel it in the gym 75, you know? I bet you would feel some some additional benefits. Especially depends on how sensitive you are. You know what I mean? If you just came off like what are you doing? Have you been on TRT for the last year and then you add some test and 75 trend? That guy's probably going to feel something. But if you take Jordan who's been on 200 to 400 and then he says like I'll take 75. Of course he's not going to get anything. You know, there's kind of like a contextual thing to it. You know what I'm saying? I think that's got to be it. Uh, do the shot on camera. What could go wrong? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. All right, Skip and I started out last prep at 75 uh, mix. Uh, probably means milligrams per week. Um, titrated up to 175. Um, and I would not consider, which I would not consider low dose. Yeah, I'd say 75 low dose. I'd say uh the uh 175 not so much. Did I miss most of the stream? What's up, man? Nope, you're here, brother. You're here. You You only missed me talking about a couple random things like trend. I'm waiting for you guys to throw some questions up here for me and then I can start answering them and then we can get to some real fun. I don't have to just talk about myself. Be selfish. I talk about myself all day. Actually, I do have something here I want to show you guys. So, I'm just kind of going through these questions here. Okay, let's see here. 100 milligrams a week sleep started for me. Yeah, I I could see, you know, depending on your situation, you know, anything over I I'm surprised you got sleep issues at 100, man. Or, you know, that that that does surprise me. But hey, everybody's unique and everybody's got a different situation. And and I think that we all like who you are today. You know, you might be more sensitive to 100 than who you are in a couple years. You know what I'm saying? Depends where we're at in our lives. If if we're already under a good deal of stress, um then those things add up. Victoria has uh a really great analogy when she talks about stress and I've used it too with my clients is imagine imagine a bucket and we could talk about inflammation in the same way you know like talked about allergies for instance you know sometimes if you have allergies you you notice like you know what I always get hay fever but my hay fever is extra bad this year or you know I used to always get hay fever and I I didn't get it this year I don't know high. A lot of that related to inflammation is is that we have all these different events in our lives and these things that we do that create some type of a stress and that's adding to that that that load. So, imagine a bucket, right? Like a bucket that we're filling up with water. And let's say that you um you're under a lot of stress at work. You've been working late, maybe not taking as good care of your hydration as you should. Dump into that bucket. Right now, we're filling that bucket up. And then let's say that um you also are uh staying up late at night. Instead of going to bed, you're scrolling on your phone. You dump into that bucket. And we're getting we're filling that bucket up. And if you add enough things to that and then it's hay fever season now, all of a sudden the bucket at some point the bucket overflows. So if you can manage these things uh and look at the things you can manage you can't manage the fact that like hey fever season's going to be here right but are there any other factors where you can reduce stress so that maybe it you know it's not the straw that breaks the camel's back when it does come you know so I think that we are all in different places so you know maybe I could be in a position where I could run a lot of trend right now my life is good I'm really relaxed Ed, you know, I don't have a lot of stress and all of a sudden I I'm doing great with it. Whereas, you know, 15 years ago, I might have been in a different position. So, anyway, we could probably talk all day about trend, right? 100 milligrams a week. You must like 7.62 by 39 millimeter. In fact, I can't show uh weapons on the live stream, but if you look over my shoulder here, you may or may not see a 7.62 16 by 39 millimeter behind me. You didn't. That was just an airsoft toy. All right, I do have some other stuff here to hang with you guys. And like I said, start loading me up with some questions. What's up, Scott? You ready to post update pickics yet? Uh, so here's the thing. And I Okay, I see a couple questions coming in. Good. Um, I'm gonna, uh, favorite these so I can come back and, uh, make sure that I answer these. Um, all right. But I do want to tell this to Nick and you guys, and I'm going to be like completely transparent here. All right. So, I'm 187bs, 190 lbs right now. Now, go back about four years before I got sick. I was at my all-time heaviest at 240 and I felt really good and you know after I got sick I couldn't train as consistently as I wanted and it had been a real struggle you know for several years and I'm really happy with what I'm doing now. Uh but to be honest, you know, I look at my starting pictures and I'm embarrassed of how I look. Like flat out I am. you know, I I will eventually show them to you guys, but I am genuinely embarrassed. I know that it's not like I was being lazy or, you know, gluttonous or anything like that, but uh I don't feel good about those pictures, you know? You know what I'm saying? Uh so, it's hard for me uh to to look at that and show you guys that. And it and especially considering that I'm like part of the fitness world, you know, I help people compete for shows and get into better shape and you know, for several years there, I was losing my shape and conditioning. And so, it's a lot to wrestle with. And then fast forward to now and being at like 190 lbs versus 240, I also wrestle with the lack of muscle I have. So, I uh you know, I I I don't I I feel a little bit overall embarrassed of how I look, honestly, if I'm being completely transparent with you guys. And I I I know I'm not alone in that. I think that for all of us when we really do put so much effort into our physiques and energy and, you know, so much focus and and like honestly, a big part of our identity is tied to the work that we do as bodybuilders at whatever level we're at. I'm I'm not competing again, but I'm still a bodybuilder. I'm exercising. I'm eating right. I am still a bodybuilder to some degree, right? Um when we get so tied up into that as being our identity, then it we are very hard on ourselves. So, I want you guys to know that you're not alone in feeling that way. I feel that way, too. Uh and it may even be more magnified than some of you guys. I don't know. But yeah, so that's that's where I'm at with that. I'm going to just keep doing this for me and keep continuing to get in better shape and eventually at some point you guys will see the pictures. Uh I'm shooting pictures every Friday. Uh and then sometimes too I shoot them Saturday to see how I looked after the load. Uh but it it's coming along well. I realize now though that my big thing is figuring out the load. You know, as I mentioned earlier in the stream that I think that this is the next step forward for me is figuring out how what I need to do to really fill out each week and that's going to continue to step me forward with with regaining muscle back. What else do we have here? Um, what needs to sleep trend takes makes two hours feel like eight. Just add some THC edibles. Um, all right. Scott, do you plan to add in some five amino uh to your stack? That stuff runs so well with SLU. I'll be honest that SLU has just gone so well on its own that I've really enjoyed the process of this. Um, I started experimenting a little bit with Data now, but I'm going to also hold off on that. I'm going to tell you right now, data, the endurance from it is freaking insane, especially already having been on the SLU. Um, that I've gotten a lot of really good results from it. I know that uh Parabolic has as well, if he's still with us. He's he's been, I think, using the injectable version. I've been using his uh 250 mgram caps, which I've only taken it a few times, two times now, and uh I'm probably going to hold off, but down the road, my thought is this is that, you know, I I've gotten a really good boost, which was a much needed boost, and it's gotten me doing the things that I need to do to be able to reach my goals. But I'm also trying to leave as many cards left in my hand to play later. That's kind of where I'm at. So I wanted to kind of get a vibe for what does M do for me? Um what does Dada do for me? But at the same time, I don't want to try to exploit all these things at once because there will be a day that I want to discontinue using the SLU. uh it'll either have run its course or just feel like I'm ready for a break. And at that time, I'll want to know that that I have another direct another card to play. Basically, I want to have keep as many good aces in my hand as possible. So, I'm experimenting with them enough to kind of understand them to see what my dosing will be to see what the effect is like. And then from there, I'm going to hold off a little bit and then revisit it later. getting into the retatrite I feel that you know we're coming from a completely different angle there right with GLP-1 and uh glucagon and blood sugar and insulin all that stuff is a completely different direction you know so I find stacking those two things together as being very beneficial because now it's it's not two likes you know they they have their own mechanisms and then from there getting into a low dose of uh T3 replacement, hitting it from that angle. Uh you know, I'm using about 20 25 micrograms of T3 per day. And uh I take that first thing in the morning, fasted, I split it, and then I take it before bed on an empty stomach. Um and um yeah, and then adding in the anabolics. I'm trying to I'm trying to patch as many different angles versus being redundant is is what my goal really is here. Um, I had used a low dose of Clen longer term, just 20 micrograms, and that was for my breathing, you know, to try to help with breathing. When I started the SLU, I discontinued that. Um, and and I'm now going to think maybe I'll add that back in, but as a fat burner, and actually work it up, you know, over time the way that I cycle it for fat loss purposes. Start with 20, two weeks later go to 40, two weeks later go to 60, two weeks later go to 80. possibly go to a hundred for a couple weeks and then cycle off and repeat that whole thing. I may do that with Clen next. And that way I'm I'm kind of hitting all these things from different angles versus just stacking redundancy. You know what I mean? So anyway, that's my take on that. I know everyone can't be a perfect client, uh, but how do you handle clients that are obviously not compliant? Hm. That's a good question, Kenny. You know, I guess it depends on how they're not compliant. You know, I've had I you know, I've had people that that want to do the right thing, but they keep making mistakes. And then I've had people that just don't care, you know, and those are two different situations. If somebody wants to get better and they're they're actively trying, but they continue to make mistakes, like say for instance, they get caught off guard. Uh they didn't realize that they were going to run out of food and so then there's this big chunk of time that they either weren't going to eat or they had to eat off plan. You know, that's that's one thing. Or if somebody just says, "Screw it. You know, it's Friday. I want to be able to go out and hang out with my boys and drink." You know, that's another thing. Either way, I I don't fire somebody. I make them aware, you know, if somebody is if let's let's say it this way, two different those are those two different scenarios. If somebody is trying to be compliant, uh, but they're making mistakes, then I'll help them understand how to how to not make that same mistake again. And I'll even put it that way. Like listen, I can't promise you that you'll be able to be 100% after this, but you know, getting good at this takes time and there are going to be scenarios that come up that you're not prepared for. But each one of those scenarios is a learning lesson. So next time that you get caught without your food, if you had some whey protein with you, additional whey protein, you can use that to bridge the gap. Or, you know, there's always a grocery store available. you know, find some cooked chicken or restaurants will make alle cart chicken for you. You did not have to eat, you know, two double cheeseburgers because sometimes that's what happens. They can't stay on plan and they're like screw it, I got to go to McDonald's, you know. So, there's there's that type of not compliant. And then there's the guys that they just want to go out and do what they want to do. Yeah. Everything was perfect. I was perfect on the diet except for Friday. I went out and I drank five beers and then I ate these burgers at the end of the night and and I'll say like it's their life, right? They're the ones that are doing this. And I I will let them know that number one, I have never worked with somebody who could successfully reach their goals while having a substantial amount of alcohol in their plan. still like I have not I've worked with people who have tried and generally they'll make progress through the week and then it falls apart at the weekend and then through the week I'll explain to them what alcohol does in their bodies. I'll explain to them how it shuts down the fat loss process and turns on the fat gain process. I'll explain to them about the calories in alcohol and about how they're actually greater than the calories in carbs. And I'll explain to them what alcohol actually does in the body. Then from there it's up to them you know if they want to continue doing that that's their call you know um you know if they expressed that they needed some sort of intervention on it like in that specific case that maybe they have a problem with alcohol then maybe we could figure something out but you know that that starts getting a little bit beyond what a coach does and more into what a therapist does which there is kind of a fine line sometimes in this game and I never would claim to be a therapist. By the way, guys, I'm not ever saying I would that's not me. Um, but I can offer my own personal experience like as I would one human to another. You know what I mean? And that's a topic that I can speak on out of my own experience. But yeah, it depends on the person. But at the end of the day, you know, um, I'm not going to fire them because they may just not be ready to take things to that 100%. You know, I work with a guy right now who I would like for him to train four times a week. He's training two times a week. He's been pretty good on the diet, but he still will eat some stuff off plan. But guess what? He's still making progress every week. He's two pounds down and he's looking better. He's doing way way better than he was before we were working together. And uh you know, I I call that a win. And with time as he continues making progress, it it that becomes kind of addictive, you know, and we want to continue seeing that progress. And if we kind of gify it, then we do the next thing that it's going to take to keep seeing that that progress at the next check-in, you know, and then we kind of get hooked on it. We get into a groove. So, you know, we're just not not everybody's comes to me and they're already in that groove, you know, it it it can take longer for some than others. And some people don't get into it, and that's okay, too. Some people may hire me and pay me upfront for, you know, 12 weeks. We do 12 weeks. They never really stuck with it, and then they come back out of the blue, like two years later, and they're like, "Hey, man. Listen, I really I got to tell you, I didn't take it real serious when we worked together before. I would love to really nail it." I actually have a guy like that right now. Uh, a shout out to Kevin who I I wish I could show his pictures. I haven't had his permission and he hasn't even posted his pictures yet, but he's one of those guys who's like down over like a 100 pounds, like lifech changing fat loss. Dude is doing incredible. He uh he went through some life changes and he decided like, "Yeah, I'm going to freaking make this happen." And now he's plugged in. But I think this is like the third time or fourth time he's hired me and he never stuck with it the other times. he just wasn't in a position to be ready yet. You know, no matter how much I care, you it's not going to work if I care more than you care. You know what I mean? So, yeah, that's my take on that one. What else do we have going on here? D. Hey guys, let's do some more super chat so Scott can get more trend. I think I have about 15 mills right now, which is that should last me a freaking long time. Gamboni Law is with us. He's got a training question. I'm going to favorite that so I can come back to it. Uh 700 to one gram. I can sleep like a baby. No problem. What? No absurd sides. Just feel distant and unemotional. Did I read that right, guys? 700 to one gram. We're talking about trends still, right? What kind of freaking animal is this existence? What kind of animal are you, man? Okay. Ashwagandha with trend helps a lot with anxiety side effects. Right on. Right on. All right. Let's get into this training thing. So, you guys know we have uh and keep commenting with questions, by the way. I'll be sure to to follow back up on these. Um, all right. So, here's the deal. Uh, Nag says that that guy existence needs a better source. Yeah, maybe that's it, man. Like, I'm running all this trend. Maybe it's like, you know, not real trend. I don't know, man. That's a lot of trend. All right. Um, I'll get back to everybody on the the chat. So, here's here's another thing I wanted to do is talk about uh increasing the intensity and learning to get legit effing strong in the gym. So, you guys know we're doing the insane set of the week um on Blood, Sweat, and Gear. And uh Justin Montgomery was one of the guys who entered the contest and he does a brutal hack squat set. And uh we said basically we're like yeah it was okay. you know, was good, but you know, I think you could get more out of this. And uh I he commented and said, "Oh man, I was bummed to see the feedback cuz I was really proud of this set." And it made me think uh of an experience I had where I decided that I at one point that I wanted to get good at the chest press and I felt like I had never been like one of those guys that was wicked strong with the chest press. And so I like made it my challenge, right? And I had the 110 lb dumbbells and I was actually at West Coast Iron and I was like, "Victoria, shoot this set of me." This is like 2018 19 and I shoot this set of me and I, you know, get this set of me pressing the 110s and then I post it to Instagram and Facebook and uh Big Dave Smith who's a guy that I really respect, a really good heavy trainer, strong dude. He said to me, he was like, "Hey," he was like, "That's uh, you know, really great work there, man. Nice effort. You working on the the lockout? You working on your lockout?" you know, if if you tell somebody you're working on your lockout, that means you're only doing the top half of the movement, right? And I was like, that son of a bee, he's like, he's he's trying to troll me, you know? And I was like, man, I always like Dave, but screw this guy, you know? And uh I I didn't I I don't remember if I said anything back to him, but uh couple days later, I I think I did. I think I did say something back to him. We had a little bit of a dialogue and then a couple days later I came back to him and I said, you know, well, what should I be doing? Cuz I remember what it was is I felt like if I went any deeper on that, I like I gave everything I had on that set first of all, you know what I'm saying? And um I felt like I he was kind of disrespecting me, you know, but then I I kind of stepped back and I let go of the ego and I thought, well, he is really strong. He's a lot stronger than I am. Maybe I can learn something from him. And I did. And he taught me how to press deeper. Okay. And I had to back my weight down a decent amount. And I I would say that I developed what is the best possible form and technique for the chest press that that I think I could ever have. And then I learned to get strong with it. And then I got legit the strongest I had ever been in my freaking life. When I said I was like at almost 240, that's I was pressing then at the strongest I'd ever been in my life. um you know, from the foundational technique that I learned from Dave. So, I guess what I'm saying is is like I get that um I I get that you can do your best with something and that you can be proud of it and you should be, but there still is always like another level, you know? And that's what I've kind of realized is that even with the technique I can use now that is like really good technique, it doesn't mean that like there isn't another gear. There's always always for all of us. No matter what we do, there's always going to be a next step that you can take it to another level. And I that's what I want to talk about with this. So let's first let's watch this video. I've got it queued up here. This is a video that uh Justin left for us over at the Think Big Facebook group. And let's see here. We'll just watch the video first and then I want to talk about like what can we do with this to get more out of it. All right. So, that's his first rep. Second rep. Third rep. Little pause here. Drops down hard. Fourth rep. Pause. Pause. Drops down hard. Fifth rep. And there's a lot of weight. He's given everything he's freaking got. Boom. You can see he's about to fail there. You saw how that slowed down. When you slow down like that, that's a sign that your muscle is beginning to fail. So, he's already like digging close to failure here. And he's still going to get another third rep out of it. Nice. He's got one more in him. Like he's riding the edge of failure here. Yes. And he got one more. So like it's a great set first of all. Like I I can't say like all in fact I'm going to tell him this that right now he's stronger than I am. I physically couldn't do this right now. So let's put that into perspective. He's stronger than I am. Um, but I think there's some things we could do with this to take it even further. Now, I I remember when I first started the first time I attempted uh fortitude training. And uh I I went to do uh um uh what do you call it? Muscle round. I I you know got a couple. It's you get four reps and then you pause and four reps and then you pause and I got like a rep and then I'd stop and hold it and then a rep and then I'd stop and hold it. Anyway, what I learned from that talking to Scott is is that every time we stop, we're really taking a break, you know, where and that's what he had to do. Like you you see that like as he gets into that the end here like he's pausing, right? And then he gets another one. So he just about failed there. If he were to try to get another rep right now, like instantly drop back down into it, he wouldn't be able to get back out of it. So he's got to pause. He's got to take a break. And once again, now he's going to pause. He's going to take a break. So these are almost like singles in a way. And now like he's not going to get he know he's he knows he's not going to get another one from there. He's got a lot of weight on this bar. I I don't think I can zoom this in, but I think I can count at least one, two, three, four, five. I I'd say that's at least six plates that he's got on there. Maybe even a little bit more. Um, I mean, honestly, so I would back the weight down, number one, and then I would work on just you, Ron has talked about the term robot reps. I want every rep to look identical. You know what I mean? Let's control that negative down. And you don't have to do like a slow, super slow negative, but let's control that negative down. And then drive up hard. And then when you reach the top without stopping immediately then go back down into the negative. And the the the analogy that I always think of the picture I always have in my head is uh in 10th grade I took an autoshop class and uh we had this um model of a piston and there's like a little crank in the back, right? And there's a piston and the piston would go up and down right as you turned this crank. the piston. There was no definitive point of stopping. The piston would reach the top and immediately without really you even being able to tell it would change direction. Is very interesting. There was no like stop point, you know, it would just immediately change direction. So, I'm thinking drive up hard and when you hit that top, then bring it back down. It takes a lot of control to do that, to be able to do a controlled negative after an aggressive drive up. You know what I mean? You know, and and this is some some stuff that I learned from from Big Dave is, you know, it's it's that we want to drive up without using momentum. You know, if if you think about it, think about like if you're driving with your grandma in the passenger seat, you know, you you can you can drive real fast without whipping her head around, but you have to drive differently, you know, like when you take off off the the line, you have to be careful with how you're putting your foot on the gas. You don't just slam your foot to the floor. If you do, her head's going to get whipped back, you know, and that's the momentum. We don't want that momentum. Instead, you have to ease your foot onto the gas and let the car speed up. And as it's speeding up, you can continue to bury the pedal. And before you know it, your foot's on the floor. Her head never got whipped back, right? But now we have to come up to the very top of the set with the rep where we're now we're going to turn it around and come back down. And we want to be able to control it from the top. So, and we're coming in. That's the same thing as coming into a stop. Now, we can also stop quickly without whipping your head's grandma your grandma's head forward. So, it's all in how you break, right? So, you have to be gentle in that braking and learn how to decelerate so that when you reach that top, just like that piston model, you can gently go into the negative and and just through all of this, through robot reps, through controlling the momentum, you are already stepping your game up so greatly. you are using more muscle. I guarantee you that it is taking more muscle to be able to coordinate everything that you're doing. You know what I mean? And now you're also keeping the muscle under constant tension. So like a little game that I like to play is is let's say that I have enough weight on there that I can get 16 reps. Maybe I get like we'll call it like, you know, tw say I'm shooting for for 16 reps on the hack squat and I can get 12 reps uh without without pausing. You know what I mean? Without without having to take a break. And then the last four I have to take a break. Well, then my goal for the next time I do this would be to try to get 13 constant reps and then get the rest with pauses and then 14. basically working your way up, building that endurance up over time to be able to do more constant reps. I think that that in itself you'll get to be stronger with that and you'll be able to dig a lot further in to the failure. So I I think that honestly the set personally as far as like an insane set, it's a hard set. It's a great set, but I think that there's there's more intensity to be dug out of it. Just like just like if if if you were to do a one rep max and then I were to tell you, "All right, now let's get real intense. Let's try to get two." There's no way in hell you're going to get two, right? But if you're if you're using a light enough weight that you can say get 20 reps, what's the chance of you getting a 21st rep? it's a lot greater because it's only, you know, like 120th. Each rep is 120th of of your uh your max effort load. You know what I mean? So, I don't know. That that would be my thought, though, is basically lighten the weight up a little bit and and work on as many freaking constant reps as you can first. And after you can't get more constant reps, then you know like a good widow maker. After you can't get more constant reps, then get then get like three constant reps in pause and then get three constant reps in pause. And when you can't get that, get two constant reps in pause and then one constant rep, you know, one rep when one rep and one rep and eventually, you know, eventually then you'll really dig further into failure. You were just in this set, the amount of weight was just so overloaded that there was no way. You know what I mean? Because there there was just no way. You got like you failed literally like you almost failed on that like four times. It was a brutal set. But I think that you can even take it further by lightening it up. That that that would be my thought though on it. So anyway, I hope that I hope that that is you guys understand where I'm coming from with that. What else do we have here? Somebody said 25 milligrams a day. I think they're still talking about trend. Um, should I pull the HGH back out? Uh, because I compete in two weeks and it's mindboggling me, man. One two overalls uh, eight days ago in classic and men's physique. Weighed in morning of the show at 187. in a 3-w weekek window between shows, added HGH back in at four units right before bed, and now I'm 195 in 5 days. Man, that's a lot of weight to have gained, you know. I mean, my question would be, and by the way, guys, if you're enjoying this, if you can please hit the like button if you guys are hanging with me, it would really help. It helps to after we're done with this, it helps other people to help find it and maybe we'll get some new people that that join the stream and uh maybe we'll get some new people that subscribe to the channel. I'm trying to freaking get as many subscribers as we can this year. So, thank you for that. Um and thank you for all your comments and stuff, too. So, I I don't know. I mean, it depends on how how you looked, man. So, he weighed 187 in the morning 8 days ago and he won two overalls. So, I feel like you probably didn't look that bad. You know, did you need to be what was that? Eight pounds fuller. I I I'd say this. If you won two overalls eight days ago, you probably didn't need to be 8 pounds fuller. You know what I'm saying? I I would guess that Oh, I would pull it, man. I mean, if I had to say one or the other, yeah, I I would probably pull it. But I guess it depends on how do you look, you know? Is it all in the muscle? You know, are you just as sharp? I It's a lot of weight, though. If it was just even a couple pounds, you know, like one or two pounds, then heck yeah, man. Maybe you were 187 and now it's like your food has probably changed, too, you know? I imagine that. Uh, did you? Okay. I I'm a little confused here, actually. if you're still with us, let me know cuz he says, uh, let me put this. Yeah, he says, uh, okay. One, two overalls eight days ago in classic men's physique. Weighed in the morning of show at 187 in 3 weeks window between shows. Added back in HGH at four units right before bed. And now I'm 195 in 5 days. Okay. Okay. I I don't understand the Maybe the the 3 weeks is Okay. 3 weeks window between shows. Okay. I'm sorry. I got you. Yeah, man. I mean, that's a lot of weight. And if you're 195, if you're 8 pounds up in 5 days, how much more up is the scale going to go? You know, is it going to go 10 pounds up in two more days? It's a lot of freaking weight, man. You're holding a lot of water, you know, and at the end of the day, uh, as a coach, I generally want to play it conservatively because I don't want to mess you up. If you had a look that could win two overalls eight days ago, then I highly doubt that holding 10 lbs of water is going to be an improved look. You know what I mean? Sometimes trying to repeat what you already did is the best thing. You know, maybe if and if you are going to make changes, make those changes smaller. Um I I wouldn't want to figure out something that is such a great addition between this show and the last show. I'd usually try to if I I like experimenting and I want to see if we can get you better, but I would maybe experiment more with, you know, was there something different we could do with carbs? Maybe a little bit more or a little bit less. Did you have a little bit more room to fill out? You know, how much room did would that would that mean that that maybe, you know, just like a few variables I can think of. You know, maybe like a guy whose legs were a little bit washed out. Well, maybe we don't do a lot of cardio between this show and the next show. Uh, we just try to maintain, you know, but eight pounds, man, is a is a lot. I I would I I would always want to be conservative because, you know, if you had Yeah. 110%, you know, is is bad. We don't want to be at 110%. That's spilled, you know. What else do we have here? Yeah, the drinking scenario is difficult to uh convince clients about, but you know what? You got to be you got to understand that everybody's in their own place. And if somebody came to you for coaching, they didn't come to you because they wanted an Alcoholics Anonymous buddy. You know what I mean? Uh and as much as I would love to see people uh figure figure that out and and get that monkey off their backs, they they might not be ready to and you have to kind of accept that. But you know what? I I I will say this that sometimes, you know, like I said, I've worked with people who maybe never really plugged in. It doesn't mean that you haven't planted seeds that may blossom later. You know, just like everything we do with the podcasts, you know, not everything is always going to make sense to everybody, but maybe it will make sense. Some there'll be a piece that makes sense to them down the road, you know, and and they don't even know right now that they needed to hear it. So, I kind of look at things that way. Um, we did get some stuff on Instagram. I made a post. There was a an interesting, it was kind of like a fun off-topic kind of question. Um, oh, there's a training one here, a machine question. Um, want a decline press machine for my home gym? Thoughts on the Nautilus leverage decline press? Found a good deal. Um, but I've never used it. My number one choice would be a hammer strength decline. I don't even know what this looks like. Let's see if I can pull this up. And by the way, where is Give me just a second, guys. All right, I got to throw this up. Bodybuildor Rom. Hi Scott, here from North Wales in the UK on full swing. That is British bodybuilding that I know you love. Hell yeah, man. You guys know how to do it over there. That's for sure. Let me see if I can pull this machine up. Okay, what was it called here? was the Nautilus leverage decline. I'm not a huge decline press fan in general, but Oh, I've used this machine. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I've used this machine. It's a good machine. Yeah. I I don't mind this machine at all. Let me grab a picture of it. I'll show you guys. Hold on just a second here. They have these at a lot of Crunch Fitnesses. this one. Have you guys used this machine before? And if so, what do you think about it? I'm curious. I'm curious to hear what you have to say. I found uh I found it to be pretty decent. In fact, I do think that the decline was pretty decent on this particular machine. Um, I'm not necessarily a huge decline fan. I, you know what I really like out of a chest press machine? I like converging handles. You know what I'm talking about? I like the machines where that as it comes up, the handles are pressing together. I really freaking enjoy those. Those those feel those feel great to me. In fact, I I have an old uh plate loaded converging chest press machine out in my home gym out here. It doesn't have a way to anchor into it, so it pushes you out of the seat. Huh. Matt Sharp doesn't like He says that machine sucks. Who else has used that machine? You guys let me know. Bring the picture back up for anybody who hasn't seen it. Yeah. What do you guys think of this one? I I found it I didn't find it was bad, but I can see what what Matt's saying. You know, I know they put the seat belts on the uh the hammer strength machines. Nobody ever uses those. I've got a seat belt on one of my leg machines. I've watched It's Just Bodybuilding since episode one. Then the others came along the way. Uh, love Scott's deep dives. Skips and berries podcast is always a blast. Have used eval with Dave and enjoy your AMA podcast. Right on, man. Appreciate having you here, brother. I appreciate everybody. You guys, I appreciate all you guys taking the time to freaking come out here, hang out with me. I had two people give me a thumbs down here apparently. So, we had 55 thumbs ups. So, out of everybody that's watching, we had 55 people the whole over the whole time who gave me a thumbs up. I want to say thank you to that 55 and uh to the other two and thanks for giving me [\h__\h] I appreciate you guys uh giving me the interaction, too. I don't know. I I feel like uh I feel like I would use that machine if it was for a really good price. That list price was like freaking four grand. That's a lot of money. You know what I'm saying? I would not pay four grand for it. Jordan says it's a decent machine. Uh, I prefer the Jim Leo decline press over it. Man, I love Jim Leo stuff, but you're not going to find that for a good deal, I bet. Like Jim Leo in the US, I don't know how it is in other places, but Jim Leo is very expensive. For as small as those machines are, they they sure are expensive. Yeah, Anthony, if you get it for a good price, then I go for it. But what's a good price? You know, if that thing is four grand, what are you expecting to get it for? My uh my leg press is uh different. I've got I've got a Nautilus explode leg press out in the gym there. In fact, I wonder I don't know if I can show it to you guys. Let me see here. Let me see if this will show up here. No, I'm not going to mess with this. Hold on. Hold on. Hold on. I might be able to do this. Uh, no. I don't I don't want to mess with I can turn my phone on as a camera and I could walk out in the gym to show you, but I'm afraid that if I do that, I won't be able to get us back to where we are now and then I'll just have to bail immediately. So, we'll not do that. All right. What else do we have going on here? We had another question. Thank you. Rise 41 success in biohacking says, "Uh, I'll give you a thumbs up to balance out the negative feedback." I appreciate it, man. Uh, my home gym, how much did I spend on it? So, I I put it together when um a lot of it, you know what I can do? I could shoot a quick video of it and right now and then come back and show it to you guys. Do you guys want to do that? Let me know if you want to do that and I'll I'll just go and like do a quick little tour and then I can immediately throw it up on the screen. It' probably take me I'd have to step away for about one minute though. So you guys let me know if you want to see that and I'll uh I'll go give you the the quick video tour and then we can run through it. Um I probably spent let's see one two three I spent under 10 grand. I probably spent way way under 10 grand actually. I probably spent like five, six grand on it, something like that. I got everything for a pretty good deal, but it was during the pandemic and gyms were closing down, stuff like that. All right, we got Anthony is one one person who says do it. If uh if we get I'll tell you what, if we get if we get 10 people to comment, if we get 10 people, we got two people now. Biohacking do it says do it. Yes. And I want to see it. And yes, if we can get 10 people that say that you guys want to see the gym, I will shoot uh that quick video right now and then we'll throw it up on the screen and we can go through a little tour of it. I don't even know if it's a mess out there or anything. So, there's that. I'm going to be completely honest. I don't know what my reps are. I probably should, I'm guessing, uh but I I don't know what a my is. So, I I apologize. I've heard the term and maybe I've even seen it, but uh okay, what do we got here? I think it's starting to add up. We've got uh let's see. We've got a Yeah, there's one. There's two. There's three. There's four. There's five. Uh there's six. seven. There's eight. Uh Yo, I think you commented twice. There's nine. There's 10. And there's 11. What's up, Mark? Beer boilies and bodybuilding. Good to see you, man. The handles do converge on that machine. Uh we have both that one and the hammer strength. And I prefer that one over the hammer. I can do four plates per side with no issues um it not being anchored. Okay. Okay. Yo yo put it over the top here with a super chat. Man, thank you very much. All right. Okay. We got a bunch more do its. Okay. Listen. I'm going to have to bail though, guys. You understand? I'm gonna have to leave the desk here. I wonder I was seeing if Christmas cabbage was around, but I think he's at Dave's house now. Uh, I was gonna bring him in. So, don't go anywhere. I'm gonna be really bummed if I come back. We've got 120 people here now. If there are less than 120 people when I come back in one minute, I'm going to be really upset and I'm going to know this was a terrible mistake and I should have never done it. All right, I'll be right back. All right, I'm coming. I'm here, guys. I'm here. Who left? Oh [\h__\h] We're down to 110, guys. We're down to 110. This is a total bummer. No, that's all right. Let's see. All right, I gotta air drop this over to my computer and then we'll be all set. Let's see. Hopefully, this doesn't screw everything up. All right. And I didn't clean the gym up or anything, so it's kind of a mess right now, but it is what it is. This is real life, I guess. Huh. Oh, my reps are rest pause reps. Okay, I know what a rest pause is. I'm a huge fan of rest pause. I never heard that term. All right, looks like we got it. So, here's the gem and I'll walk you guys through it here. So, for starters, this is my treadmill over here. Uh, I got a Life Fitness Club Model treadmill from probably about a decade ago. And, uh, I I love this thing. It's It's a great treadmill. Um, you know, I do all my cardio there. If you notice, I have a tripod set up right over there to the left of the uh the setup. That way I can do videos, you know, if I'm doing like any of the stuff you guys seen me do on Instagram where I'm like, "Hey guys, you know, come on over and watch my live stream, blah, blah, blah." I just put it in there and then I I plug uh road mics up into it. So there's that. So I'll get back to these two machines here. This is my pull down. Oh, I guess I skipped the pull down. This is my pull down, though. I'll just go right here like this. See if we can shrink me down a little bit. Let's see. There we go. There we go. There's my pull down. It It actually feels pretty decent for what it is. You know, it's it's not a fancy pull down. That was actually owned by my dad's friend uh Rick. And uh when I was 15 years old, he bought that machine. And I used to come over to my dad's friend's house and train back with him on Saturdays because he had a pull down, you know, it and it was pretty rare to have a pull down in your home gym at the time. So that was cool. Oops, went a little too far forward here. Let's hit play again. I'm coming around to a couple of the It's mostly leg equipment that I have. So, these are old universal um extension and hamstring curls. So, seated I like a hamstring curl, seated hamstring curl over uh the prone uh you know, and they're they're old machines. These are from the like late 80s, but they still work really well for me. And uh I think I paid like 300 $400 for both of them or something. So, I mean, I really it was it was like that plus I had to rent a U-Haul van and then take them apart and then bring them to my house and then load them up uh you know, bring them down in the basement. The those the weight stacks are so heavy to try to move into a basement. Yeah. Everything had to be taken apart. Now, here's my leg press. And Victoria is going to kill me because I left plates on it. So, what's interesting is is it's on a hinge there. So you can see that hinge behind the behind the um the sled. So as it slides down the top part, it it look at look at me for a minute, guys. As it's coming down, it doesn't just come straight down like that. It comes down like this. So it kind of scoops. It's interesting. You keep your feet really low. It's a different feeling if you if you're expecting it to be a normal leg press. you are going to be sorely disappointed. It took me like six months to figure it out. And interestingly, because it it moves on that angle, you'll find that the uh the top plates and the bottom plates have different amount of weight because they're traveling different distances. The top plates aren't traveling nearly as far as the bottom plates are. So, initially when I bought it, I just stacked up the lower pins and it just crushed me. I like put five plates on it and the the five plates was like whoa crushed me, you know, on each side and then I realized that you balance them. So you balance the top pins with the bottom pins. It's kind of interesting. And then uh you guys could keep loading me up with more questions. By the way, we've got uh um you know what do you call it? Uh uh rower concept concept 2 or whatever they're called. This is Victoria's rower. just gotten into using that recently. It's an older model, but it works really nicely. And then this is behind that is my my flight uh converging chest press. Had to take that apart to get it in the basement, too. That thing's pretty heavy. Like, you don't load that up with a lot of plates. Um, but it's nice. It has a good feel. I I like that machine. That one also is probably very early 90s. And then I've got uh an open rack here, open hammer strength rack. My ceiling is uh drywalled ceiling. So because of the the height, it's kind of funky. Um I I can't get uh a full-size rack in the basement here. So this works. You know, it's not my it's not the perfect rack. I'd prefer to have an actual cage, but you know, this this does what I needed to do. I've got my transformer bar on that. Um, if you look over in the corner, you can see my Cadillac bar. And then, of course, I've got a traditional, you know, 45lb bar, too. We've got some kettle bells laying around there, bands everywhere. Like I said, it's a mess. Chains laying on the floor there. It's a mess right now. You know, if I would have thought about doing this, I would have cleaned it up a little bit. Um, and I'll try to put it on pause here because you can see I got all my mutant pictures. If you look above the mirror, I've got like I should have zoomed in on that. I had like Ron and Dusty and Drea and Shawn and uh and I've got a bunch of cool pictures over there. One of Tom Platt's autographed and stuff. So, those are cool. These are the heavy dumbbells over here. And then those are some lighter that stack is like the the I guess 10 lbs to 55, no 50s and then the 60s and then the rest of them are over there. And then this is my uh body master hack squat. And you can see there's a cushion underneath it. That's our dog Maddie. That's her little hiding hole. She comes down there and sleeps during the day sometimes. Or if we have thunder, she'll go down there and sleep under the hack squat. That's her her little spot. So yeah, that's that's the gist of it, guys. That's about all I got for you. So yeah, you know, I I didn't spend a ton on it, you know, but you know, it does what I needed to do. Nothing is new equipment, right? It's it's all the real old stuff. But yeah, I I enjoy it and I'm able to get pretty good workouts in. You know, I could probably get good workouts in with even less. I love having the dumbbells. I do a lot of dumbbell work. Um dumbbells I I do more dumbbell stuff than barbell stuff. So, I use barbell a little bit, but I do a lot more work with dumbbells than with barbells. So, anyway. Yeah. Yeah. What should we say about Scott while he isn't here meanwhile it's Stately Matter Manor Bruce Wayne films his home gym for the fans. Oh, I'm telling you if I could have my way I would have a Batcave. Like for real, you know, this would it kind of is. The basement is my batcave. I'm sitting in here in the studio now. And then all of that was literally right outside the door here. And then to go upstairs, I just walk through the gym and go upstairs. We have a little laundry room off of the gym, too. So, there's my studio. There's the gym. There's the laundry room. But yeah, this is like my domain that I spend most of my time down here working and hanging out with you guys. All right. What's your personal favorite form of cardio? Uh, solo cardio to be specific. I like the treadmill, I'll be honest. Um, but I'm getting into that concept two rower now. You know, it's it's a freaking challenge and uh but just standard slow steady state cardio. You know, I'm I'm getting my heart rate up a little bit higher. I'm I'm allowing it to get up to It depends if I'm if I if I'm postworkout cardio, my heart rate's already elevated from training, you know, so it's easier to keep it up. And I might keep it up around 130, 140, and I might do an hour of cardio like that, believe it or not. And it feels good. And it's pushing my endurance, pushing my lungs. So, I like it. I like it. looking what would I look to add to the gym next? I you know I feel like I'd have to rearrange things and tighten it up some more because right now I have like nice aisle ways to kind of walk through the basement and all that. I would like So the only thing I'm really missing is some type of a row machine on the pull down. It does have a low cable and I can set up to do like a low cable pulley row, but I would like to have like a con uh I would like to have like a um a chest supported T- bar that would fit in here. It wouldn't be my number one pick for a back machine. Like I would like to have a selectorized even like a life fitness model. uh the like the the row where you kind of you're sitting upright, you face into the machine and you pull it in like this and it's got a selectorized stack. I'd love one of those, but it would be a pain in the ass and it would take up a lot of room. But what I could fit in here is a chest supported tea bar. So something like that would be cool. You know, that way I would have two mach that's way I I'd have enough. I'd have I'd have like everything I needed really then. I mean, I pretty much do now. I'd also like a pec deck, but I just I won't have the room. So, I you know, you have to be biggers can't be choosy when you have, you know, limited space. The dumbbell rack takes up a lot of space. You know, KS Barry says that the rower and assault bike are their favorites because they are such a challenge. Yeah, man. So, with my lungs, you know, having issues with them, I really couldn't push that hard. Uh, but now that I can, I'm I'm kind of enjoying that challenge, too. The rower is pretty freaking intense. Victoria will get on that rower for like 25 minutes and just freaking whale on it. Um, I I I'll do 10 minutes sometimes, you know, but I it's not my normal thing, you know. Yeah, Batcave would be awesome. I've seen like videos on YouTube of guys that have like built underground bunkers by like behind their house, you know? They're expensive. Like we're talking like they'll invest like 200,000, right, into some crazy cool underground layer that's like on their property. They have like an additional basement now. And they'll like set up their their band equipment in there and, you know, have their man cave set up. That's that would be so cool. I'd like keep my guns in there and stuff, you know. It'd be it'd be fun. Can't have a gym subsidized by peptide sales like Chase. Hey, give me time, guys. And if you shop with our affiliates, I might be able to, but I can't talk about those affiliates here. All right, Jennifer is on her way to film her next hardcore set of the week. So, listen, Jennifer, you can't win two weeks in a row. That said, if you get a good hardcore set, we'll still play it. And uh you know, if it's a different exercise that you might be able to you might be able to uh to win. So, we'll see. We'll see. We'll see about that. Recording with the guys on Wednesday. So, we'll be doing that live, too, on the Think Big Live channel if you guys want to tune in. Yes, those are a best asbestous floor tiles. Good eye, Greg. Good eye. They're not going anywhere, my friend. I'm just leaving them. Favorite fruit to add to meals. So, I don't add a lot of fruit to meals, but I do split an apple. We get like the large apples and we'll split one of those every night. We'll also get pears and we don't really eat them as part of our meals, but we'll like split a pair during the day. Um or we'll get raspberries, blackberries, a lot of blackberries and then just wash them and keep them in the fridge as a snack. So, but I don't have like a specific like meal one I'm eating a cup of berries type thing. I love fruit though. What do you think of SARMMS per hormones? Are they worth taking at all? Um, you know, it depends what we're talking about. In general though, I I would say no. I I I would say that I mean it is MK you guys tell me is MK uh excuse me um Carterine GW-501516 uh is is that considered a SARM? I because I don't think it really is. It's not really a selective androgen receptor modulator, right? But when we talk about the actual SARMMS YK-11 seems to be gaining popularity again, I I don't really think there's an advantage to them. Honestly, I I I don't um I think that they were more or less a failed experiment. You know, the idea was that they would be selective and they aren't nearly as selective as we once thought they were. um the the results are not as what's the word I'm looking for consistent as what we know through the experience we've had with the tried andrue anabolics. I think that there are some really amazing new concepts out there now in performance enhancement, but when we're going down the road of spec specifically anabolic compounds like specifically, you know, this type of thing, uh I think that there are better options, you know, but that doesn't mean that all new things are bad, you know, it it generally the way it works out is that put it this way people who are at the high level aren't using a lot of SARMs. You know, SARMs are kind of more of like the gateway. You know, it's usually because it's maybe more accessible for somebody at first and you know, it gives results like a steroid to a degree. I I think that Yeah, I and I've experimented with a good deal of them and worked with people who have. I just don't see them as panning out in the same way. Um, you know, that said, you don't you don't hear as much about people promoting like you don't hear like you you don't hear content that says like, you know, you guys, you know, the all the benefits of trend, you know, it's like nobody's going to make money off of that other than your gear dealer, right? But you do hear things that people do get commissions on. That's kind of the way I see it. You know what I mean? And SARMs and all that stuff. That's kind of part of that bag that I I think that sometimes there's a sales pitch attached to learning about, you know, why this SARM is so great. I think that's what it's been. There was a a big push for SARMs. Uh, what was it now? It had to be like 2016 to 18 somewhere in there. And DNP, those things were getting really promoted heavily and there happened to be somebody who was had a had a store set up and was selling these things domestically, you know, and those things were really hot and it was kind of like, you know, we're on the cutting edge of anabolic science and all of this. It didn't last, you know, it just didn't last. So that would be my take on it. Did I already do an update on SLU? I really don't have a huge update on SLU. You know, I initially started it at uh 400 per day, 400 micrograms split into two doses. Um I may or may not have said this. I I do believe that there is benefit to using it on an empty stomach. Um you know, I I just intuitively something tells me that in fact, I'm due for my second dose of the day about now. So, while I'm thinking about it, I'll make sure that I take my vitamins. Um, I'll tell you what, after a month of 400, I felt like I may be getting diminished returns. I went to 500 and I definitely felt a boost. I haven't felt it drop yet. And it's been it's been probably about another six weeks now since that that I went up. And uh March, April. Yeah, about six weeks. So I looking back I I don't know if I got diminished returns or if I just got used to the effect. Um, I have a lot more that I do want to say about mitochondrial function, but I need to do some more research on that first. I'm I'm starting to see that it might not be the best bet for everybody and that not everybody is going to get the same benefit. You know, I do believe that I've dealt with some dysfunction and some hypoxia from, you know, having gotten sick that is getting reversed or alleviated. But for people that don't necessarily have those issues, some of these things might not necessarily be as beneficial. Like one thing like methylene blue could potentially be detrimental for people that already are really healthy. I've got some stuff on this. I I need to do some more research before I can talk about it. Um, but you know, it it's I'm starting to see though, and I've always suspected this, that that like boosting our mitochondria, like we all say like, "Yeah, I want more of that, but were you missing that to begin with?" You know, I I don't know. I I'll get more into that later. And I am part of this stems too from seeing some people getting like an amazing effect from these these mitochondrial enhancers and other people like not really noticing anything from them. You know, it's rare that people don't notice anything, but there is definitely variation in how much they notice. You you take somebody like me, I'm at that extreme end where it's like sunshine and rainbows and then there's other people that say, you know what, I notice that I have a little bit more endurance when I do cardio and that's it. You know, so there is variation in in the response that we have. So yeah, 40 years of construction management, great home gym setup, Scott, thank you, Greg. I appreciate it, man. What else do we have here? Did I miss some stuff? Because I'm seeing a conversation here that I'm not sure where that started. Oh, carnivore muscle. Um, okay. Okay. Endosarm. It's a PP AR agonist. So, you're right, Scott. I guess it's an exercise mimedic. Okay. That being GW or Carterine GW-501516. I do think that that stuff definitely has some benefit and it is different than it's not like a true it's not doing it something in androgen you know it's not it's not working on the androgen receptor so I don't quite see it as being in that but I wanted to say that because um I didn't want to include everything as being a SARM you know I didn't want to include MK-677 as being a SARM just because all these things are kind of you know coming from the same types of of places. Um, have I tried Knack on the lungs? Yeah, you know, I hadn't really noticed uh a big difference with it, but uh I definitely am a big fan for sure. All right. Think I had one other question here from the uh what was this from Instagram. Let me see if I can pull this one up because it was kind of a fun one and then maybe we'll leave the day on that if you guys don't have any other questions or topics. Hold on just a second here. Let's see what they said. Um, okay. What are the top five features, businesses, etc. of a that a city needs to have to be the best environment for a serious bodybuilder. Good gym is obvious, so you can't count that. I think that's a fun question and I would love to hear what you guys have to say, too. Um, what would make for a good city to live in for bodybuilding? I'm going to say, so I'm going to go into a different direction than I initially would have thought. Okay? and you guys comment. I'll be watching the comments here. You tell me if you uh if you have some of your own and uh lightweight baby. Yeah, let me get back to you on that because yeah, that is very possible and I can talk about it. Um and oh, and I see that Sunshine Man has a question, too. All right, we'll cover those. So, what do you guys think of this? I'm going to tell you what's what's a facet like five facets of a city that's great for bodybuilding. I'm going to say good cost of living, like low cost of living, you know, because bodybuilding isn't cheap. Uh, as a coach, you know, I live in Detroit. Cost of living here is good, you know. I I own my home, number one. I own my car, number two. My taxes aren't terrible here. Meaning, like I don't have those two bills to contend with now. Um, you know, that means that and and and I'm able to do that because Detroit isn't an expensive place. It's a it's definitely it's it's getting more expensive now. Um, but it's it's it's a it's an easier place to live versus like if you're trying to live in Los Angeles, you know, if you're living like I have a friend who was in Santa Monica and she was spending so much in rent each month that it's hard, you know, and then a gym membership in Santa Monica is going to be like three times the price of, you know, Metro Detroit. Um, and then finding foods is difficult, especially she didn't really like to drive. So it was like what's the local store in downtown, you know, Santa Monica by the beach. It's like all that stuff is going to be expensive. So I would say number one is cost of living. You know that that would be my number one. All right. What do we have here? Bodybuilding city needs great weather, outdoor parks, good food, cuisine, holistic health services. Yeah, I think all those things would be good. I like I like good energy from a town, you know. But you know what though? Here in Detroit, it gets cold as hell in the winter, right? But I always kind of looked at it as like grow season where like I don't need to go outside. I just need to get in the gym and lift. It can be anything it wants outside. I'm a freaking furnace because I'm on like a gram and a half of gear and I'm, you know, 30 lbs heavier right now because it's offseason. I've got a big old flannel and sweats on and uh you know I'm just going to stay in the gym and just I don't need to be distracted by a nice town. I just need to freaking lift weights and get big. That was honestly that was my mindset at one point, you know. Um yeah. Yeah. So, I'll say that. Gosh, I'm trying to think I'll I'm not going to give them five. I I think that Rise 41 did a great job, but I'll I'll I'll try to think of one more. I said cost of living. You know, good gyms was already mentioned. I think cost of living kind of covers the food thing. I guess I guess that's all you really need, is it? Like you don't need much. Like I guess like I mean Rise 41 said like outdoor parks, you don't really need outdoor parks to be a good bodybuilder. It's nice like it makes for a nice low stress lifestyle I suppose. Um I you know what I think a good a good bluecollar town is good for bodybuilding. Like bluecollar people they're just hard workers. There's no excuses. Uh there's a little more roughness. I I think that like a little bit of a rougher place where you you need to you need to protect yourself from the outside world that you're going to grow some more muscle that No, you'll probably be more stressed that way. Low stress. Okay, how about that one? Low stress. Wherever you can live that's not going to be stressful. You know that that that's another aspect too of cost of living. But like, man, if I was like living in, and it's just me personally, I couldn't handle like living in New York City with like all the cars and the sounds and the traffic and the people, like my I'm not used to that. Maybe I would get used to it, you know, but I I like calmness, you know? So, I I I'd say that I'd say low stress. Low stress. What do we have here? Uh, where I live, all gyms are 24/7 access except the Y and it's largely blue collar. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. And Jack is right. It needs to be somewhere in England. Yes, I agree with that 100%. When's the next podcast with Kuba? It's coming out this week, my friend. So, stay tuned. All right. What were these two questions we had up here? So, yeah, Detroit winter would kill me. I'm a tropical person. Bonus. You can show off your muscles at the beach year round. Okay. Yeah, fair enough. I appreciate that, man. Oh, yeah. Parks for your fasted cardio. That is a great idea. You know what? I never worked with somebody who lived by the mountains who actually like went out and climbed like did hiking, but I always thought it would be cool if there was like a if there was like a little hill, a mountain hike that would take like 30 minutes to do. I would love to say like for my cardio, you know, I'm going to walk the hill one time, okay? And then like further in prep, then I'm going to walk the hill two times. And then maybe if I really had to go crazy, I'd walk the hill three times. I don't know. I always thought that would be a cool way of like gauging my cardio. You know, how much cardio are you doing? One hill. I do one hill a day. You know, by the end I'm like, "Oh man, it got tough. I got up to two and a half hills." I don't I guess two and a half hills would be go halfway up and come back down. So, I guess you could do that. Um, but yeah, these questions. Okay. So, uh, where was this? I did some research including watching uh episode three four times of blood uh about insulin and tried three units like you said uh to start with and the pumps were crazy. I couldn't believe how I looked in the gym after a few sets. That's awesome, Anthony. That wasn't the question I was looking for. Um okay. Yeah, lightweight baby said, "Uh, hey Scott GH is aggravating my gyno. Ever heard of this?" Yeah, that happened to my friend VJ. Uh, wish he was here. He could talk about it. Uh, we talked about it on on Bodybuilding Nerds, but like I didn't understand that at the time uh a decade ago, but look both into prolactin and progesterone and and see where those are at. And I would definitely pull the growth out until you get that figured out. So yeah, he says uh just on TRT with E2 in the 30s, gyno would normally be dormant. So yeah, if you start messing with prolactin and progesterone, then you may start to notice that the what what normally doesn't bother you starts to bother you. So I definitely I definitely like figure that out. ASAP before you you go any further into the growth. Um, basic question. Uh, but I've got some gyno symptoms from 400 tests. Would you continue 400 with an AI or stack with primo or EQ type AI compounds? Really, I think you could go either direction. And this actually reminds me, I spoke to a former client today who was told by a TRT clinic that they don't prescribe AIS that uh for anything uh under 250 milligrams a test that you know they they deem this place it's in that that mindset of demonizing AIs that they're this terrible thing. Well, they basically told him like you can't get gyno from that and now he's got gyno. Um, so he took it upon himself to like get on to Moxifen and now asked me what to do. Um, but yeah, there's I think I think that there's been a big backlash against AIS. I mean, you you've got a couple options here, my friend. You know, you're already on 400 milligrams of test. I I guess I would say this. You know what what's so so getting on an AI, right? That there's going to be a cost to that, right? that uh AI is not going to depending on what you use. Maybe you use a Romson that that might be a little bit of a more gentle approach than a rimdex. Um lately I feel like everybody says no, you don't want to take an AI. Like stay away from an AI. Instead you take 400 primo to counter that. Well well what if this is Sunshine Man's first cycle and he doesn't want to run near nearly a gram of gear. You know he probably does. We all do. But you know what I'm saying? Uh cost to benefit a small amount of aromomasin versus doubling the amount of anabolics you're using. You know, I I think you got to weigh that out for yourself, you know, and look at what your goals are. But I I don't see harm in if we are going to push our testosterone up into a super physiological level that we also maybe want to use a compound to control the estrogen to be, you know, we don't want that to be so high that we're getting issues from it. You could run high estrogen, that's not a problem. But if it's high estrogen to the point where it's causing you issues, then you know it, which at 400 milligrams a test, I would suspect at some point that's, you know, you may experience an issue. You know, if you wanted to be really careful with how you handled it, you could keep some Novex on hand and if you started to get any sensitivity, pop the Novex. that's gonna obviously then like bind up to the receptors and block any gyno from further happening. And then from there you can figure out what your estrogen levels are. You know I I mean generally I do this usually whatever we're doing AI or no AI generally if if I don't know somebody we might not start an AI or we might start a low dose of an AI out the gate with 400 tests and three weeks into the cycle I would definitely get my estrogen checked. three, maybe four, and and see where that's at. And if it if it's way out of range, then maybe I'd want to do something to just kind of take the edge off of that. And it doesn't mean that you have to bring it all the way back down to below 40, you know, but, you know, when we start getting higher, everybody's different, you know. You might get gyno issues at 100 uh on estrogen. It might be I've had I've had estrogen at like 250 300 and I didn't even know it, you know, like it wasn't a problem for me. For somebody else that might be a complete disaster. So, um, you know, I I think it depends on how you respond. Everybody aromatizes different. Everybody also clears estrogen differently. You know, we always think about us, how much are we aromatizing? We don't always think about, well, how quickly are we clearing it? Because if you're if you're good, if your liver is healthy and you're properly clearing estrogen out of your system, you may not have too much of it pull up versus if you're a little bit sluggish, you might retain more estrogen and that will then begin to pull up over time and eventually cause some type of an issue. So, you know, there are natural options you can use like calcium to glucarate. You could get on, you know, 2,000 milligs of that. I wouldn't start 2,000 out the gate, but you could start with say a thousand and work your way up if you need it. And that might get you to clear it quickly enough that you don't need as much AI or any AI. You know, that's possible. But it all comes back to getting lab work done and and seeing where you're at. Um, you know, if you are an experienced user and you want to double the amount of androgens, you know, double the amount of gear that you're using, then definitely you could add in uh, you know, Primo would definitely be your more Primo would be more likely to be to work for you. Uh, I found with EQ it works for some. It doesn't always work though for everybody. What else do we have here? Cue the Jeopardy song. I would look more if if uh I would look more into potentially looking at prolactin and seeing what you could do with that. But I definitely would still check progesterone, check prolactin, and just just to kind of cover all your bases and and see where you're at. We've got somebody who just started calcium dlyate. How much are you taking and have you done any lab work since you started it? I'd be curious to hear. Yeah, man. It's my pleasure to help, dude. And listen, um, you know, like I said, man, get your labs done. You can go over to I have no affiliation with MERIC, but for like 10 bucks, you can get your estrogen checked at Merrick. You know, I don't think that's ultra sensitive, but you should do all right without an ultra sensitive test for the situation. Uh, you know, and and and see where you're at. Rise41, you've got a podcast, drop me an email, man. Uh, just hit me up mcnaldiets@gmail.com. I've been pretty slammed with all the shows that we're doing. Uh, but I I' I'd love to set something up with you, man. We'll make something happen. Um, I'm still waiting to hear back. I want to hear back about uh um what he has seen with calcium dlucarate. I've seen some people get a really good response from it, and it's usually people that are a little bit more sluggish at uh getting rid of uh getting rid of estrogen. Okay, here we go. Okay, he doesn't have it yet. He's going to get his lab he got just got his labs drawn and uh he's going to uh find out. So, 1,200 to 2400 milligrams a day. So, yeah, calcium dlucrate, it's not a cheap supplement. Um, basically what happens is there's a process called glucaronidation where the uh the body prepares estrogen to be broken down and removed from your system. And I'm gesturing this way because it removes it to your digestive tract and it removes it through when you poop. Basically, you poop it out. Uh if that said, that's important for us to not get constipated because if you're constipated and you have a bunch of these waste estrogens in your waist, they will eventually begin to reabsorb back into your bloodstream and now they're not only estrogen, but they're like an unhealthy form of waste estrogen that was prepared to be eliminated. Um but yeah, there's there's a few things you can do overall with glucaronidation and and ensuring that your body is good at preparing estrogen to be removed. The number one thing comes down to diet like having a good healthy diet which I assume us in bodybuilding that that we all do. um keeping like good healthy gut gut flora uh in our systems, you know, trying to keep stress down, making sure that we get good sleep, making sure that we are eliminating all those things are super important. Um and uh and then from there, if we needed additional help, then we can also use uh calcium dlucarate and the the the dlucarate will will help with that process of glucaronidation. my take, what's my take on artificial sweeteners? So, I don't think they're terrible, you know, and and if we just look at bodybuilding from a competitive perspective, uh it's not they're not generally going to harm you. In fact, you know, like I don't think that they're going to harm you in in many ways, but it all comes down to using things in balance. you know, if you're using a ton of artificial sweeteners, I think they can become a problem. Um, they can affect your digestion negatively. That can become a problem. You know, if you start screwing up your digestive tract, you know, you're going to have other issues. Um, I have seen when people overuse artificial sweeteners that they tend to hold more fluid. So, you definitely still, it's not like just a freebie. you still want to use some thought and consideration with that, you know, and and practice moderation. Find middle ground with how many artificial sweeteners you're using. But that said, like, you know, Coke Zero, it's not going to be a problem. You know, should you maybe cut it out right before a show might not be a bad idea or reduce it. Um, but, you know, I don't have a problem with them. So from what I understand, there was like a whole a whole campaign to like shut down Neutrauite that basically like sugar was big sugar was trying to make it look terrible. All the the studies that we hear about with cancer like I I don't think any of that stuff was ever true with Neutrauite. Um, you know, that said, I used to use Splenda, which is an artificial sweetener, and Victoria got me turned on to stevia. And when I first tried stevia, it had this like funky taste to it that I couldn't handle. But now I'm used to it and I I can't tell anymore. So, I try to lean towards stevia if I'm going to flavor like my coffee or my oatmeal. Um, but if I'm going to drink some soda, then I'm probably gonna be drinking, you know, aspartane because I do like Coke Zero and Diet Mountain Dew and Wild Cherry Pep, Diet Wild Cherry Pepsi. So, those things are all on my list. Bro, I'm about to run a cut cycle of test P 250 milligrams and test mast P 250 milligrams for 12 weeks. Any advice? I would say that that's a low dose cycle and I think that you're going to do fantastic with it, man. If you got all your, you know, if you got everything else in in in, you know, order, it's all going to come down to your training. It's all going to come down to your nutrition. And I will tell you this that over the years, I've seen a lot of people get into shape. And I have seen some people who can get into shape more easily than others. And it's usually the guys that train the hardest are the guys who get into the best shape. And the guys who train the hardest are the guys that grow the most muscle. So answer is train hard. The harder you train, obviously within your capabilities, you know, we don't want you to overtrain, but the the more you actually give, the heart you put into your workout, the better progress that you'll make. So there's that. So anyway guys, I appreciate you hanging with me. This has been a lot of fun. We've maintained over a hundred freaking people for this whole time. And uh we're up to to 90 likes now, which is awesome. Hey, if you guys haven't hit the like button yet, then please do because it really does help me out a ton. Me just hanging out with you guys and talking, it's awesome. I love doing it, but I also love seeing the show do well. You know, I want to see this thing get a bunch of numbers after we're done, too. And by you guys hitting the like button now, that's going to help it so that when it goes into like syndication and rebroadcast that that way more people will be able to see it. So, you know, if you enjoy the shows, then uh you know, all of your likes and comments and all that stuff. It is huge. In fact, check this out. I didn't even use it today. I got so excited that I didn't even hit the button. Is do I still have it around here? I wonder if I do. I had prepared this. Damn it. I prepared this, guys, and I didn't even use it. Like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. Look at that. We got some [\h__\h] going on here, guys. Anyway, um you know, and if you want to support the programming, uh we have a Patreon. I'll make sure the link is in the description here. Um and uh you know or if if you another great way to support the programming is to buy something from one of our advertisers or one of our affiliates using our codes. The code is think no matter where you go whether you go to one of the peptide places that I'm not mentioning here uh or you go to uh you know true nutrition use the code think and you will get some additional savings and it definitely does help to support the programming. I don't make anything additional off of True Nutrition, but they do pay for advertising. And so by them seeing the code being used, then that lets them know like, hey, let's continue giving Scott money to advertise for us, you know. Uh on the other hand, the other places that I won't talk about, that does make a substantial difference in me being able to make this, you know, worthwhile for me. So anyway, guys, I'm going to get back to it. I've got a bunch of coaching stuff to get done. and I have to write a diet today. Um, I hope you guys have a good day. Have you worked out yet? That's my question to you. I already got my workout in. It was just an arms day today and man, it was fun. I got all freaking pumped up this morning and uh yeah, we're going to have some new stuff coming out. So, tomorrow we'll put Kuba out. I believe tomorrow, maybe, excuse me, Thursday, Kuba's coming out. Wednesday, we've got drugs and stuff. And then, of course, Friday we've got Blood, Sweat, and Gear. Also, uh, you know, over on the live channel, I'm going to be recording drugs and stuff tomorrow morning at 10 or 11 in the morning, Eastern Standard, and Wednesday at about 6:00 p.m., we'll be recording two episodes of Blood, Sweat, and Gear. And yes, the code is think no matter where you go to True Nutrition or Parabolic or Amino, we won't mention those anything else. Just say that. Thank you guys. You guys are freaking awesome. And uh yeah, thank you for hanging with me. I really appreciate it. Hope you hope you all have a good rest of your day and let's definitely do this again soon.