esteresteresterester,esterester,esterester,esterester,esterester,esterester,esterester, bored. What's up guys? Welcome back to the podcast with Dave Crosland. I'm Scott McNally and all of our programming is brought to you by you, the people of Patreon. Thank you for your support. We are brought to you by Strom Sports Nutrition. They're available both in the U.S. and the U.K. There's two different websites. I'll have them listed below. Somebody went to the U.K. website and they're like, hey, these guys don't ship to the U.S. Well, it's because they got a different site for the U.S. We're also brought to you by SupplementSource.ca for Canadians. They have great deals that change week to week for Canadians only. And we are brought to you by TrueNutrition.com. Use our code THINK to get 10% off all your basic bodybuilding stuff like protein and creatine and intra-workout. Of course, Patreon. Thank you guys very much for your support, if I didn't mention that already. And of course, EvalBloodAnalysis.com. Guys, if you're in the U.K. and you're on cycle, then you need to get your labs done and you can get your labs done with Dave. Go to EvalBloodAnalysis.com. Dave, there was a big bust in Chicago recently this past week. Chicago is one of our big international ports. And I think it was like on a shipping container. I think I read that it came in on air, but at least they're making it sound like it was a massive bust. Did you hear anything about that? I saw a reel that I didn't actually end up getting to watch, but I did see something about it in a reel. But I've not seen any actual deal. Chicago, that's the windy city, isn't it? Yes. Yes. Very good, Dave. That's good. A little bit of trivia there. A little bit of geography trivia. So I pulled up a video from local Chicago news. This is a little report on what happened. I thought we could play that. Well, Customs and Border Protection officers seized more than $3 million worth of human growth hormone at Chicago O'Hare Airport last month. Those are the images of some of the supply. They say most of the 351 shipments originated in China. They were large boxes that had many smaller boxes inside with shipping labels ready to be sent to other places, several U.S. cities. HGH can be prescribed by medical professionals, but is also used illegally. Officers also found anabolic steroids, which are a controlled substance. Well, Customs and Border Protection officers... There's bags of test e raw there. That's what I was going to say. That's what that looked like, isn't it? Yeah, that does. It looks like it's some test e. The T-E on there. What do you think that is? Is that like a kilo? I think that's raw. Looks like it could be more. Yeah? Well, hang on. There's three packages. Oh, I mean per pack. Sorry, yeah. There's three packages and it's 3.163F, so it's probably a kilo in each, yeah. Yeah, that's what I figured. Something like that. And then, do you know... Have you seen this brand before? Let me see if I can blow that up. Oh, it's Pharmacue. Yes, I have. Yeah, we know that brand. Weren't Pharmacue saying that they were going to get licensed to manufacture in China? Were they? But then who's this? There was one... Biotech. Not one I've heard of. Yeah, me either. I am a bit behind, if I'm honest. Yeah, does anybody know this brand, I wonder? 300 milligrams per mil. It looks nice. I like it. I like the little reflective packaging they've got going on there. And then what's this, Dave? You got a few kits of G8, you think? It's either that or it's the old Rattier. Oh, yeah, it could be that. It could be that. And then what do we got here? No, more... Testineth. Yeah, more Testinethate. Huh, alright. I like how they put just that on the scale. So, if that... If they're putting those vials on the scale, are they saying that's like 147 grams of steroids, Dave? Because I don't think that's the way you would weigh that out. No, it's definitely not the way you'd weigh it out. And it's obviously not... What's that? 200 mg per mil? That Testineth? That one was three, I think. I thought the one was three. Scroll in. I can't scroll in any further, but it looks like 300. Okay. So, you're talking... 18 grams, aren't it? Yeah. Huh. Yeah, that's all the pictures they had. But I thought that was interesting. And I wanted to share that with you, because we haven't heard of any, like, decent-sized busts. What did they say? Was it 400... What did they say? How much did she say that was? It was $3 million. Yeah, $3 million. I like the way she says it. She's like, $3 million worth of HGH. HGH. HGH. Oh, man. So, that happened, and then that led me to wonder, like, what's really going on here? Now, I know I can't get the sound to work on this video for you, but I think that the listeners are going to hear it. Let's see. I've got another window here, and this is from Customs and Border Patrol, and they recently put this out. And there is little closed captions in there, so you can read along. I'm Diane Sabatino, Acting Executive Assistant Commissioner for the Office of Field Operations. A vital part of our mission here at CBP is to enforce our nation's trade laws and ensure economic prosperity. Since January, our teams have been working together to implement over 30 tariff-related executive orders. This means new tariff rates and ending the exemption that allowed low-value packages to enter the country duty-free. As a result, we've collected a significant amount in tariff revenue since the start of this administration. Collaboration between our teams is key to our success. To implement new policies, different parts of CBP work together to coordinate all the steps needed to put it into action. Our experts update our trade systems and issue clear implementation guidance to make sure that everyone involved in the import process can find the information they need. Once implemented, our personnel at the ports are the boots on the ground. They're fully equipped with cutting-edge technology and expertise. They need to enforce the rules as imports come in. And it doesn't stop there. I mean, obviously, if it's geared, they're going to seize it anyway. By investigating importers who attempt to cheat the system by evading the tariffs. Or are they just basing it on the paperwork declared value and just going to tariff that? Or are they actually going to open it? I can't see it practical for them to be able to open every single package. Yeah. So, first of all, I want to say, neither of these ladies look like they've ever had any fun in their lives. Like, I feel like if this was your neighbor, she would be calling the homeowners association on you. She's actually probably in charge of the homeowners association. Both of them are. Those ladies do not look fun. They do not look like they know how to have fun at all. You know what I'm saying? Like, they've got that. Both of them have that. Look at that, Dave. Would you? Are you suggesting that they may look like a bulldog chewing a wasp? Is that a British thing? Is that a British thing? Yes. Yeah. All I'm saying, man, is those ladies do not look like you would want to get on their bad side. And I feel like you. They don't have a good side. So, you would be in trouble with them. That's all I know. But here's the thing, man. So, yeah. Do they have the manpower to go through every package? No. But I thought it was interesting. So, the deal has always been, like, say, like, you, you know, you order a little bit of gear through the Internet and get it sent to your house or whatever. And it comes from overseas. If you were to do that, there's a good chance it's going to slip through because you don't have that manpower. But now they're saying, hey, they're due to trade agreements. Now, they are no longer overlooking small packages that could be tariffed. So, if they're saying, well, you can actually get paid if you look at these packages, I feel like that gives them more incentive. And you could kind of create jobs just because, like, imagine, like, one guy who's just, like, going through every package. Oh, what's the tariff on this? What's the tariff on this? That's going to add up, dude. Like, you could make a lot of money. And exactly. If they find out, like, oh, you had growth hormone in here, of course that it's just going to get confiscated. So, I'm wondering, man, are these tariff changes going to make it more difficult to get things in? Well, so, obviously, when you import stuff, you do a declared value on your documentation. Are they just going to surcharge the declared value with a percentage and that's going to be the end of it? The other thing is I know the rules here are quite strict around opening packages. Okay. So, it's not something they do randomly. They do need to go through a certain process. They can't just open every package that comes through the door. They have to have a reason to, et cetera. There is some protection around the post. We do have that, too. In fact, if you guys ever, just for your own information, if you ever did have a package in your possession that may or may not contain anabolics, if it's a sealed U.S. postal office package and you were to get pulled over, they would need a warrant to open that package. They can't. I don't care if they have probable cause or whatever. Like, you can't tamper with the mail. So, they aren't allowed to just rip open a mail package unless you had already previously opened it. If you opened it, it's fair game. You know, if it's in your car. Ah, but what if you've opened it and then reseal it? Yeah, I don't know, man. I don't know. I'm not a lawyer. We'd have to ask Rick Collins about that. So, yeah. I mean, if they are paying more attention to small packages, then obviously there is going to be an increased possibility of smaller orders, deliveries, et cetera, getting found. That's what I was thinking. And I wonder. If they are just doing it on a paperwork numerical value thing, then, you know, you're going to be paying an import duty on what you're getting. But I think that's probably going to scare people as well because if you get a letter from the post or an email or whatever saying, right, you're a parcel from Shuang Shuang province. You need to pay an extra $30 on. You're going to be like, do I pay it? I never heard anything. Do I pay it and then run the risk that they might go, oh, you know this package you paid for? You can't deny it's yours now because you paid for the bloody thing. Right. So I can see people getting quite paranoid around what may actually just quite literally be a paper chasing exercise in the sense of, yeah, this is declared at $50. Yeah, we'll stick another $15 on it and you'll have to pay the fees. Yeah. Hey, have you ever known anybody who's gotten an actual controlled delivery to their home? And do you guys do controlled deliveries there? Yeah. Yes. I know of a few. Obviously, I found out retrospectively looking at the legal work. But I know of a couple of times when either postal workers have got suspicious or Customs and Excisers themselves have allowed a parcel to go through. Yeah. But tracked it and have had police waiting when it was delivered so that at the point that the customer receives it, they can then enter the building and deal with it. Yeah. So, yeah, I've seen that a few times. I knew, I've heard of a few. And one story I can think of offhand, I can't mention the name, but it was a pretty good IFB pro. He had a muscle tech contract back in the day. It was just like a supplement contract. He might have gotten paid. I can't remember. But there was a point in bodybuilding, Dave, in like 2006 to 2012 or so, maybe 13, 14, that muscle tech literally sponsored every single athlete there was. Like they either gave them money, they gave them free supplements. If you were like a national level competitor, you had a muscle tech contract. They'd send you shirts and all of that. And then these guys would sell their muscle tech supplements or give them away to friends. Yeah. They'd sell it to other people and make money and then buy gear, whatever. And this guy, I knew, he was getting a bunch of muscle tech stuff and they couldn't get it in Poland. So he's talking to some guy in Poland and they made a trade. He was like, hey, you send me a bunch of these Omnidrons. I'll send you a bunch of my muscle tech products because they can't get them. They wanted it because it was popular. So anyway, he ends up, it becomes a controlled delivery. They do it once. They do it twice, second or third time. It's like a bigger order. He's got, I don't know what it was, 100 amps, we'll say, making that up. But it was a decent order, 100 amps of Omnidrons. They get delivered to his house. And the next thing he knows, he said, first of all, it was a different postal delivery person. And after he gets the package, closes his apartment door and all that. And a minute later, he gets a knock. And when he opens the door, it's a fucking load of police. And they're like, hey, we know you just accepted the package. You can turn it over to us now. We're going to come in. We're going to talk. He ended up getting a felony for it. It was his first felony. So he didn't get in any real trouble. He got probation out of it and stuff. But, man. Yeah, I think there's some defense if you don't open the package. Because you can say, I've just received the package and it's not for me. Because very often, it's under a false name anyway. That's true. Yeah. You know, so I've seen it's usually only when the package is opened that you're bang to rights. Yeah. Anyway, guys. I mean, I knew a guy who used to run a lab. And he used to get his raw sent in. And the address didn't exist. Okay. But what he had was also a phone number and a note on all the shipping deliveries saying, difficult to find address. Please call. We'll arrange. Okay. Now, technically, they're not supposed to meet and give someone the parcel. It's supposed to go to the postal address. Okay. But he got away with it so many times. Really? Yeah. The postman would be like, I'm trying to find this place. I can't find it anywhere. You know, and obviously, they want to get on with a job. Yeah. Yeah. And he'd be like, oh, I'm just around the corner. I'll come and meet you. Yeah. Yeah. You know, but he had one particular one where the postman was a bit like, nah, this doesn't smell right at all. So then they ended up catching him with that one? Yeah. They rang the police and they caught him with it. Yeah. Dang. All right, guys. Well, listen, we appreciate you tuning in and let us know. What do you think? You know, is that are things going to change? Have you heard of, because they said that started at the beginning of the year. Have you heard of more things getting seized? I, you know, bless your soul. If you're doing international shipments, I wouldn't mess with all of that. But that said, you know, we've got all sorts of crazy listeners. And Dave, we have a bunch of listener questions today. Did you know that? We have people that write in. They write in. They ask us questions for the show. That's nice. I have questions for you, too. Like questions about being British and stuff. Well, there's a limit to how many questions I can answer in a day. Okay. Well, listen, I have one kickoff question and then I've got a bunch more. It was after talking to Cuba and he says some words a certain way. And I wanted to hear how you say those same words. So we'll get to that at the end of the show. But when we went out to high tea, you paid for that, which thank you very much. I appreciate it. And that was a lot of fun. Was that really expensive? I mean, I don't know if it's polite to be a guest. Mama? Betty's? You? Yeah? Yeah. How much is it high tea? No. We don't have Prosecco. It was Scott, so we didn't have Prosecco, did we? About 29 pounds. Okay. Oh, okay. Okay. So it was about 300 pounds each. You said 29 pounds. So Dusty went to high tea. He was just in England, you know, for the Arnold UK. It could be anything between 30 and 60 quid, depending on where you go. He paid 100. No, no, wait. Where did he go to frigging Harrods? It might have been 300, actually. I think he said $300. Where the hell did he go? I don't know, in London. He also said he smoked a cigar that had a 17 on it. He was like, $17. It's a little, 17 pounds. It's a little bit more expensive than it should be, but I'm going to smoke that cigar. And then, you know, the one that Nicky smoked was a little bit more than that, and it had like a 22 on it or whatever. They were missing a zero. It was 170 and 220. You know what? A friend of mine, many, many moons ago, he was doing okay for himself, but he wasn't loaded. Yeah. And they went into, I think it was an Armani store. It was a high-end designer label anyway. Yeah. And they were picking some shirts for work because they were, they were, they sold telecommunications. They owned the business and everything, and they were starting to make some reasonable money. They never checked the price, and they found these white shirts and, you know, tried it on, really liked it, everything else. So he's like, yeah, I'll take six of them. And his business partner, not to be outdone, said the same, having no understanding of what they were costing. Oh, God. And I have no idea. What does an Armani shirt go for? They spent, I think it was somewhere in the region of nearly a thousand pound each on Shakespeare's shirts. Oh, God. Well, live and learn, I guess, man. Yeah. He was too embarrassed to go back on it, so he said, I just had to ride it out. He's like, oh, I'll just take one shirt. Sorry, I just meant one shirt. It's all I could afford. Here's a conversation I never thought we'd be having. Guys, let's talk about... ...Way Concentrate. I always avoided Whay Concentrate. I just assumed it's going to mess up my gut. It's going to give me bloating, all the stuff that people complain about. So I stuck with Isolate and I paid a lot more. But I tried True Nutrition's Whay Protein Concentrate and, look, I had zero issues. No bloating, no digestion problems, nothing. So the reason I did this was mainly because of cost, but then diving deeper, it turns out using Concentrate is more beneficial than just saving money. Concentrate isn't as stripped down as Whay Isolate. Keeping more of the naturally occurring fractions. Things like immunoglobulins and lactoferrin that support immune health. Nothing crazy, but it is a benefit that I totally wasn't aware of. At the end of the day, it mixes well. It tastes good. And it's doing the job just fine for me. And the big thing, I'm literally paying like $13 a pound, which is a lot better than I was paying for Isolate. All I did was use their subscription discount and stack that with our discount code THINK to get another 10% off. And boom, about $13. Go check it out at True Nutrition. Use our code THINK. Save 10%. Pick up some Whay Concentrate. It worked for me. It might work for you. And hey, if you want to go in light at first, just buy a pound. See what you think. Immunoglobulins. Immunoglobulins. Immunoglobulins. Man, that's a hard word to say. So listen, we had a bunch of listener questions. You guys are welcome to take part in the show. Comment with your questions, plus comments, likes, all that stuff. And hypes, hit the hype button. All that stuff helps to boost our show and the algorithm. Dave, we had a question about HumulinR, Novolinar, basically regular insulin. Guy said, he's like, I can't get a hold of any of the fast acting stuff, Humalog, et cetera. What are our thoughts on using that instead? And is it going to be an issue? There's plenty of people do baseline and do use slow acting. My only issue with it is that you sort of end up in a bit of a middle ground because you can't peak the dose around food. So you don't get this high drive around a calorie intake. Regular insulin. So like HumulinR. Yeah, which is what's the half-life? What's the action speed on that? It's a couple of hours, isn't it? Yeah, I think a couple hours. And I think it starts working within like 30 minutes, something like that. I think it peaks in a... I grabbed a chart, actually. Hold on, I'll pull it up. Hold on, give me a second here. Because I might be getting mixed up with the... All right. Here we go. So... I don't know if I can blow that up any further. But basically, what are we looking at? All right, so you're talking regular short acting, not the long acting. Yeah, not like long long. Not like Lantis. Right, I apologize. I was getting mixed up with what you were meaning. Okay. So yeah, like HumulinR would be the red line. And then HumulinR would be the orange-yellow line. Yeah, I don't see an issue with that. I mean, I think that's fine. The only thing you need to watch a little bit is the overlap, depending on where your meal timings are. Yeah. Because obviously, if you've got meals two and a half, three hours apart, then your second meal or your following meal and you're injecting again, you're still going to have some active insulin working in your system. So you can end up with levels a little bit higher than you thought they were going to be by the end of the day. Or if you had enough carbs to cover at the beginning and that's running for six hours, three, four hours in. You know, they say that the insulin has two peaks. And you can see here, it doesn't have two peaks. It's just you have a trough of blood sugar. You know what I'm saying? And then after you've eaten, obviously you burn through that blood sugar and that insulin is still cranking for another several hours. Also, have you ever talked to anybody about using HumulinR or NovolinR, regular insulin, intramuscular? Because Scott Stevenson has talked about that. And if you take HumulinR, I am, it will act much like Humulog. Yeah. Yeah. No, definitely. Yes. I am aware. I used to do it like that. Did you? Mm-hmm. That's what I would suggest. I mean, God. And here's the thing too, man. I don't know about for you guys. What's the laws like there with getting insulin? Is it over the counter, any of it? No. You can't get it over the counter. It is a medication. So it's a prescription drug and a prescription is technically a license allowing you to hold that drug. Okay. But it's not heavily regulated and controlled. So it's not particularly difficult to get. But you wouldn't be able to go into a chemist or like you guys can go in Walmart and buy insulin. Yeah. You can't do that here. No. You have to get it from a pharmacist and you would need a prescription to buy it. But like I say, it's the regulations, i.e. the level of control around it isn't super tight. Okay. Yeah. So we have, you can't get fast acting. Like you can't get the rapid stuff. You can get the regular. And that's just, I think, because they don't ever want a diabetic to be in a bad situation where they can't. Like you should always be able to go in and get some type of insulin to, you know, manage your health. In an emergency, it's available type thing, I think. But yeah, Humilinar or the Novolinar. And Novolinar. So here's the deal, Dave. If you go to like CVS, if you go to any other pharmacy, you'll pay a lot of money for Humilinar. But Novolinar, which is very close to being the same thing, 25 bucks for the 10 mil vial from Walmart specifically. You got to go to Walmart to get it. So there you go. Is that why we're land of the free? Because we have insulin availability like that? Is that why they call us land of the free? In this case, then why isn't your anabolics non-criminal? You're right. Lame. Lame. All right. Listen, we got a bunch of other questions. Guys, can you please update everybody on the worldwide testosterone shortage? Is there any news about China shutting down RAS or Sipanethe shortages? I don't have anything for you. I've heard nothing. The only thing I can contribute to this is that we are seeing more and more low levels in relation to what the declared doses are from customers' invalids. Oh, okay. So you doing lab work with a huge cross-section of people, they're like, hey, I'm on X amount of tests. But you're looking at their labs and you're like, no, you're not, bro. Yeah. And that's been noticeably increased. I wouldn't say it's massive, but it's definitely more by at least double, if not three times, what we would normally see. Where we normally might see one or two a week, you know, we're seeing six or ten a week. Okay. So there is a definite marked increase in the number of people that are testing low. There could be other factors, so, you know, I can't say for sure, but if it looks like a duck and quacks like a duck, it usually is a duck. How about this one? If there's time in the next show, could you use test EQ trend with trend at the start to then pull it, then just stay on the test and EQ till the end? Say 600 test, 500 EQ, and say 150 to 200 trend ace for the first eight weeks max. Why? Why? Yeah. If I was going to do a cycle that way, I'd do it the opposite way. I would add it in at the end. I wouldn't add it in at the beginning. Okay. But then how long is your cycle going to be? If you're going to run trend for eight weeks, what's your total depth? Are you looking at 16 weeks here? Is that what the overall thing is? Yeah, you didn't say. I'm just, I'm never a fan of high toxicity drugs early on in cycles, whatever it may be. Should I say high stress drugs? I think that's a better way of putting it. Yeah. I think toxicity isn't really a fair description. So I'm never a fan of high stress drugs at the beginning of cycles. I don't mind using high stress drugs, but I would rather remember the end. Yeah. Because then when I'm done, I'm done. You know what I mean? Yeah. And I want to have a building. You know what I'm saying? Yeah. You want things to ascend, don't you? You want things to progress. I don't want to be at week eight and being like, oh yeah, this cycle is so freaking great. The trend's all built up. The test's all built up. The EQ is all built up only to stop one of those three compounds. It's kind of, I don't know, anticlimactic. You know what I'm saying? Story of your life, that, mate. Anticlimactic, the Scott McNally story. Two-part series. The second part sucks. You know, like the second part's just lame. Second part is Scott sitting at home reading a book for four hours. Yeah, exactly. Going to bed at 9.30. What do you stop at that like? Well, no, we go to bed at 9. I go to bed at 9. Do you? And then I'm asleep 9.30 or so. You know, I do a little bit. That's an age thing now, mate. You know, when you're getting old for 60, you've got to go to bed early. All right. Oh, you know what Peter mentioned in the live stream here? What do you say here? Peter Parker. Peter lifts. He says. Does he lift, though? He says 24.36 after tax for 10 mil at Walmart of Novolent R. My problem with Novolent R is that I eat every three hours. It's hard to get the timing down after switching to IM. I've been able to manage. Oh, after switching to IM, I've been able to manage my levels. I'm happy to hear this conversation. Thanks, Scott. What's up, Peter? Does Peter actually lift, though? I mean, do we have evidence of Peter lifting? Or is this false advertising? Yeah, two things. Number one, he's a big boy. Number two, when he came to the Arnold here in the U.S., the real Arnold, by the way, Dave, the real Arnold Classic, he was wearing a shirt that said, I heart trend. We should get you a shirt. Arnold Classic in England next year is going to be four days. I'm not happy. Really? I'm not fucking happy at all. Maybe they'll make you guys pay more, too. Well, four days. You're going to get an extra booth day, Dave. I fear it's going to be the same trade spread out over more days rather than an extra day of trade, if you know what I mean. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So speaking of growth hormone and dental work. Oh, OK. So I told you guys that story last week. Check this out. This is another story of growth hormone and bone growth. So speaking of growth hormone and dental work, I had my wisdom teeth pulled last month. The endocrinologist said that I had the strongest bones in teeth he had. Oh, OK. We'll just say it looked like you said endocrinologist. We'll say the dentist I had, which would be different. Why would your endo be pulling your teeth? The dentist said that I had the strongest bones and teeth that he had ever pulled. Also, speaking of possible side effects, due to the trauma of him prying so hard on my wisdom teeth, I grew bone spurs on the inside of my jaw. When I came in a couple of weeks later, they had to remove them. And he said that they were the biggest, worst bone spurs that he had ever seen. It looked like I was growing a new row of teeth. He looked at me and said, are you taking anything? At the time, I was still in contest prep. So I laughed and said, yep. And he asked, is it growth hormone, one of those things? And I said, of course. And he said, yeah, yeah. That's what's going on here. So apparently you can regrow your teeth with growth hormone, Dave. I was supposed to go to the dentist tomorrow. Yeah. Just take some more GH. You'll be fine. They've canceled it. Oh. I'm not upset about that at all. I love EQ, but it makes me so hungry. And I'm not a, and I'm a non-responder to GLP one. I know I'm few and far between. It pisses me off. So this guy said in the comments, dude, he went up to 12 milligrams of red and literally got nothing out of it. Not, not unusual. I have seen a lot of people that don't get a real appetite hit from red and I've seen people that if they eat, it will, they don't, it's like they're not that bothered about food on the red, but when they do eat, they can continuously eat. So it doesn't surprise me that he wasn't getting a big appetite suppressant of red. It's something I've heard quite a few times now. Yeah. I don't think it's a non-responder situation. I just think it's, it's not as effective on for some people as it is for others. And unfortunately, he's probably going to have to look at Sema if he wants that strong appetite suppressant, but then obviously comes more side effects with Sema. Yeah. Yeah. I have maybe a couple of clients that haven't been strong responders. You know, they're like, I don't really notice that much from this. No. You know, whereas a lot of people have a much. Has he, did he get any other side effects of 12 milligrams? Like the sunburn feeling on his skin or any of that stuff? I wonder. Sure. Oh, we've got a couple of comments on kickstarting with trend. Andrew Barry from blood, sweat and gear has talked about kickstarting with trend, pulling it and then finishing the cycle with trend. And then Peter lift said, I think Andrew was talking about kickstarts with trend is more of a cleanup phase or to hype someone up for a cut. But something about the feeling in this. Yeah. So that's, I think, more what Andrew was talking about was a low dose of trend for the first three weeks of a cycle, mentally getting somebody into it. You know, so it's kind of more of a. Yeah. If you need a drug to get mentally into training, you're in the wrong fucking game. I'm sure if you heard Andrew explain his idea. I don't know. I'm sorry, but you should want to train. If you don't want to train and you need pre-workout. Well, I think, too, like kicking up the diet harder out the gate, like you can get, you know, do trend works. Right. So we can get wanting to do this. You shouldn't be needing a frigging drug to make you want to do it. I'm not with that one at all. Sorry. I'll respect Andrew, but I disagree. Well, you're disagreeing with what I said. You know what I'm saying? And I think if you were to talk to him about it. Okay. Yeah, exactly. You know, I disagree with you then. That's the problem with the telephone game, I think. Did anyone else? Yeah. Did anyone else see customs touting about how much GH they had seized from China, from Chicago? Yes, we did. And thank you for bringing that up. It reminded me to bring it up on the show. Hey, Scott, question for the next episode. My coach has me on 600 milligrams of testy, 300 milligrams of terrestalone weekly, and 100 milligrams of anadrol per day, making lots of gains. But the gyno is destroying me. What can I do to get through? I wait for my... I think he means caber. Yeah. He wants estrogen management. Fucking worry about caber. Get fucking estrogen management. Yeah. Yeah. That's a tough one, dude. I've had a conversation with your coach as well. Well, you know, I'm not saying the coach is particularly doing anything wrong, because we don't know the background of the relationship, the history. But if you haven't approached your coach and said, look, I've got really serious estrogen sides here. We need to do something to manage this. Yeah. Then that's your first protocol. Good point. Now, if you've approached your coach and you're not getting the response you want, then that's a slightly different scenario. But, you know, speak to him, because you've obviously got very high estrogen and you're getting issues from it. Yeah. And then we learned, too, Dave, that with men, it may not necessarily even be that it is such a high converter to estrogen, but it may be making you super sensitive to the estrogen you have. I thought we agreed that we didn't agree with that. The more I looked, the more I found that although it aromatizes, it may not be as heavy of an aromatizer as we thought. Right. Right. Because, okay, I thought we discussed that we were getting very mixed return information on that. Yeah. Yeah. I don't think we have a solid answer on it. I think we'd have to test for, can we get a test for methyl estradiol? You might be able to stay size. I don't think it's freely available over here, but definitely there's definitely more availability for that sort of stuff. Stay size. Hmm. Because we knew that it converted to that, but then we also knew that it would create more sensitivity to estrogen. So, I don't know. So, you went on one rabbit hole, I went in another, and we both came back with evidence that supported the opposing arguments. Yeah. So, I'm still standing with my original argument. Yeah. You've not done enough to convince me. I'm sorry. Yeah. And here's the thing is, it did do enough to get me thinking. You know what I mean? Like, okay, well, how much of there is this to it? But we saw so much conflict within it. I mean, this is the thing with studies, isn't it? You know, we did see a lot of opposite conflict and studies conflicting with each other. You know what's another one that I'm doing kind of a deep dive on right now is equipoise. And I'd be curious. So, we've always said equipoise is going to raise your red blood count higher than other steroids. But does it specifically? Is it specifically that equipoise does that? Because what I'm learning. That came from the veterinary stuff, didn't it? Because that was why it was used in veterinary. And that's what they were looking for. That's what my, you know what I'm saying? So, they're like, equipoise, yes, it does raise red blood count and hematocrit, hemoglobin, erythropoietic. You know? It's very erythropoietic. But that's what they were looking for. They didn't say like... How many times did you practice that word before you did it? I'm practicing it right now because it's hard for me to say. Erythropoietic. I would have fucked it up. So, is it that... Because there's no... So, here's what I found, Dave. There's no studies on animals or people to say, oh, it's this much more erythropoietic than testosterone. There's no studies to say that. All right. They aren't like, oh, we're specifically using aquapoise because it's really good at this. They're like, no. But wasn't aquapoise actually developed for that cause, for that reason? That was to... It was used for that. I don't know if that's what it was originally... Like, I don't know if they went out... I don't know about that. I don't know if they originally created it to be like, how can we make horses go faster? Well, not particularly... You know what I mean? Yeah, okay. Fair enough. All right. But I think that's where it was applied. So, I don't know, man. But I'm doing some dickening on that one. Question for the next episode of Drugs and Stuff. I am running 720 tests, 300 EQ weekly. I'm on week five of my diet phase with EQ being slow acting, both in terms of building up stable blood levels and slow to exit the system entirely. Can I benefit the same way if I run EQ for a total of 10 to 12 weeks and then introduce Master Run, seeing that there will be an overlap of both compounds or get the most out of EQ, out of the EQ, run it for at least 12 to 16? Thanks, guys. Love from the UK. What's he kind of asking here, Dave? Like, he's going to keep going after 10 to 12 and not use it but then take Mass after that? I've been reluctant to run Mass and EQ together. Why? Because I think you're going to smash estrogen too much. Okay. Not any interaction or problem with the drugs. I think you're just going to have to be very careful in your dosing. And I think off the back of that, your dosing is possibly going to be that low that it seems to be a bit pointless of running the two. Okay. And I'll just go for the one. But, yeah, I'd say I'm not so sure the old school adage of EQ needs to be run for long periods of time is actually as relevant as we think it is or as we thought it was. And I am more and more thinking, particularly now with this big move and a lot of people using EQ currently, that it's as effective as any other anabolic in the speed at which it has an impact. It's just the estrogen side of things that could have been screwing things up previously. Did we predict that, by the way, Dave, that EQ was going to become the new thing? I think we did. Yeah. Yeah. With trendsetters. Yeah. Did you say trendsetters? I did say trendsetters, yes. Trendsetters. Yeah, I like that. What's your guys' opinion on running 25 milligrams of Perviron a day? Does it provide any real benefits? No. And when might it be used? The only time I see any real benefit from Perviron is in a TRT stroke natural scenario where you may be combating things like high SHBG. It is a mild anti-estrogen. Yes, it is an anabolic, but it's metabolized in muscle tissue, so it has no real world muscle building effect. And this idea that you need to lower SHBG further in a cycle when the anabolics are already doing that is just bro science bollocks. I think it's probably one of the most misunderstood and overused products that there is. What is? Perviron? Perviron, yeah. Overused? Hmm. I think so many people throw it into cycles. You could use a lot of it there? Well, no, I just think people throw it into cycles when it's just not necessary. Hmm. It's prescribed over there, isn't it? In TRT, potentially, yes. Okay. Yeah, we don't prescribe it at all in the U.S. It's not even a drug, really, here. Yeah, I mean, it's just, you know, there's no real world benefit from having SHBG going from, say, 10, 12 down to 6, 8. It's not going to change anything in the productiveness of your cycle. Now, in a TRT environment, obviously, free test fluctuations can be much more impacting on how somebody feels. So, there is some cause for it there, and obviously, it has some fertility properties as well in fertility protocols and in people who are using anabolics and need to lower SHBG or improve fertility without suppressing natural production. So, again, it has some uses there. But in a cycle format, very rare do I see a cause or need for it. The amount of people that add it to a cycle because they're trying to lower SHBG, and it's just like, why? But these to their own at the end of the day. I just think it's a highly overused drug. Pal says, Ment was originally made as a male birth control. It's a 19-nor, so it's progesterogenic, but also highly aromatizing, very popular in South America. So, we talked about that, and we went deeper, and then we got so far into it that we realized, like, we just don't know for sure what's the real... Yes, but yes, I would say... It came off the back of someone claiming it didn't aromatize, wasn't it? So, we went and had a dig about to see where we were with it. Yeah. And what did we come up with? Like, nothing super concrete. All it sounds like, Dave, is that we know less than where we started. Do you know what I mean? Well, I went down the aromatizing route, and I found evidence to support that. Scott went down a different route, and he found evidence to support that, and it just all conflicted, so we just went, ah, fuck it. Yeah. So, now, we have Pal coming in, and he's literally telling us just the basics. Like, you know, it's a 19-door, and it's like he's... Leave him alone. But what I'm saying is, though, like, he's got, like, more solid concrete info than we do, and he's just in a five-sentence post, two-sentence post. Actually, while we're on the subject of Trent, of Trent, of Ment... Fuck, I've got Trent on the brain today. Ment doesn't act as progesterone. It acts like a progestin, which means it can engage the progesterone receptor. Yeah. Prolactin doesn't cause gyno. Prolactin just creates a gyno-friendly environment. It's still estrogen that's causing the gyno, but prolactin will lower DHT and increase estrogen receptor sensitivity at the breast. So, ultimately, controlling gyno is all about controlling estrogen. Yes. But the prolactin kick from Ment is not the same as what you see in Trent and Decca. It is less. It's mainly the estrogen side of things that is the problem. Okay. Hey there, big fan of the channel, especially you two, want to ask your comment and advice for a newly started cycle design. 52 years old and training five days and rest on the weekends, 58 kilograms, or excuse me, 85 kilograms, and in a recomp, weekly dose is 250 test, 200 mast probe, 100 milligrams of Boldenon, 100 milligrams of Trend E, 1 milligram of Pharma GH every day. Looking forward to any advice for the drug and dose choices of my cycle. Love you both. Question. Dave, in the back. Three IU every day or the whole dosing every day. Of growth? Well, so what you said is you've listed a load of drugs, and on the end of that list of drugs you said growth, and then you said every day. Oh, yeah. So is it every day? I'm going to guess. No, because he said weekly. I'm hoping it's just the growth. Hold on. He said weekly doses. 250 test. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Is this – I don't see anything particularly wrong with it. It seems a little bit – a lot of different compounds that potentially isn't necessary, but it's – Well, you get – if you have – okay, so if you have 250 test e, like, let's say you wanted – let's say that you're 52 years old, and you're like, hey, I want to do, like, a cycle, but I don't want to go crazy with it. I want to keep this as modest as possible. So you start that cycle with 250 test e. You add to that 200 test masked probe, and then you've got 100 bolden on. I feel like you probably don't need any AI with that first of all. You may actually need higher test with that. Maybe. It's going to be close. It's going to be close. You're talking – you're now on 450, 550 milligrams of compounds, and you won't – like, no need for AI on 550 milligrams of compounds, plus then 100 milligrams of Tren E. I mean, I feel like I'm with him up until the Tren E point. I don't feel like – it just takes it for me to be like that's a – it's a strong compound. Tren E is – it's just not – I'm not a fan of Tren E personally. It's a low dose. It's nothing scary, but I'm sort of the argument of is it worthwhile putting in? I don't have an issue with it from a point of view of either the – you know, on the scent of the dosing or anything, because it is a low dose, but, I mean, is he getting a lot from it? Does he feel like he's getting much from it? Has he started with that whole cycle as one thing, or has Tren E been added at a later date? Because I just – it's sort of – I'm 50-50 on whether it's worth bothering with. Yeah. Yeah. Pal. He's had vigorous Steve used meant to grow his gyno as big as possible before his surgery. We should have a contest, Dave. Like, who can grow the biggest gyno? I once saw a guy on stage with a pair of spaniel's ears. Spaniel's ears. That's a slang term? Visualize a pair of spaniel's ears. Okay. Now visualize them as a pair of breasts. Yeah, I don't want to visualize that anymore. Or just look in the mirror. It'll be easier. You'll see it. Take off your shirt. Look in the mirror. How about this one? Does diet fatigue still accumulate the same weight on trisepatide or RETA, the same as a natural cut? That's a good question. I'll tell them this, Dave. Diet fatigue. You know, over a period of time, you definitely get tired of dieting. You get burnt out on it. I'll say this. I found a lot. I've had a lot of experience at this point with it. You know, a lot of people I'm working with are looking to diet down. I think that no, I would say it doesn't accumulate the same way because there is a certain amount of kind of mental energy that goes into being hungry that wears you down. So if you can remove that, you can sleep better, all of that stuff. But no matter what, eventually you get to such a lean condition that your energy levels go down. The amount of food that your body needs to continue dieting down, like, gets lower and lower. So, you know, the nutrition you're getting is lower. You will still get, like, fatigue. You know, the fatigue that goes along with being in a calorie deficit, being low body fat. But removing the hunger, I do think, extends that window before you hit that place. I would agree. There's definitely not the same level of mental fatigue and mental effort within it. So I do think that's going to have a significant role in overall diet fatigue. Obviously, low calories, lack of energy due to low calories and low body fat. You're not going to avoid those effects. Yeah. However, now this is something I wonder, actually, it is a rhetoric or GLP related. Do you find a potential for a lack of enthusiasm developing in people on GLP ones? Dude, so somebody just did a post on this recently. Because so, who was it? Everything just gets a little bit less rewarding almost. Yeah. Well, it does. It does have a relationship to that pleasure reward center. And it will reduce. It's interesting. So I saw a post on this recently. I have a client who stopped taking it because he said he felt like it was sucking the joy out of life in general. Yeah. You know, it's something I'm seeing more and more of. Yeah. It definitely will reduce all of that. In fact, what was this? Let me see if I pulled this up. Also, elevated. Actually, Cuba brought up on Sunday when I was at Cuba's was elevated a heart rate as well. Okay. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No, I've seen that. I've got a guy who literally came off of it because he checks his heart rate like really closely, monitors everything. And he was saying that he's noticed it come down like a good 10 points since he came off the RETA. Yeah. And then the 10 points just seem to be a common theme as well. And then the other thing that I was having a conversation with the other week was some harm reduction services are looking at RETA as a possible support treatment for helping with drug cessation and alcohol cessation. Yeah. Yeah. No, dude. Absolutely. I think there's something to that, man. Listen to this. Here is the real that Dusty and Ron and I were talking about in our group chat. Your girlfriend or boyfriend started taking GLPs and your relationship started failing. There's a good chance that's why. We initially thought GLP-1s like ozempic, Trisepatide, and Retatrutide just reduced food cravings. Now we know they work for alcohol, cocaine, gambling, and other addictions too. But do you know what runs on exactly the same circuit? Falling in love. GLP-1 receptors sit in the exact same brain regions that light up when you're in love. The insane thing about them is that they don't just suppress appetite. They suppress wanting in general, including romantic craving another person. Something like 60 million people are now on anti-desired drugs. Is that why our relationship has gone cold? And it happened in the blink of an eye. I predict in the coming years we will see people on these drugs be less able to fall in love. We will also see them fall out of... You're talking about you and me? Yes. I've noticed there's a frostiness from you just recently and you seem less interested in me. I... Well, okay. Listen, I wasn't going to bring it up. But, you know, it's like you seem less interested in me and more you treat me. Dave, you have to understand... You have to understand me. You have to understand that relationships take work, okay? And I haven't seen you putting in the effort. And I understand... Well, that's because you treat me like a piece of meat. I understand that that's me and my own expectations, right? But... But I'm not a play thing. You can't just pick me up when you want me and then discard me when you're bored. Guys, we've got a few more questions. Hey, real quick. Got my AST levels back at 52 over the limit, which is 40. How high should I go before I start to worry? Oh... Not even... AST. 52. 52. Yeah. I think... Yeah, was it AST? Yeah, AST. Yeah. You're fine. Chill. It has to do with the enzyme that they're looking at is the same enzyme that's in muscle, right? So if you break that muscle down... There's that. There's also the fact that your liver has to deal with waste product from exercise and everything else. Nah, it's... Yeah, when you start getting into the 100 pluses, then you might need to start having a look. But no. Fuck, no. A hard shit can push ALT up. How about this one? Hey, guys. Not sure as a Patreon member, where is best to ask this question? You just posted it on YouTube. You guys can post stuff on YouTube if you're part of Patreon. Comment on Patreon. We've got a thread there. Recently started a cycle and at the same time, about four weeks in, I lost my job. Any advice as far as the cycle is worth running, a cycle at a stressful point in life, or just bailing and coming down to a normal spot? Feeling amazing and confident was thinking that I would take that drive into the job search, but just not sure if that stress is healthy. Love the show. And crack on. If it's not a financial concern, because obviously a lack of employment usually means a lack of money. So if it's not a financial concern, then I wouldn't be particularly concerned about stopping the cycle. As long as you didn't lose your job because of the cycle. Yeah. Because Scott turns into an arsehole on gear, so that's why he works for himself. Yeah. You know, when I did my first contest prep, Dave, I knew I was getting laid off because the company was going under. And I was like, you know what? I'm not going to look for a job. I've just got to take on employment for the last, like, I think it was like the last eight, ten weeks of my contest prep. I'm going to live the dream. So you're going to be a real bodybuilder. Real bodybuilder. Sit on my couch. Like a real bodybuilder. Which I did. Oh my God, dude. I was effing miserable, Dave. Because I was so hungry and I had nothing to do, man. It distracts yourself. Yeah. Just to sit on the couch, bro. It was terrible, man. Yeah. But no, I mean, you know, unless he says he's feeling good, it's having everything in the sense of a positive effect. If he's helping him feel confident, that's only going to help him in the search for a new job. So unless there's a financial impact that he's concerned about, I wouldn't be particularly concerned. And if anything, you've got no excuses for missing your meals or your training now, have you? You know, it'll increase your dopamine levels. It's going to increase your overall drive. I feel like if you're on a good cycle, like we should put together cycles for your job interview. No, for your job interview. You come in and sit down and you just freaking, you're going to own it, man. You're just going to put out that Arnold Schwarzenegger. I'm already, I'm telling you I'm the champion energy. You know what I mean? So, Halo, Trent, Jet Drops. No, we want him to get a job, not fight the manager. No, he's supposed to hire you. That can go sideways real quick. Guys, love the show. I have a question and curious if you can cover. I can get Sustanon 250 easily from my clinic and have done it before for a few months. How could it be used in a bodybuilding prep scenario? And could you explore the pros and cons of using it? Thanks, gents. No, it's test. It's the same as, you know, any other tests. All right. The plateau is slightly different. But from a point of view of usage, it's not going to make any problems or have any negative effects. And at least, you know, it's genuine gear. Yeah. So there's no concerns there. But yeah, you just treat it like you would any other test. It's not a problem. Here's what I would say if you were my client and you're like, hey, I'm running whatever 500, 750 tests. It's all sussed. I would want to make sure that we got you the way we wanted you to look. I do think that estrogen management is a little bit more important in a contest prep scenario. So if we have your estrogen where we want it and you look good, then I'm not going to change anything, dude. In fact, I'm going to run that stuff right into like Sunday, Monday before the show will be our last shot, you know, on a Saturday show, like a week out. So you'd stop your shots a week out. Ballpark. Yeah. Just because just because I want to avoid lumps and bad shots. It's not for any other reason. We're not like, oh, we got to dry you out. You know, I might still take here would be pro tip, Dave. If I was running fast acting trend and massed, I would still take that up till Tuesday, maybe Wednesday. But I would make sure that the volume was then reduced because we're not using test. And I would put it somewhere that the judges aren't going to see it like a glute shot on a Tuesday. Something like that. Bell end. I know what that means. It's a British word, but I know what that means. I don't think we do shots there, Dave. Or left testicle. Yeah, they're not going to see that, hopefully. No. All right. We got just one or two more here. Hey, what do steroid cycling look like for someone looking for more all around athleticism? Best all around speed and strength and endurance athlete. Cycle wise. Yeah. I'd say low dose test, a little bit of antivir. You'd go with T-ball. I like T-ball. As an oral, I would look at T-ball. Yes. Yes, you would. I know. As injectables, I would actually consider EQ. EQ? Yeah. Hey, if it's good enough for racehorses. Exactly. Exactly. I've had quite a few Hydrox CrossFit guys run EQ and do very, very well with it. Hell, yeah. And, just a point of reference, they return the best bloods out of everybody. Really? Mm. Okay. And so it just shows how positively impacting high cardio can be when it comes to health markers and blood work. Yeah. Okay. Last question. Dave. Scott. I have a few words. A couple words. A couple sentences. And I would like to hear you say them for me. Can we agree to do that? Yes. Okay. The first word. I will humor your abuse and mimicry of my native tongue. Okay. Okay. So the first is this. I'm going to have you repeat a sentence. Okay. I'm going to the car. I'm going to the car. I'm going to the car park. I'm going to the car park. So you have like a little bit of that R in there. Here's what I noticed. Some British people, they don't say the R in words like car. But if you have another word right after it that starts with a consonant, I believe, then they do say the R. So it's like I'm going to the car versus I'm going to the car park. Can I ask a question? Can I ask a question? Do you actually spend time thinking about this shit? I actually did. Yeah. Yeah. I took like 10 minutes. And then I went to go look at like I actually went to a web page that like showed you how proper pronunciation is done and how that pronunciation changes. It all starts because, dude, I'll record with Cuba. This is we recorded the other day. I can't remember what the word was that he said, but every once in a while I'll hear him freaking roll his tongue when he talks. You know what I'm talking about? Like there's a British tongue roll. Like what's that? I think I think some of I think one of the issues is because we are quite a small island, but we have such a varied local dialect that that plays a huge role in how people sound. Yeah. And and because we're a small island, which is a varied dialect, you it comes up much more often in how people sound differently and say things differently. The Yorkshire accent. And I mean, obviously, Cuba's Polish descent, Yorkshire accent that there's it's not the most intelligent sounding accent. Let's put it that way. And there are lots of laziness within our pronunciation. Dude, there are at least we can say words correctly. Dude, when I was at the Manchester airport, these two girls came up to me and they asked me a question about where something was at. And I literally was like, I could I'm sorry. Can you say that again? And they said it again. And my face just looked blank again. And thankfully, the person standing like there was another person on the flight standing next to me and they turned and they answered their question. They were like asking, like, can you tell me where the gate 22 is? Or I don't know what the question was. But, dude, their accents were so thick. I seriously I swear to God, I couldn't even understand them. And we speak the same language, which is crazy, man. Yeah, we start getting into like Geordie and Scouse accents. It is it is literally another language almost. It's crazy. So Northern Irish is another one that's difficult. I struggle with Northern Irish accent. Yeah. What words would it be like that people roll their R's on? I'm trying to think. Yeah, because you just it's just part of your language. So you hear people do it. You don't think twice about it. I consciously think of that. Yeah, but there's occasionally words that Cuba will roll. It's like that. He'll get that roll. And it's like at the right time. And I'm like, damn, it sounded kind of. I don't know. It's like I believe that's quite common in the Irish accent as well to roll your R. I could see that. Yeah. Oh, yeah. I don't know where I don't know where they put it, though. I'll have to listen back when I edit that episode. But you guys listen. You'll hear Cuba roll his R's. But, yeah, I hear you say it sometimes, Dave. Where you leave the R's out. And I think that's a super common thing with British English. I think that it's across the board, isn't it? We get lazy with language. You just said across the board. You're like, there's no R in that word. Across the board. There is board. B-O-A-R-D. But it was like, bod. B-O-A-R-D. Sorry. B-O-A-R-D. I know my Midwestern accent is not the prettiest either. I do think pronunciation is something that's probably declined in a modern society. Because we do get lazy with language. And then you have all these stupid new words that don't make any sense to me. Yeah? Hmm. Can you think of one that maybe your kids use or something? That's Deng. That's Peng. Pure Joke. Fuck it. There's loads. Yeah. Dave, Scott is from Detroit, don't you know? It's basically like communicating with a different galaxy for him. It pretty much is, man, sometimes. That's what can you do. I think Scott's weird even for somebody from Detroit. I think he tries to hide about the fact that he's from the Motor City. But I think he's just weird even by Detroit standards, to be honest. Oh, yeah. No, absolutely, man. Yeah. Yeah. I don't fit in so well, I think. I think even fellow Detroitians go, fuck it, I busted him, you know? We have some accents here, man. And the accent in Michigan, the further north you go, becomes very Canadian. And we have what's called, the people called Youpers. So if you live in the Upper Peninsula, they're called Youpers. Right. And then they call us trolls because we live under the bridge, you know, where there's the bridge that goes to northern Michigan. But, yeah, the Youper accent is very, like they go up on their, you know, like they're asking a question in all their sentences and they say A. You know, there's a very Canadian feel up there, which, I mean, yeah, you're right there. So. Yeah. The accents are fascinating. And I think more the terminologies that develop with the accents because they just have completely different words for things. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, there is that. Scotland has some right ones. What the fuck? Oh, yeah. I told you this before, man. When the movie Trainspotting came out in the U.S., it was all done with captions. Yeah. It all had subtitles under it because nobody could understand. They're like, oh, what language is this? Yeah. It's. I mean, I do. I think I've told you the story. I once got directions of somebody I knew in Scotland. And after a five-minute conversation, the only word I actually understood was the word roundabout. Yeah. Yeah. So literally what I heard was. Really bit. Really bit. Really bit. That was literally what I heard. Three roundabouts. So I knew there was three roundabouts in the directions. But beyond that, I haven't got a fucking clue. I don't know which ones. Yeah. Or what I was doing when I got to them. Oh, by the way, somebody said, damn, like listening on Spotify. Well, at work. Well, you can talk to Spotify because they removed all our content. You guys are wondering where Spotify is. Have you sorted that yet? No. I mean, here's the thing. So what do I pay you for then? I can post there still. But they never told me why our content got removed. Like there was no specific thing. They just said endangering. It was opinions or education that encourage dangerous behavior. That's all they said. They didn't say what. And they just got rid of all of it. So that tells me that I don't know. Are we going to put everything? Are we going to continue publishing our content on Spotify only to have it all taken down? Or do I go through another app where the shows are still all coming out now on audio? They're still charging out through the RSS feed. You can go to places like the Apple podcast app to listen there. Other third party apps that pick up the RSS feed. You can listen there. Also, if you go to YouTube Music, which is a free app, you can shut that app down. You don't have to watch it. Or if you have YouTube Premium, you can close the app down too. You don't have to look at it. But yeah, YouTube Music, you can go to that app and listen to the podcast there and close the app down. You don't have to look at it. Other platforms are available. Yeah, there are other platforms available. I'm sorry, guys. Believe me, I'm irritated with it because I would love to have the show on Spotify too. I knew a lot of you guys were listening there. And I do have the option to put it back up there. But I'm going to have to be careful. I don't think I can post everything there. They don't like Dave. There's no avenue of conversation there where you can pre-request a guideline or anything. No, yeah. Yeah, that's the problem, man. It's just like they just let you go and let you go and then say, oh, no, we're removing you and you lose your you lost your account this time because you repeated it again. Repeated what? You didn't tell me the first time, you know. So anyway, Dave, do you have any words of wisdom for us today? Try understanding someone from Liverpool. I went to Liverpool. Remember that? In fact, that's where I met you for the first time. It is. No, I don't actually. I apologize. I apologize. No, I've got nothing. Tanya, are we up on podcast at it? Will you let me know? I've got nothing at all. That's sad, Dave. It is sad. Hey, I'm recording a podcast today with Niall from the Transparent podcast. It's spelled Transparent. What are you talking about on the Transparent podcast? I have no freaking idea, dude. And he does a long show. Like, it might be two, three hours. Fuck. Yeah. Talking to you for two, three hours. Jeez. I know. I don't. You don't talk to yourself that long. No, I don't wish that on anybody, man. Scott takes a break from Scott after 90 minutes. Yeah. Okay, cool. Yes. You've been there the whole time. Thank you, Blunt Force Tanya. So, yeah. Podcast Addict. Go over there. You can use that app. It's free. You'll listen to the show for free. You know, or go to YouTube Premium. That works, too. Dave, we appreciate you being here as always. My pleasure. IG Gizzard is moaning about something. Is he? Yeah. He says he made some comment. I'm sad. It's hard to scroll back up. I'm sad my response went unnoticed. It's really hard to scroll back up. It's such a great line. Yeah, it is. Thank you, Cornelius. I appreciate it, man. Make sure that you have something prepared for his final question. What's his final question, pal? I think it's like if you could be remembered for one thing, something like that. Dave, if you were to leave this planet today, what's the one thing you would want to be remembered for? Or what's the one message you would want to put out there? I wouldn't specifically want to be remembered for any individual thing or item. I would like to think that I have, at least in some way, had a positive impact. So I suppose it goes to that whole adage of, you know, you left it in a better state than you found it. So I'd like to think that there was positivity came out of something. That I've helped in some way, whatever it may be. So I think if I can leave this world having had a positive impact and help people in some way, then that's all right. And you're missing one important, valuable point, too. What? Just keep swimming. And a supercharger. If you could leave this world with a supercharger, you would be... You did okay, right? We have gone down the murky depth of improving the strength of the driveline at the moment, and that has scared me. Okay. Because it's fucking a lot of money. But hey, yo. Also, we had... I think it was James that commented. James said... Gizzard, that was crap. That wasn't good. You're not deserving a scroll back for that. It was in response to getting removed from Spotify. I said it was probably for talking about drugs and stuff. Yeah, that's probably true, actually. With Dave, James Moore said, yes. Thanks, Dave. It was me that gave you the fiver. You couldn't remember... Any example of humanity, James, and people should emulate your behavior. See? Listen to all the rest of your miserable shits. Guys, we appreciate you tuning in. Go to Eval Blood Analysis. Get your labs done by Dave. Dave, are you doing a course anytime soon? Your PED course? What month are we in? We're in April, aren't we? May. We are in April. May? Yeah, starting in May. Yeah. All right, cool. So sign up for Dave's course in May. You can reach out to him. Go to Instagram. You can reach out to him there easily. And, of course, StrongSportsNutrition, truenutrition.com, code THINK, supplementsource.ca. And next episode, guys, we're going to tackle a bunch of Patreon questions for another episode of the podcast. It's called Drugs and Stuff. We'll see you soon. Thanks, Dave. My pleasure. Trend. Trend for 152 weeks out. I agree. We thought you'd like that, Dave. Trend RT. Yeah. Yeah. Trend RT. Now you're speaking my language. Trend, Reda, and Tess. Trend RT. Trend RT. All right. Hey, I wonder if we have any people with us. I wonder if Matt Blevins is with us. If nobody turns up, can I go home? Yep. If nobody turns up, you can go home. Okay. I'm going to leave this now to make sure nobody comes. Wait. Technically, you are home. I suppose so. There's nobody there. I mean, are you in your garage right now? Yeah. Is that like an apartment space? Office. Office space? Yes. Office. I am in the office. Are you in your garage? Garage. You mean garage? You. You're a little pumpkin. Dude, people don't say garage over there, huh? That's because the word doesn't exist. It's garage. Oh, hey. What's up, angry listener? Can't go home, Dave. We got a listener here. Like, aluminum, you know? Yeah. Yeah. I mean, aluminum, it sounds, I don't know, dude. It sounds like, it does sound nicer. It sounds like, I don't know. It sounds more like artesial. Aluminum doesn't exist. There's no such thing. Yeah. There's aluminum, and then there's your incorrect pronunciation of a word. I got a couple questions for you that I'm going to pose to you on the podcast today. Okay. All right. Oh, we got Bill O'Leary with us. We got Dalton with us. Does it involve the garage? It technically, kind of does, actually. It has to do with how we pronounce things differently. You mean incorrectly? It all came. Yeah. It all came from me recording with Cuba the other day, and I'll tell you about it. I'll make sure to bring it up on the show. But yeah, I figure we could just start up real quick with this little drugs in the news topic, steroids in the news. Maybe speculate a little bit in, you know, is the market going to change with this new, all the tariffs and stuff? Are things going to get more picked out? And then from there, we just jump into listener questions. So we'll make that segment like five to eight minutes. We'll keep it tight. All right. And Matt Blevins is with us. Do you have the cabbage, by the way? Do you know where he is? Yeah. Because Matt is going to ask. No, I don't, actually. I don't know where cabbage has gone. He's been missing me some time. He's been doing his own thing lately. He's around somewhere. I have seen him, but I don't know where he currently resides. He might have fallen down the back of something. Oh, no. All right, Matt. Well, I'm sorry we don't have Christmas cabbage with us. He's there, and he's there in spirit. He is somewhere, yeah. Okay. Yeah, well, no dramas. All right. I'll bring us in. All right.