 anabolic steroid for use in dogs, cats, cats, and horses, shake well. Do you want me to give you the dosing? Do it. Do they have it listed on there? Oh, yeah. Yeah, what do they say? It's cats and dogs, small breeds, .5 mil, large breeds of dogs, 1 mil, horses, 5 mil weekly. Ooh. So that's what we thought. We're like, oh, a horse is getting 5 mils a week? I only need 3. 3 will be 5. Yeah, horse is 5, dog is 1, eh, 3 is probably good, right in the middle. Right in the middle. I'm not a dog. I'm not a horse. You got a Yorkie on one side, we got a horse on the other. Hey, everybody, welcome to It's Just Bodybuilding. I'm Big Ron Partlow with Dusty Hanshaw and the producer Scott McNally. Remember to like, share, subscribe, comment, and... Ring the bell. Hype button. Hype button. Yes. Hype button. I like to get out of the way. I get more like momentum with it now. Get out of the way of the impact. I hit my screen a little bit. That's good. That's good. Remember, imu.com. Yeah, imu.com. Big Ron and Dusty are your codes. Get your hardcore ISO. Get your MindFK. Get your big greens. And everyone should be on the gear. Yes. Correct? Yes. I just took a half a scoop of MindFK to do this episode. I wanted to make sure I could bring it today. Really bring it. I did. It's ready. Okay. Okay. What do we got going on today, guys? There's lots. We got the Arnold coming up like tick tock. It's like... It's looming. I just got back from a mutant on a mission trip. I just went and filmed a couple episodes. I was trying to do a three episode trip, but I couldn't put it together. I had important stuff I had to come back for. So I did a two episode trip. I'll have to go visit Madhouse Gym in Georgia. I'll have to go visit them on the next trip. I'm really excited to get there. They wanted me to come this time. I wanted to get there, but I will go next trip. But I did go see Sean Clarita. I went and saw his private gym that he trains out with his wife, which is insane. He's got over 90 pieces in there and it's just that. But I've had a lot of people, they're like, oh, how many buddies does Sean have trained in there? And I'm... No one. No one. It's him and his wife. And it is 90 pieces. It's unbelievable. He just got 12 new pieces of Gym Lico right before I showed up, like the day before I got there. No kidding. So it was... Yeah, man. He's got... Like I was looking, he's got five pin loaded rows and just crazy amounts of stuff in there. He's got an amazing setup. So it was the most I've ever seen for one guy. You know what I mean? Like I've seen some private gyms that were awesome. Yeah. But they had, you know, like seven of their friends have keys, you know, or that sort of thing. But this was just like unbelievable. Like just hoarding good equipment. Like, you know what I mean? Yeah. He's kind of got that, like there's an addiction to collecting equipment. And I saw when he got the space, like he had a few pieces and then you saw it turn on. And I think that was around. We were at an expo. He's like, you know what? I want to go look at that equipment booth over there. And he just like, you could see the fire, man. And it's never gone out. That was years ago now. And he knows every piece. Like, yeah, I bought this, but it's actually worth this. Like, so he sees it as an investment, a lot of that stuff. You know what I mean? Yeah. So yeah, good stuff. And then I went down to Houston. We drove, we rented a car and drove to Houston from Dallas. Stopped at a Buc-ee's. Stopped at a Buc-ee's. I got to get that full Texas experience of the Buc-ee's, which by the way, I think it might have been the best beef jerky I've ever had in my life. Oh, no kidding. I bought a quarter pound, which is a lot of beef jerky. The guy goes, what do you want? You want a half pound? I'm like, oh, a quarter pound. And then he gives me this giant bag because beef jerky doesn't weigh anything. Most things that I buy at QP at a time don't, or is a lot. Yeah. I was like, quarter pound of jerky is a lot of jerky when you're just doing a short road trip. So yeah, I had my sodium for the day, but that was cool. And then we went to Roman Empire Gym, south of Houston. It's down kind of Galveston area. That was awesome. That guy's got a great gym. Very, very, very impressive what he's done with that place. And also just made me jealous of when I go to some of these spots in the States, I always ask them. I won't disclose, but I always ask them, how much does this building cost? What's this land worth? How much is rent here? How much is your mortgage if they own the building? And it's always something that's just depressing. Can I come back to Vancouver where our rents are just literally five times sometimes? Yeah. Like unbelievable. Or people like own their gym and it's three times the size of ours and they pay a quarter of the money mortgage instead of rent. Like stuff like that. It's like mind boggling how crazy things are up here. I can't believe we run our business here. But, you know, so very impressive gym, though. One of the nicest setups I've probably seen on the show in a long, long time. So those two episodes are going to be great. So Clarita's private gym, the GK jungle and Roman Empire coming up very soon for Mutant on a Mission. So, yeah, that's my little what I did last week. You know, that's what I did last week. I have nothing to share in comparison, so we're good there. Right? Yeah, yeah. No, a lot of fun. So I wanted to get into some of the things that are going on in the bodybuilding world. Yes. And get everyone's kind of take on it. Obviously, one of the big one is Martin saying that all bodybuilding media is trash. Now, technically, I don't know if that's us since we barely talk about bodybuilding. So we can comment. We qualify. We qualify. Yeah. Yeah. Because the bodybuilding is in the name. Yeah. Well, yeah, kind of, technically. The name of the show has bodybuilding in it. So I would say. Oh, technicality. We got it. And then the funny thing was we just happened to have talked about him that week. In the most positive way. But it was like a positive way, right? But a bunch of people commented and they're like, Martin's totally going to block you guys after this one. Just because the title is Martin behind or whatever. You know? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But that was good timing, I guess. Yeah. Oh, well, maybe it helped with our clicks, but it was completely unintentional. We didn't mean to do that. Because we don't pay that much attention. You know? Yeah. I looked these things up this morning. I mean. Yeah. Yeah. Literally. So I thought it was funny because we just happened to mention them. And then later that week, I saw all the hoopla. And I was like, oh. Later that day. Yeah. Later that day. Later that day. That we put it out. Yeah. Yeah. So I didn't take it too personal. You know? I didn't hear what he actually had said. No. Honestly. Yeah. I feel like that stuff gets taken out of context so often. Like there's this guy, Kurt Havens, who's, he has an issue with test SIP. And what I'm starting to understand from it is that he feels that it doesn't, it doesn't build the way, say, test e would. So it's not as effective as, you know, some other esters for running higher dose cycles. That's what I've gathered now from actually putting a little bit of work, tiny bit, like tiny piece into figuring out what his actual ideas are. But when our listeners approach me with that topic, they say, did you hear Kurt Havens says that test SIP doesn't work? Right. You know? Right. So you kind of get this like loaded topic question thrown at you. Like, did you guys hear that Martin hates you? You know what I'm saying? Right. Right. Martin doesn't even care about me, but that's fine. I think that, so I, I, uh, I find cues of how the world works in other industries and in other things. Right. Cause sometimes you get so like in your own bubble and then you go out and you get into other things and you're like, oh, it's just, so for example, and again, I just got to bring this up because I've been watching these videos lately, but I told you guys, like I've been playing Madden. Yeah. So I sometimes will like go on YouTube and I'll just like some of the Madden shorts will come up, like how to get a better defense or how to draft better players or how to work your, you know, like just little tips. Right. Cause there's tips on everything. Guitar playing tips, guitar world's the same thing, all this stuff. And, and I see like most of them are just, they're just producing content about anything they can possibly think of. Yeah. That they can make a short about cause like how much can you talk about a football video game? Right. Right. And there's a hundred other guys doing it. And how are you going to set yourself apart and how are you going to get your clip watched? Right. It's so, and you see it. And when you, when you're in a bubble, like the bodybuilding bubble and you go out of it into something that's new to you, like me playing Madden for the first time in 15 years. Um, it's so obvious because I'm walking in, I'm walking into this ridiculous room full of all these clips of nonsense. And I'm like, Oh, these are just guys that are just, just literally they're like, what can I make a video about? I'll make a video about how you should never do this blitz. Yeah. Yeah. Never use this play. This is the best defense in Madden. And like all these videos they make. And I just go, this is just, fuck. It's just ridiculous. Clip bait, like click bait clips and like just trying to get views. And because I'm new to the room, it's so obvious. Yeah. And so then you go back into your bubble and you're like, Oh yeah, that, that, that's all the same shit. So, um, that's just, it, it, it helps to like give you some perspective and the guitar world's the same thing. Like, do you practice scales this way? No, this is the best way to practice scales. And it's like, well, really the best way to practice scales is to just practice them. And any way you can think that'll make them fun to practice is better than nothing. And it's all this majoring in the minors, right? Like just getting so overly complainingly technical about how the other guy does it so that your way is better. And it just constantly just a reminder. So I like that I have these other little hobbies because it, it, it, it all just keeps you grounded. Yeah. Come back into our bubble and I just don't care about any of this shit. You know, you know what I mean? It's just a reminder. I will say this. So if, if Martin was upset that people were saying that he was behind, then here would be, I think, as a fan of the sport, best case scenario, he proves everybody wrong. Yeah. You know what I mean? Like that, that would be like drive him to, to be better. He can go ahead and hate us, hate everybody else. That's cool. You know, if it makes him a better bodybuilder. Yeah. I mean, I would love to see him show up looking absolutely nuts. Yeah. And then everyone, you know, that sort of thing. So yeah, yeah, no, that's funny, but I, I, I do. That's why none of this stuff gets me too excited. It just doesn't bother me, you know? Yeah. So on a, on a more positive note. What do you mean? That was positive. Yeah. Positively. We don't care. Yeah. So I always viewed Sam Sulik as a internet bodybuilder. Just like, not his fault. He just shared. The kid. He shared his stuff and he cranks. Yeah. And then I, I don't even know how, because my Instagram feed doesn't show me anyone I follow. Um, but I came upon his most recent progress clips and he looks bananas. Oh, he is. See, I have not seen way harder than he's ever been. This was probably would have been three and a half weeks out glutes all the way in looks exploding full. Like, and it made me wonder since I, you know, I just kind of viewed him as a guy who was almost bodybuilding on the side competitively. Does he have, is he going to shock the old heads like me and that he's actually a fricking awesome classic bodybuilder? Cause I'm looking at the pictures. I mean, obviously you don't, you don't know until you see everybody side by side, but standing alone, man, I don't know. He looks bananas. I'm looking at the pictures right now. I'm going to just go ahead and pop them up here on the screen. So I can see him too. Cause I, uh, want to follow along here. All right. So here's Sam. Let's see. So this most current picture, I assume this is, this is right now. Yeah. I mean, this is, yeah. Three weeks until showtime. This was posted three days ago. Upper body shot. Oh man. He looks great. Vastly improved. Look at those legs. Vastly improved and looks fucking great. Yeah. Yeah. No question, man. And, and, and then I also wonder why am I not, why am I not being fed these? Right. Yeah. That's how Instagram works now, Ron. The people you follow, you don't see. Yeah. You know, like I'd rather see this photo of his cat than half the shit I get fed. Yeah. You know what I mean? He's got some great cats here. Yeah. There's a little meat line up there too. There we go. A little sushi hit. Yeah. Sashimi action. There's some legs. The video here right here is great. All right. Is that, is that the video? I think these are just stills, but there's a video of that that I saw. And I mean, it might not even been on his page. So my number one hope, my number one hope is that we get, oh, this is a video you're talking about. Where's that video at? Am I missing it here? Yeah. That's the video. Which one? Oh, is this it? I hope we get all a new round of memes with him in contest shape. Oh yeah. Yeah. From the preschoolers and at the funeral and at the board meeting with the board of directors. I saw a great one around the other day. It was like me at Valentine's dinner. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I shared it. He stands up from the table. Now this is a sick pump. I mean, you got to be happy with this. I mean, how full they are. You know, like, and the veins. I mean, the veins. I wasn't expecting the veins, you know? Yeah. Every time I see one of those, it makes me so happy. I'm like, this is this. I love how the Valentine's one, the back of her head doesn't move. Yeah. Like, it's just like perfectly still, right? And he's like, flex. It's just so funny. Yeah. He looks fantastic, man. Fantastic. Yeah. And I also, obviously, because I'm not being fed it, I hope he's doing videos where he's just as calm about all of it as he's always been. Oh, he is. I'm like, yeah. Yeah. Might need some sushi. You know? Like, just, you know, like that type of stuff. A little cereal to keep things going. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It doesn't really matter what cereal. They all have the same carbs. So I'm just going to have this cereal. So, Scott, since you can do that now, do me a favor and pop up Mike the Badass. His were older. He did the last set of progress pics he was going to post. But I don't know what he weighs here, but it appears the legs are still very big. All right. And I felt like at the Olympia, when he had to now make weight for his height, his correct height, the legs are what went away. But he's looking very capable of winning again. Okay. So this is just three days ago. Look at this freaking fullness in those legs. Yeah. I mean. Ah, he's extremely capable of winning. He looks cool. He's got an absolutely mind-boggling physique. That's Nikki's favorite classic guy by a long shot. So she really wants him to win. And, yeah, I'm looking at the legs here. I mean, again, I don't know what he weighs at this point. Oh, yeah. But he looks awesome. Yeah, freaking incredible. I think that he very well could win again. And this puts him back in the... I think he, for me, he almost exited the conversation of winning the Olympia in my brain because his legs had to come down so far for him to make weight that time. But I wonder if that was because he had to rush it down. Right. Right. Because he wasn't... They didn't... They change it like when kind of close to the show. It was real close to the end. Yeah. He knew he had to come way down. Because now, I mean, that just looks very hard to beat to me. Yeah. Yeah. He looks freaking incredible. I want to see what that lineup is for the Arnold, this... Yeah. For Classic. I want to look at that real quick here. I'm going to see if I can pull that up. Yeah, pull that up because that can lead into one of my other... All right. Yeah, yeah. Give me a second and I'll throw it up on the screen. It's a really long second. Yeah. Yeah. I have to type stuff and everything. I was saying the Jeopardy theme. I just can't help it. All right. Here's the 26 lineup. Let me see if I can grab this. We're really testing on this new program, doing all this live now. Right? I know. Well done, sir. All right. So, here's the 26 lineup. There's the open. Let's see if we have... It's just open. I think we can go up here, though, and see Classic physique. There you go. There we go. All right. So, I want to see Wesley Vissers. Let's check him out. He looks nuts. That's what I... The last pictures I saw. Well, he always does. He always does. But if he can bring back what he did at the... Was it the Arnold UK that he won that year? Yeah. I think it was Arnold UK. He was... That was kind of an open and shut one for me. I remember he was at Dino's. He was at Dino's a couple days before that. And I remember Dino telling me. He was like, no way, anyone. Like, you know what I mean? Oh, yeah? He's just like, walk on stage. That's kind of cool to hear when Dino says it. He looks ready to walk on stage now. All right. Let's see what he's saying right here. I'll picture right there on the left. Yeah. All right. Look at the shape on that. And also, too, a lot of people who've never, like, actually met Wesley or seen Wesley in person or anything like that, he's huge. Oh, he's so tall, too. He's taller than me. He's, you know, he's big. He's, like, at least, isn't he 6'1"? Yeah, he's very big. He has a really cool shape to his muscles, too. Like, just the way everything attaches, I think, looks really cool. Look at that freaking conditioning. And this is four weeks out, this particular picture. So, obviously, that's, like, a layer of water over him. Probably not super full at the moment. Face is all sunken in. Yeah, he's already got death face, which is awesome at four weeks out. Yeah. I used to judge shows based on people's faces, minus Kai Green. I used to dye it just by my face in the mirror. Yeah. Yeah, that's a great-looking shot right there. I would take that physique. If you were, like, hey, what's the, you know, your ultimate look? Yeah, just to walk around with. Yeah, walk around like that. Like, I feel like I need to go to the mall and pick something up. Yeah. In that. So, the thing I was going to ask you guys, because this is the case for me, is for me the Classic is almost more excited leading into the Arnold than the Open. Because we just pulled up three guys. And two of them for sure can win this. I don't know Sam next to other guys yet, but there's a possibility. I don't care. I just, it'll be fun to see it. You know what I mean, Dusty? Like, I want to see Sam next to those guys. Even if he doesn't nail it. And, like, maybe he doesn't nail it. I think he'll nail it. I just wonder if he's got the group to do it. That's what I should have. That's the way I should have worded it. Maybe he, let's say he doesn't have the size yet or something. Or even the shape to keep up with those guys. Or just years of development or something. Yeah. Yeah. I just want to see it. I just want to see it. And that in itself is worth the ticket. Yeah. I'm amped to see that portion of the show more. Because the one thing I love about the Classic, guys, we've talked about this before, is I don't feel like they miss. Yeah. Because they're forced to get their weight down to a certain amount. Yeah. And this is something that guys just refuse. They think every year, oh, I put on 10 pounds of muscle. That happens so often with bodybuilders. I see it all the time. I've had, hey, we've all had this. I mean, we've all coached people and got them peeled. And then they don't hire us again. Because we brought them down too far. Yeah. Even though they weren't. And then at the next show, they don't place as well. They're placing slips. And they come in. They're bigger and fuller and all that stuff. That's, hey, it's all fun and games. But, you know, depends on what level you're at and all that shit. But we see that a lot with guys. And we've all experienced it as coaches. And we've all maybe experienced it ourselves too. I've done it once. Yeah. You know, where we thought that coach brought us down too far. That coach kind of flattened me out. And then you do the next show. And everyone's like, yeah, you look great. You know, your glutes are tighter last year. You know, and you place better. And you're like, oh, fuck. I can't help but think about what Stefan said when we had him on. And he talked about how lean they have to get. And it was a matter of getting guys absolutely peeled for classic. But then taking them that like 10% further. You know? Yeah. And I think that's what we're really seeing here. And you can't do that without a weight class. You know? I mean, I think people sometimes do make that mistake. They're like, oh, well, if Mike could be fuller. I want to see Mike make it work and still make the weight cut off. You know? Right. I'm getting a loud fuzz. In my ear. Somebody's got a sink running. Oh. Oh, okay. It sounded like. Oh, geez. It sounded like static electricity. I was just trying to ignore it. Yes. Oh, I didn't know it was like an actual noise. I thought it was like a shh. Like a, you know, bad channel. It's all good. No big deal. Yeah. So, anyway. Yeah. Yeah. That's that. I think it's going to be freaking incredible. Is there anybody else you guys want to talk about in that lineup? Well, I mean, apparently, you know, Nick is planning on coming in smaller and sharper. Yeah. I'm not sure what's up with that. Yeah. Well, I mean, he's got more than enough fucking, you know, volume and mass to do some tweaking if he wants to, you know, thinks it's going to enhance his shape or, you know, improve how things look on stage with the silhouette. And which can magnify other stuff and make you look bigger. I mean, we've all seen guys go through that, too. And, you know, Nick, if anyone has room to do that, it's Nick. He's one of the true. Like, you know, some guys, if they said, oh, I'm coming in a little bit lighter, you know, in an attempt to get sharper, you'd think, oh, well, I hope the delts aren't gone. Or I hope the arms don't look flat, the front double. And I don't think that's even possible with Nick. Like, Nick could come in 15 pounds lighter. And his photos might look bigger and crazier. You know what I mean? Like, it might just be like, oh, my God. I don't know, man. I feel at the same time, Nick is like, he's a freak. And we still, and this is just speculation, right? Because I don't know what he looks like. Of course, yeah, I want to see him peeled and pulled in. I just don't want to see him overcorrect. You know what I'm saying? No, no, good point. Because I think that that can be a thing where it's like, oh, yeah, man, I was blown out, you know, made a mistake. I'm going to load differently. I'm going to make sure that doesn't happen. But then we lose the wow factor that makes Nick, Nick, you know? There's something we love about him. And that's because you guys have said it. Like, he doesn't fit in to, like, what the other guys look like. And that's just because he's a freak. I guess I'm thinking of just the Olympia look. Yeah, okay. You know, like, can he improve on that? Of course. You know, if you go back to the Pittsburgh look or whatever, you know, like, you know, I'm not sure what the body weight differences were. But I think he was heavy. Was he heavier at the O? He had to have been. I would imagine. So that's what I'm thinking. So, yeah. I mean, Nick can be better. That's for sure. Of how he looked at the O, we know he can be better. I would love to see him, you know, come in at his all-time. I mean, the pictures we just showed to Sam. I mean, imagine Nick comes in that hard. Yeah. Yeah. That's a scary sight right there. Yeah. Jesus. So, some not directly to the pros conversation I wanted to go over is, and this came up actually because of a client of mine. I want to talk about the off-season. And is there a way around eating more than you want as far as just pushing down the amount of food? I had a client that is very good. He's in great shape. He requires a lot of food to grow. And he emailed me, and he said, it would be a lot easier to get this amount of food down if I had some more fun foods like muffins. I was very angry when I read that text. But so, obviously. What do you get against muffins? I love a good muffin. I love a good muffin. The issue that I think when I look back at my… You ain't seen nothing until you're down on a muffin. Remember? Aerosmith said it best. When I… I got 70s references. A whole bunch of them. Right here. A whole bunch. The rest. For those of you guys that are my age and younger, I don't know what he's talking about either. Oh. But no, I found for me that it didn't matter what I was eating because I just didn't want to eat. Right. And you just ate anyway. You know what I mean? Like, it was just kind of part of the process where you were like, you know, I mean, I used to find that I could get the first three meals down no problem. Four, five, and six, they were a battle, you know? And it wouldn't have mattered if it was muffins on the plate. I didn't want to eat. But I wanted to be big more than I wanted to eat. So, I was wondering, did both of you guys experience the same thing where you're, you know, heating up a plate of food and looking at it going, I don't want to eat any of this. And it all has to go down. Well, one of the things that I did, I mean, I might not have been the best bodybuilder in the world, but I was 330 pounds. That's amazing. So, if you're trying to get enough calories in to gain weight and to aid in the growth and the increase in your strength and all that stuff, I use the blender, man. Yeah. Like, there's only so much physical food you can shove in your stomach. I mean, not everyone. I mean, we all know those guys that are just crazy eaters. Like, I've got a client. I've got a client that just, I look at his diet and it doesn't even make sense to me. Like, I think I don't, I wouldn't even be able to eat that. Like, even when I was huge, I wouldn't be able to eat that food. Like, and I had, I mean, I worked with Chad Nichols, so it's not like I was cutting corners and not doing things the way the pros were doing them. He was like my coach the year I hit 330. He had me doing four solid meals and two liquid meals. And my meals were these blender shakes. And I was putting oatmeal and carb powder and peanut butter and whey protein and, like, some other stuff in there. I'd have to look at the ingredients I had, some fruit sometimes, like, whatever. But, I mean, those were 200 grams of carbs in some of those shakes with, like, 80, 90 grams of protein. Yeah. And, you know, you'd run that blender until it was smooth enough to just get it down. Get it down. And I did that for two of my meals. And, I mean, those shakes aren't even easy to drink, never mind a meal that's easy to eat. It's not like you just, it's not like shaking up some whey and water. There's my, like, no, no, it wasn't that. It was, you need a blender and you, like, got to be at home to make it. Like, and I would blend those up and drink them and then I'd go sit and just, like, oh, absorb it. But at least it's in you, right? Because either you can start the clock to your next meal in a minute or you can sit and eat for 40 minutes. Been there. And then start the clock to your next meal. And we all know how that goes is by the end of the day, all that slow, oh, man, I got to shove this meal down. You get behind. Like, we've all been there. Like, oh, my God, I'm struggling to get this food in. You're cleaning one plate and heating the next meal up. Yeah, yeah. Or you got to reheat your bowl halfway through because you're like, oh, my food got cold. Like, I've been there, man. I've been where I, like, fall asleep on the couch with half a bowl of food in my lap or wake up. I'm like, oh, I need to finish my food. And that blender, man, like, it wasn't, it's not the most comfortable thing. Like, you just choke it down over the sink. I wouldn't sip it. There's no sipping. It's enjoyable. What's the weirdest thing, Ron, that you ever blended up? Nothing. Well, I mean, I think I threw cookies in there. Oh, okay. That's delicious. I think I had a piece of chocolate cake left over one time. So you never did, like, the tuna shake? You never threw chicken breast in there? We made a tuna, and I remember one time we made a tuna and Diet Coke shake. This was back in the 90s. Because I heard these stories in the 90s of, I can't remember who it was, but they were blending up tuna and Diet Coke. Good fridge goes with everything. Yeah. And let me tell you, that's an experience, and I never did it again. Did you finish the whole thing? I can't remember. I remember getting, I remember drinking it. I don't remember if I, like, cleaned the blender. You could get it all down. What about you, Dusty? Did you ever do anything crazy like that? I had done it, but it's for the opposite reason, is I had the same thing with Ron, where I had shakes in my off-season for a bit. And I found that I, even though I could get them down easier, the next meal was harder. I don't know why, but digesting all of that stuff blended up, I just felt more full. So it was easier to get it down, but I felt full longer. Yeah. So I had to go to food. And there were definitely times where blending it and putting it down was easier than eating it. And I actually just told the guy about this. I think actually I was the same client this weekend. I said, it's terrible. Like, don't, like, you need to become a drinking champion because you don't want to stop because you've got to start again. Just flip it back and keep going until it's gone. And then you're going to taste it all at once, rinse with water, call it a day because it is not good. But I have done that before. And I actually did it one night because, Ron, that's why I was laughing when you were talking. I was so tired one night and I had to get my last meal and it was salmon and rice that I decided in my infinite wisdom to eat it at the side of my bed. And I woke up about an hour later laying on my back with my feet on the floor with a plate of salmon and rice half eaten sitting on my lap. And I was like, okay, I didn't spill. That's good. I didn't spill. But I need to eat this. And I just took it straight, dumped it in the blender, added water, went to drink it, couldn't drink it, had to take out another half thing of salmon and another half part of rice and reheat it and eat the meal. Because I was like, okay, that I can't do. I apparently can't do the salmon and rice. Do you guys remember Derek Poundstone? Oh, yeah. I love Derek. He had the Poundstone shake. And he talked about it on RX or something. So I was like, I'm going to try that. And it was basically just water and chicken breast that he just freaking grind those things up. Now, number one, I tried it one time. My blender was not as good of a blender. Yeah, I didn't have a good enough blender. So I think I really damaged my blender that day. But when I did finally get it kind of like thin enough, you couldn't quite drink it. You still had to kind of like chew a little and swallow. It didn't go straight down. But I will say this. It was kind of like almost like chicken soup. You know what I'm saying? There was kind of like that chicken soup flavor. Did you warm it up a little bit? No. It probably would have helped if I did, man. But that was the only time I tried it. I wonder, listeners at home, because you guys know they're going to have something. Like, what's the weirdest thing that you guys blended? Oh, we've all made some bad decisions. Yeah. I want to hear it. Yeah. Avoiding the eating. But yeah, Ron, I was more on the other end of the spectrum that you were talking about where a meal was 30 to 40 minutes by the end of the day. And it just sucked. So the only time I ever used digestive enzymes was when I was really heavy. And I would take a few with each meal. Right. And I don't know if that helped with the shakes or not. I mean, I'm sure. I mean, enzymes are powerful. They, I mean, your body makes plenty of them. But when you're dumping, you know. That amount. Yeah. Yeah. And there's a lot of things where I feel like most people don't ever need them. And I don't just mean enzymes. I mean, there's a lot of things that feel that way. But, you know, like how I say some guys that are doing, you know, 40 mg of anivar are panicking about, you know, spending $200 on a kidney care supplement when their blood pressure is completely fine. Like, so there's a lot of majoring in the minors that goes on. And so a lot of times I say like, oh, that's not necessary. But then there is people that definitely might benefit from it. And I think digestive enzymes are one of those things. Because like your stomach is a big vat of acid. Your body makes plenty of enzymes. Most people don't consume enough food that they're going to disturb that balance at all. But when you're doing like ridiculous things that also you're trying to speed up the process. Like your body might not need enzymes to digest that food. But does it move a little faster if you take enzymes? Does it increase your gastric emptying time? Does it help you with your motility or anything like that? So that's when you get into maybe it helps, you know. So you might be able to say like, oh, the enzymes don't help. Don't make it break down better. But maybe they speed it up. So there's that sort of thing. So I was using enzymes with every meal when I was really heavy. I was just taking a couple of capsules. I had these like good quality capsules I was using. I don't use enzymes anymore. I mean, I barely eat 3,000 calories a day. Barely eats food. Yeah, I barely eat food, you know. So, yeah, you know, my egg whites and two pieces of toast in the morning are digested just fine. I found the walking was the biggest thing that helped. I had a treadmill in my living room. I used to walk on it for 10 minutes watching TV and then eat a meal and then walk on it 10 minutes afterwards. Okay. And that, for whatever reason, that made a big change. And I wasn't doing cardio. I was just like slow walking for 10 minutes and then doing the same right when I got done. And I swore that that helped a ton. So you're the original Stan Efferding then. Because now Stan talks about how – Big about the 10-minute walk. I've been to his talks before. Yeah. And, you know, he came to Swiss a couple years ago and so I sat in on his presentation. And, yeah, he tells everybody that. And I found it helps, you know, that I don't do that – I mean, like I'm not eating a ton of food now. But, like, being back on a diet, if we eat food and then we go walk the dog, even if it's a small walk, I can tell the difference in my digestion. So we had a – I had a really big meal the other day because we went out for dinner with some friends. So I really ate because I was like, I need to eat because I was like – I was 227 pounds that day. And I was like – Yeah. I'm going to need that three as a second number again, buddy. Well, it was funny. I was just like – I was just messing around in the laundry basket. And Emily was, like, sitting across the bedroom. And she goes, your hamstrings are shredded. She's like, they're completely corded out. Like, you have a, like, sharp corner on your glutes because I was, like, bent over, like, digging. Yeah. So your glutes are, like, cut out. All your hamstrings are just raked right to your back of your knee, covered in veins. And I was like, yeah, I got to eat. And then we went out for dinner. So I just pigged out, like, had a whole pizza, baked steak, extra fries, and chicken wings I fucking ate. I was so full. I haven't been that stuffed in a long, long time. First thing we did when we got back to the house, I was like – I was like, ooh. Like, still. Took the dogs for a walk. Yeah. And holy smokes. Like, I was thinking about Stan Efferding because, like, 10 minutes later, I felt fine. Like, it really, really did help. You know? If I would have just sat on the couch, that would have taken 40 minutes to go away. Yeah, you didn't work. But get moving, you know? And I think it's – part of it is the physical motion. Like, you're sloshing your stomach around. For sure. Like, you know, if you dump 10 sweeteners in a coffee, it's going to settle. But if you go like this, it'll mix up. And that's part of it is you're just getting that vat of acid going, just stirring that shit up. And so, yeah. There's a lot to it. Makes sense. Oh, crap. I think it closed out. I hate when it does that. Oh, we had more. I know we had more. Yes, we have – we got one more with two more that I wanted to cover. And this one is for all the fans that want to know this. You can only take three anabolics, prep and off-season. What are they? And that's – it's the same three. Oh, okay. You get three. Yeah. I get three. Totally. It's tough. Do I get to – do I get any ancillaries? Like, can I use a bit of a Remedex if I need? Yeah, this is just anabolics. Okay, okay, okay. So, okay. Because I love my D-ball. It's growth hormone and ancillary. That's my first question. We'll leave growth out of it. It can be added to it. Growth is just in the fridge at all times. Okay. So, I love me some D-ball. Like, I fucking love D-ball. But we know now – I got the guy. We know now that, like, D-ball is one of the more estrogenic compounds because it, you know, they say that it converts a little more likely to be that type of thing. It's a nasty methyl estrogen too. Nasty methyl estrogen. There you go. So, yeah, yeah, yeah. So, you would need, like, I think D-ball is one of the ones that requires you to control your estrogen a little more. So, as long as I can use an ancillary with it. So, if I say off-season, I easily, I would say test Ecopoise and some D-ball. Or, if you just don't want to do the D-ball, Anadrol. I, like, man, I was a happy camper. I was big and strong. And I grew and grew and was always having killer workouts and absolutely mind-blowing pumps. Yep. So, that would be my off-season. And then pre-cut. I'm making my rules right now. Go ahead. Oh, yeah. Because you were saying you could only have three. Yeah, I was saying, like, you have three. Oh, I thought, oh, I thought. You're using them for both. Oh. Oh. Yeah. So, now you've got to pick and choose here how you're going about it. Pick and choose. Okay. Test. You know, I know everyone's on the Mastron train. But, to be honest, Mastron wasn't available for a big portion of my competing years. Right. Because it had stopped being produced and the underground world hadn't caught up to good Mastron yet. Right. Right? It just, it wasn't reliable. You could get primo amps for, like, 50 bucks an amp. I felt like doing that. It was like, they're just, we weren't on the DHT train as much as guys are now. Everyone's all about the DHTs. Yeah. So, I would say, if I'm going to be honest, I think I could get into unbelievable shape with Test, EQ, and Winstroll. Yep. And I could use those in the off-season and grow like crazy. Huh. So, I love those three. You just stole my answer, so that sucks. Yeah? Okay. So, Winstroll in the off-season. Is that what I'm hearing here? Well, I mean, if I'm only allowed three. He doesn't have any other choices. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. I mean, I'm going to pick it over. He's not saying he would, yeah, he was, he's not saying he would have his clients do that now, but. Right. Yeah. He only gets three. Yeah, if I get three. And I'm with you. Because the benefit of Winstroll in a prep is absolutely worth it. I fucking loved it. Yeah. I thought it was one of the, I thought, I thought it was one of the, like, oh, I'm getting some. Like. Yeah. I'm finding it. And it wasn't always easy to find, too. Like, we used to get those white Zambon amps back in the day. So, like, like those from Europe, we'd get that European, those Zambon amps. So, you're talking water, water-based liquid. Well, they're, I mean, the only other option back in the day. Yeah. Or you could get the two milligram Winstroll pills. Oh, God. Yeah, that's expensive. Two milligram. And they were so expensive, man. So, we got the amps. And then the Winstroll tabs started coming out. And it was, it was pretty good and reliable. And I always felt like when I added Winstroll, I would always add it, like, eight weeks out. And I always felt like within a week, my weight would go up. Because they used to say, and again, I'm, you know, I mean, I'm sure there's some guys doing the scientific Instagram posts on why or how. But they used to say that, like, Anivar and Winstroll would increase your creatine stores. That was what they used to say. So, that would maybe be why we would gain a few pounds. But I, and, you know, DHTs in general would fill you out a little. But I always felt like when I added Winstroll, my weight would come up a few pounds. And then I would just, oh, I'd be like, oh, here we go. Like, here's, you know, like, here we go. This is the look. So, I would say that, testy Q Winnie. Yeah. I like that. Because I'm doing the same thing, I'm just going to add. The reason that I said, was thinking the same thing is I base the success of a cycle on how I feel training. Because I felt like my training played more of a role in my conditioning than my cardio did. I think that's why I didn't have to do a lot of cardio was how hard I trained. And the better I felt training, the more I enjoyed training. And they kind of just fed each other. The harder you would go. And those, I mean, EQ has got a spot in heaven for me. I know there's been some hate on it over the last few years. I'm like, cool, hate it all you want. Because if I ever wanted to do this again, I would want more. Yeah. And my blood work was always good on EQ. Like, I never, ever had fucked up kidney numbers. I never had fucked up cholesterol. I never had any of those problems that I see all these guys having all these problems now. Running, you know, other stuff all the time. They're worried about their cholesterol. They've got to do 20 different things for their blood work to look good. And we just didn't do that. Yeah. You know? What about you, Scott? Give me something off the wall since we've been going. Yeah, I got to think of something different. Maybe cheque drops. Yeah, yeah. I got to think of something different. But here's the thing is that I'm kind of with you guys. I was a big fan of aquapoise for sure. Ron, so on Winstraw, I want to throw this at you. So Scott and I, Scott Stevenson and I, we looked at this research and it was done with rats. And it was looking at various different anabolics and how anabolic each compound was. Right. And he... Did they say it was rat poison? Yeah. He moved the numbers over. He did the equation to say this is what the dose would be in human dosing. And Winstraw was considered to be like one of the more, or if not the, out of the things studied that we looked at, there was like five or six of them, the most anabolic. Like the best for muscle growth, which we don't really see a lot of Winstraw in the offseason. You know, it's usually in that contest prep. And I think that there's limitations, right? Because I do think that I've seen a lot of, like I'd get joint issues. My joints would just start freaking hurting after like eight weeks. Yeah. So I know some people don't get that. I think I just stayed fat enough in the offseason that it was fine. Well, I think I used it when I was dieting. There's a lot of lubrication with fat in there moving around. I only used it when I was dieting. So that probably has something to do with it, you know? But yeah, maybe that's part of the reason why the scale was going up. So after we learned that or I learned that, I had a couple clients that were like, I want to try Winstraw in the offseason. So we did a couple runs last year using Winstraw just as a test, you know, for like four weeks at a time to see like, you know, did we get anything different this year than we did if we would have used, you know, Anadrol or, you know, something else in this window. We didn't really see a lot, you know? It wasn't like, oh my God, we just learned something new, you know? Right, right. But it was an experiment I think the guys enjoyed. I found that like for me, I never cared for Anavar at all. Yeah. It was like, it wasn't something where when I added it in, I felt a change or saw a change. It was just kind of like I was taking one more thing. The first year with Chris, we used a good amount of it for a while and I was like, eh. And then he pulled it out and put the Winstraw in and I was like, whoa, there we go. Like, I told him that the next year. He goes, eh, just don't use it then. Yeah. I mean, I know guys that love Anavar. And I, and like, you know, my, I have clients that are like, I want to do a cycle. I want to try an oral. I'm like, well, you probably start with Anavar because I know you're concerned about, you know, everyone's concerned about their face getting puffy on, you know, D-ball. Like no one wants, you know what I mean? Like that sort of thing. Yeah, yeah, yeah. We didn't care, right? So I know Anavar is a lot more popular now for other reasons as well. Yeah. But also the Winstraw was just seen as like, you know, like those 30 mil bottles from the vet. Also, like the up John Winnie. Like those things were like, like if you got your hands on one of those for a show, it was like, oh God. Like if it was like gold, you know? Yeah. So it had like a mythical thing to it. Hey, and also to Ben Johnson. Like, yeah, like good enough for the Olympics. Yeah. Like that was the big first Olympic drug fail was Stenazolol. You know, Ben Johnson, 979, fails for Stenazolol. And everyone, so my whole generation of bodybuilders were like, oh, Stenazolol. See, but that was the first time I learned that failing equaled succeeding. Yeah. So I got to get Stenazolol to be a champion. Okay. Yeah. I've got nothing. I have nothing exciting to add differently because I like DQ a lot. So test DQ. I really liked, I really liked D-Ball a lot. That was, that was my thing. So when you said that, Ron, and most people do, they like, nobody talks about D-Ball anymore. We're. Do you guys, because they don't have hexagons anymore. Do you guys think I can show it? Can I show an empty bottle on here? If you have one, you need to right now. So. Yeah. Scott, the first time I got some of that, and I can say this, it's in the past, I believe. Yes. Seven years. Came in the mail. Out of there? Oh, yeah. Came in the mail, and it was a DVD. Okay. And they had a DVD on the outside of it, on both sides, and then where the DVD goes was just full of pink hexagons. Oh, yeah? So this. See how yellow this box is from aging? Oh, yeah. Oh, that's a real. This is a real bottle of. Empty bottle. Empty bottle. Yeah, it's totally empty. You see how worn out it is? Worn out it is. It's a real bottle of Stenazolol. Up John Winstraw. Empty, of course. I kept this. You got the bottle. It's amazing. You could sell that somewhere. I kept this as a souvenir. I kept this as a souvenir because this is a piece of history. This is with the lot number that you can feel. Oh, yeah. That's how they could sell. Yeah. And this is a piece of history, man. This came from a vet in Alberta. They used to sell these by the box to the bodybuilders. Wow. We're aging ourselves here. So back in like the mid-90s, this would sell for like $350. Oh, wow. That sounds like $700 give or take now. And it's a 30-mil bottle of 50-milligram Winstraw. Okay. That's what it was. That's good right there. Yeah. But I mean, I kept this in my little. You didn't do it every day though, right? No. So the thing was like. We'd take 50 makes three times a week. Yeah. Yeah. Because, you know, it was like, you know, you're not going through the gastro. None of it's getting destroyed. It's making it all the way in. But this box is all faded yellow and kind of stained. But I kept this in my little box that I have where I have my TRT now. I just have my TRT in this empty bottle. To remind him what he used to be. Like, no, to me, it's like. A horse. It's the reminder of before everything. Like, this was back when it was a big secret. Like, this was back when people didn't know. Like, people, you know, they didn't understand what's going on. You could be 300 and something pounds and people would say, do you think that guy uses steroids? Now they just assume it. They know you do. Anabolic steroid for use in dogs, cats, and horses. Shake well. I said there was another question, but I've got to be honest with you. We've got to end with that line right there. That was good. That was good. Do you want me to give you the dosing? Do it. Do they have it listed on there? Oh, yeah. Yeah, what do they say? Cats and dogs, small breeds, 0.5 mil. Large breeds of dogs, 1 mil. Horses, 5 mil weekly. So that's what we thought. We're like, oh, a horse is getting 5 mils a week? I only need 3. 3 will be fine. Horses, 5. Dog is 1. Eh, 3 is probably good. Right in the middle. Right in the middle. I'm not a dog. I'm not a horse. You've got a Yorkie on one side. We've got a horse on the other. I'm right between them. Oh, that's great. Wow. Not to be administered to horses that are to be used for food. Because remember, there were areas in Quebec. What was that? They had horse meat. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Because in the French in Quebec, you could buy horse meat. Wow. Can you still do that? I don't even know. This was 35 years, 30 years ago. That's weird as shit. And then there's a phone number here if you have any customer service issues. Let's call it. Never mind. Yeah. Yeah. Call them up. Let's see what they say. Hey, I'm about to take this bottle seer I found. Yeah. Yeah. Unbelievable. That's classic. Okay. That's like a freaking time machine right there. We're ending with the time machine right there. You know what? I've held onto this box for 30 years. I've never shown it to a single person, I don't think. Oh, not a lot of people have seen it. You've got to put that in a time capsule when you're getting old. Yeah. You just dig a hole in your backyard. Actually, I've got it. I've left it to you in my will. Oh. It's really bold thinking I'm going to outlive you, but okay. Yeah, yeah. I've already proven odds are against that, buddy. Yeah. It was a fruitless gesture. It's just an empty gesture, Dusty. I just say it to make it feel good. There's a secondary person for sure. I actually expect something from you. I have that list of you. What do I get when you die, Justin? I probably get a pair of red chucks. Oh, that's clever. Okay. Is that it, gentlemen? Are we done? That's it. Okay. Thanks, guys. I didn't mean to derail. I didn't even know what we were doing. I love the derail. So, appreciate it, boys. Okay. Remember to like, share, subscribe, comment, and... Ring the bell. That's right. Remember, I am mutant.com. I am mutant.com. Get your hardcore ISO, your MindFK, your big greens, and everyone should get on the gear. All the gear. Big Dusty, or Big Ron and Dusty are your codes. Yeah, try Big Dusty. It doesn't work. That's weird. Yeah, yeah. Okay. Thanks, guys. And remember, it's just bodybuilding. All right. We are good.