 bre bre hosts. bre hosts. Remember to like share subscribe comment and ring the bell yes, it all makes a difference Keeps YouTube Pushing us out into the world force feeding us to other people hit the hype button, too. Yeah, yeah Hit all those buttons the hype button. Yeah, I guess we got to add that now if the redo they know they know They just know you don't have to say it's implied. No, no, it's implied. What implication? It's like you can't write You can't rewrite lyrics to a hit song, right? I can't change the intro So yeah, we're happy to be here. Remember I am mutant calm Go to I am you calm dusty and big Ron are your codes get your mind fk get your hardcore ISO Get your mind or what else? Oh your big greens. Yeah, especially the chocolate one damn and Everyone should get on the gear so get your EAAs for mutant I am mutant calm use those codes Um, we appreciate everyone that supports like every time we put an episode out I get a couple code notifications And it's like thank you keep it going. We appreciate it mutant loves it Big news to start the show huge news to start to show who would have thought Dusty and I have re-signed with mutant yes, we are being kept around Like uh, like a really impressive car collection that doesn't get driven Yeah, right and Congratulations guys. Yeah, no, no, we're we're very happy. Um Dusty put up a great post I had something in mind. I didn't I didn't I don't have a picture of me signing my original contract like dusty does So he's got like this preloaded photo. That's always useful for every contract, right? I don't have a photo like that. So I'm like I got to do something so I I'm I got a A guy coming to like do something on Tuesday and I'm gonna Uh on on yesterday because it shows up Wednesday, right? Yes, so, uh, I've I'm gonna do something too, but um Yeah, just really thankful. Uh, you know, dust you said something in your post The value you know are the the mutant doesn't care about the stage for us anymore Obviously mutant doesn't that's not what we do now, but there's such a um a love for the gym and the What we can still bring to the brand with obviously, you know Doing things like the show and the travel and seeing the fans at the expo and meeting people and going to the gyms and that real like grassroots uh Connection that dusty and I love having with Everyone that comes to see us or watches the show And uh mutancies value in that and jim wants to keep us around and we're just very lucky and fortunate and um um, you know, I want to thank dusty too because dusty helps me um You know do what I have to do with mutant and I think I helped dusty to do it He has to do with mutant, you know, and uh, and you know, so it's it's really been synergistic and and just really happy and thankful So I just want to thank mutant for keeping us around for You know, we had a pretty good contractor can keep us around for a while they they want to They're uh, they want us to I think finish our careers with mutant um That's cool. So, uh, we're very very happy Yeah, yeah, you know, and and you know like we talk about people that like, you know, obviously you got to do what you got to do It's a business people do jump sponsor to sponsor year to year um And I I just I can't believe I haven't had to do that um And and just really really happy and I just want to say say thanks and also thanks like to everyone watching everyone using the code Everyone buying their supplements everyone who comes to the booth everyone who watches mutant on a mission and hits the like button All that stuff is why i'm still around and why dusty's still around And um, and that's that's the the value You know if you guys stop watching the show and you stop hitting the buttons and you stop liking the posts and you stop sending messages and You know that stuff does come to an end eventually and uh, so it's it's driven by You people it's driven by you people in the chat You whoever's in the chat right now watching live like you're part of the reason why we're still with mutants. So thank you Agree a million percent I I want to add something dusty you added value to uh mutant by letting the listeners know how much water to mix with their mind fk By the way because you remember that guy he was like man. I don't like the peach flavor So he wrote me after that turns out he was mixing that with like 24 ounces of water It was almost no flavor Bad crystal light Yeah, right right yeah, so you and you you had said you were like you only need a few ounces of water You know for a pre-workout or for mind fk something like that. Yeah, and uh, yeah I just wanted to reiterate in case anybody else out there is taking their pre-workout with a half a gallon of fluid You'll want to use less you can get away with a lot less than that still drink water water is important, you know Yeah Oh, yes, we we are gonna have sergio on are you? Sergio will be on that's another big announcement mutinous sign sergio oliva jr. Yes, we uh We're very happy dusty and I mentioned him before like his name has come up before you know and um I know jim's a big fan of sergio like he's and sergio's a great guy too like he's a great guy to have around he's The type of guy that always comes and says hi to us and He's the type of guy that'll yell run and I look over. Oh, it's sergio and I would talk like he's that he's like that type of guy he's a really cool dude, and um Happy to have him around and did you see his video? Yeah Trend cough video he did Yeah, I didn't see it fantastic Oh Oh Yeah That was like he was like first day back from health phase and he like does a shot at trend and then he's like Health phase over Amazing You know, but that's that was part of what I talked to him about before we brought him on was like You know, we're happy and we know he's a great bodybuilder But really that's the stuff that I wanted to see was just fun videos him being him and it was like Happened to reiterate to him like No filter do whatever the hell you yeah to do as it Shot and that was his first Video yeah, I'm like he he heard me loud and clear to do Oh, there you go. Okay, you want to test the waters right away. Okay straight to felony Yeah He's like let's make sure they they said what they meant Let's do yeah, yes test out this contract I had a moment with sergio he didn't know that he had a moment with me, but we I've had that with a few women I Was waiting for the elevator to go upstairs at the hotel at chicago pro 2018 And as i'm standing there sergio had like just gotten there and there's like a whole bunch of people hanging out in In the lobby area and when sergio walked in he was competing at that show and and people were really excited to see how he was gonna do Like everybody just was like oh sergio and like the place just freaking lit up and i'm standing there waiting for the elevator And he's talking to everybody and bob chick is talking, you know three levels louder than everybody else Right, right bob's out there Sergio's here at the elevator And then the elevator opens up and I get in and sergio gets in and then the door's shut and it just gets really quiet And he just kind of was like I didn't talk to him. I wasn't like oh sergio i'm a big you know, I just like I didn't say anything to the dude You realize he's recovering from bob. Is that what he's doing? He's like he just he's like decompressing It was just interesting to see that from going from like that level of excitement and him being on to him like just like Who all right now i'm going to my room, you know relaxing for a second where no one can see me. Let's go. That's uh That's that feeling dusty and I get when we get the four o'clock nod from george. Okay, you guys are done at the booth I've been there for that. You know that 4 p.m. Nod the 4 p.m. Nod you're doing you're you're on you're talking to someone you're talking And then you look over and you see george go And you look at your phone. You're like 401 i'm fucking out of here Yeah, and let me tell you listeners at home if you're trying to get back to the if you want to take the shuttle back with ron and dusty You better start getting your stuff now because if you turn around and then you turn back they're gone. They're gone 401 i'm halfway to the door see tomorrow Very true Definitely, okay, so they announced Some arnold guys now we have a partial list is that what's going on? I think so. We don't know if it's partial might be might be full full We'll see. Imagine that was it a whole poster for the arnold uk for those guys And then they have the big poster too for and we'll see what happens, right? Like are all these guys actually going to make it you know, is this list going to change come, you know, february or whatever? I don't know, right? Okay, let's take a peek here Well, the list that you sent they only had six names on it, didn't it? That's for the arnold uk. Yeah, yeah, yes So for the arnold uk We got hottie Brandon curry Fitzwater Jacked Akeem williams and hassan mustafa Yeah That's a complete freak show with only six guys Yeah Yeah Like if you went to that show you're seeing two mr. Olympias Yeah 33 33.3 percent of the lineup is mr. Olympia It's not too shabby That's a good show Oh, and then you've got Fitz Jacked who are top four guys technically they've both been in the top four Yeah Three if you know jack's been third So and then hassan is like one of the craziest looking bodybuilders on the circuit hassan mustafa in person It doesn't matter where he's placing in a show like He's insane. Have you guys ever been around him? Mm-hmm Not in person Yeah It's Yeah, I mean You just look at how big is he's just He's quite crazy. Yeah, the legs are nuts He's been to west coast iron before like He was kidding. He was here for the van pro, right? He he won the van pro and He was here like Did he win the van pro? I can't remember. It's been a good show, but He was here like, you know on the turf with his pants down show me his quads With his wife his wife's canadian, right? So she's speaks really good english and she's she's very fluent, right? So she was like, how do his quads look to you? And i'm like, he's asking me It's his son and he's like looking at me flexing his quads and i'm taking a video and i It looks good You know It's always funny, but yeah, so he's uh That's why he was in toronto training at pure so much was like he can come here He's married to a canadian woman, right? So he can come here no problem, but yeah great guy And then of course a keem is Like a great addition to any lineup. I mean since he started working with chris his career has found like Like he got like new breath and like he's extended things a long time because you know I remember he he started not placing as well Yeah, he had a little fall off and then got with the cedo and Getting in shape and remember people used to say they're like in williams He just can't get into you know his lower back can't get it into shape, but Apparently that's not the problem anymore is it and then he starts working with chris he starts coming in lighter Yeah, and everyone he starts placing higher like getting great call outs and stuff so Yeah, it's interesting at that level man, you know like when you're the size of a keem Can you get any bigger like you know if you're chasing size after a certain point like It's just it doesn't you know his places weren't reflecting An improvement yeah, it was and and you know chris Chris kind of whittled them down It says you have you guys seen those chat gpt photos where a bodybuilders upload them and say add What would I look like with 20 pounds of muscle, right? That's what hassan looks like in real life. Yeah, so? We're running we're we're running into some problems that i'm not a fan of Yeah, I had a good friend a really good friend of mine from way back in the day Uh, i'll mention derek dubie there you go. What a great. Doobie. That's amazing. What a great I know It's the last name to end up to that. Oh, yeah, he's he's he's that type of guy um Yeah, and uh Uh, he sent me a photo of gaspari and he's like look at this photo of gaspari And I looked at it and I was like that's the best photo i've ever seen a gaspari Yeah, and then about 10 minutes later. I went back to it and I was like This might not be real right because you know when you a when you AI something crazy It's obvious like yeah, but it was like Fuck now. I'm wondering it did someone like ask chat to add like Even five or eight pounds of muscle to that photo because it was good. It's a great photo, but it just I'm like, oh, did rich ever look that was you know what I mean? Like it was just enough for me to wonder if that's a real photo and I haven't had time good Yeah, I haven't had time to research it yet, but it took a while for me to think because it was close But I'm like, I don't know he was never that that big to me. So It makes you just like I don't like that You're gonna see a lot of that wrong because we we took a picture when we were in new york And uh nikki liked it, but there was something weird in the background. I can't remember what it was And she told chat to remove it But not only did it remove the item but then it finished the building that was behind it all the way to the ground perfectly So When you know back like like the thing that goob does the walls aren't gonna move bring my waist in and it will adjust the background perfectly too Yeah, so you're gonna see so much of that And then of course things taking place that never took place people saying things I I'm with you 100% that we're gonna quickly see the negatives of what this does Yeah, and obviously I don't want to get into like the Fucking social and political ramifications of Thousands of fake but extremely convincing videos of all sorts of nonsense just oh, yeah Yeah, like I don't need anyone to think that i'm against a rack deadlift and someone's gonna post that video. Yeah You know what I mean? Yeah get the politics out of bodybuilding no hate for rack deads. Yeah, exactly Yeah, um, they have their place. Yeah, I I uh I'm concerned and then also Elon musk had an inch very interesting interview the other day where he was talking about You know that some people aren't aware but AI and these data centers they're sucking power Beyond what we're going to like cities like really they're consuming so much power So they're building these data centers in in low power consumption areas So like for example, they'll go to like rural nebraska And they'll build a data center near a small city Yeah, right because there's they can suck lots of power but now On the chart, it's like appears like there's a giant city there now. Yeah They they toss new york city in the middle nebraska. Yeah, because the power so we're not going to be able to To sustain this so elon said Well, the solution is satellites with giant solar panels on them because They will be able to collect the energy because there's no interference from the atmosphere So the solar panels just get blasted and they'll be able to produce the energy terrestrial power is is already old We're going to go to satellite power And we're going to have satellites generating all the power we need for the AI centers and i'm like Oh, isn't this how we got skynet? Yep Yeah We got the AI in the satellites Yeah, we know what's going on here. We know what's going on. We know how this ends I can't believe james cameron made terminator in 84 and here we are just like You know what I mean? Oh, yeah, this is stolen valor This is It's crazy So yeah, uh It's exciting times, but yeah, you know, what are we talking about pictures talking about the show now? Martin fits water Versus and reject I love hottie chopin, but I kind of feel like that's the lead I want to see Martin and andrew go head-to-head. What do you guys think? That's uh, well, it's gonna happen. I mean, yeah, um, they've already you know Like they've been head-to-head before like those two have had a couple of run-ins haven't they because I was at the dallas pro one year when martin That was right. That was martin's breakout. Yeah, the second where he beat kuko. Yeah, I was at that show and um So you know, this is uh He's right up there bumping elbows with hottie and those guys now. It's it's it's great to see Um, but it's it's it's mostly i'm mostly excited that I get to go back to the uk this year because we didn't go last year Correct dusty. We didn't go to england is there canceled darnold That's right big hoopla with campsing it and some shysters running it or something like that. I don't know what was going on That's brilliant, but uh, yeah, so we're just excited to be going back now, and um I get to we get to go to dino's again, and I'm going out early away Oh, you should come if you'd love it. It's my favorite trip Happen yeah, we have so many listeners in the uk and it would be a travesty if I didn't make it so one way or another I am going to be there Yeah, we're going out. We're going out early. I'm gonna go Nicky wants to kick around london, so we're gonna do that and then come over Don't get stabbed i'll do my best I survived new york. I should be fine in mini new york I think london's way more dangerous than new york at this point Valid very valid and then we've got obviously the uh, the regular the arnold classic Yes, and I think they got 11 guys in that one right now Uh, add nick walker to that list. Um Brando, uh, yep brando mustafa um Burton Let's see here. Antonio burton's in it. Yep. Anthony williams and yeah I don't know. I I look at the lineup and I feel like this is going to be the time where we are really setting the stage for who's in the mix to win the olympia also and obviously derrick's not there but you know if if uh you know if you see Fitzwaal win that changes things Yep, you know if you see andrew win that changes things so I think that'll be uh, just like last year it's gonna that show is gonna make you wonder what's gonna happen to the olympia Obviously, it's gonna be a massive show for nick after the olympia and and what happened there and uh I think um not to put pressure on nick but like this is he's got a This is a lot of pressures already on him. Yeah, that pressure's already on him But this yeah, this has got to be the the fix what happened at the o show It just absolutely has to be um And uh, you know 10 30 here saying don't sleep on anthony williams. He's going to do well in his pro debut um Yeah, um, it's it's uh, it's gonna be something else I think obviously If you just had to like bet 20 today hottie's there Yeah, probably hard to beat hottie Um, I think I'm putting my 20 bucks on andrew though Yeah, i'm saying who who who could beat hottie? I'm at this imagine that olympia Hottie from a few months ago Yeah, shows up knowing how short of a time period that andrew had uh, training in the gym um with who is he training with again? Oh, shit. It's out of my mind. Chris's guy Yeah, the the 212 olympia guy. Where's my brain? Don't know how to mine Anyways, uh, that was six weeks of of change Working with him. Yeah, come on. There we go. Uh, so now they've got all of this time My knee jerk is we're going to see a drastically improved Andrew again And if that is correct, i'm not just thinking about the arnold. I'm also thinking about the olympia Yeah, be wild man. Hey, there are people that are saying that he should have won the last olympia man So there's arguments a lot of people who are behind you Yeah, so there's arguments That's my 20 bucks as a uh, guy that never seems to be correct and loses a lot of 20 bucks. That's where i'm putting Hey, how about shout out to brandon curry going from the olympia to the arnold to the arnold uk Like that's freaking incredible man, you know Yeah, like he's just hanging in there banging them out bang it out collect checks Yeah, brandon's a machine man. How many shows he done? He must have the most shows of anyone under his belt on this list Yeah, for sure That's a guy that just loves bodybuilding. I think at this point. That's what I see me too is is that he loves bodybuilding because You know assuming I don't think that andrew's doing it for money I think andrew's doing it because he loves bodybuilding and he happens to make money doing it You know, I mean because he's making a lot of sacrifices to do all these shows and at this point in his career and I know he's placing well and doing well, but there still comes a point especially when you have kids and stuff where you're like I think i'm ready to Hang it up and he's not Yeah Yeah, I know I got a lot of respect for curry um It's interesting that we don't see this both of these shows feel like these would be a place that we would see bonnick I feel like bonnick Like hey, you know, maybe there's still Yeah, there's that I'm like, I don't know how they're doing with that. He did do a ton last I was gonna say Yeah, maybe he needs a little breather now Yeah, yeah Well, it's not like bonnick probably didn't get an invite Yeah, right He's a carbonate invite You'd think if bonnick just made one call or sent one email. Hey, I wanted to the Arnold to be like, oh, here's it like, you know what? I mean, oh, yeah, I can't see anyone saying well, you know, we don't really think you deserve an invite I can only think of like eight is it eight or nine people that wouldn't want him to join I'm looking at the poster. Yeah, exactly How many are here? Do you like my bureaucrat voice by the way? Well, I don't know if we can do that that's going to require paperwork and yeah, that's my bureaucrat voice Use that a lot in Canada. Yeah, yeah, we use that. Yeah, it's a daily usage So no, that's uh, okay. Do we have what's the next topic? Do we have some questions? I had one question that I thought I would save for the show and I had a uh, a breaking topic that uh, like if I say it this way, this is going to be like um It's made up news Can close for this one? Okay. All right. Yes Ian Valier is coming back That sounds believable to me Yeah, it look at his instagram. It looks believable too, man When ian was shrunk, it looked believable. Yeah When ian was like finding spray and it is smallest is That didn't stick like Like even when he came down, he's like i'm really coming down look at the picture. I'm like are you though? I am because you're still down to go to mount phil Like he came down seeing him in person and stuff like yeah, he came down a good amount I am mind-blowing at how fast like and it shouldn't be right, but I am mind-blowing at how fast he blew back up. It's just it's crazy. It's like oh, yeah, you are a freak aren't you? Yeah, that it's it's the muscle memory the cell volume Yeah, I mean he probably put on like Ian said, I probably put on 15 pounds if he just upped his creatine right You know what I mean? Yeah, like probably extra meal I haven't really been taking creatine for a while. So threw that in 270 now Um, you know, I wonder how light he got. I never asked him I don't know, but he even got under 250 If he did he had to kill himself. I've learned he was forcing it, you know, he was like Running for a while and everything. I love the smoking too I love that how many people don't know that that's just him being a troll they're like man He's smoking. I'm like he doesn't smoke They think he's smoking outside of the instagram post. I'm like, oh, come on Right, because fuad actually did did smoke and fuad quit smoking now because of the accident, right? Right, so I don't know if you guys knew that but fuad said like he quit smoking now because He was a smoker. He was like a secret bodybuilding smoker or not secret, but you know what I mean? Yeah, and I saw fuad like I've seen food like I said I haven't smoked before and uh, you know He said this is in the hospital for all that time and messed up for all that time and he didn't have a cigarette And I just need a He just thought wow I said i've already kind of quit. It's been you know, wait How long was he in the hospital a month? Yeah Yeah, yeah, and he was like so yeah, so last I heard he had quit so I think that's why people think Right because he ends in that crew and he's like They're all just smoking all the whole time Yeah, yeah, I guess it is smoke together, you know But I remember hearing that years ago I read it first in like muscle and fitness or flex or something They were saying that like russian bodybuilders would smoke during their diets to help them lose fat I was like, oh wow really? You know I had a friend Yeah, I didn't mean to cut you off good. Oh, no But then I started seeing it, you know in in bodybuilding you had guys like marcus rule and you know stuff like that Yeah, yeah, yeah rule was always the you know I remember seeing him on like I've told about seeing him in his big denim jacket smoking marlboros at the olympia Yeah, yeah, and I had a friend I had a friend of mine that used to get peeled like he's he was like Like that guy in the region, you know the regional guy that's always just sick shredded And uh, and he would tell me he's like, oh, yeah, you know, I only smoke when i'm dieting I'm like what he's like, yeah, I was cigarette and kill the appetite when we start the last six weeks I just do smoke a few darts a day just like chill out I'm like, and then you quit he's like, yeah Yeah, and i'm like, oh, that's supposed to be really hard to do Not for me No, I just it's like I was like, it's just weird, but he said he did it every show for like 10 years. He'd smoke during his prep You know expensive addition these days Yeah, that's all I think of when I see cigarettes now is I'm like well, you got to be rich to smoke nobody no matter nobody smokes anymore It's like nine dollars for 20 cigarettes I uh, i'm one of those kids that I think one of the reasons i'm so durable is because I was stress tested by a smoking mom And uh, so I was one of those kids that got hot box she'd crack the window like this much Yeah, just be smoking or demoriae and players and all I just be smoking in the car like all through the 80s, you know I might have had a seat belt on you know, I was one of those probably not right and uh So when I see cigarettes now I I can smell and taste I can like I can see I can taste it through the picture and i'm just like oh I just traumatized Yeah, we saw that this morning actually because I was irritated this lady was at the light and she didn't go and I was like She on her phone and that's and then nikki's like no, she's she's grabbing her robot dick Which is what I call vapes and uh That's what it looks like And then I go That's a real cigarette and she goes and her windows are up, but you just see the smoke start to fill up this truck Yeah, it's like a regular cab truck just going to town like all right. I respect it. You could take your time with delight I was like a fire I was just you know go outside to walk the dogs. I I'm I started walking the dogs again with the new hip And uh, you know, sometimes I go out there and the other night I was reminded my one neighbor always goes out stands on the corner of the park and has a cigarette And you know if there's no wind it sort of like hangs Yeah, and I don't smell cigarette smoke Often at all in my life like just don't encounter it very often, right? So when I do I'm just like holy Fuck that smells like fucking hate that smell Oh, yeah, and i'm like and I have these like, you know Flashbacks I used to work in the nightclub industry in the 90s and just crazy shit, you know I would shower in there that I could taste it coming out of my hair and just yeah I just fucking I can't stand that that's the worst smell in the world You know where there was a lot of smoking was at feebo Oh, yeah You're a lot of smoking at feebo Europeans you'd walk outside between like the mutant Yeah, where all the food base were yeah, yeah right by the food booths and you go outside and like just hundred people out there Just smoking the whole time. Yeah, you know, yeah, no old school They're like, what do you mean our ancestors survived two world wars? Yeah, right It's different over in europe, you know, it is it hits different and they got castles that are 900 years old that they're They'll be fine. Yeah, they're they're they're tough built different. Okay Oh, and this one comment. Yeah, one comment the people with the least money smoke and drink blunt force. Yeah Yeah, believable. Yeah, okay I had a question here I did a question box and this one came up and I saved it for the show I See what you guys think of this Why do so many coaches? Become popular and Famous and super high level and then something always goes wrong And they fall off It's a great question I don't I don't have it. I don't have a knee jerk with that one I mean, I feel like the popularity hits because one Well-known person does well Yeah, and then anybody who's not doing as well immediately slides over And then a good group of them are doing well And then one person is off And then it's the end You know I feel like and the funniest part is I don't actually think it's the end for the coach It's just this industry is always looking for the new secret Like if you think about the guys who were the guy I mean Chad was the only guy anybody wanted to talk to for a while Then a Cito then honey Then you know, Matt Jansen, you know And and down the line Yeah, a Cito comes around like 10 times Yeah, because because he never really leaves right You actually know But it's it is funny how that works where everybody jumps around and You know At the end of the day, I think the biggest thing that gets missed is Oftentimes the miss is the athlete Yeah Yeah, I think what happens is there's a lot of good coaches That do a great job with a certain type of client And they you know, maybe they got a good business going They've had a lot of happy clients and they get their hands on a pro And now it's high profile So now the pressure's on Sometimes it goes really well with that pro obviously because some people you just work well with them and they're You know easy work with they follow the plan you get yourself a good pro Next thing you know, you got three four people emailing you And I think what happens is some guys get a little bit out of control and they take too many people on And that becomes a problem. You know what I mean? Yeah, so Yeah, i've seen that so many times where in fact I can say that just even on a small local level I had A guy do well in men's physique and I had no intention of being like the men's physique coach Right, but he he won an overall at the show so then like two more guys You're like, oh man, you know how to coach men's physique guys guy. I want to work with you. I got a guy ripped That's all yeah, yeah Those guys did well like like one out of the two of those guys did well So now I have two guys that did really well, right? And then that turned into forward before you know what like scott knows all about men's physique The truth is is this was early in men's physique when I remember guys were coming into the gym and they're like Well, I want to do men's physique so I don't train like a bodybuilder, you know, I do my own thing I'm trying to train for physique. It's different, you know, and I was like, no, we're gonna train you like a bodybuilder We're gonna diet you like a bodybuilder, too. We're gonna get you freaking peeled So a lot of these guys were like, you know, not really knowing what to do And I just dieted them like bodybuilders got them freaking peeled to the bone and then they would win, right? And and as a result Then like I kind of quote unquote became the men's physique guy for a while like unintentionally I've got a picture of me standing backstage with like five guys all the men's physique. We're all like this, you know Like yeah, no, it was it was complete accident, right? That's like my buddy had a bikini client Yeah, and um, he doesn't do bikini. He just he's like I didn't mean She's just this one girl. I know kept bugging me to help her so I help and he helped her and she just all the way to the top Got a pro card And I said, you know, it's gonna happen now. You're gonna have 15 bikini competitors next season and he's like no I'm not a bikini guy He's clobbered he got like so many bikini he's messaging me. He's like I just realized I'm a bikini coach Like hey, just like job. You're doing a great job and he's just laughed about it. It's it's it is how it kind of happens um I think that's why like i've intentionally I mean like I don't want to be like Part of there's a bunch of noise in the coaching industry that I just don't want to be around I mean like people have asked me all the time like You know, would you want to train and diet? The guys at the you know, like olympia level guys i'm like well Yes, and no like They're just bodybuilders Right, there's not It's it's just different it's there's you're dealing with some pretty extreme people at that level um It didn't I don't know. What do you guys think of that like It's it's not a guarantee like you it's you're working with all sorts of people some of them are wacky Some of them are not going to listen to you There's gonna be a bunch of you know, I mean I just take the controversy and all the nonsense at that level and um, you know, I think some guys I've seen some people get into that sort of olympia level coaching like um Where they're really trying to make it like that's their business and then the next thing you know They're involved in all this drama online and there's all you know what I mean like we see it I'm I fucking hate all that shit There's I don't know like what's your take on that At the end of the day for me I have more fun training beginners I it's it's I love it's super rewarding yeah that you're You're you first off that like when I say beginners I mean like first-time competitors Because there's nothing in their mind They're just going in trying to have a good time trying to get in shape they get nuts And then you know 50% of the time our second show is harder Yeah, because they've got predisposed ideas Last time we were doing this and this time yeah And you know it and it's not that i'm not willing to work through those things But I think when you get to the to a higher level You're gonna start having more like well in the past we did that and it didn't work And and i'm not like there's no sous chef in my kitchen Hmm Like this is what we're gonna do if we're doing it my way right and if you're doing it your way That's perfectly fine, but I need you to stop telling people i'm helping you Because half of my way and half of your way won't work Your way might work so go ahead if you want to do that Or do exactly what I say But we're not like we're not we're not like Co-mingling ideas here and taking bits and pieces and the other thing that people don't realize is You know I won't name names, but you guys know who i'm talking about like I can't have a guy doing fasted cardio eating a snickers and that happens at the highest level Yeah You know, I don't get that with a guy who's Not genetically made for bodybuilding 100 but he's right on the edge and he's trying to get a pro card He will eat sand for me Right and that's who I want to work with like it's way more fun. I think there's a reason that chris Liked working with ron and liked working with me because it was like He didn't wonder what we were doing. We both knew like I don't have a shot in hell against these guys if i'm not perfect Yeah uh I I I do yeah you start running into The guys that have gotten away with a lot their whole lives At the highest levels you don't run into them at the lowest levels the guys that have gotten away with everything their whole lives They're it's that's not who you're dealing with that at regional and stuff and And any also to you know when you start dealing with the really high level guys they've already had success with Maybe multiple other coaches Mm-hmm So they they always have this Habit where they want to take something from each guy and integrate it like well Yeah, but you know I did this for that and not for this and then this cycle with that diet and then Train like this with this cycle and that it's like it it um It's uh, it could be very frustrating and and that's why a lot of the high level coaching relationships don't last Yeah, like Yeah, you know i've got clients i've had For I mean shit. I got one guy. I've helped him for Almost 20 years. Yeah, that's cool. He's done like Probably 15 shows with me in 20 years That's cool That's cool and he's ripped at every single one of them and He's in his 60s now And he still comes in ripped and The people like that are super fun to work with because they just left to train and get nasty peeled And they know that they don't have the genetics to go higher, but they don't give a shit. They love training. They love being in shape They love the grind Those people who go and do a master show and get third at the age of 64 They can they're 10 times more appreciative and Happy and all that stuff than some of the guys at the high level that you know, you could bring in in great shape For a pro show And you know, it's just the reality of the situation and you know at this point like you know I mean i'll die at anybody like i've had i've had clients do the olympia right um But it's uh, it's just another show and and there's just a whole bunch attached to it a whole bunch of stress massive amounts of disappointment huge amounts of like You know what I mean? It's it's a lot so it just depends on what you want out of your You know, what do you want your daily life to be like, you know? I think what's funny is when you when you coach the way that I do and I assume you guys do um I've been helping clients for shows And then like because I just pay attention to how many weeks out we are how many days out we are Yeah, how many hours that we are Yeah, um And actually uh last year I was at I think it was pittsburgh can't remember but I was at weigh-ins and uh One of my clients walked in and he's like hey, I didn't know you're gonna be here. I was like I didn't know you're gonna be here He's like, what do you mean? I was like, I didn't know you were doing this show. I just knew you're doing a show this weekend Right, yeah, he was like What? This is this is north americans. You you didn't know that i'm like it doesn't matter It doesn't matter what show you're doing. I don't care what show you're doing I'm bringing you in the same and it's the same thing. I try to teach them When they're going up because i've had guys like when I did my first national like are you stressed? It's like this show i'm like It's a stage and i'm doing the exact same thing Yeah, the name attached to it means nothing to me You know, and I maybe changes is like that nationals is like a longer wait Literally, that's it. Yeah, right? Well, we used to have it was a two-day show back in the day Yeah, I didn't think about that because I had a coach so it didn't matter. I just Ate what he told me to eat and do what he told me to do and then I did it again the next day and then the show was over like Yeah, you know if you can detach from that stuff um But I wanted to segue this ron because it came up today in the gym and see what your guys thoughts are um, I got a friend that's doing a show and uh They did a show a little over a year ago And they're just getting ready to start their prep and their coach is like Well based on how you look right now. I think you're gonna weigh this much At this show Huh? And i'm like, oh, I would never Tell someone what I think they're gonna weigh Because it doesn't matter And the last thing I need them doing is watching that scale dip or not dip And them to start getting their head like oh i'm gonna be lighter than he said did I lose muscle did I not put on as much as I thought and Nicky and I were talking about in the truck today and i'm like I If there was a way to coach people without that data Being important. I wish I didn't have it Right because the weight is such a mindfuck. I wish more people understood like I remember when jay told me what he weighed for the 09 olympia. It was like 25 pounds less than I thought Right because he looked so big and he was in the 250s Yeah, and I thought he was like 280. No, no, you know, and when he told me that almost fell out of my chair He's like, oh, I was heavier the two years before that. He was 270 and oh one Yeah And and that's what I feel like a lot of I mean Everyone I shouldn't say a lot of people coming up but Throw away the thought of the fact that if you You have to weigh more to look better and bigger It's If you get a chance talk to these guys about their best looks and what they weighed and I promise you'll be shocked Yeah, and I just think it's a ballsy move to start telling a client 20 weeks out What you think they're going to weigh on stage? Yeah, if anything I I'll i'll say to people like A lower number like I you know what I mean? I always set their expectations like I know you want to be A light heavyweight at 197 right right right that dream light heavyweight But I think you're going to be probably in the 180s, but your look is going to be great You and they're like, oh, and then you know Because the worst thing to do is tell someone we'll get you right in the top of the class, right? And then as soon as they're 193 or something they think you've failed them. Yeah Um, yeah, so you just if anything I'll give them a lower number than they think and I'll you know I'll be like hey, you might be more than this because you grow into the show and you know Gearing up and like the stack hitting and all that But you have to be prepared to be like lighter than you're expecting if anything so Yeah, and another one here What do you think is one of your strong points Uh with your coaching and what is one thing that you don't do Wow, this is easy for me, but i'm gonna wait scott you haven't gone first yet today. It's your turn I'm letting you get the perfect answer Yeah, if you had to say what's good about your coaching if you had to say like what are you good at? I would say that i'm a good communicator and that I listen those are those are the things that I do and that I try to um I I you know, I used to I I used to coat my coaching used to be a lot more simple But that's because when I first started coaching I didn't know as much as I know now So I was kind of like yep, here's your diet start this up And now I know there's so many more variables and factors and I anymore I I try to Factor in what that person's already doing And and before I'd give them more of like a just a generic plain diet, which also works Like you know, you hear people say like oh palumbo gives everybody the same diet Well, it's like as long as it works for you get going on it figure it out. Yeah, exactly Then you figure it out then you see how they respond nowadays I try to I I try to do what they like I want to have people have as less like I call it psychic strain as possible Like if we can change few like I might have you not change much at all Like we might just use all the same foods you're already using but just change a few portions and I try to get to know Somebody's life a little bit so I can see how these pieces all fit together That way I kind of understand more because you know, i'm not Like walking day to day with them through their lives So I want to kind of have a like a picture of who they are and and how their day right and not what they train like That's yeah, that's another thing too is I used to tell people like Here's a training you want a training plan sure you what kind of training plan you want to do and I just throw them a training plan And now i'm like well, let me see what your training looks like because I got to see like well Do they go to failure? What you know, what is failure? Are they moving weights? I always want to see how they move weights. Yeah So I think for some people that are a little bit less experienced They might feel like well, I signed up with him and he just kind of tweaked my food that I was already eating and he didn't even give me a training plan But i'm like well hang with me here. Give me this first month You know what I mean? And and maybe i'll give you some stuff that is really going to make a difference for you How can we tweak what you're already doing because my goal is like how can we take what's working already? Like you're are you've been doing this for how many years right and me who just met you today? And who am I to think that I can step into your life and tell you I know how to run it better? You know what I mean? Right, let's yeah, let's do no harm first of all. That's kind of so yeah I think I try to get people to know people really well and then what would be what was the other part of that question? What do you suck at what don't you do or what what do you think I don't know like Maybe not a better point, but something you don't have time you don't have patience for you don't you don't do it You know, I think that i'm sometimes I can be and I realized this I can be too nice to people and I can be too um Like accommodating and I think sometimes I need it what i've learned I needed to do it was like put my foot down and just be like no This is the way it needs to be, you know, and I and I think i've gotten better at that but yeah, I think there's been times that I I've maybe Tried to be too accommodating in the past right right But mine's sort of similar to you scott. I I Like I tell the story about my old training partner forest Great guy. He listens to the show sometimes, but i'll never forget he he was like a buddy of mine And he wanted to hire me and I met him at the gym and we sat down and he he wrote out You know, he brought his diet and he told me what he was doing. He's like well Yeah, i'm doing new chest and then i'm doing back and I got you You know, he told me his split and told me how many sets he's doing and Showed me his diet and he was natural and uh And he said so, you know, I'd like to do a natural show in about a year You know, I want to work hard for this and I was like, okay Well, let's get rolling and he handed me A bunch of money. I can't remember you give me some cash. I don't remember what I charged him for you know A few months I had you know up front and then he went home and his wife said so you Work with ron he goes yeah, and she goes well, what's your new diet look like and he's like he didn't change my diet And she was well, what's your training program look like and he goes we didn't change my program What'd you pay him for and he's like, I don't know And then two years later he had a natural pro card There you go. That's what he paid you for right? It's so Man, I don't want to like I don't attack other coaches, but the methodology of like okay, give me five thousand dollars up front for the next six months Yeah, like there's coaches that do that. Yeah, and i'm just like and sign this nda and sign this About me every week. What are you talking about? Yeah That is completely upside down to me if you're giving a coach thousands of dollars up front And I have no idea what you're expecting or thinking that to me is insane insane You gotta use this hashtag every time you post a picture Yeah, and then and I I you know, like you know, I just had a guy sign up He sends me everything i'm like, okay, you know He's got he's making wraps. He's making these turkey wraps with a little bit of low-fat cheese in them for his post-workout And he's like So I send him his diet back. He sends me his diet and I just adjusted the amounts of it get and then I like to write it out So it's written for me. So I it's my right, which right right? You know some people write their diet like handful of strawberries Yeah, right I'm like okay. I'm bigger your hands. Let's go 100 grams, right? Let's go 100 grams. It's you know, like I Yeah, or they're like two tablespoons of peanut butter. I'm like, no, okay, we're weighing it. Let's do 50 grams Yeah, 30 grams. Yeah, yeah Yeah, so I I decode the diet and I format it, but it's essentially just their diet And then I send it back to them and they're like, oh, this is pretty much the same and i'm like, yes Let's go from here. Yeah, like now you're on a now, you know, a lot of times too when people first come to you They do have a diet they're following Right, but they're also eating a bunch of shit on the side and having protein bars and throwing this in and that so I just send them their diet back And so don't eat that other shit and i'm like, okay Now this is official Yeah, now this is your diet And they're like what's the same food and i'm like on paper But you're forgetting all the other shit you're throwing in that you don't hold yourself accountable for but now you're accountable to me Now you've got pictures in a week. You got to send me your morning body weight Let's see. Let's see now how this diet let's see now how hungry you are, right? Yep I know that first check-in pictures are six pounds down Right I'm like there there's those like five protein bars and you know when the one wendy stop and the you know Three gatorades and the time you were a little hungry. So you'd have a bag of cookies like there's where that went Right, yeah, there's that couple shows a week and and um um, and the thing I learned from chris is is uh, like working with chris you you realize how how like little Like he doesn't send you a package you know Like here's your starting package, you know like he doesn't do that it's it's it's uh, it's like that's just get going from here, you know, and um Um So so that's that's something I think not not overhauling someone's lifestyle is important because like You know, we're dealing with normal people like they get up at 5 a.m. Because they have to work out because they have a job and then they got kids and they got a wife at home and you're like Some of these people like you can't tell them nope You're gonna train at four and you're here's your pro sport your pre-workout meal They're like, what do you mean my pre-workout meal? I train at 5 a.m. I'm i'm barely awake Like you okay. Well, let's work with that Like you got to be able to do that and customize things so people's lives don't get completely disturbed So Yeah, what about you dusty? Um, I mean i'm gonna start backwards I think the thing that i'm Working on that i'm not great at Is um Recognizing How like what someone's goal really is versus what they think it is Yeah, um That's hard and and and not getting frustrated with that because when someone tells me like I will do anything to win this show I think of what I what that meant to me when I said I would do anything to win a show Mm-hmm And then when I quickly see that they won't Years ago, I would get really frustrated with that And now what i've worked on is communicating back to them Hey, listen, it's we can we can have fun. You can do awesome. You might even win But you I do need you to recognize that you're not doing what you said So I need you to also understand I can't give you the result That you think you're going to get based on these things you're doing Yeah, you know, because when you're randomly throwing in a protein bar because you were late and you're doing this and that people don't realize how much those little tweaks really affect the finalized look And coaches need to realize that that might be enough for them So you just have to communicate that and make it work because You can't put what's the most important thing to you when you were in your prime on them Because it might not be fun then you know what I mean? So I've really worked on just stepping back and make sure you're communicating all that stuff But also understand there's nothing wrong with wanting to do the best you can do You at 90% Yeah, you know and back in the day like I was like why the fuck would you even do this? If you're not willing to eat sand and not sleep, what are you doing? It's a waste of time and it's like no, it's not Not to them and in fact to them That better result may not be worth it, you know, yeah, so I just tried my best to communicate those things um And also just working like a new struggle over the last Five years because i've been doing this for 20 Is there's so much information for people? That i've got a lot of clients that are trying to co-op their work with me Yeah, yeah where they're like hey, I was thinking we should add this in and i'm like why? Well, you know because they're you know and and I love it. They're excited. They love bodybuilding But they heard this guy say that you should have no carbs and then this guy said that you should have no fats and I feel bad because back in the day we didn't have that so it was just easier to just execute um um But having to kind of step back and go you know what? This isn't a negative Because I have an athlete that's excited And they're trying to learn which is great and so you just kind of work them back down and help them understand what you're doing And sometimes you come to the conclusion that hey, man You really love playing and I think the best thing for you to do is to go play without me And and it's not a it's not a breakup. It's just like What are you paying me for? You know because again, we're back to this co-op situation that's not going to work Um, i'd rather you go out and do that and I think for some of these younger athletes that want to experiment One thing that's really changed is people start bodybuilding on monday and on monday night They've got a coach Yep, and there's nothing wrong with fidgeting around with bodybuilding Following podcasts learning shit and having fun Doing it yourself for a while until you hit a point that you decide you need a coach Because I feel like that's the thing that's missing is everyone thinks they need like I go off. I'm gonna bodybuilder I need a coach and i'm like this isn't really that complicated Yeah, I would bring you in better than you will But would you have more fun would it be more rewarding can you even afford it? You know, i've i've had people reach out and they want to hire me and then they see the price They're like I can't afford you. I guess I don't know what i'm going to do I'm like keep following the podcast and keep kicking ass and you'll be fine Yeah, like there's so much you can learn today Yeah, without a coach and and still like you can do a lot, you know, yeah If you pay real close attention if you want to learn it's a luxury dusty, you know But it's not a necessity and yeah, you can win without you there are guys that are winning shows Beating guys have spent thousands of dollars on coaches by just working really hard staying really disciplined I mean just so you guys listening understand What ron and scott were saying we give you a diet then we step back And then you send pictures and we say what did that diet cardio and training do and we look at it we go All right, it was a good week. All right, let's wait another week. Oh, it paused. Okay, we're gonna change one thing Yeah, right see what happens in a week and we're gonna stay calm and just keep doing that so you can do that yourself Because what you don't want to run into is i'm paying 250 a month and because of that I can't afford the food He just put on the diet, right? First, you know first thing I do This is the first thing I do with everybody list all the supplements you're taking and then I tell them okay Let's remove these and 50 stop almost all of this and say and then i'm free Yep Yeah, it's it's just that stuff and I do think it's fun guys like that's why I enjoy so much helping general population people now Is because there's something really rewarding about helping someone change their life Helping someone see like yeah That that they feel better that people look at them differently that they walk into a room differently Oh, and by the way and and all of my clients got this this week Uh christmas eve and christmas day forget I exist Yes, do whatever the hell you want And i'll see you friday and I and I tell them like because I got some hardcore people i'm like It do not restrain yourself because you think it'll make you a better bodybuilder I'm sending that message like well this week No, dude like if there better be a separate pumpkin pie for you because you're gonna eat that shit. Yeah You know part people so here's here's my little word for all the bodybuilders out there Yeah, part of being a bodybuilder part of the fun part of the culture Part of the experience of being a big badass bodybuilder that squats four plates for reps and fucking has traps and like say well, you know I'm I'm going back to the 90s. Okay, okay Part of the fun is that you get to fucking eat at the holidays you get to freak everybody out You get to be the guy at the table. That's like i'm here. I benched three plates for reps. I'm out eating all of you fat Right, and you out eat your family and you and there's a pie for you and you go hard like that's part of the fun That was one of the best parts of being a big bodybuilder and I just can't stand these well, you know I got it, you know, make sure I measure it away of that gravy. I'm gonna give myself 50 grams of gravy You know don't weigh the gravy I saw a coach you guys that put out a message this weekend and I Do your thing I guess but they were like Bring your own plate. So you've got controlled portions and only fill that plate and i'm like Oh, fuck off. What do you think is gonna happen? Like I literally told them I do not care what you do for two whole days And I promise the wheels will not fall off by friday. We live in a society You have to take part once in a while Don't always be the outlier that's got to make a scene That's you not want to see tupperware Do not want to get tupperware Yeah, do not unless you're bringing it to fill it up For the next day because it's it's wednesday and mom's gonna send you home with some good shit Yeah, I don't want to see it, you know, so Any any you that are watching because it'll be wednesday If your family's doing something I promise it it'll it'll the the enjoyment you'll get out of just enjoying the time Is much more than the three to six pounds of water water not fat Yeah, that you're holding on friday. Yeah, enjoy yourself Yeah, so sorry for the random rant, but it was something that I Every single email this weekend the last line was and and for some of my guys is i'lling them do not I'm begging you do not bring your food Yeah, yep, we have a bunch of stuff that's in the live stream so we want to make sure we gave these guys some attention When is the best time for you to uh help a client pick a show? Like how do you decide when to pick a show? He said for him? It's when it financially makes sense That always works when your life is the least chaotic. I mean, I don't want to drop somebody in college into a into a show where two weeks out They're doing finals. Yeah, you know, I don't want an accountant. I've done that, you know getting ready for their show And it's you know, the show's on april 16 tax Like We're in 16 hour days this through here Yeah, your girlfriend or wife is having a baby in four months It might be on the day of the show, but probably not You're getting married and send her pictures for a show Yeah, i've seen that before I saw a guy had a baby the night of the way ends Oh, man. Wow. He he he was at the weigh-ins and his phone went off You you you'll love this one. I did something show the next day, too so, um Matt kafora hired in our first place in the lightweights we we worked together when he was a kid He hired me And we got started and I didn't know this but we got started and he wanted to put on size So we just started jamming and he gets big quick And uh, he hadn't told me this but the week before he hired me He got measured for his tux for his wedding Oh, wow, and he he wasn't renting it Yeah, uh-oh So so I get to blow him up 30 pounds His wife was pissed at me He couldn't even button his is uh, it was a suit not tux i'm sorry He couldn't button his suit for their pictures because he had grown too much and it didn't fit right in the shoulder So she had to like pull it around his arms and I was so proud but she was not Not Yeah, i'd be I'm like, oh really? Good to hear Yeah, but no, I think that um As far as picking the show the convenience things all those things matter, but also It depends on my client's goal, you know, like New guys when they come to that come think about competing well, let's do it right now Let's go because I want to find out if they like bodybuilding or they like Lifting weights and eating right and the only way you can do that is by getting on stage And then after that it becomes more strategic, you know I have guys that finish shows like what show we're gonna do next i'm like Ask me in six months Yeah, because the changes you need to make I need to kind of look at and And and decide if we've made them before we can pick the show, you know What do you scott? Yeah, I i'm right there with you guys. I I don't think I have too many of it I just want to know what's going on like were you planning to go on? Uh, like were you getting married and going on a cruise in september? And you're planning to do a show that's like one week before that or four weeks after like Do you have i'll ask people like do you have any big events that are happening, you know during the next six months? You know something we try to and with like those guys that I help long term And you know coming in now we're starting to see what the schedule is going to look like for 26 And so that's the question i'm asking them now is like the guys i'm working with long term Like what does your 26 look like are there any big plans like right you guys having a big family reunion? You're all going to the dominican republic and you know the middle of the summer because if so Maybe it's not a good idea to plan a show that's going to line up with that I've had a few I had a couple actually and they said hey we want to be in shape for our wedding and I was like Okay, when's the wedding they told me they go and we think the best way to do that is do a show and there's a show a week before our wedding and i'm like done so like Like they were sliced out of their heads for their wedding pictures And it was great because after the show i'm like do whatever you want before your wedding you're going to be fine And it was funny because the the goal was actually the wedding But they were both previous competitors and they knew the only way they'd get really commit to it was a show So we did a show so they'd be ready for the wedding That's why i've had those before What about this one a question about the arnold went last year going again and planning to attend finals Just went to the expo last year are the reserved packages worthwhile? Um, he said a Question got pushed up, but he said I think he said he was talking about uh Possibly like sitting in the balcony. Would that be a good idea? I didn't know. I don't know much about yeah thinking balcony for me and my daughter I mean they've got screens there so giant stream You're gonna you're gonna be able to see from anywhere um Personally, um I feel like being in the building is the most important part Because that's where you get the energy the whole thing and most people unless you're sitting really close are watching watching the screen So yeah, it's the financial difference It's it's not worth it. Um, unless you're going all the way which i'm assuming those are already gone um, but yeah, I think it's you know, I don't I don't know I I think they have package deals that cover everything your expo tickets your seats Yeah, show your seats for the pre-judging and if you want to do all the above i'm sure you save money doing it that way Yeah, I mean personally, I would say you want you want to go to the expo one day Yeah, and you want to go to finals Yeah, like if I was you know to sell someone like keep the expenses down to a minimum and I don't really I mean if you want to go to meet the olympians that's free This is the arnold. Oh, yeah, so then meet the meet that you know, what I mean meet and greet or whatever that's free but um You know, you can just go to that but you know everything else. I mean I don't know I've I've known a lot of people that have bought packages and they've been like It was a lot of money. I didn't really use some of this stuff and like You know, I remember they've had like where you get to go, you know, vip packages you get to go to like a lunch and stuff But then like oh, there's no competitors there You know, like they don't necessarily show up and like so it's like, you know kind of just depends Yeah, what about it? My way I do this though just the pre-judging and that'd be it. I like pre-judging. Yeah Pre-judging is where they competitive George George uk he says uh I'm glad to see that you're feeling better after your hip replacement run I'm gonna need to get this done as well question how long until you could walk? Okay, so I thought that'd be great to you know get the update from you We we all want to hear what's going on with the hip now Uh, yeah, I mean I had the anterior procedure which i've talked about where they don't cut any muscle They pull your quads apart and they go in between Um So because they don't cut you know, they don't cut through the glute on they didn't cut through my glute or anything I just got up and walked like I walked hours after surgery like You know, um Sorry, not yeah It was the next day. Sorry the next morning I walked I had surgery at like noon And I was in bed for the rest of the day and then the next morning at like 6 a.m. The nurse came she's like, hey, let's get you up And they gave me a walker and I stood up and I stood straight up. I couldn't believe it I was like, oh my god, obviously I was in pain from surgery, but I knew right away as soon as I stood up I was like Fuck it's over Soon as I stood up. I was like it's over It's over. This is oh my god. It was just the biggest relief and obviously I was like, you know using a walker for the you know but um 48 hours after my surgery, I walked through the montreal airport and boarded my plane without a cane Yeah, and probably not the best idea um But you know, obviously i'm Compared to the average person i'm obscenely strong Yeah, you know what I mean like the average person can't do that because they don't have the musculature to support everything but I was able to walk through the airport and I didn't want to use a cane in the airport because I didn't want air canada to be Like did you have surgery because I didn't have a letter? Yeah, and you're supposed to have 72 hours of their canada and I didn't want them to know because I was only Doing 48 hours, so I just put my cane in my check bag and I just sort of tried to walk real straight and careful and um The unbelievable man I can't say enough life-changing best money I ever spent That's great. You're welcome. Yeah, George said he's gonna do it privately as well. Yeah, i'm 10 days So yesterday I was nine days post-surgery And I went I left the house for the first time I went downtown to watch emily compete in a high rocks competition And for those of you that don't know what high rocks is it's like this hybrid athlete um craze that's going on or they have this this running track and there's these obstacles and events and They had thousands of people enter emily did the women's doubles where she had a partner and She did liked her age group for the women's doubles And there was hundreds of girls in her class like they were running by like I was there watching And it was like being at an expo was in a giant convention center expo vibes techno music pounding You know some exhibitor booths along the wall um very expo vibey and I was there for four hours walking around standing the whole time I took a foldable chair with me Yeah, and I was carrying it around but I never opened it I never put it down on the floor sat in it And I was pretty relieved to get home because it was kind of throbbing a bit like this this surgery, you know I would have sat in the chair me too Yeah, I was thinking that the whole time. I just kept moving from you know event to event I wanted to see her at every event so she'd come and do the one obstacle and then i'd move to the next and then she'd come You know what I mean? So I would have set the chair up every time. Yeah, I know I just I just uh I can't say enough. I can't say enough today I'm going to go to the gym and i'm going to do some pin loaded chest and biceps be my first workout Nice, and I can't load the hip at all so I can't carry dumbbells I can't even carry like you know if you think if you grab 30 pound dumbbells, that's 60 pounds of extra load on your hip. Yeah Yeah, right? So I i'm not lifting anything. I'm not even plate loading a machine today. I'm just pin loaded And uh, unless braden wants to load my plates for me I'll do it. Come on. Yeah, he would do it. He'll plate load for me I'd do that for you and I'd use the proper plates Right making sure they're symmetrical exactly so so yeah, that's where i'm at. Yeah. Yeah, unbelievable What else we got scott? I have to ask this one Uh, and I hope that the answer is yes from one of you The answer is no for me, but have any of you fellas ever used cheque drops? No, i've never seen them cheque drops are an old school um Sublingual androgen Wow, and i'm not sure what the actual medical Application was in europe back in the 60s or 70s or whatever they were made for I think it was veterinary Was it veterinary shocking? Yeah, I think it has something to do with dogs and pregnancy Yeah, and and I remember the uh, okay something like that I remember the underground steroid handbook and the anabolic reference guide Yeah, and cheque drops was in there and I remember as a young bodybuilder was like oh cheque drops never heard of those and I read and it's like pure androgen sublingually Mm-hmm But almost no bodybuilding application whatsoever, right? Because it's like the half-life is like Yeah, but I guess powerlifters used to love that shit Well, like right before they went or something? Yeah, they'd like Just androgen load their brain And you know It's like walk out Taking 100 makes a halo for a week I don't know how that felt, but I guess it makes you pretty like irritated It was rumored that mike tyson was on cheque drops when he when he would fight the ear biting thing It happens Yeah, sometimes you take a lot of cheque drops you bite someone's ear off Yeah, it happens, you know So yeah, it says um uh a potent synthetic uh anabolic androgenic steroid historically used as a veterinary drug to prevent heat in adult female dogs Of course of course the body would be like we should try that naturally Yeah, read that and I was like yeah immediately I was like I should get I'm gonna take that before I bench press Yes Yeah And I won't go in the heat either That was it That was it That was it But I had to ask I was hoping that maybe you guys had a story like Oh, I was waiting for ron to say I never took home, but I knew a guy back in Edmonton No, I just I did know some powerlifters that said cheque drops used to be like a powerlifting thing like you would take them for powerlifting meets Yeah, like like halo, you know, they'd also use halo in circumstances Yeah, yeah, yeah even faster, you know, yeah Oh, so someone commented here. They're meant to keep dogs in heat. Yeah, Mike Tyson loved him Yeah, Mike Tyson Yeah, he got it. Hey, how do I think Sam Sulik will do at the arnold? I don't know who's doing it Who's doing it with the classic guys? Plus I haven't seen I'm sure Sam has made some improvements because he's that guy that's you know young and growing and stuff So I haven't seen his physique for a while. I don't know if he's posting updates or what's going on I know he'll make more money than anyone else there Yeah, yeah I'm just here to sell t-shirts. Yeah, he's doing okay I believe that Mike's gonna be there Sommerfeld Oh, nice. He still hasn't taken my advice and went into open bodybuilding, huh? Okay. Yeah Yeah, let's see men's lineups for 2026. Let's see who's gonna be Wesley and Mike. Oh, yeah, Wesley. It's gonna be the Wesley and Mike show. That's right. Nice Yeah, Wesley needs redemption Yeah, you know what I mean? I wish I was ever good enough to need redemption There was no redemption needed Right. No, I know Wesley's got an insane physique, man You know, um I I vent that's what I thought. Yeah, I'm a big fan of his look and I I know they really penalized him at the at the last show Didn't he get hammered it was it the yo we got hammered at or he didn't do though. I can't even remember Wesley, it was yeah I don't think he did the oh I think he got hammered at the other one the Arnold And then i'll be interested to see what happens with mike with this whole height weigh-in thing You know that it seems like that's what really threw him off and I wonder You know From what I understand it was him. It was him who made the big deal of it where he kind of said on a podcast Something about like yeah, you know, I'm actually taller than that or you know something It was something like that and then that kind of sparked the whole thing But they're like man, we're rechecking everybody everybody's getting rechecked and you know had he not said anything I wonder if it just would have great slid Why do they I mean? I mean, it's funny because every single classic guy is worried about their height Like you know what you know every single one of them like well I've always been 6'3 and i'm hoping i'm still 6'3 like you know like they're all they're all using inversion tables and stuff like that Yeah, yeah, not squatting anymore, you know, yeah You don't understand about classic though from a standpoint of bringing the best physiques is If the judges keep it within the criteria of what the guy is supposed to look like To be in classic why don't you just throw out the weight? Yeah, I mean think about it because If if we all know that if mike summerfeld came in at the at the weight He could have been with the previous height. He would have won right because he would be the best classic bodybuilder So aren't we basically restraining guys from being the best they could because some guys wouldn't be better if they were heavier Some guys would and some guys could get so big that they don't look good anymore for classic and they need to switch divisions So I don't really understand the point I I think the point and I get what you're saying dusty like the look is what matters, right? Yeah, um, so I totally get that but I think the point is that Without some kind of guardrail Um, like we've seen with every other class right without some guard rail the classes continue to morph to the more extreme all the time Like look what happened with bikini they used to look I mean, I remember emily was the you know Did the first bikini show in alberta and it was like Fit swimsuit models, right that there were obviously a lot more fit than that Like the swimsuit models you saw in sports illustrated that look like they didn't train it was like a bodybuilders swimsuit model Right, and then of course that morphed into like completely peeled Ridiculous glute tie-in certain muscles are untrained totally and other muscles are maximized like right Crazy, but it's like, you know, and then of course, you know It got so crazy that they're like well now we need to make wellness because figure and bikini are like morphing So we need to make something for all these girls with giant glutes It's just that right and then you know, and then they could dial bikini back because now they had wellness like All these guardrails that keep getting kind of obliterated by progression Um, so I think that that's why they just think we have to have some kind of border Which is one thing we keep in line one left Yeah, you see what they keep they keep coming out with more divisions for women. They're like well now that we let bikini go too far We'll do what do they call that new model fit model fit models? It's just 2010 bikini, but what's funny is i'm already seeing it in the fit model division girls like oh the judge said I got to get a little bit bigger. I'm like here. We go. Yeah Here we go Because we are in a sport of progression though. That's the thing. I mean I would have like I would have hated it if someone said to me Right here is where you need to be and i'm like five years from retiring retiring yeah And they're like if you come in like this for the next five years, you're always gonna win it's like That's weird. I don't know what to do with this like I spent all the years I don't know what to do with my hands. Yeah, jamming up to this level but I don't know. I just I I do I understand and you are correct, but I do look at it and i'm like you know, you're you're You're handicapping some And and opening up for others the same reason I think that you know Like a lot of people are arguing that the 212 should be gone The best 212 guys can hang with open bodybuilders So why not just throw them all in one cage and let them fight? I like it. I like the constraints personally in In this is coming from the place of like when you think about when you hear the stories of like the ifbb worlds And there's this guy who's really like 190 pounds, but he's sucking down to make 176. You know what? I mean like he's doing everything it takes They have to like wheel him in there and then give him an ivy afterwards like These things that are incredible and nearly impossible to do like when we had stefan on and he said Because of what classic has become These guys need to get absolutely peeled and then they need to get like 10 percent better than that 10 percent leaner than that In order to be what the look is today It is and it's here's the thing and it kind of goes back to um What I kind of learned about making art back when I was in photography That when you give yourself a set of constraints to work within then you can like just Find you have to be really creative to figure out how to Figure out how to push up against as close to that freaking line as possible You know, and so it to me a big element of what Really excites me about bodybuilding Is that challenge of say making a weight class? Even when it's when it looks impossible and maybe it is impossible and maybe it's a little bit dangerous, too But oh my god, if you can pull that together And stay alive And stay alive I'm not saying that bodybuilding as a sport is necessarily the safest but like to me That is like the top level of what I think is crazy cool And that's what makes it an extreme sport, too But that's that's just the old school, you know competitive You know mind that I have in that And that's what I love about 212, you know Well, that's why they kept altering. I remember 212 they used to weigh in like Days before Yeah Which I liked 202 Yeah, and then guys were stepping on stage heavier than that And it's the same thing like, you know, a lot of fight Divisions they'll have a couple of days Thursday night weigh-in Yeah For a saturday night fight and you're like well if you really want him to weigh that Weigh him on saturday morning Yeah, and they're trying to find out what they really are For safety purposes, they're changing that in a lot of different organizations where like You can only actually be 10 percent different than or you know what I mean like a small percent different the day of the fight Than when you weighed in kind of thing Yeah, because I mean guys are coming down there. They're 20 pounds up from that actually Yeah, I've also heard arguments Um for the fighters that they should weigh in the morning of their fight Yeah, because it forces them to not do extreme things Yeah, because you can't like do a 20 pound drop and then fight like seven hours later Yeah, and actually be in decent condition It would prevent them from doing that it would because let's be honest we know how the body actually body comp works most of these fighters They could just get 10 pounds leaner Yeah, yeah, yeah, you know, you see this boxer and he's like yeah, I drove 20 pounds to make weight It's like you have 20 you don't even have abs Yeah, right Like you could just get peeled and keep all your muscle and weigh in like george st Pierre was a master at that. That's why you're so good george st pierre made weight fully hydrated and fed Every time sliced yeah, because he was he he conditioned his body he got his body fat low maximize his body comp and he would be like You know, he'd eat a meal and drink and weigh in and be the right weight And the other guys like got to go on an ivy and then you know the next night george st pierre fuck, you know I worked with this guy This guy was such a badass. He was not only a coal miner He was what they called a rescue coal miner So his job was to go in and rescue other coal miners when things went sideways It's a bad job when they have to have a rescue coal miner. Yeah, yeah Yeah, so there was a rescue podcaster, you know It'd rescue me for saying dumb shit. Yeah So he was like close to 300 pounds when I met him tall black dude like over six foot, right? We and he was a boxer and he wanted to try doing bodybuilding We dieted him down to like 230 pounds like peeled and then after that he was like, you know what? I think i'm gonna stay here and keep fighting in my same weight class, you know or come down You know in or that was come down to wait. Yeah, it was come down to weight class But being like this six foot something guy with like a reach across the room. Yeah Yeah Now i'm a heavyweight fighting as a cruiserweight like yeah exactly yeah Yeah, under 200, but you know what I mean Yeah, you just take you could take any super heavyweight fighter pretty much and just get them down to heavyweight with body fat and water alone Yeah, yeah, and not lose their explosion and their energy. Yeah. Yeah So yeah, okay classic. How are we doing? That's all we got. That's pretty good Um, any news you guys want to chat about before we leave we for the last five minute crew Patreon is always patreon guys. Yes, we appreciate the support in t-shirts. They're all available over Keep the producer home merch store. All that do those things make sure you're all watching mayor of kingstown This season's phenomenal and also if you haven't watched pluribus on apple ask got thanked me before the show Yes, it's great. It's great. We haven't started that yet Once we're once we're all caught up with these seasons. We're gonna dive in We waited because you guys have given me some shows that you're like, oh, this is so good And I make it like 11 minutes. I'm like, what the fuck are these guys talking about? And I just turn it off So I waited for joe rogan to have your back on this one. I'm like, all right. I'm going in, you know Purgus has been good. Um, so yeah enjoying that and uh, like I said, dusty and I again Very happy to have re-signed with mutant for the next year. Yes, and uh, you know Excited to see everybody at the trade shows and the arnold expo and the arnold uk and all that stuff Yes Scott I like that. Scott what about what about stranger things do you guys like stranger things? We did season one and we really enjoyed it And then we just never went back for some reason, but we thought about it Okay, I mean, it's a supposed to be an amazing show, but I just we just kind of got on to other things I think it's it's gone down, you know, and then there were issues like writer strikes all of that and So they they they got a lot older, but then they're still playing kids kind of thing and right now they're doing the last season Is kind of the hot thing uh out right now and we're watching it Victoria said she's like i'm not getting into the season as much. I like it, but I love the 80s nostalgia It's like it takes me right back. Yeah, I had that. Oh, yeah, you're right You know, that was a cool element to the show Yeah, yeah, so i'm into it regardless. Okay Um, also too. I am wearing my train like hell hoodie The train like hell app is live. I got people on there. It's pretty cool. Some of them are posting in the community But there's there's bunch of people on there It's been really exciting and i'm i'm happy to see you know I wake up in the morning got a new sign up and You know send you know post a message to the community and say hi and all that and it's been cool So I just want to uh, thank everyone you can uh Train like hell calm, you know, it's easy to find to go to my instagram So yeah, I just got to do a little personal pump But yeah, thank you very much. No remind us every episode by the way. Yeah, because there's gonna be I don't like co-opting I mean you guys are free to do your listen, you know There's gonna be people that didn't hear benefits about it because they didn't watch all the shows Right, I'm saying so you should mention it again and yeah, so yeah, so i'm happy, you know And uh, you know, like I got a message from one guy uh yesterday. Uh, he was like, hey, you know that I just wanted something to get me back on track I was used to bodybuild and I competed and i'm busy with kids and stuff and I can't afford to hire like You know a coach and I just I want I want a program. I want to follow something and he's you know, some people enjoy recording their workouts like It's been cool because i've used it myself just to like You know because I had to test it out so I like would go through it and use it and yeah It I I kind of miss my like it made me miss the logbook days You know what I mean? Because like the logbook days were fun, you know, you You know you you get five reps and then the next week you get six reps and you see it on the paper and that sort of like Feedback so like on the app. It's cool Like if you put in eight reps, it'll say new pr seven reps last week eight reps this week And you're like fun So like and it's just a little thing But it just made me like think back to those days when I was using paper and pen and stuff and you know They don't do that anymore. We got these these people that I know to have a pen anymore. Yeah Yeah, yeah Have you tried to hand write lately? I had to do some handwriting the other day like writing on a christmas card I'm like, holy shit. Yeah, I can't fucking write I type it out and put the note inside of the card Yeah, and if and I had these forms to fill out For like my surgery and stuff And I like start filling them out and I just printed them again game to emily Can you fill there you you're learning? It's like the perfect bubble letters every letters the same height in the same size and the numbers fit in the boxes You're not really doing anything. You're giving it to nikki. She's yeah, I don't the cards I don't do any of that. I've been ruthlessly independent for too long. Does this wife? I got a wife now I got a wife and she's gonna do some wife and let me tell you something fill out this form on friday Nikki says do you want to go to dinner and I just by default assume she meant saturday. I said yes So i'm downstairs like hanging out and uh, I was like, what are you doing? She's up in the room and she's like, oh, i'm just you know using on the vanity doing my thing I said, okay cool, and then she's like we're leaving in 10 minutes and I said where are we going? And she's like dinner and I was like, oh That was tonight like I don't even pay attention to when we're going right then we got in the truck I'm like where are we headed and My house there my house operates My house operates all I want. I don't want a bunch of information Right, I want a time that I need to be standing at the door with my shoes on There you go So i'll say like what's the plan and of course it starts with well my aunt's gonna cook this And then my cousin's got it come from and i'm like whoa whoa whoa When should i be at the door with my shoes on time at the door and then she'll look me in the face and go 415 And i'm like perfect Now let me ask you something just to be clear Are when she says we're now. I imagine you're pretty punctual If victoria says 415 that really means that we should be leaving at 430 It means that for you or her Is that so she'll tell me for fit she'll tell me so you're ready by 430 exactly yeah So what I do is I sit by the door with my shoes on and pet the dogs for 10 minutes So you're good you're you're right at year you're there you're for 50. She says 415 you're 415 got it She's watching i gotta be quiet I don't want her to hear this part yeah and you're too slow to get away right now yeah i can't run yet So yeah away from her at his best It usually means it usually means it usually means 415 i'm ready And then she's gonna get dressed That's up 430 yeah okay yeah she'll come out of the bedroom in her panties like yeah So it's almost time to leave AI'm like you're not petting the dogs They're even tied now because he can do it himself yeah So uh yeah you know your life Your life is interesting when you put your own sock on and it's like a win Yeah, it's wild yeah yeah pull your foot up on the edge of the bed with your knee like here in front of you put a sock on Like a normal person but take it for granted guys all these young guys that are watching this are like why is this exciting you'll get there Yeah, yeah, you'll get there. Yeah, keep squatting bro Yeah, you squat keep doing that thing that kind of hurts There was a lot of years where you couldn't do that also just because you were too big Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah It took the deep breath to head down to tie the shoe like Oh, I had the trainer the 300 pound days it wasn't the range it was the pressure Yeah, yeah, like yeah, you'd be like boom boom and you're tying as fast as you can't you can't breathe Should have put these shoes on before that last meal then when you stand up and gasp Everyone looks at you like you're gonna die bro You're gonna die in there the things they don't tell you about when you decide to get big yeah Yeah, yeah Some people think they got big Yeah, but I You're not nodding to this story. You don't know. Yeah, like you were never big. Yeah Yeah, you know what I mean? Yeah, there's the elevator breaks and you're like And you're in it Yeah, like breaking chairs breaking chairs breaking the break in the seat in your jeep Oh, right and get in the seat in your jeep and you just go to adjust yourself and it goes snap Let's come out of the floor and the whole seat just tilts back six inches and then you take it to your buddy And he's like I'm gonna have to weld a plate So you can re-bolt your seat because you ripped it right through the floorboards run your you'll yeah, I know you've done this um I was in Chicago and uh It was pouring rain. It just came out of nowhere and it's cold So we had to walk from the car into this restaurant and we come inside drostanolone and all these people are looking at me And i'm like what i'm dressed. I know what's going on And the girl i'm like starts laughing because steam is coming off of me I love the steam I run a little hotter than everyone else It's so awesome. Yeah, good times being way too big. Yeah, it doesn't happen anymore No, I remember someone moved my car for me once Back when like I was it would have been 2001. I had like a 600 car And I'd driven the shit out of it And they moved my car and they come back and like what's wrong with your seat? And i'm like, what do you mean and they're like your seats like a disaster and I was like, really? And they're like, yeah, it's like this I Broken it and I got in sat and it just felt normal to me, but then I started like oh It's like totally caved in Yeah, like completely caved in on one side, but I kind of sat like that. Yeah, you broke the side you said I was leaning or whatever Direction I was leaning whatever way I was leaning. I had this lean in the car, you know, it was uneven glute distribution And I just wore the seat in if springs collapsed So yeah, funny stuff. There you go. Hey, who's you guys stay out for hey dusty Have you broken a bed? The amount of so I had to put together a chair for nikki this week Just like a chair for vanity and it hit me how many chairs I put together because I don't need instructions at all Because I broke so many when I owned the stores the back Yeah, because I would sit him and they would just snack crack and eventually I stopped buying them I just wouldn't have a back on my chair just made more sense. Yeah, so yeah A lot of things. They don't tell you No, I think Get big they said it'll be fun. They said Exactly enjoy tying your shoes until you get there. Yeah As you know what guys truly offseason like when they like, you know, jordan jp wearing the flip-flops That's it's it's it's not new. It's just he took it to like the wear him during winter type of thing Right, but the the whole like, you know big guy in laceless shoes is not like, uh, you know, it's not new They made those those chucks were made for bodybuilders. They don't have the laces My dad's friend lauren. He ran the wayne rec center and that's where all the uh, like the big jack dudes train back in the early 80s He used to wear flip-flops. That was his thing He had flip-flops. He had look his hair looked like arnold's, but he was persian So it was like dark hair, but he'd wear those flip-flops winter summertime anytime He just it was this thing. He just only wore flip-flops big dude His back was like he just walked around like all the time when a tank top and slacks You know, 19 top slacks and flip-flops. That's a hell of a look, right? It was a wild look It was a look that's a world Yeah, I do what you want at that point. Oh, there's one of there's that that guy at every gym There's one of those guys at every gym, you know He was the guy that brought pumping iron over to our house on vhs And my dad was the only one who had a phs player at the time So like all the guys came over to watch it at our house So it's his fault that we have this podcast. Thanks dude pretty much I appreciate him. He was a good man. Yeah Mm-hmm classics. All right fellas. Oh, I had one thing. I wanted to you He's looking at something the the guy that owns, uh, you know tk star the old equipment company that makes like those classic pieces Yeah, I've been he still makes stuff right He's doing like doing handles and press down bars and all sorts of neat stuff And he said hey, you know if you ever want to chat i've got lots of stories I was a 15 years old at the 1974 mr. Olympia Wow, he was at the whitney museum. He was at the pumping iron premiere in 1977 a lot of unheard stories um So he said if we ever want to have him on That could be fun. Yeah, yeah Yeah, yeah, I like that shit, so i'm uh, i'm talking to him. That might be fun. So we'll we'll see what he says But yeah look so thanks to the last 15 minute crew. I guess today we we stretched it a little But much appreciated remember I am mutant calm Use big ron or dusty either code get your stuff like tomorrow because they're so fast Um, you don't leave the house don't put pants on no pants. No pants. Don't see anybody people lists Yes, it's it's perfect It's like it's like perfect. So just order from my immune calm get your hardcore iso get your mind fk get your big greens Especially the chocolate yes, and everyone's got to get on the gear uh Thanks guys remember like share subscribe comment and bring the bell yes Okay Thank you everyone. Thanks to the live chat. Thanks, tanya. She said she Said something about my app here a little while ago. So thanks for that and uh, remember everybody. It's just bodybuilding Lives in the town like she's in the albuquerque that walter white's in like Right whoa like the same same gap same universe same same reality But the breaking bad guy wrote it. Why did he put her in albuquerque because he did it for fun There's a bunch of little easter eggs in there huh About albuquerque and it's the same albuquerque, right? So there's like these people saying that that's a neat little thing Vince gilliam did just for himself, right? Huh, that's interesting She's in the same albuquerque walter white lives in Well, walter white obviously was gone now right but yeah Yeah, he's we It happens well, he's dead What up? Oh, yeah. Well, there's that Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah But it's like you know what I mean like he made it the same city for a reason it's kind of it's like a little tip of the hat, right? Yeah So I love it. Okay. Do you have some find those you were gonna grab some other questions? Yes. Yeah, I do have a few I had uh, yeah, you want me to save them? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, you have those on deck because we have those couple topics and then uh, and then we've got the listener questions Oh, and ron we're alive. So we have oh We have people here. Oh, what's up guys? Give us some questions peoples Yeah, we need questions guys if you want to throw anything in Yeah, questions would be great make them inappropriate. We like these surprise surprise live things. Yeah, so I better intro the show Let me do that