 and legit 6'2". He hits the Arnold pose. He hits the Arnold pose. You wonder if the secret service is gonna tackle him? Yeah. Hey everybody, welcome to It's Just Bodybuilding, I'm Big Ron Partlow with Dusty Hanshaw, and the producer, the one and only producer, Scott McNally. Remember to like, share, subscribe, comment, and... Ring the bell. And what else? I'll ring it. Wait. Hi button, hi button. There we go. Hi button. Okay. Use all four fingers on the hype button, she'll love it. Yeah. Um... Yeah, she gotta work up to it though. Yeah, he's in. Show ruined already. We're all right, we're all right. Ah, we're done. Okay. Remember, IamMutant.com. IamMutant.com, get your hardcore ISO, get your big greens, get your MindFK, and of course, absolutely every single one of you people listening should be on the gear. So, uh, I don't care if it's Blue Raz or Peach or Winstraw V from 1995. All the gear work. I gotta get on it. There we go, all the gear. Okay. Okay. Don't worry about what flavor gear you're on during cuts or bulks. Yeah. It's all the same. They're all the same. It's just, it's like that episode of the Simpsons where he goes to the Duff plant and he gets, he's the tube for Duff, Duff Light and Duff Dry and they all just come out of the same vat. And here we have Duff, Duff Light and our newest flavor, Duff Dry. Okay. What are we talking about today? We got the Arnold Classic coming up. Yes. Um, very close, looming. And I, I tell you, I got ahead of myself. I was actually in a bit of a panic because I was like, man, I got a lot to do this week before I leave on Thursday. You want to head out there early, huh? And I was like, I got a lot to do. Like I'm, and I was kind of getting on Emily. I'm like, we got to get some of this stuff done around the house for, for the dog sitter comes over. And she's like, that's another week away. I don't know why I was. Yeah. So I, I, I have no reason to not be prepared for the Arnold. Cause that was already excited. That's what's happening. Or, or just to, yeah, severe anxiety about another trip. We'll see. But, um, yeah, Arnold coming up. I guess I can't wait. I guess I can't wait. He can't wait. So what we're going to do, everybody is we're going to take you down memory lane as we do. We do. And we were going to run through all the Arnold Classic winners and we're going to stop along the way. Um, we do, you know, a little, little bit info just quick about each one, but then we're going to stop along the way and watch some of the, you know, the, the heavy hitters, some of the grand slam home runners. And of course they're all grand slam home runs cause they're Arnold Classic winners. Right. Uh, you know, we only have so much time and we're going to stop and talk about a few of them. Sorry. A little bit. After this weekend. Oh yes. Yes. Be proud, Dusty. Be proud. Be proud. So your last gold medal was 1980. Was it the 80 Olympics? 46 years before I was born, Ron. Yeah. Before I was born. I remember Canada had a huge drought too. I think Salt Lake City was out 02. And they hadn't won a gold medal for, was it 50 years? And then they won. And then they won again. Sid won one in. It was 02 and then 10, 10, 2010 was a golden goal. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And then who won the last gold medal? What stopped mattering? Once the NHL guys stopped playing in my, Oh yeah. Right. Everyone just stopped caring. It was just the junior guys. Right? Yeah. And the thing that's, and we have, we already watched the world junior tournament's better. I think if it's just junior guys. Yeah. Feel, feel bad for anybody who's listening that doesn't give a shit about hockey, but like, like 98% of you, when you pull out, like if you, if you pull all the NHL players out of Canada, then you've just pulled out all the best players and the U S you're like, well, if they're great, they're already playing in the NHL. So, and technically the European teams have an advantage if there's no NHLers cause they have those other leagues over there. Exactly. Right. Okay. So, okay. Yes. No, I had to have my, I had to have my moment here because this, the reason I did this all kidding aside. This is a, this hockey has a great tie in for bodybuilding that I wanted to touch on. Okay. Which is this Canada's team is probably the greatest team ever assembled of players, arguably. And for whatever reason, I really do believe sometimes the universe just lines up and things go the way they go. I mean, Jordan wins a, wins a NBA finals on father's day after his dad's killed things that are like, if you were, if they were written in books, you'd be like, this is so cheesy. It's like a movie. It's like a movie. That's not how life works. Well, this is 46 years to the day. And one of the players for team USA, he had two people, two family members that were on the only other two gold winning teams for hockey. No less ever. So the reason I pointed it out is because I have a lot of guys that are going into shows and they're like, win or bust. And I'm like, that's not how this works. Hmm. Because if anybody takes a step back, especially proud Americans or proud Canadians that are just up in arms that they didn't win, you played a flawless game and lost. And I feel like people need to know that in, in, in bodybuilding as well. It's like when you get the morning of the show and you wake up and you've nailed everything, it is not a loss if you don't win. You know, I always say losing is not acceptable, but being beaten is. So if you happen to be beaten by someone who's better or arguably better rather than, you know, think it was a waste, take a step back and ask yourself, why did I not win? And then find a way to do better on that. I mean, when I lost the, the 2010, uh, junior nationals after prejudging, I was on the front page of muscular development. Everyone said I was going to win. And then I took second to the heavyweight, Matt Loudon. And when he won, I looked at him and went, yeah, he's awesome. We're apples and oranges. And he won. And I was totally fine with it. We've been friends ever since. And I literally looked at him. I was like, I could see how he won. Right. He has a pretty physique. I have an ugly physique. I'm huge. We're both shredded. Cool. But I just wanted to kind of tie that in because, you know, as much as I'm very proud of the United States for winning that game, the, the sad thing to me is how many people look at silver as a loss. I'm like, okay, you lost one game. If that game is played three times, who knows what happens. And you should have pride in the execution and just say, wasn't our day. Well, as a, as a Canadian who obviously is like super disappointed that, you know, they lost. Um, you have to think this is probably going to be amazing for hockey. Oh, because you know, I'm not going to be a lot of people. You know, um, everyone hates a Super Bowl blowout, right? Yeah. The 35, five, 35, seven. Yeah. It's like, you know, people like, there's people like leave their seats at halftime at the Super Bowl in previous years and go home. Like it's, it's, it's just not cool. It's not cool. This was the craziest playoff Olympic thing, you know, like to go to overtime again, after times for both teams, multiple times for both teams. And, and, you know, um, you know, obviously heartbreaking loss, but you know, this is, uh, you know, we need America to embrace hockey. Canada can't just be the only hockey country all the time and Sweden and stuff like the United States has to embrace hockey. We need more kids playing hockey. We need more hockey rinks. We need more people watching hockey. You know, like the playoffs, the last few years have been very high viewership. They've been really cooking. Like, I mean, you know, they were smoked. Didn't NHL smoke the NBA last year? Yeah. It's like getting crazy. Like it's getting crazy. And, and, and, and if, you know, obviously you don't want to lose to, you know, any team, but, you know, and it really hurts a lot. The Canadians are, you know, really sad today and yesterday, but, um, I think it's going to be good for hockey because we're getting it more kids playing hockey. Hockey, hockey is going to grow. And you have to look on, on that sort of bright side. Um, I feel bad for those guys though, man, they played fucking hard. Like, you know, like, and, and hockey players, they're the best. Like the kid with the fucking smashed teeth scores a goal. And I saw a funny meme. It was like, he gets his teeth smashed. They're all over the ice. His face is all fucking bloody big hole here. And then he keeps playing and scores a goal to win the game. Whereas like the basketball player, it showed he like stubs his finger. And he's like, ah, he's up for the season. Like, you know, but I use that hand, you know? So anyway, it's just kind of funny, but yeah, yeah, it was good. Congratulations, Team USA. Um, you know, I, uh, I also loved how they tried to set Gretzky up a few times on Canadian media. Oh, they tried to get Gretzky to bag on, you know, they tried to get Gretzky to commit to like political nonsense on Canadian media during the hockey playoffs. Yeah. Cause, cause Gretzky went to like Trump's, he went to Trump's, you know, he's been to Trump party or whatever. Yeah. So they're trying to get Gretzky to commit to politics during hockey. And he just kept going, this is about the game. This is about hockey. Yeah. Like, like this is, this is the greatest game. This is going to be the greatest game we've seen in what, 15, 16 years. Yeah. And, uh, so I thought he handled it really well. Smart guy. Yeah. Gretzky is no dummy. Jesus. So, so yeah. He's been trying to be screwed by media for many, many years. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So anyways, I, I thought it was great, you know, just focus on that. And I also thought the media trying to, you know, polarize people with a lot of what the American athletes were doing and saying and stuff. It was just, you know, supposed to be the Olympics. So you're supposed to be wearing your flag. Yeah. You should be, you should be. I think that's the greatest part. Like you're supposed to this, um, as a, as an NHL fan before the Olympics, I was like, I hate that they're doing this. Like all these guys going over there, they could get injured. They got multimillion dollar contracts. I'm a fan of the team. And then it went down and I think my NHL brain turned off and I was like, hockey is never going to be seen on this level without the Olympics. Like, you know, the amount of people watching and I was telling Ron last night, Scott. So when I, uh, before I moved out of Arizona to play hockey, cause there's wasn't enough there, there was one rink and it was meh. And now there are 10 state of the art facilities because hockey has grown so much there. No kidding. What do you think this game is going to do? And forget about the gold medal, all that the, the fact that this many viewers were watching and then this many people got to see, because this is something Scott, you don't know. But when I first introduced Nikki to hockey, she fell in love with the players, not the game. She's like, God, these, these kids are so cool. Yeah. They're just like normal kids. Yeah. They don't, they get rich and nothing changes. They're just playing hockey. And so the world got to see that. And I think you're going to see an enormous growth in the sport. And I hope that more and more, uh, kids in other arenas start to realize that too. Like it's not just your performance. I mean, you know, uh, the guy who scored the goal, Jack Hughes, he went famous more for what he said than the goal. Yeah. So, you know, pretty impressive. So we'll get into back to bodybuilding stuff, but I had to touch on it because I thought, man, what a great tie into the, the incorrect way. A lot of people view bodybuilding. I lost a hell of a lot more shows than I won. And I always had great preps. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. Okay. Here we are. The Arnold classic. Well, it all starts in 1989. Yes. And it wasn't actually called the Arnold classic yet. Was it? It was called like the Mr. International or something at that time, but it was Arnold show. Yeah. Like the, I think the name had officially dropped yet. You can double check that, but it was rich Gasparri. He won the original. And then in 1990, I was around for this. I was in bodybuilding, but that was a year they started drug testing. Cause they wanted like, they wanted, they wanted some like, yeah, they, they wanted, they were trying to get, cause of course the Olympic thing had happened with Ben Johnson and there's all this steroids stuff. Right. Right. Right. And, and Sean Ray won the Arnold classic, but they stripped him of the title the two days later because he failed the drug test. Right. And they gave it to Mike Ashley. Who was not, who was nuts. And, uh, Mike actually still walks around sometimes the Olympia. You see him, I've seen him. He still looks like he's 32. And then the following year, Sean Ray came back one at 91. Then we had Vince Taylor in 92 term famous terminator, you know, back when he was doing a routine and all that. Oh gee. KLF. Uh huh. You know, that whole thing. And, uh, and then where do we land? Flex Wheeler. Do we have a video of Flex Wheeler? Yeah. I wanted to pull that one up cause I thought this was wet. 1993. Flex Wheeler came in his rookie year, his rookie year. He comes in and cleans up. I think he won four shows and he had just won the USA's. He just turned pro. Then he won the Iron Man and then he won the Iron Man. And then he came and did the, and he won the Arnold. And, and this was his physique. Look at that shape. Yeah. Like bonkers dude. One of the all time greatest physiques of ever. Was the, the 93 Arnold classical. There's Lee. There's Hunter. Hunter making a guest spot. A little Hunter there. They throw a guest spot up right in the middle of his posing routine. Yeah. Camera work needed some, uh, they needed some fine tuning, but this was Flex Wheeler. And just conditioning is fricking nuts. That's Arnold. Look at the split he's doing right now. I mean, I don't think that I've ever seen in a history of bodybuilding anyone be so flexible that he can do this particular pose here. Look at the size of his arms compared to everything. And his initial championship just a week ago. Look at the back development. Look at the Delta. It's the separation of the deltoids and arms. And he really knows how to look each of those poses and how to use them to his advantage. There we go. Oh, now he breaks it down. Here's the most muscular pose. Look at the separation of the definition. Great abdominals. Oh yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Can you imagine having that development in your rookie season? Rookie season. Incredible, man. Yeah. And of course Flex wins. Look at that. Yeah. Right there. It's fricking nuts. Yeah. And of course he wins four. He's got a great deal. He's got a great deal. He's got a great deal. He's got a great deal. He's got a great deal. He's got a great deal. He's got a great deal. Freaking nuts. Glutes are shredded. Yeah. And of course he wins four Arnold's. He wins 93, 97, 98, and 2000. Yeah. Yeah. Which actually says more about the span of his greatness. Yeah. Yeah. You know what I mean? He kept winning Arnold's. Of course he gets a car accident, breaks his neck, comes back, and wins three more. Right? So just craziness. A lot of people don't even know that story about Flex when he rolled his BMW on the highway and broke his neck. Oh, I see it. Yeah. Of course. And then after Flex, we got Kevin LeVrone, 94 and 96. Do we have a video, Kevin? Or who are we pulling up next? We didn't do Kevin. So we're going all the way to 2001 with Ronnie. Okay. So we got Mike Francois in 95, Nasser in 99, and then we get to Ronnie Coleman, who is already Mr. Olympia. So he's the first guy to win the O and then do the Arnold anyways. Do you guys remember why he did the Arnold after he won the O? No. Are you fascinated how he looked at the O? No. Because they gave away an H1 Hummer and he wanted it. Oh, the yellow Hummer. Oh, man. He's like, screw it. Oh, man. And I still think this may be one of the best looks Ronnie ever had. Who's 247 here. Think of that. 247. Yeah. Remember, he completed as high as almost 300 after that. The background changed a lot from the last show to this show from 89 to now. You know, look at the waistline on Ronnie back then. Little Vince Taylor tribute. Yeah. Cameraman from the front. From the front. We want it from the front. Right. Oh, yeah. Yeah, buddy. Look how big his calves were back then. You know, we talked about his calves because his legs were so big. This is great Vince Taylor work here. Yeah, yeah. It's too bad the stage is shitty because he is, I saw the prejudging of this. The man. Yes. Ladies and gentlemen. From the front. To you and yours. It's Mr. And the ladies and gentlemen. The old school rap. I love it. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. In the house. This is bad. This is bad. The first day of the rest of my life. Thanks. Stand behind the mic like Walter Cronk. Keep the spotlight. I love the. I don't know how anybody can listen to this old rap and then listen to new rap. No. And think it's. It's good. Yeah. Yeah. There we go. Yeah. I mean, that was. This video because of the stage again. Yeah. The lights are really yellow, eh? Really yellow and bright. Yeah. I mean, he is nuts. I remember when these, when the Flex magazine came out after the show, cause we used to have to wait to see them. I couldn't believe he annihilated his previous year, his 2000 Olympia. Oh, Ronnie with the hands. I remember we used to do that with the twisted shots. Oh yeah. Yeah. He won this show. The moment he entered. He could still really pull the core in when he wanted to. Oh yeah. Well, he was tiny here, Scott. Yeah. Right. Crazy. It wasn't a thing though. You know what I mean? Like people weren't like, oh, he's not holding his stomach in. Like nobody. No, no one cared back then. You literally just looked past it. Ronnie Coleman. Just look at how much muscle the guy has. That's all we cared about. They turned the lights off and now you can see. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. The lights are better there. You know what I mean? It's his most muscular. See ya. Hey, the packs man. Just like, you know, an entire pot roast on each pack. I don't know. That was way later. We used to drive down separate to that little reading. So they turn the lights off and he's still closing. He just keeps going. He's like, whatever. Was that like Veterans? Is that where it was? Yeah. Veterans Memorial. Yep. Yeah. Veterans Memorial. Yep. Yeah. I was kind of part of the fun man was going all the way down there though for like a second. Oh, I forgot they used to call him that. Yeah. It's like the nickname that didn't stick for, you know, it's like while he was there and then it was like over with. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So we got Ronnie Coleman and oh one. He comes and gets his yellow Hummer. Yeah. Jay decides he wants three of them. Yeah. And then Jason says I want a Hummer to giving away Hummers. I'll be there. Yeah. Jay shows up. Oh, two, oh, three, oh, four. Which year we got here? I don't think I actually gave it. We didn't do a Jay video. Oh, I thought that way. I waited because I wanted something special. And the reason that I left this all the way up is because we only want to do so many videos. And the one that I put next is not. So Jay wins three straight. Oh, yeah. Okay. Yeah. I thought it was three that oh four was a question mark. Okay. That was the year that Jay prepped himself. And he got, he got kind of small, didn't he? Yeah. Yeah. He lost everything that was Jay. That's the rip to shreds video. Yeah. He's doing too much cardio. Okay. He's really going hard. And you know when you, well, I know this in my physique, but you know when you have like something that's kind of wrong with your body, if you come down too far and get flat, it's more prominent. Yeah. Yeah. Jay always had the one leg that was bigger than the other because of when he broke his leg as a teenager. Yeah. And he's talked about it openly. And when he got too peeled and came in too light, you know, for you could really see that he had one leg bigger than the other. And didn't Cormier almost beat him? Cormier should have beat him. Should have beat him. Maybe. Yeah. Okay. So we're going to what year? And then we're going to move past Jay. You go to, you go to from Jay to Dexter, who just decides to just win in 05 and 06. And then we go to Victor Martinez in 07. And this is one of my favorite physiques of all time. So yeah, I had to put it up there. Yeah. Here's the greatest Victor we ever saw. 2007 Victor Martinez. All right. I'm really making Scott work with this idea today. No, it's good. We got Dan Solomon there now. He is. A real. End of this. Should blow the screen up. Fill the, fill the X. Look at this. If I, they first, I mean, this guy, um, if he, if I can look like anybody, that's, this is it. If he goes in line up and he presents himself really well. Much better lighting. I mean, he does everything. And he also brings the condition as this year. I never saw him really that good condition. Look at that. I think that's Gunter talking. Yeah. And I had him actually yesterday in the first. So he's amazing. You start last year. Some folks are going to pick that statics or move. The second this year, some guys, like you said, have him winning this contest. Let's watch the posing routine of Victor Martinez. Dude. Yeah. Like. Yeah. Like. Yeah. Like what's missing. Look at that shot. When you make the quarter turn look like a pose. You can see how bodybuilding itself has changed too. Look at that shot. Just the shape, the overall. Yeah. Like what's missing. If you look like that, you were born for this. Like what's missing. Look at that shot. Look at that shot. Yeah. That's good. When you make the quarter turn look like a pose. You can see how bodybuilding itself has changed too. Look at that shot. From where we were at the beginning till now. Just the shape, the overall silhouette of the physique says 2007 to me. You know what I mean? Also quality on every single thing. Well good, they always say to beat the champ, you gotta knock them out. I don't know whether or not I agree with that, but really what it comes down to is the physique You got to knock him out. I don't know whether or not I agree with that. But really what it comes down to is the physique that you're seeing right now. Good enough to deliver that knockout punch to Jay Cutler. You know, I say always like you. You're right, Wes. You have to knock him out. So we have to see just how Jay yesterday. Today I saw Jay was holding a little water. So if he can take away. This is from the Olympia. That's what they screwed up. My bad. Oh, this is the Olympia video. The Olympia that he takes second and should have won. Yes. I was like. He looked incredible here, man. Did YouTube mislabel this? Yes. I used to search on the Arnold, but that's perfect because this is his best look, which you said, Ron. And he should have won this Olympia. Look at YouTube trying to sabotage us. Hey. Guess what happens when I do this shit the last three minutes? That's just college. Victor Martinez. This is one thing I like about him. He is a guy. He has a lot of muscle. Dang. He's kind of the chemist, but I also can do an aesthetic. I had to go back to that. I'll be honest, guys. I'm glad that I messed that up because look at that. What is that? Yeah. When they started talking about Jay being there, I was like, Jay wasn't in Arnold that year. Jay didn't do that. I know that. I didn't catch the giant Joe Weider in the background. Yeah. Yeah. Me either. Well, it's IFBB, so I wasn't even thinking, right? Yeah. Yeah. I'm actually glad that happened, though, because you said this is best look. And I almost stepped in. I was like, well, his best look was the Olympia. I'm like, well, this is the Olympia. Well, I was looking at this and I was like, how is this better than the O? This is his best look. You know what I mean? I was like, damn, this wasn't better than this. This isn't better. How was the O not better than this? Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Okay. So you're all welcome that I can't read. And that was Victor Martinez, not in 2007, but his best ever look. That's okay. Then we got Kai Green, 09, 10, and of course, 2016 later, three-time champ. But we're stopping at Branch Warren, aren't we? Yes. I had to see Branch because this was actually one of the first Arnolds that I went to. Oh, no kidding. And he blew my mind at this show. And they had a black curtain for this one, which was like... This was prejudging, I think. Yeah. Okay. So I wanted to get a better... I think people forget how good Branch was. Oh, yeah. Yeah, he was incredible. And he had a great run at the Arnold there. I think he got like the most muscular award there like three years in a row. I got to look when I sent this while it's going. This is 2012, so I believe this is after his injury. Yes. He tore his quad seven months before this. Okay. And rehabbed it and did the show anyways. And beat everybody. Was this the first show back after he hurt? Yes. Yes. Okay. And he came out and stomped everybody. And everyone thought he was crazy. Yeah, they thought his career was over after that tear. And then he decided to go ahead and win an Arnold. What's that? He came out to American Badass. Yeah. And that part where he's like, I'm back. And he hit the leg, pointed right at it. Yeah. Did the leg sweep and the slap. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. His rear double is underrated because look at the adductors when he hits the rear double. I mean, what are we even looking at? I think people forget to look at the lower body sometimes on a rear double. Yeah. Yeah. I like kicking ass and glutes and the hams. If most people step as wide as Branch does, their legs look like little sticks. His are just so damn wide that he can do that. Yeah. I think this was like my third Arnold. I just couldn't believe he came back and won this. I feel like this video isn't as impressive as he is just from the angle. It's like a little bit off the side. Well, this is definitely not the quality. Well, this is like, I think this is a fan video. This is like, yeah. I mean, it was nuts. This is my favorite Branch thing right here. Yeah. Smacks it into place. Yeah. He looks like he's getting harder as he poses, too. There we go. Branch was a scary man in general. That's just how he walks through the mall. I told you guys about, I've told this story before. For those who aren't familiar, I'll just do a 30-second version. But, you know, I tore my quad in 2016 and everything and complete rupture and had it rehabbed it. I was there. Yeah, yeah. You were there. And then I saw Branch, like, I guess it's like, you know, five months later at the Feebo. And I'm walking around, you know, because I'm rehabbing. And I'm talking to him because he was there. Like, not there. But he was like, the day after I tore it, I called him. And he was like telling me exactly what he did, right? And wishing me luck. And he was really cool and helpful. And really motivating, too, because of his attitude. He's like, ah, fuck it. He'll be fine. Like, you know, like, he's just like that, right? And so I said, man, I go, you know, like, how did you win the Arnold seven months later? Because, like, I'm still in a lot of pain when I, like, try to do, like, a 30-pound leg extension. Like, it hurts. You know, like, how are you training? And he's like, oh, it was in absolute agony. I just did it anyway. And I go, oh. And he's like, oh, yeah. I mean, I was like, you know, it took me, like, a year to squat three plates again. But I didn't care. I just did sets of 50. And I just went on the leg extension, did sets of 100. And I just did whatever I could to just pound the muscle with as much volume and pain and failure as I possibly could. Tell me you're wired different. Yeah. Like, you know, because I'm thinking, like, how many sets should I be doing? And he's like, oh, you just do as many as you can. Just make it brutal. You know, like, your leg will come back. You know, like, he's like, I won the Arnold. I was like, I could barely squat three plates. I was doing extensions with, like, 50 pounds. He's like, well, you just do it. And muscle responds and just put yourself through a lot of pain. That's a great lesson for all of us when we're trying to come up with the perfect training program. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. He's like, just beat the shit out of it. Just beat this. Do whatever you can and just make it as painful and brutal as possible. If you can only do 30 pounds, do sets of 100. I feel like that was his entire mindset behind all of this. Yeah, he did that when he was healthy also. Same thing. Yeah. Yeah. Time change. What it required for that amount of pain was just a lot more when he was healthy. But it's funny. You know, an Arnold Classic winner who could barely squat three plates. Yeah. You know? With those legs. Yeah, with those legs. But you just like just finding a way to torture that left leg or whatever leg it was, you know? Yeah. Plus, you know, I mean, Ron, from experience, like the pain in that leg impacts all training. Yeah. It's not like only when you're doing legs it hurts. No, like you only notice it on the extension. You don't bend or move. You know? You sit down to do a hammer strength chest and it hurts your leg to sit. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It is funny. You know? I was like, oh, Branch has made it simple. And then when people ask me, what kind of rehab did you do? I was like, I didn't do any. I just like did what Branch told me to do. Yeah. This is how it started with Rogan, too. People just doing what Branch says. Yeah. Yeah. Like he's a doctor. Yeah. There were in that era, there was like, so we had Victor. We had Branch. We had Dennis Wolf and Jay and Ronnie. Dexter. Like, who else? Am I missing anybody else? Because there was like that inner circle of really good dudes that were all kind of in that top six area. Yeah. And you would hear like they started. I remember like them doing content on Dennis Wolf and he'd get the cover for Muscular Development. And they'd kind of like be like, hey, this is potentially the next Mr. Olympia, guys. You know? Oh, yeah. And like it was believable, you know? And then the next month it's going to be like Victor Martinez. And it's like, oh, yeah, this dude looks incredible. And I could see how this could happen. You know? It was like there were so many good bodybuilders like in that point of time. Like that 2007, 2012, 2014. Oh, yeah. Right around in there, you know? Yeah. Well, that's, I mean, the next winner up is Dennis Wolf in 2014. Okay. Yeah. So the next new guy is Dennis Wolf's front relaxed. One of the best of all time. Yes. I mean, yes. Incredible. Especially when he was at his biggest. Yeah. The lats. I mean, I know he had high lats, but I almost thought that made his physique look crazy. Well, yeah, because he had the crazy small hips, so the high lats didn't quite, didn't really hurt him as much. And he had good structure to go with it. Like if you got high lats, but you have a weird leg to waist ratio, like for length, then it can look really funny. But it just kind of worked on Dennis, especially from the front. I felt like it made him better. And in the front double, his lats really came out. Yeah. So it was okay, you know? Yeah. He was one of my favorites and still one of the coolest guys. Like he's one of the guys that literally comments or likes almost everything I put up. I'm like, that's cool. I remember when we filmed Mutant on a Mission at his house, his backyard gym there. Yeah. Man, I couldn't believe how he treated us. Just come on in. We were sitting at his kitchen table. He's got his firearms out. He's like, oh, this is my daily carry. This is my wife's daily carry. Take a look at this. You know, blah, blah, blah. Showing us. He's got a guitar on the wall. He's like, oh, I want to play more. You know, I see you playing. I want to play more. And because, you know, he took some lessons. And yeah, he's just a super cool guy, man. And just like totally normal dude. Everyone too. Because my old video guy, Todd, that you know us, Ron, he went and filmed for him as well one time. And he had his kids with him when they were younger. His wife's like, you guys like ice cream? Pulls up a chair. They go out and film. They're just in the house eating ice cream, hanging out like they've known him forever. Yeah. His wife was really nice. Oh, she's awesome. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You know, but you know, just being led into someone's home and sitting at their kitchen table. Because, you know, I mean, fair enough. People come over to your house to film. I mean, it's not unheard of for you to be like, okay, let's take your camera gear around back. And, you know, here's the garage here where we can set up your stuff. And, you know, we'll film in the gym and, and like not everyone might have you into their house. Which isn't bad. It's, it's not, it's not even that weird. You know what I mean? But it was just, yeah, you guys want, you know, mix. We're going to make you some good coffee. And, you know, his wife's making coffee for us. And yeah, it was just really cool, man. And, and then of course, 2017, we get Cedric. Oh yeah. You know, I don't know what, what's the next video up? I believe that, that I might've went with a Cedric. Let me see here. Um, was that Cedric? Who did I? Yeah, it was Cedric. It's the Jeep one. Okay. So 2017, we get Cedric who, I mean, RIP, what a freak. Oh, I love Cedric. Yeah. Okay. We're going to watch this one. I actually, there is actually a Jeep commercial. Oh, did it? Did it? Did it wrong when it went up? I still have it then. All right. Yeah. Yeah. Send that over to me. Dusty's going to send it. I vividly remember the first time I actually saw Cedric in person. Okay. Cause, uh, I might've seen him on stage. I can't remember the order of events, but the first time I saw him like five feet away, Hey Cedric, good to meet you. Was at the Australian Arnold classic expo. Right. And he was with Psy tech. Okay. And I just remember seeing him and just thinking, Oh my God. There, you know, you hear the term alpha male. Like it's this generic term that gets tossed around too much. You just think, Oh, it's a different species. Right. Yeah. Like these other guys are guys like me that have put on all this manufactured muscle. Yeah. But this guy, this is not, he's a different, this is like not the same. Yeah. And I just remember seeing him and how he was laughing and joking and blah, blah, blah. And of course they're all competing that weekend. Yeah. Right. And everyone else is like, you know, kind of quiet or whatever. Kind of dead. And Ced just, it's like, didn't even register that it was like, Oh yeah, I gotta get on stage later. You know, like just completely fine. And I just remember thinking like, yeah, something about, something about him is different. Let's see. Let's see what it looked like. 2017 Arnold. Ced changed the game here. Remember he, he interviewed, uh, Arnold interviewed Arnold. He took over. He's like, I'm hijacking. Did he take the microphone from him? Yeah. Yeah, he did. So this was the show Ron that I went up to in his room and saw him posing and he looks like this. And when I tell him he looked unbelievable, he's like, really? You think? I'm like, how do you not know looking like that? And legit six foot two, like not six foot, like probably the biggest Arnold classic winner ever for frame ever. Look at, look at this shape. Just, I mean, Arnold, this is how you know Arnold couldn't, couldn't stop right in the middle of his routine. Only said, dude, only said, Oh, I can't even imagine touching Arnold's head. Yeah. I'm not doing that. I'm not doing that. He's going to tackle him. He's going to tackle him. He's going to tackle him. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Don't forget when that was. No, he's still got those, uh, bodyguards that follow him around everywhere. Shout out to Bill. Hey Bill. He looked so good. I'd be curious. Like, imagine if we could see him standing next to Samson. Right. You know, another big, tall dude with the small waist and the X frame. To me, when I think of bodybuilding, these are the guys I think of. Yeah. Patrick, Samson, you know, Andrew. Like, yeah. Like you said, Ron, they're just something different about them when they're, when they're structurally. Yeah. When the frame is out of this world as well. What is that? There's not a position his body looks bad in. You know, the rest of us have to hide things. Yeah. He doesn't have to hide anything. And he looked like he was having so much fun up there. Oh yeah. Like he genuinely loved every minute of this. Look at the calves. Yeah. He had it all. The shredded glutes. Yeah. I don't feel like he's as hard as I would like to, honestly. I never did. No, he never got all the way down, but he was just so, he was so put together. It didn't matter. Yeah. He didn't match it. Yeah. If he ever got nasty hard, he would have won everything he ever did. Let's not forget he had a full-time job this whole time. In the military as well. Yeah. I sure did. And also don't forget what Aceto told us was, you know, Cedric would say openly that bodybuilding was his like fourth priority. Yeah. Because he's, you know, in the military, he had kids and he was a husband. Yeah. And he said those three things, they vastly trumped the importance of his bodybuilding. Yeah. And they always did. And so to be able to compete at that level and win, win some shows. Yeah. Uh, really says a lot about his talent and his abilities because you know, all these other guys are like, do or die. Yeah. Everything else on the back burner, you know, you know, the old joke, like the girlfriend says, you have to eat again. I'm going to leave. Yeah. Go see ya. Yeah. He wasn't an I'll see a guy. No, no, he wasn't an I'll see a guy. So, uh, so yeah, just something about that. Yeah. A little trip down memory lane. And then who we had William Barnack won a couple. Brandon Curry won a couple. Yeah. And then of course, Nick Walker and, uh, and Samson. And then after that we had, uh, cause there didn't make the cut on this. Uh, then of course you had hottie. Yes. Hottie and Derek were the last two. And I had to bring up the Derek one because Derek, I don't know why he gets so much hate. Oh, that was my favorite look at his ever. Yeah. That's one of the favorite looks of the Arnold classic ever. Yeah. Like Ron and I were sitting there. What were we six rows back? Yeah. It was right in front of us. And we're just like, this is, this is Derek. Perfect. Yeah. When he walked out, I remember like, I don't know what number he was like when he came out individually, but you know, you know, there's like half the guys left to follow. And, uh, and I just told Chris, I was like, that's the, I remember leaning forward and talking to Chris a little bit. And I just remember like, that's, he's like, it's over. It's like, you see all the other guys come out and then you see somebody, I don't care who it is that, that one guy that you're like, Oh, that you could tell like, Oh wow, he's better. And then after him, the next guy is you're saying, okay, well, is he going to be as good as, and each, each guy, I was like, I don't see it happening. I don't see it happening. I don't see it happening. I don't see it happening. And it just, he, he shined in a way that I don't care. Like, you know what your take is guys on, on Derek. It just, all I can say is that your eyes just went to him. And yeah, there were certain things. If you really wanted to pick them apart, I get it. I totally get it. We all three get it, you know? But if, if you were standing there and you saw that you, you, there was no other, there's no other way to vote. There really wasn't. You couldn't pick him apart in person. I could tell you that much. Yeah. Yes. Whatever weaknesses might've been there. I couldn't notice them. Cause I was too busy looking at all the perfection. Yeah. And you're just like, I got, I got nothing. I mean, you know, like you were saying, Scott, you have those things happen, but the guy who would come out after him, he wouldn't even get to pose for you. No. Yeah. Like, yeah. It makes you feel like it makes you feel weird when you're at a show of that level. Yeah. And the next guy out is like two steps on the stage and you're like, no. Yeah. Yeah. He, you know, he's not beating that. I mean, yeah, I, I know that people love to do the side by side comparisons after the fact, which never actually work because it's not the same, but I wish there was a way. And I guess there will be at some point with all this AI. I just want to see these guys next to each other in their proper heights and ratios just to see how much bodybuilding has changed because there was some big jumps early on. Like you said, Scott, but really since I've been involved in bodybuilding, it's the same. It's just like slight variations on individual frames and muscularity. Yeah. But they're so awesome. And I think that that's an area that people just, you get a little in love with your era. You know, like I started out at the, in the Ronnie era and the J era. And yes, those were all awesome. But like you said, when you start dipping a little past that and you're like, God, look Look at that top five, six guys in that era. Then go back to Dorian's era when there's five top six guys and you're like, yeah, it's the same. You had five or so guys that arguably could have won at any point minus that little era between Dorian Ronnie where they were untouchable. And then of course, you know, if you get rid of Phil Heath, who knows what happens at the Olympia for that seven years? Oh man. I mean, you know, Kai would have had a few, you know, there's, there's, that's kind of what the art made the Arnold exciting too. Yeah. Cause yeah. Mr. Olympia wasn't there. It wasn't going to be there. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It was like, that's gave a chance to all the other guys. Yeah. And you know, I've been, we've been to so many shows and you know, a lot of the fans that listen to the show, they haven't gotten to go to these big shows, but it's really something when you're at one of these two premiere shows like the Arnold or the Olympia and someone's on stage and you kind of look around and you know, there's all the other, you know, all the other bros in the crowd around you, right? They're just dressed a little better, but they're all up. Some of them. There's some of them, but they're all, they're all, they're all our people. Yeah. You know, you look around and there's, you know, some dude that, you know, he's obviously another bodybuilder like you sitting with his wife or whatever. And, and he kind of gives you, you know, you kind of make eye contact and he goes like this. Yeah. And then you look over to this side and another guy goes like that. And, and when you're at those shows, which aren't common, that's not every year. Right. There's people going on the Samson, Derek, you know, but that Arnold with Derek, I look, you know, Derek's on stage. I look at this guy, this guy goes, yeah. And I look over to this guy. This guy's like, you know, and you're like, oh, it's not, it's not just me. Yeah. It's every, you look over down the row, people are going like, fuck. Yeah. They got their hands up like this. You know, Chris, Chris, Chris goes. Yeah. That Chris being Chris. And, and, and you're like, oh, this is over. This is not just me being excited about how crazy his back double is or something like that. Yeah. And, um, can remember that year of Samson was in the show. That was the big thing. Yeah. They both came. Right. And everyone's sitting there going, oh, damn. And when you're at those shows, it's really exciting. Yeah. I always hope for those, you know, cause like you said, Ron, the I've been to, I don't even know how many anymore. Like, I think what did I say? The Olympia was like my, you know, 15th or something. I mean, it's crazy, you know, might've been 20. Right. And it's like, there's only a handful of those shows, you know? I mean, the, the, uh, Oh nine J when branch came out first, Ron and I weren't sitting together, but we were both like, this is over. Like he's too good. And then, like you said, Scott guy after guy, after guy, you're like, no branch went in. No branch went in. No branches went in. This show's pretty much done. And then Jay took two steps on the stage. You went, Oh shit. Yeah. Yeah. Nevermind. Yeah. Yeah. Those are crazy. Yeah. Or Oh three Ronnie. Obviously everyone expected him to win, but you know, that guy, that guy yelling out to the completely silent theater. Like, cause you know, there's everyone with all the noise that died down, you know, the cheering and he's standing there and Wayne D'Amelio is going to call poses. And that guy just yells out or no, sorry. Darren Charles had come out. Yeah. And, and, and you know, the noise died down and everyone's waiting for Darren. And the guy goes, Darren, you look awesome, but I need five minutes to forget what I just saw. And then that guy yelled that and everyone heard it. Like, like I'm not saying it was like, you know, the far back heard it, but everyone on the floor heard it. And like, and like, it's like a laughter kind of wave through the audience. Yeah. And like, you know, everyone's like, Oh God, that guy just nailed it. That's exactly what we need. Like here's Darren. Here's Darren. Charles is one. How many pro shows Darren went? Yeah. Yeah. Something crazy, you know? And you're just like completely and no offense to Darren, but just completely unimpressed. Like, yeah. Yeah. Darren wasn't impressed either. He was like, I've come after you. Just ruined, you know? Yeah. It wouldn't have mattered who came after him. So it's not a shot on Darren. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And I was sitting in the media area. So I was pretty close, you know, toward the middle too. And they had Luke toward the middle. And it got real quiet. And I yelled out. He had a podcast at the time called The Size Game. And I yelled out, Size Game! Real loud. Like, real loud. It was almost as if when I yelled it, there was like a lull. Like, everybody else got quiet. And I asked him afterwards. I was like, did you hear that, Luke? And he was like, that was you? I got to say, though, I mean, when The Arnold comes up, I realized that The Arnold is my show. Yeah, it's awesome, man. Because it's the first big show I ever went to. So I went to The Arnold the very first time, actually. That's when I worked at the supplement stores before I even bought them. And Labrata had a contest for making, like, the coolest Labrata, like, front area setup. Yeah. And so I built this crazy thing. And I ended up winning it. So they flew me and a friend to The Arnold Classic to attend as fans. Okay. So I was barely bodybuilding at that point. So I went as a fan. And, I mean, the whole experience is exactly what so many people are going to have for the first time. Like, I had never seen this many of those people in one place. Yeah. And I have to say, by the end of the weekend, I was like, I don't think I'm gay, but I spent a lot of time looking at dudes, man. Because you'd be walking through, and I'm like, I mean, you'd see people, and you, like, look at them, and then you find yourself watching them walk by. And I'm like, that was really gay. Yeah. It's just like a set of calves on a nobody. Oh. That's the thing I recognize, Ron, is you realize quickly that when you go to that, as a bodybuilder that's trying to make it in this game, you realize it's not until you see them all stripped down on stage. Yeah. That separates them. Because there are people walking around the Arnold that will impress you more in a tank top than the guys winning the show. Right. And then you go, okay, so if I don't know you, then something's missing. Because I would know you. Right. Right. You know, because at that point in my life, I lived and breathed bodybuilding. I was on forums all the time. It was the only thing I did. And it was a real wake up. But seeing Tony Freeman in person the first time in my life, that changed my whole perspective of why I should probably go back to college. It's over here. So, yeah, I look forward to the Arnold every year. And it's great because it's the same place. So you really, like I stayed at the same hotel. Like everything is like the first time for the 20th time. Yeah. I remember realizing like, you know, I went to these shows as a fan, you know, before a mutant started, you know, taking me in 2012. I had gone to already, you know, 10 Olympias. And I remember like it never once dawned on me to go to the Olympia Expo to try to get attention. Right. Like I would throw on like, I mean, I remember I went to the Olympia Expo one year wearing a tool T-shirt and a pair of jeans. Yeah. Yeah. Right. Because I was just like, I'm going to the Expo. Like it's like, I'm going to the mall. Yeah. Let's get dressed. I have pants on. Let's go. Throwing some jeans, throwing a T-shirt. Let's go walk around. It was fun. You know, you're with your buddies. Walk around, get some free stuff in the bag. And then you see these guys are like walking around in tank tops. They've got tan on. Maybe they're wearing shorts. Or even they've got a shirt with their Instagram name on it. You know. Right. Before those days. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But, you know, they're walking around like, and they're strutting. Yeah. And they're very, very. And I just found it so frigging strange. Yeah. I remember just thinking these guys were deranged. I'm like, what is wrong with these guys? Yeah. Like early on. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I remember thinking like, what, like, what do you, this is the Olympia. Like, Ronnie's going to be on stage tomorrow. Yeah. No one's looking at me. Why are you wearing a tank top at the expo? You look like an idiot. Like, I remember thinking that. And not everyone. Obviously, some guys just wear a tank top and they're walking around casual. Right. But I'm talking about the guys that are like, you can tell. They're like trying to be seen. And they got, and, and I just, and, you know, they're, they're getting in photos with the bodybuilders and they're puffing up or trying to get the angle on them. Yeah. And I just remember being like, oh, there's like a whole bunch of mental illness here. I remember, I remember just like being so like weirded out by it. I was like, it's, it's, it's Jay Cutler at a booth. Just take a picture with him. Yeah. Like, yeah, I just, I, I just hadn't, I've even occurred to me to do that. And, and of, of course now look at where we are. Yeah. Right. But in the early days, man, in the early days, I found that all so weird. I remember just being like blown away. And then of course, like I didn't, I didn't expect the, I mean, I knew there's gonna be girls in bikinis at like, I've expected to see like Monica Brandt signing photos and stuff like that. But then I remember one time, like early on, one of my first Olympias, I walked by the Metarex booth, the Metrix booth. Yeah. And they had these giant ice sculptures. Yeah. And they had these really hot girls in like barely any clothing, pouring protein shake through the ice sculptures. Yeah. Yeah. And, and, and you, and you would, you know, hold your cup out and, you know, fill it out of the ice sculpture, but they were like dancing to like, you know, you know, rap music and wiggling their asses. And I just remember thinking like, Oh, this is all totally out of control. This is the bang energy girls. They had the bang energy booth. That's when I realized I was where I wanted to be. I just remember I just didn't, when I first started going, I just didn't expect all that. I thought it was going to be way more like classy, I guess. I just, there was more of an, what gave you that thought? I have no idea. But then once I showed up, I was like, Oh, okay. It's on. Yeah. Yeah. It's drugs. And I have, I have a great, I have a great story for you guys for my, my first experience with that, Ron. So I went to the USA's for the first time with the guy who used to own my stores. And I see this girl and she's on these, she's got painted on jeans, but she has cut out the zipper at a V. So, I mean, you know, they don't do up. Yeah. They had to, there was shaving required to put these pants on. And I remember I'm looking, I go, Bruce. And he looks over, he goes, Oh, you don't, you don't have to like glance here. He goes, watch. He looks to go right in the face, looks down, looks at her and goes, and she smiles and walks away. And I was like, this is a different world. I was like, Oh, you're allowed to, he goes, that's what they want you to do. I was like, Oh, this is heaven. I got a highlight here. I got a highlight. I want to show you guys. This is 2009. This is me getting to meet Branch Warren. I think that was the first time I met Branch. And, uh, he looked like a normal dude. Yeah. See, that's a photo. Yeah. Yeah. And, uh, yeah, I wasn't trying to get the angle or anything, which I obviously, no, no, he's behind a desk. I guess you got to read that. He probably didn't come around for anybody. No, no, no. But yeah, I remember this was, this was, I think, after it was after he lost to, this is Kai Green one in 2009. And he wanted it bad. I remember that. I was a huge Branch fan. Cause I loved, I loved his, like, just like get it done attitude. Oh yeah. Everybody did. And yeah. Yeah. You know, and then the same thing happened the next year that he, you know, had to face off against Kai again. Then he won that, that next year that we saw the video of, I remember the, I remember seeing him here though. And just, he, obviously this picture doesn't do him justice. He looked massive. And also the other thing I noticed, he didn't shave his shoulders. Yeah. He literally, he literally had like, like my right now I haven't shaved in a couple of days. I have like some five o'clock shadow. He had like that, but on his shoulders, there's like these little one inch, you know, quarter inch hairs, you know, all over him. I was like, Oh, okay. Cause I'm always thinking, you know, like, well, bodybuilding, like I'm thinking he just competed yesterday. Right. Yeah. He didn't, he, he shaved four days before that show. Yeah. And that was fine. That was fine. You know, but yeah, that was a highlight for me when you're, when you're, uh, when you're, when your muscles that deep Scott, it doesn't blur anything for the rest of us. You need that hair gone. Yeah. That's a great shot. We got, I'm going to have to go through Scott's vault of photos since we all know that Ron and I don't take any. Right. Right. All of my memories are right here from shows. I don't think Scott, to give you an idea of that first Arnold I went to didn't take a photo of anybody. I was like, I had like two, I didn't take a single photo. I wanted to meet them. Um, and I always loved, and I love when fans do this with us too, is usually at the time there, there started been enough social media that I could talk to them about things that weren't bodybuilding. Yeah. And it was so cool to talk to these guys about normal things because it made me realize they were human. So I would never ask about the shows where I'm like, Oh, how are your dogs? Oh man, I love the new one. Then they next thing you know, you ask about dogs, their phone is out. They're showing you new pictures. I would leave thinking that guy's the coolest fucking guy. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's all I want to do is talk about dogs at the booth. Hey, I got another thing. So you guys were talking about how Jay wasn't his best in 2004. That was the year you said he dieted himself, right? Oh yeah. Way too small. All right. So that's his own. He says that himself. Does he? Okay. Yeah. I found some pictures here. Let me see if I can shoot. Pull this up. Oh yeah. It's over here. So these are, these are some of the shots from the show. So yeah, this was. See the leg and see the, how big the midsection looks because he's not exploding everywhere else. Okay. They look good there. Yeah. But you compare that shot to him the year before doing the same thing. The side leg is down though. The front sweep on the quad is gone. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So you got the gap, the thigh gap. He's got the thigh gap going on. I did that in 2012. Dexter's so peeled over there. That is Scott. Exactly. So Jay did the exact same thing, which was he made the decision that he was going to be peeled. Yeah. And then that's the only thing he was focused on is am I getting harder? Am I getting harder? I'm getting harder. And you don't realize that you're getting smaller. Okay. And I mean, that side chess, that made it really hard. I mean, that shot here, like how do you argue he beat either of them in that shot? Look at the legs. Yeah. Yeah. See how the one leg, see how the right leg is a lot flatter than the other one? See how the right leg looks like my leg at its best? Flatter than mine. Yeah. Yeah. I find that with people. If you have an imbalance, it'll be a lot worse if you're overly depleted. That's one of the things, too. I don't know if you guys saw this. It's off subject, but because he was just on the screen. They were asking Lee Priest who he thought maybe could have done more or never reached their potential. And he said that he thought Chris Cormier could have been who knows what level. Yeah, I saw that. And when I see that picture, I mean, Chris was unbelievable. And then to hear his lifestyle to be that good, it just makes you wonder, like, what would have been? He was partying. He partied the night before some of the shows. Yeah. Yeah. And didn't, like, just showed up at the show. Didn't sleep. Yeah, that's crazy, man. He said, like, oh, yeah, that's how I dry out, you know? Tell yourself whatever you want if you enjoy partying, right? Yeah. Yeah, yeah. I mean, it's your cardio, right? Like, you know, leading into the show and be like, I don't do any cardio. I just go out and party all night. Dance. I do wonder, though, like, how they – this was the point in bodybuilding where I would have – I could have really used – because I was a Jay fan at that point in my life. And – because I didn't really – I barely spoke to Jay. So I was just a straight fan. And I could have used Tyler Mann in telling me how he won that show. Hmm. Yeah. Because as a fan, I was like, oh, when he walked out, I'm like, oh, no, this is not going to win. And then he won, and I was very confused. Because I wanted him to win. And I was like, no. You know what? I think, too, that when we see guys that are really good and classic, the same is true with, like, that if you're really pared down, you're not, like, full and round, that you really do get exposed for any of the weaknesses you have. Yeah. I think that that is, like, the true and the opposite way to show just how good some of the classic guys are, that they can look, like, absolutely crazy and not be, you know, like, hiding anything. Not be trying to, like, blow something up to look three times bigger to make their waist look smaller or something, you know? Yeah. It's more – usually, I think, the number one thing is a time thing. Like, you've got to come down to get peeled. Yeah. But you can't just starve into the show, right? Well, that's why we talked about Mike lost size because he didn't know until the very end that he was going to be lighter. Yeah, he had to rush it and pull down it right before and all that stuff. So Godly knows what he had to do. And now leading into this show, his legs look enormous, and he's going to make weight. You know, like, oh, because he did it slowly. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So you just, you know, I mean, if Jay – I mean, obviously, within months, Jay did another show and never looked like that again. Yeah. So, you know, it's correctable. But you need some time. Like, maybe if Jay looked like that two weeks out, he could have put 20 more pounds back on. Yeah. Because you know how Jay's body weight moved a lot. Like, remember he told us that one time that he was, like, 290 a week out one time? Yeah. And then he came in at, like, 268? That's really wild. Damn, you know, I was 22 pounds last week? He said, yeah, I was just, like, blown out full and then pulled water. You know, like, this craziness. I would have a hard – like, this is where you realize, like, Chris is on another level. If I'm prepping someone and we're two weeks out and I know we're that far away, I'm having a panic attack and wondering what the hell I did wrong. Why is my guy so far away from where I want him in two weeks? Like, I want him, like, two pounds away. Like, ah, we're pretty much just dialing in. Chris knows from years with Jay, he's like, this is where I want him two weeks out. Yeah. Yeah. That's a great – I would love to hear some of the thought processes that Chris had during that because, you know, he learned that. Like, we don't want him all the way ready. Like, he is ready. We're just going to pull out that water. I remember I sent – there was a famous picture of Kai doing, like, a back one-arm, like, a three-quarter back one-arm shot in his kitchen in front of, like, the oven or whatever. Oh, yeah. And I sent it to Chris and I go, did you see this? And I remember he goes, the cake's baked too early. Ha. And I was like, oh, okay. And then sure as shit, like, you know, he didn't win. Yeah. But I remember Chris being like, we're like – it's like four weeks out. That photo's like four weeks out. Yeah, that's not good. Like, it doesn't matter how he looks. Yeah. You know? He has – That's a shitty thing as a competitor, though, is when you're – when you can look back at photos, because I've done that too, and go, that look at six weeks out probably would have been enough. Right. Like, even just drop a tiny bit more fat, but rev way down so you're not pulling three pounds that week. Yeah. You know, you're dropping, like, three pounds a week. Go down to, like, no weight loss that week, and you'll still get harder. Yeah, just get a little harder. Yep. Yeah. You know what I mean? So it's the analogy that I learned from Chris. Yep. But, you know, when you're in a boat and you're coming into the harbor, if you're in a little speedboat, you can race into the harbor, ease off the engines, crank the wheel, and drift into the dock. Like, bump. Yeah. Right? But if you're in a big oil tanker, you've got to pull off the engines, like, 10 miles out. Yeah. Yeah. And start reversing engines, because it's very, very precise how you have to bring that giant boat in, or you just, like, hit the beach and destroy the dock. Yeah. You know? Plow through everything, right? And I was like, damn, that's, like, kind of, you've got to kind of keep that in mind. Yeah. Yeah. Very true. And so, you know, that's why, you know, you can take, like, I mean, I've had lightweight guys where, or middleweight guys or whatever, where you just, like, dyed them up to Thursday. Died them up to Thursday. All the way down. Yeah, we're fine. Or just get them right to the weigh-in. Right to the weigh-in. Here's some food. Boom, they look great. But when you're dealing with, like, you're dealing with, like, a super heavyweight that has to make weight, or a heavyweight that has to make weight. And it's, like, a big deal to try to fill them out after if they're flat, you know? Yeah. Like, it's, like, you know, then you're doing some insulin at night and lots of carbs and looking at them every hour and all that shit, you know? And it's no fun. No one likes that. No. So. You guys mentioned Kai. Kai had a couple of really crazy years at the Arnold. Oh, yeah. And I'd go as far as to say, like, for guys like Kai, guys like, like, because Branch had his run there. That, like, to me, that's where we really, and it kind of keeps going. I'm thinking back to that, you know, the Mr. Olympia wasn't there at the time kind of thing. That really kind of, well, I guess there was, I mean, there was that point where we had Kai versus Phil. We talked about that before at the Arnold. But that was before they were both, like, winning. Yeah. Yeah. But that was, like, you really got to see, like, I mean, that was, like, Kai's show. Like, you got to see these guys. Yeah. Or a guy like Bonick. Like, you really got to freaking celebrate just how cool Bonick was seeing him win there multiple times. Right. Yeah. Dexter. I feel like this is going to be, and it already happened a little at the Olympia, but I think this is the show where everyone goes, oh, shit, Andrew's gone in for the Olympia. Yeah. Whew. I think he's, you know, if I'm guessing on who I see just coming in and just annihilating, it's him. I think he's going to come out and win the show right when he walks out. Okay. We'll see. But that's my guess. Bold prediction, Cotton. Yeah. I don't think it's that bold, but yeah. No, not based off of the Olympia. It's not based on what we saw. Yeah. What I've seen since then. And what we've seen on, and we know Instagram is real life. Absolutely. Absolutely. Anything on the interwebs is factual. Yeah, of course. Of course. Of course. Yeah, it's going to be exciting, guys. What's the deal, Scott? What's the verdict? I still don't know. I kind of thought it was this weekend, and then I realized before the show. Am I the only one that knows what day it is? I thought it was this weekend. How am I the organized one at last three? I don't know, Dusty. I don't know how that happened. You've got other things going on, I guess. Yeah. Apparently, I just don't have anything going on in my life, so it's very clear when the only thing I have going is coming up. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, me too. Well, Scott, this is the time where fans vote below. Should Scott come? And if he doesn't come, how do we penalize him? Okay, looks like you're coming, buddy. If I go, we should definitely go get a workout in on Thursday. Oh, that's already planned. I'm showing up Thursday night. Okay. Yeah, I won't be there in time. Like, how late Thursday night? Thursday night, right? Yeah, I think Thursday night, yeah. Okay, okay. Well, Dusty and I will hang out with you guys. I'll be there. If that's the case. But I always go train Sunday night. I always go train Sunday night. Payton's coming. Okay. Payton's coming. You know, we got the crew all rolling through. Who else is coming this year? I got a handful of people that have already reached out, and they're like, oh, we're definitely doing this. You know, so it should be very good. Craig? Yeah. Omar and Craig are coming out. We got... Who else was with us last year? BJ. Is BJ coming? BJ's not going to make it, I don't think. Oh, yeah. We went for Tippin Yaki. That's right. Yeah. That was great. He bought for all of us. He bought dinner for us that night. Oh, Hunter's coming. Hello. Hello. Okay. He filmed with you last year. Awesome. Okay. That's cool. I like him. Because he had something to do with his business last year, he couldn't come train, so he's going to come train us, too. Scott, you got to be there, dude. I'm going to tell you when you're coming, and then if not... All right. ...kind of, you looked bad. All right. Okay. All right, guys. Well, that's it. That's our years of the Arnold before whatever happens this year. Some of the years of the Arnold. We talked about all of them. No, we talked about all of them. We did. We touched on them all. We touched them all. Okay. We don't have time for videos of them all. They'd be a three-hour... Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Anyways, I hope you enjoyed it. Yes. And let us know in the comments if you're actually going to be there and come by the Mutant booth. Yeah. That'd be great. Okay? Definitely do. Okay, everybody. Remember, like, share, subscribe, comment, and... Ring the bell. Absolutely. Hype button. All four. Absolutely. And remember, Iammutant.com. Get your hardcore ISO, your big greens, your MindFK, and everyone should get on the gear. Big Ron and Dusty are your codes. Save money. Avoid people. Don't leave the house. All the stuff I love to do. Don't wear pants. My three favorite things. Oh. And remember, it's just bodybuilding.