How how should we title this, Scott? It's like the the art of performing reps. The how what the the optimal optimal speed on your concentrics. I don't even know exactly what your question is. So, well, okay, then I'll ask you my question. How about we start there? How about we start there? So, I've had this this has been a burning question for me. I I have a list, Scott, a whole list of questions here on my phone for you. uh and we haven't gotten to get to them in a long time. This list has been building since February. Uh this is when uh my good friend and client Andrea Watson was out here. We were training and um I wanted to express to her getting a little bit more aggressive with her concentric. Uh there was a time in the past that all of my concentrics were very slow and it was brought to my attention by Shelby Stars. He was like, "Hey man, try getting a little more aggressive with that." And when I did, I recognized I got a lot more out of it. I mean, you got to be controlled. You know, you've got to be controlled with your concentric, but I noticed that like I feel like I dig deeper into those fibers. I think about the way that I pull. If I pull with some force yet control, I get a lot more out of it than just doing like the slow smooth contraction. And so, I wanted to ask you, what's the science on that? You just Scott, you know the science. You're you're the bro, but you're also the scientist. And you're the bro scientist. I'm pulling up this presentation um that I did that I might use as kind of a cheat sheet. I have a whole talk, see called Quest for the Perfect Rep. See, this is exactly what I'm talking about right here. And literally, I mean, it's I don't know how many slides I have in this thing. I haven't given it for a while. I love this presentation, though. Okay. Um, so, uh, there is AI guess I could the first thing that pops to my head because I'm just kind of doing this off the top of my head is there is a a meta analysis that was done Brad Shonfeld, no surprise there, on rep tempo didn't seem to show any difference in muscle growth when repo was like I think both concentric and eccentric constituting the the rep duration lasting anywhere from like 0.5 to 2.5 seconds. Okay, there was no difference in in muscle growth that could be detected in that in that analysis. So that didn't matter. Um the uh there's been a couple thing couple studies um looking at the super slow topic the super slow um strategy. Have you you remember super slow? I I do. Yeah. Yeah. And funny those didn't show it to be an effective way for for producing muscle growth. Those are like 10-second reps. are super duper like ridiculously slow. Like someone's trying to be a a mime or you know like like do uh their reps like as if they're in the Matrix or something, you know? It's really really slow. Like it's kind of bizarre. I remember first time I saw that uh it was literally the late I was training back in in grad school and there were some guys I was at the rec center and there's some guys who were um all of them were bigger than me. Yeah. and they were doing super slow and there were two open face racks and I was doing bend over rows and so were they and I was using I don't know two and a quarter 275 something like that maybe at the time can't remember and they were using like 10 like 65 pounds and like but they're doing super slow and it was just sort of obvious it's like how is that going to make you grow and while we do know now from the higher rep studies that you can go down to 30% of one rep max and like with the blood flow occlusion studies you can get growth if you take those test sets to failure um any the super slow studies didn't suggest that they don't really resonate and I think that's um I think that's probably because some exercise like a knee extension lends itself well for your average untrained person to go to failure but like a bend over row that's a tough one for instance yeah that's a tough one to do like and really really slow like that especially because there's a different psych psychology to going really slow. Um I think than just grinding out reps um to some degree because it's just a whole different it's a whole different mind [\h__\h] pardon my French, to try to do the reps that slow because you want to speed it up and bang them out and get to the failure point where you create, you know, fatigue due to inability to supply energy. But anyway, so the research kind of says that okay on speed. So here's the thing. So you've um when you're lifting, you are using this is goes back to the force velocity curve, which kind of covers some basic physiology here. You can produce um less and less force the faster a shortening contraction is. So I always think of this as the merrygoround effect. Like if you were a kid and you had a merrygoround, you were the one who was like had to push the merrygoround. Mhm. And everyone gets on their load up and like the merry grounds at standstill and you start to push on you can push like crazy like it produce a lot of force to get when you first get it moving and you get it moving and the faster it goes eventually it's going as fast as you can run and even if you're standing there going like this like you're not adding to anything. Yeah. Yeah. So you can't produce any force when that velocity is so fast. Yeah. So the faster a concentric movement, the less force you can produce. Yeah. Okay, that makes sense. Right. Right. So um and the and then you have an isometric contraction which is sort of the in between point and then when you do lowering contraction when the muscle produces force but it's lengthening the inherent amount of force that you produce in the muscle that's activated is greater. So the force relative to the amount of muscle relative to the cross-sectional area of the muscle is greater. So that's probably one of the reasons why you get more damage when you do eccentric low lowering contractions. Okay. And that's one of the reasons why you see generally speaking that the eccentrics are a little more important than the concentrics for producing growth. Um so that that that I think I've talked about before and that's one of the things I go into in that that that talk. So, so what's going on? And you made a very important distinction there when um you are producing a concentric contraction like you're lifting with some speed um and forcefulness as opposed to going really really slow. Uh and I'm trying to like put together all sorts of thoughts. There's a whole bunch of things that are involved here, but imagine one scenario where you literally try to completely explode from a standstill. Um, once you get that, this will depend on the movement. Um, and it will depend on whether it's a free weight um or a machine to some degree um or whether you've got bands or chains as well. So, imagine a free weight and you're doing like a bench press and you go from uh just you literally have done a pause and you drive up as fast as you can really explode in sort of a wouldn't be truly a ballistic fashion but almost like a ballistic contraction. You get a lot of force produced at the beginning and eventually at some point in time that bar starts moving so quickly that that force velocity relationship comes into play. Yeah, I think we've all felt that, you know, and you're not you're not pushing the second half somewhere in there of the range of motion. The bar is just flying up from the force that you produced initially. So, you've got only that impulsive force and the rest of the time you're keeping the bar moving, but you're not producing much force during that concentric. Yeah. Um, so that's at one end of the spectrum. At the other end of the spectrum, imagine you do like a super slow thing and um you compare, you can even compare like if you have a 10-second rep versus a two second rep, how much weight could you lift if it were just like a one one concentric rep max? Well, you might be able to do if like a two second um or maybe even a three or four second like if it's a really really heavy like basically you can't do any more than that. It might if you're it's a real grinder, it might be like a three second rep. Okay. So, let's say let's say it's 200 pounds. That's your concentric from a standstill bench press. Like your one rep max essentially. Um so it's and that's the most you could get. Now let's say like you constrain yourself doing that really really slow. We'll just go to like the far end of the spectrum where it's 10 seconds. Um you couldn't take that same weight and and and if you started doing a 10-second rep, you get about three or four seconds into it and that'd be it, right? So instead of 200 lb, you might have to go to 160 or yeah, whatever. Less for sure. So yeah, if you go slower and slower to some degree, you're going to limit the amount of amount of force that you're going to produce. Okay. And still be able to complete those repetitions. So, for any like set of 10 um with really really slow reps, just like in the super slow regime, you're going to have less force that you're producing because you're doing the reps so slow. So, the the concern with really slow reps is that the force you're producing is so low because you're doing the reps so slowly. The concern with really fast reps is that you've you you're blasting through the rep and you're not getting any force at the end of the range of motion, which isn't helpful. You're you're speaking my language here. This is exactly This is exactly what I've been wanting to get at so badly and I've been Yeah. I've been wanting to hear what you have to say about this. So, and and I'm not even looking at my presentation, but this stuff is, you know, it's this is constantly things are flowing through my head. So, yeah. So one so one issue now if we go back and compare that sort of like fast starting rep this is how a loading curve can be to your advantage like what you have in like a Cybex cam the Nautilus cam which is which is totally generic like they don't those aren't really generally um created especially well to match the strength curve. Yeah. But ideally you'd have a rep that has uh Thanks Travis. you'd have a rep. This is why I love this talk. It's such a great talk. Um I just enjoy It's great because I enjoy giving it, I guess, but I think it's good information is that you would then be able to push with a large amount of effort throughout the full range of motion and have the the resistance accommodate your strength levels. It's accommodating resistance. Have the loading curve match the strength curve. So, let's say on a bench press or um uh let's say bench press is not maybe the best example. Let's say um let's say it's like a people do this. Let's say it's a a a leg press. And this is where you see people using bands and chains. Okay? You're not as strong at the bottom of part of the leg press as you are at the top. So, instead of using cam, I was going to use a cam as an example. We'll just use bands. people will band those leg presses. Yeah. So that the band comes into play um as you go go through the concentric range of motion and it makes it harder at the end. So you're matching the loading with the strength curve. So you can give if it were a one rep max, let's say, which you probably would never do on a leg press. Let's say you started you had the pin set up. you're at the very bottom and you you would the load that you could lift for that one rep max would more than likely be a function of what you could get moving because your sticking spots would be at the very bottom. This something that powerlifters know oh so well. They try to train those lifting spots because free weights are a different story. So, what you can do with a leg press, which is essentially free weight just in the in the um playing the motion of the leg press is um set up those bands so that you're able to apply you don't have that sticky spot at the bottom. Instead, you have maximum effort at the beginning and then as you would as it would become easier because the biomechanics of your lower body, the band starts to create more and more resistance so that you could have max effort all the way through. Yeah. Well, the full rep would be a grinder as opposed to and you just fly through to the second end, right? So, that gives you that gives you load throughout the range of motion as opposed to a sticking spot at the bottom where you're destined to fail, so to speak. That's going to be your the part where you end. You never see anyone literally like on most leg movements unless they've been banded or what have you where um they fail at the top, right? Like you if you're doing like a hack squat or any kind of standing squat machine for the most part or leg press like once you get it up past the midpoint you're going to get it unless you're really really pushing but most of the time people will feel at that bottom part. Yeah. Because that's the hardest part of the range of motion. So back to rep tempmpo now. You want to have um some activation that's sort of in between that super slow and that ballistic as fast as you can. um such that you've got good muscle activation through the full range of motion. So you're controlling the weight, but you're sort of exploding into it with some forcefulness. So when you're moving faster, you're getting you're going to have you're going to have to have more muscle engaged in order to do that. So driving with some forcefulness engages more muscle, which is what you want. The advantage there is then when you've found that middle ground speedwise and you're gauging more muscle because you're moving at a relatively fast pace but not overly fast so that you don't have to do anything at the second end of the range of motion. You've also got a heavier weight you're using and that means you got a heavier weight that you're lowering. Yeah. And you can lower a lot more than you can lift. Yeah. Yeah. So there's an advantage in having the heaviest load possible during the lowering. And this is what like Life Fitness had a machine like this. I've had AI had a conversation with a guy I bumped into. I wish I could remember his name right now um down in South Florida here talking about machines like this that will overload on the eccentric such that you've got there there are some lines of machines that would literally add more load on the eccentric. He had done some research I think at University of Florida was involved with some um demonstrating significant greater hypertrophy when you when you match um not only the loading curve on the concentric but the fact that you've got greater strength on the eccentric than you do on the concentric. So if you can lift 200 lb on a bench press Mhm. you can lower 220 or 240 maybe. So, if you really want to maximize effort throughout the full range of motion on that concentric, um, you might you might let's go back to the leg press. Let's because it's a better example, I think. So, now you band the leg press. So, you've taken that sticking spot out and there's there's equal amount of effort throughout the full range of motion. Okay? Because the band is making it harder near the top. And that's going to probably focus more on quads, too. And that's sort of another side topic. So that's that's another reason to do that. But now you've got loading curve matching strength curve. So it's it's all out. The effort is the same throughout each concentric aspect of the rep. But now if you want to match the concentric effort with the eccentric effort, you're going to have to have more weight on the eccentric ideally. Well, you can't really do that unless you have a partner who has you do force negatives or you have a machine that does that. But the best that you can come to generally speaking is picking a load where you're moving pretty fast, not overly fast. So, and controlling that eccentric on the way down. So, you want to have as heavy an eccentric load as you can, relatively speaking, so you're in that good rep range for getting growth. You're not just doing singles. Yeah. basically. And we want to be able to load and control the load on the way down because if you just drop the weight, so this is the other side of the rep tempo. If you just drop the weight, then you have a freef fall effect. You're doing nothing but catching it at the bottom. Yeah. And I think that's the biggest mistake that I a lot of us have made, you know, because we focus on getting the rep. I got, you know, one, now I'm gonna go for two, right? And we're not thinking about that that negative portion. And I think that that's probably we could probably all step back and focus more on the negative and not change our splits, not change our our number of reps and get more out of the exercise just by getting more out of the negative. Like we would get more out of training if we focused on just getting more out of the negative. Another was another meta analysis comparing you know concentric and eccentric only training and and you find greater growth eccentric only generally that's one of the pieces of evidence we talked about in the we would have been episode 100 maybe the one I did on training I think yeah okay I talked about I talked about this with with the Dudley study yeah hatherad al you know that um that they did for NASA comparing doubling the concentrics only compared with lowering and lifting concentric eccentric Um, so you want to have some control. And here's where there's a difference between bands and chains. So imagine now you've got a two different setups. You can compare on the leg press. You've got one where you want you want to add load at the end because you're stronger near the end of the range of motion. So you're matching your loading curve with your strength curve. Now you can do that with chains. So as the weight goes up, more and more of the chain is lifted off the ground. So the load goes up. Mhm. And you could, you know, you could try to match the amount of chains that you have relative to the load on the on the machine so that you're matching that really really well. Or you can also do the same thing with bands. So as more the bands get stretched out, the more load they would have. Bands, you know, an ideal setup for some bands, it depends on the length of the band and the thickness of the band. So the thickness was how much force the length will dictate the length tension relationship of the band itself. So imagine like a really thick short band, you know, where you you triple the length of that band or double the length of that band over the full range of motion. That band's going to go from zero tension when it's slack to a lot of tension when it's doubled or tripled in length for sure. Versus imagine a a band that's set up where you know it's long it's a longer band that you know that you only increase the length of by 50%. Yeah. you're not getting as much of a differential from um the bottom to the top of your range of motion. So length of band and thickness of band matters. So that's a kind of an aside, but imagine now you're doing your looking at your eccentric and you're lowering and if you lower quickly with chains, you can actually have that freef fall effect with those chains in the same way that you with the weight. Yeah, you would. So you can drop down as much as you like. And that literally, if you go fast enough, you're literally letting that free fall. Yeah. In large part. So there's hardly any tension at the beginning of that range of motion, which unfortunately is where you're the strongest, too. So, you're really missing out because you have potential for more force at the beginning of the range of motion, and that's where you start dropping it down. Obviously, you have to slow down near the bottom so you don't get squashed, and that's where you're weakest. So you're really missing out on the potential for eccentric overload when you're using chains in that regard. But if you use bands and you try to drop down like that, the bands don't have a freef fall effect. There's continuous tension because of the elasticity in the band. So there'll be something related to the, you know, the physics of the elasticity, the the material um nature of the elasticity of the band. Some will, you know, have a will keep up with the the descent of the weight more differently than others, but in large part that band's got tension all the time. So you can't you can't drop the weight fast enough so the band unloads in the way that you'll unloading if you're just dropping the weight and you don't have any load on the on the chains because they're just free falling. So this is one of the reasons why people will find especially if they've been dropping their e their weights relatively speaking they've been doing really fast eccentrics is if they use bands they get a lot more sore because they're getting more eccentric loading because the bands are forcing they're forcing the load to happen plus there's some proprioception going on there too. It's like you if if you drop if you drop the weight, you just let it come down really quickly. That's that makes sense to your brain. You move really rapidly and you can feel the weights kind of dropping that way. Whereas it's imagine if you start to go fast like that and the weight doesn't change in force. Yeah. Because the bands are on there. It's imagine like someone's pushing on the on the leg press. You'd be like, "Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa." You're going to slow down and want to control that more so. you would because it just naturally your stretch reflexes are going to kick in. And also also cognitively you're going to experience that. So bands have that advantage and that they they they maintain the eccentric force that's necessary to produce even with faster um rates of descent, even with faster speeds of eccentric contraction. Okay. So the idea there is that you is you have control over the eccentric. Yeah. Yeah. Um and here's the thing. So there's now we're gonna get more here's another level of understanding. You're with me now so far? Right. Okay. So here's what's cool. Here's what's really cool. So the merrygoround effect, the faster you contract, the less force you produce, right? On concentrics. That doesn't apply to eccentrics in large part. So when you go to you know from an isometric a hold to some kind of an eccentric yeah like there's some increase in your strength maybe 20% in with voluntary contraction the muscle can produce more than that but you've got some inhibition but if you go faster and faster and faster you don't produce more force the muscle doesn't produce more force the faster the rate of eccentric contraction it levels off. Okay. Huh. So you can go really really slow on your eccentrics and produce just as much force as if you were going really really fast. H um as far as the muscle goes. But if you if you if you if the the load that you're that you're attempting to move around in space is under the confines of gravity so that you just drop it like that, then you don't have any load to push against. So the muscle doesn't produce any force. So you're not there's no advantage in terms of speed in terms of what the muscle can do during the lengthening eccentric contraction of lowering the load. Um so faster is not better than slower in terms of loading in the terms of the muscle. But if you go too fast and you're not using bands and bands I mean you could train with bands is all the weights. Just load up the bar with bands and do no weight and you get past this. Um, and of course cams can do that on some machines. Um, you've got that freef fall phenomenon that happens when you go too fast. So the freef fall phenomenon, the fact that we're, you know, lifting free weights and in large part on most plate loaded machines and selectorized machines and machines that don't have cams or bands on them makes it such that you don't want to go fast because you're you don't you're not there's no load the faster you descend because things are free falling. So going slow on your eccentric is behooves you in terms of taking advantage of the fact that you produce more force for a given amount of muscle that's used when you're doing lengthening eccentric contractions. Okay. So the quality of the stimulus in terms of tension relative to the muscle that you use is better with eccentrics than concentrics. And going slow is the way to you do that because if you go too fast you just have a freef fall. you've got nothing to push against. Yeah. So, you got to have go slow enough that you've got something to push against. So, you might be thinking, okay, well, if I go really, really slow, isn't that going to fatigue me? I mean, and I use up all my energy doing these eccentrics. Go back to muscle minds 100 and check out one of the ideas that I put forth there. This is why this is application of that information. I I put up a um a study where they compared eccentrics. They did maximal eccentric efforts like 30 of them and hardly any fatigue at all. The energy cost of it depends on which estimate you said. I can't remember which study I had in the energy cost to produce a given amount of force when the muscle's lengthening doing eccentric versus shortening concentric at the same speed depends on the speed it's like 25%. It's nothing. So the energy cost of lowering under control is zilch. You're not going to fatigue yourself in any way that's going to cut into your reps or cut your set short by doing controlled contractions on the ex cold eccentric contractions. So you want to have control so you have the loading so you can take advantage of the fact that you produce more force and get more stimulus. Yeah. When you lower under load and doing eccentric contractions. Okay. You don't have fatigue. So which is good. I'm still not sure I completely feel satisfied with the concentric portion of the rep now. So, I I'm just going to go back and and almost kind of restate myself. I feel like if I move very slow through a rep, I'm just I'm I'm here visually thinking about like a bench press movement, but it could be anything. It could be a row. If I if I move very slow through the rep, I feel like I can ease the weight up. If I slam it up, then then yeah, centrifugal force takes over. You know, there's like a momentum. There's a momentum that takes over and it becomes easier toward the top. There's a middle ground in there where if I push hard with force, but don't let it get away from me that my muscle actually feels more sore. Like I'm not even going to say sore. It feels more beat up. Like it feels like I dug into the fibers more. It feels like I activated the muscle harder than if I ease it up slowly. Yes. Is Is there something to that? Yes. Absolutely. So, like what we said before, yeah, you go too fast, you blast up from the beginning and then it's just momentum carrying the weight up the rest of the way. Yeah. So, your activation is going to go down. You go too slow, the weight's going to have to be low. I see. In order to do your push as much weight. Yeah. You're just I mean, unless you're I mean, if you're doing like five or 10 second reps, the weights are going to are going to be lower. So, you're not going to you're not going to have as much tension. Okay. So, here's the other thing, too. This is all in this talk like I piece all this together. It's so so very cool. So the studies have been done. Um a lot of it's actually looking at pec versus triceps activation during a bench press. So you can tell individuals um use your triceps on this bench press or use your pec. And you can literally give them a a verbal cue to do so. And that can be done. Sure. with lighter loads up to a point. And somewhere around 80% of a one rep max or heavier is where that ability to to maintain that mind muscle connection is lost. And some of that simply comes down to the fact of the matter is that when you're doing a one rep max, if it's a one rep max, you're using all the muscle that's available. You're using both triceps and anterior delts and your pec. Yeah. everything. So if you go to 95% of that and you say just use your pecs and they turn off those other muscles like 50% or you're not going to get the lift. It's not going to happen. Yeah. So in order to complete the rep you've got to use almost all the muscle that's there and you go to 90% it's like yeah maybe you could turn off the triceps as a smidge but it won't be statistically significant. Won't be noticeable. But if you go down to 70% now you've now you can you can significantly shift the force producing muscles to the one you want to make the loadbearing muscle for the exercise. The one you want to have that mind you want to make it your pecs instead of your triceps. I see. And you can get away with doing your rep. And of course your load should go down. Yeah. You know guys have been just like moving weight around just by any means possible who decide now they want to have a better connection with their pec and they've been using 315. They can't expect all of a sudden like have a great connection and still use the same weight for the same reps. If you're going to if you're going to like tell the other muscles to be less active you and you I mean you if you're if you're still pushing as hard as you can, there's some degree where there's some sense you could turn on the pecs more so and they could take up the slack. Mhm. But and the other the other way looking is you're going to have to turn off those other muscles because if you're you're doing this in the first place because you're not getting good activation in the target muscle, the pecs, let's say, for a bench press if you're using it for that reason. So you're going to have to turn off off those other muscles to shift the load to the pecs. And that's really all that matters. You want to do the exercise in a way that forces the target muscle to be the loadbearing muscle and the one that is the cause of fatigue and failure. as when you bring the set to its end. So you want the weak link to be the target muscle. Sure. So if you can like let's say you're someone who just like has great mind muscle connection and but you also know how to really push on the bench press. You're like let's say a powerlifter who also has a great mind muscle connection. A lot of those powerlters the form is going to totally change. So sort of take the biomechanics out of the picture. But imagine they just push with everything and like they can get let's say just say right? And now now they want to make make sure that to the extent possible without like having a joint dislocation or something really wonky go on. They're making making the pec almost as much as possible the only muscle that's active even though it's a compound lift. There's minimal activation of the triceps, minimal activation of the of the anterior delt. Just enough to keep the form. Now they're going to have to go down to maybe 225. Right. Yeah. To make it just the pec. um and the pec will be more loaded and at least then even even if you compared pec activation in the 315 versus the 225 um you've got when you if it's the same at the beginning at least and and to some degree when you get to the end of that 315 set where the person isn't isn't using the pec as well as they want to the the limiting factor are those other muscles which is the reason why you're trying to have a better my muscle connection. So the failure isn't due to the pec. The pec's not getting trained very effectively. It's the other muscles that are getting loaded. So you shift and start doing that that exercise with the mindset, the queue. You can do touch training for this to some degree probably. Yeah. Let's make the pec let's make the pec the target muscle, the weak link. And now your set comes to an end. And the triceps and the anterior delt are not not the reasons for fatigue. They're not the reason why the set ended. It's because the pec didn't have anything left to give, right? And in that case, your pec went from 70% activation to 100% activation, all you could possibly give. And the set ended with a failure in the pec to produce more enough force to get another rep. As opposed to when you're going heavy, heavier, the pec, it wasn't the pec that was the reason for failure, it was the other muscles. So, your pec only went from 70 to 85% of maximal activation. Okay? The other muscles failed. Um, so that's a reason why choosing the right tempo, not going like too fast, which just if you're pushing as fast as you can on every single rep, well, guess what? Aside from that whole momentum issue, if you're if it's as fast as you can, then you're using as much muscle as you can and you don't have you can't have a mind muscle connection in that way because you're acting activating everything at 100%. Yeah. Yeah. If you want to get one muscle to be favored, you have to some degree turn the others off, right? That means less weight. Yeah. Um and not as going not as fast. So finding that that tempo. So what what I do like for instance for chest training in large part because I I recognize my tendency to activate the anterior delts um and triceps is I those reps are slower for me. H chest training is always a slower it's always slower for me than other than most every other thing because I don't have the good mind muscle connection there and I'm just probably biomechanically set up to use those other muscles and I've got you know I can overhead press almost as much as I can incline press or as much as I can flat press. Yeah, I used to be that way. I've and I've seen a lot of people that way too. I'm a delt presser just by nature. So I have to go slow with lower weight to make sure it's a pec exercise. Okay. For the reasons I just described. So well this did that clarify the concentric? It does not. But we did get through not for me at least but I feel like we got through a lot of really cool stuff here and I still learned a lot and and for that reason I think that this was a total success. Okay. All right. We should we should wrap it up here. Confused you more but okay. No no no no. I got a lot out of it, but it doesn't tell me the the there's a piece of there's a piece of truth in bodybuilding that I still can't explain after this. That's all that's all I'll say. I'll leave it at that. I I have one I have one more thought that might help because this actually will help finish this off. And John Meadows talks about this a good bit too because he's very big on exploding into the rep but controlling at the same time. Yeah. is when you initiate the rep with in this in this manner. Um especially if you've got a good mind muscle connection. So you're initiating with the muscle you're trying to to target and you initial initiate forcefully that requires um a large amount of activation in those fibers just to get the weight going. That's it. And then if you and if you don't but if you control it, you're maintaining that high activation level with a heavier load at a controlled speed and you're not just blasting through the rep and letting the momentum take over. So that's that's it right there. You're setting yourself up for success from a standpoint of activation of a large number of motor units in the muscle you're trying to target when you start with that with that sort of mindset of blast into the weight but control it along. I can feel it. I can feel it the the difference in in how that muscle fatigues, too. Cool. All right. Good. Thank you, Scott. You got it. We did it. Yeah. I saved it. Rescue it at the last minute. Man, it was it wouldn't have been a failure anyway because there was so much good stuff in there. And uh I know I I love that I can I can have a question like this and that I have a friend that has an answer. You have a friend in a lot of who can pilot higher and deeper. He's got a PhD. He's got a little degree in [\h__\h] Guys, for um a bunch more answers, go to uh bobbcoach.com. Check out Scott's book, Be Your Own Bodybuilding Coach, or get the hard coverver from Amazon. And uh of course, check out fortitudetraining.net. Check out Scott's ebook. You can also check out our great sponsor, truenutrition.com. Yeah. And I have a seminar coming up. It's Asgard Gym. You can see this on my Instagram. Yeah. Um, it's in my, uh, profile URL as well. So, that's coming up. I think it's on the 19th of June. So, okay. Couple weeks from now. So, if anyone in the southern Florida area, if someone wants to take a trip, Florida is a good place to be COVID wise. We're not even wear we're not masks. I mean, if this is of course totally your your uh your call, but it's pretty loose. You know, it's kind of nice for people to go to Florida where there's it's not as strict here as far as those things go. And so, we're doing a seminar. This gym is amazing. Absolutely incredible. And um I'm doing a seminar on uh the I think the title of it is unraveling the puzzle of sets, reps, and volume or something like that. Trying to figure out like you know is volume the driver of muscle growth you know is what you know what's what what is it that makes muscle grow and how do we program this for ourselves as an individual given this landscape of all this information ranging ranging from hit Mike Mener on your shirt there. Yes. to, you know, do just tremendous amounts of volume. So, that and then we got a couple in the gym things. I'm going to do um a mind muscle mastery is a topic that I do as a lecture, but I've also got an in the gym component of that. So, I help people with some of the things I kind of talked about here a little bit. And then, uh the other in the gym thing is going through some of the fortitude training. Nice. Um set types, pump sets, and muscle rounds for people. It's not a full fortitude training uh camp. Yeah. Yeah, but it's just to explain how those are done so people can incorporate those into their own programs and sort of take on that principle, the principles that are woven in with those set types. Dude, what what a fun this would be. This would be so cool. Uh if that that link, I'll get that from you. Why don't I put that in the description? So for all of you guys at YouTube, you can just click on that. I think that's a great idea. Especially like now, man, I feel like we all need a trip. We all need a vacation. Yeah, we all need to hang out with Scott for a day. Someone asked me like about um the gym's kind of a little bit out. It's uh south of here. It's not about an hour south of Tampa. Okay. It's kind of out a little bit out in the country, but there's places to stay and that sort of thing. It's not like it's, you know, the middle of, you know, nowhere. I like that. But, uh, yeah, it's you get a free day pass and you get a free copy of the Fortitude Training ebook as well. 75 bucks. So, I like that. Make Make an adventure out of it. It'll be fun. Yeah. Yeah. Shoot some pictures, put on your Instagram. I like all that. Good. Yeah. Do do selfies. You can selfies the whole time. As many selfies as you want. Low low limit on selfies during the seminar. I like that idea. Yeah. And uh as I mentioned, check out our great sponsor if you guys want to support our programming. Plus, you'll get some really good uh high quality thirdparty tested supplements. That's true.com. Our code is think. Scott, thank you as always. Welcome, my man. My pleasure. See you guys.