 What's up, what's up guys, welcome back to blood, sweat and gear with coaches, what's up guys, welcome back to blood, sweat and gear with coaches, skip pill, Andrew Barry, I'm Scott McNally and all our programming is brought to you by you, the people of Patreon, we've got some Patreon questions today, thank you for your support, and we are brought to you by truenutrition.com, use our code think over there to get additional savings on high quality third-party tested and in-house tested supplements from a company that you can trust, all your basic stuff like creatine, intra-workout, of course, protein powder, and of course, supplement source. We are a company that you can trust, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, before Thanksgiving, the biggest, I think one of the biggest party nights of the year. Biggest party night of the year. You guys are getting on Black Friday. Super Bowl's got to be bigger. Isn't it New Year's and pre-Thanksgiving? Yeah, pre-Thanksgiving, and there's like one of the most dangerous nights to be out driving. Really? Yeah. This is crazy. Super Bowl has to be up there, though, I'm sure. They're all stressed, getting ready to deal with their families tomorrow. You know what I mean? That reminds me. I've got to text Rachel and tell her to pick up a bottle of wine. We don't drink, but we're going to someone's house tomorrow, and they do a lot of nice things for us. We should get them a nice bottle. Not the kind you get at the grocery store, but the kind you get at a wine store. Get a really nice box of wine. Yeah. Just bring some grapes and a trough. We figured we'd make it tonight. We don't drink it. We don't know. Yeah. So let's jump into some listener questions. We're just going to make this one basically most likely a gear Q&A, but we'll see what else everybody comes up with. And if you guys want to take part in the next show, then definitely comment below all your comments and likes, all that stuff. Hit the hype button. All that stuff helps to boost us up, and we much appreciate it. All right. So Phil says, Scott, I've got a bit of a unique question for you. He says, four-year-old vials of Test Sip and test e in grapeseed oil, still sealed, but have been sitting in the dark closet. The temperature of the room is 60 to 85 degrees at whatever given time it is, summer or winter. Would there be any reason to be scared of using these? Would the hotter temperature degrade the test faster? 60 to 80 degrees is a pretty big... 60 to 80? Yeah, that's fine. I'm going to go ahead and say it probably is fine, right? Because you've got to think of things that ruin compounds. Electricity, intense heat, intense cold, sunlight, and too much oxygen. So it's kind of free of all of those things. So I feel like it's probably fine. I would use it. I'm just telling you right now. All of us would use it. Yeah, I'm being honest. I would use it. I mean, come on now. Okay, here's what you do. Here's what I would do. All right. Half mil. Okay. Not terribly deep. That way, if it abscesses, they don't have to dig as deep. Well, there's nothing to say you don't have to re-sterilize it. You can totally heat it up. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's arguably a better option. But if you're a gambler, just take a small dose, and then you see how you tolerate it. And let's put it this way. None of us would do that. We would just take our total dose. No. We'd be like, no, it's good. Yeah. I was just saying 60 to 80 degrees. I mean, that is a pretty substantial difference. Not that it's bad. It's horrible or egregious at 80 degrees. But I'm just saying, you know, 60 is pretty cold. 80. For the guys in Florida, 60 is pretty cold. Over here, I'm in shorts. You can't stand. That's the one thing I don't like about Florida. Andrew, come on. Everywhere you go, it's freezing. You go to a restaurant, it's freezing. Oh, when you go inside, they have the air cranked. It's just cranked. It's freezing. Yeah, but it gives you a reason to wear your sweatshirts. Yeah. I only wear sweatshirts when I train and when I do the podcast. That's the only time I wear them. Yeah. I love the weather in Florida. I have no complaints about it. Outside, not inside. I like it both, because I guess you cool back off when you're inside, right? Yeah. It's good for the first five minutes, because it's warm outside. After that, though, I don't know. When my nose is cold, my hands are cold, that's not good. I've used gear that's expired. There's no real expiration date on UGL. Why are you bringing this back in, Scott? Because there's no real, true expiration date on UGL gear. You know what I'm saying? They just put a number on there, and they put it way down the road. I mean, if the trend is no longer amber and it's clear, that might be when I'm like, okay, I'm going to cross this. What if it's really brown? That's actually the next question. Oh, I'll wait then. Okay. Okay, yeah. So the next guy. The next guy. Patreon's reading your mind, Skip, because David says, all right, planning to do a low-dose trend cycle, titrating up to 100 milligrams a week over six to eight weeks, along with 400 tests. What color is trend A supposed to be, LOL? Because this stuff is reddish brown. I stashed my violet gear in my box, and I thought, eh, maybe that's not right. I would say it's a cross between Skip's complexion and mine. There you go. Yeah. I mean. You're catching up there, Andrew. You're getting darker there. Yeah, you are. A couple days of melanotan in me, Skip. A couple days. I'm going to have to catch up with you guys. If I can't be jacked, I'm going to be tan. So, yeah. No. So what color is too dark? Is that what you're saying? Well, like, what is this reddish brown? He's like, I don't know about this. I want to see a picture of it, because I'm just being honest. I, you know, we are all, three of us, we're pretty well connected. Isn't it just the pigment? Here's my thing. It looked like tar. Oh. You know, I'm talking like, it was a, I should, I should take a picture. I don't think I have it here in my home, but I could get a picture of it. Of course you would have it in your house. We all, I hesitated, you guys all kind of smiled like, I know why he's doing that. But, like, you're drawing it, and it's, it's falling like it's muck. Does it look like molasses? Yes. Thank you. That's a better way to put it. And this is a solid sort, like, I'm like, okay. And this is right before the show, like, four weeks. And I'm like, there's a new bottle, so I grabbed another bottle from the same, and it was the same thing. So, you know me. Well, hope it works. And then the next couple days, I am panicked. Because you know it doesn't hit right away. Yeah. Like, it's going to take a minute, and all of a sudden, your body has to freak out. Your white blood cell count goes through the roof. You know, that type thing. It's fighting this. Part of immune stuff. Foreign. Yeah, yeah. Exactly. This foreign substance. But it was fine. You could just, to make yourself feel better, you could run it through a Wattman filter again. And you know what I mean? It's a pretty laborious task. It is. Your hand gets frugging. Come on. Yeah. Push that shit. Yeah, you could do that, and you could rebake it. And, you know. I felt better that the other ones were the same. Like, well. Yeah. It's either all really good, or it's all really bad. I don't know. And I had no issues from it. But I was, admittedly, after I took it, it was one of those things where I go, Skip. Like, you know better than that. Like, what the hell were you thinking? So the next couple days, I was a little anxious. I'm like, this could really go badly for me. And it was fine. I have seen trend oxidize over time, where it starts out like the golden tone. And over time, being exposed to oxygen, it ends up turning that, like, a reddish tone. I have seen that happen. I never saw no molasses brown trend, though. By the time it mixed with everything, because, you know, there's like 42 compounds in this barrel, right? So by the time I mix it up and everything else, because I do that, I run it underwater, and then I have to mix it. I don't want, like, different shades and different kinds. It all has to be mixed. No, I know what you mean. Yeah. It is this bizarre red color that I've not seen before. How long does it take you to take one injection of, like, a CC? If you mix in, say, 33% of three different compounds. I'm a pretty slow. What are we talking? Is this 10 minutes? Is this a half hour? Yeah. Is it? Oh, no. No, I'd say, I mean, let's just say it's 3 mil, arbitrary number. Okay. Yeah. It would probably take, like, the entire plunge would take about a minute. No, no, I'm talking, like, from pulling it out of your cabinet or wherever, not in your house, obviously, but when you go to that place that has it, and you're pulling the compounds out, and you're putting them into the syringe, and then you're going back and forth like this, and you're heating it up. How long is that for? The whole process. Like, I'm going to take a shot. Yes. To the time I'm done taking a shot. I preload for the week, so every time I have a shot, I have to go to the storage unit to do that. So let me ask you this. How, when you go to the storage unit, obviously, this undisclosed place, and you get all your preloads together for the week, how long does that process take you? Then we can divide by seven. Okay. Well, remember, I'm bilateral, too. Anytime I take a shot, it's left, right. So you're going to divide by 14. By 14. Yes, exactly. So, which is very difficult to do once you figure out your dosages and where you want them, to break them up and make sure that it's right. This is a check, double check, triple check. Spit out the fucking number. I don't know. What is the time? I'm leaving the viewer hanging. All right. Are we talking like.  ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré ré kind of like on sunday we do laundry at the house yeah that's what you know what i'm saying it's kind of like a yes it's a chore of something that you do to break yours but it but it's it seems laborious and well yeah it really does gear prep like it takes me literally 45 seconds to maybe 60 seconds from pulling bottles out putting into into a syringe right and injecting and throwing the thing away oh really yeah if that i'm probably somewhere between you two then i'm probably like five minutes maybe tops i'm literally watching a youtube video not even paying attention while i'm doing it oh is that right no i'm i'm i probably give myself shots now after all these years the same way i did the first couple years i don't like them i've never liked them it's not so i i will literally wake up in the morning and i check my list of things i'm like today's a gear day like i'll be happy if it's not like oh and that's why i like TRT so much too i'm like oh this is sweet i don't have to do this so skip now teaches the nurses at the local college how to get proper injections properly remember i have two daughters one graduates with their DNP in spring and the other one graduates with their rn and they'll hit me up with questions and and things about i'm like that's just not even right that is not the right spot this is what you did and i and i'll explain it to her i'm like that's not what they're going to teach you but i think i have done more injections personally than any of your cohorts or anyone who's going to train you any registered any single registered nurse in their entire career have you never seen it really have you seen a nurse never just totally jab plunge and they're done no one does that um hold on i remember seeing a lot of videos of a certain vaccine being injected on tv and they were just like hammering it and just throwing right in and i'm like no aspiration no like actually like sizing up exactly where they're putting it aspirations overrated yeah i'm serious i don't remember the last time i did no but i mean either but i'm just saying like if you look up the proper technique those nurses were probably taught a little differently than what they're doing oh i i don't doubt that yeah yeah guys there are black friday sales that i am not talking about on youtube whatever you do i would not go to the think big facebook group to learn more there i wouldn't follow me over at scott mcnelly one on instagram or think big bodybuilding and i definitely wouldn't listen to the audio podcasts on spotify or itunes or whatever else you listen to i i wouldn't do any of those things because i i wouldn't want to learn about those deals all right how about this one um and i kind of have a side question to go well another question to go with it from damon he says um i have realized that i get far superior mind muscle connection when using 25 milligrams of oxangelone pre-workout i've tried other orals for this and have not noticed anything near the effect that i get from oxan uh possibly in my head or is there something chemical that i'm not aware of thanks fellows so i want to i want to piggyback off that and ask you which oral steroid gives you the best pump in his case it's oxangelone yeah i don't think it's mind muscle i think and i have said you guys heard me say for a long time the contractile force of the muscle this is just for me because i don't know how anybody else feels but you could literally put seven different orals in front of me i take each oral for a week i'll tell you which one's anivar yeah no question because i will feel that it just feels like the muscle is contracting so hard it's just gonna rip it from your sternum it's different feel it's a totally you have all the other ones and then you have anivar up here i don't want to go too high because then you can't see my hand i wouldn't disagree with that i think anivar i would say a second but kind of a distant second is is anadrol but anivar yeah like yep you take 25 50 milligrams of that in the morning two hours later you go to the gym you know you took it yeah so i don't get the closing you're like dang i don't get the pre-workout effect from it like i i don't i need the like seven to ten days of running it before i get the really that that really strong second day in yeah i know i'm on anivar same here yeah now if i miss it that day i'm not gonna like go to the gym and go hey what happened yeah but i a couple days in i can it's just so obvious yeah yeah i i my man so you guys are putting anivar up there at the top even higher than anadrol yeah of course you guys know i'm a big fan of d-ball i do have to say one thing the pump that you get while on winstrel and you're closing in on that show and you add that winstrel in you started it at four weeks out and now you're 10 days out there is and you're starting to dry out you know what i mean there is nothing to me that compares to that nasty cement like winstrel hardness that you get when you get a pump hardness or pump though i feel like it we're talking i know slightly different things here like we're talking intramuscular pump or we talking just like my muscles feel like hard granite but i think they're different i think they're are they but are they or is it just a different version of the pump i'm one that's the question i'm asking myself you know is it a different version of a pump because technically i'm like getting muscle in the blood or blood in the muscle right and and i'm getting the pump effect but now instead of like getting the like the ballooned anadrol or you know d-ball feel it's just like this grainy nasty cement hard feeling i think they're two different feelings oh they're very different feelings so i agree so that's i would say the anivar is the pump the windstraws the the granite i don't i don't have a better term now you want to get the best of both worlds you don't yeah i was just gonna say i'm like i don't know if i've taken windstraw without anivar yeah let's not let's not i mean why choose i have taken just windstraw without anivar for preps and yeah undoubtedly anivar adds that second layer so yeah all right i guess it's settled then i like that um from the facebook group what benefits would you be looking for with growth hormone at one unit per day five days on two days off been using peptides and thought i'd play around with this possibly using peptides when coming off but uh running for a few months i'm not really trying to get bigger but i want to get healthier uh like the uh like the college effects and recovery from and oh you know from an athletic hernia the benefits i guess are that you have more to invest in your stock plan i guess um one unit a day is what the what he said five days a week yeah i would say that's akin to saying you know what i want to build my city and i'm not knocking it the guy i'm just giving a comparison it's akin to saying i wanted i want to increase my savings so i'm going to put a dime in every other day yeah i just yeah there's no roi there i don't i don't see from a health he's talking about health he's talking about college i can't i can't say that there would be zero effect but is it quantifiable i would say probably you're not going to be like oh i'm really yeah i noticed it no yeah i don't think you're going to notice anything what would be which brings me to the a pity piggyback pity piggyback question what is the minimal dosage yeah and i say it's a couple units yeah mainly two i would say that's to me that's like the basement yeah i'm trying to recall how many milligrams a healthy adult male of gh is produced per day and it's 400 micrograms so 0.4 milligrams okay and then so that's like one and a half units so what i'm saying is you're basically just putting back in what you know your body would be making maybe a smidge more and maybe not as good a quality either you know you know the gh that your brain your body's producing is it's yeah legit so yeah right you know what i mean i guess okay here's here's a scenario let me know what you guys think if you could only do one unit of gh a day would you rather do that or would you rather do something like tessa morelin or some of it like a gh secretagogue instead i would probably go with that secretagogue i might too in that situation yeah i feel like peter griffith is asking his friends who's better to sleep with and given two crappy options well talk with that  I don'ts, I don't know, okay, I don't know, okay, it is, it's a, it's a, it's a, it's a, it's a legit, I'm going to stay, I'm going to stay, I'm going to assume that it's farm grade, I'm going to go with the GH, but that's only because I don't know why, I don't know why, I probably because I'm not big on the peptides. Not either. Mimic, yeah. Okay, what about this though? Here, okay, here's what I would absolutely do. If you could only do one unit of growth a day, or you only wanted to do one unit of growth a day, or you only wanted to do one unit of growth a day, I would do a milligram of tesamoral in a day as well. And I would take the tesamoral in a day as well. And I would take the Tessa, like at least an hour to two hours before I take the GH. So, nighttime before bed, I'd take the Tessa, I'd go and lay down. If I had to set an alarm for an hour later, then I would take the exogenous GH in one unit. And I think that's how you're going to get one plus one equaling closer to two. And just to be fair, for contrast, he did ask every other day. He didn't even say daily. Oh, it's every other day? Yeah, he said every other day. I think he said every day, or five days on, two days off. I think that's what he said. Okay. Yeah, five on, two off. Yeah. Yeah, one every other day, man. That would be real bad. Oh, I guess I would ask him, is it a financial thing, or is it a, like, what's the reasoning with using such a low, low amount? Because I think we all agree that somewhere around two units is like the minimal effective dosage to see anything on growth hormone. So, I guess maybe he wants a follow-up, and we can answer next time. But it's not, you know, it's not cheap, but it's not expensive. Not like he used to be. If you're talking bananas, like if this were in the units of bananas, we could say like a couple hundred bananas could get you enough growth to run two units a day. Let's see, if you did two units a day, Andrew, five days a week, you could do that for 10 weeks, right? So, 20 weeks of two units a day for a couple hundred bananas would be pretty affordable, you know? Very affordable, yeah. To the point where if it were Sarastin, it would be relatively affordable if you think about it. I mean, I just think of it this way. Like, I think it's really easy to look around in your life, like, what do I waste money on? Whether it's stopping to get a Monster Energy drink every other day at $3.50, or now they're like $4 in some places, or stopping to get a water bottle at $2 versus just filling up a water bottle at home. Little things like that. What could you cut out of your life to afford, replace that with a couple units of growth, right? I remember I went and bought one of my watches, and I remember thinking to myself, because this is a joke between myself and my buddy, Tommy, how, and I just, like, I knew the price. I was like, how many kits of Sarastin is it? That's how we equate the expense of something. How many kits of Sarastin is that equal? How horrible? You know you're a meathead when you do something like that. You're like, I don't know. This is a lot of kits of Sarastin. Yeah. Outside of Dave Palumbo, there is nobody who has podcasted longer than me in the hardcore bodybuilding space, and as a result, I've kind of become that guy, you know, like the podcast dad that everybody reaches out to when they want to start a new show. Well, recently, I partnered with this company, Mayano, and I've been testing out their microphone, the PD200W, and honestly, I've been super happy with it. It kind of exceeded my expectations, especially given the price. Right now, I am totally wireless. It's a feature I didn't think I was going to enjoy as much as I do. You can also plug it into your phone. So you've got the same great sound on both your computer and your mobile device. You can also plug it in with USB-C or XLR, and the whole experience has been easy. I literally just plugged it in and started recording. The batteries lasted forever. I've been recording for the last month. I've only charged it twice. And as I already alluded to, the price is really good. So if you're looking for a new microphone, I give it my seal of approval. In fact, I would buy this over the $1,000 setup that I normally use, to be completely frank. Plus, it comes with a stand. So you're set to go. It's all you need. I've got a link in the description. They're having holiday sales. If you need a new mic, this is a great way to go. We've got Josh in the stream. We've got a few questions in the stream. We'll make sure to get all of those. He says, guys, I crushed my E2. Is there any way that I can get that back quickly? I guess. Stopped doing what you crushed it? Yeah. What's the mechanism of crushing? How did you make that happen? Were you using like 25 megs of aromasin every day when you didn't eat it? Were there drugs you can just stop taking? Or do you need to add a drug in or change your cycle up? I guess that's the question. Let's say it was test and EQ. Okay. Bump your test up. Right. Drop the EQ for a week. I'm trying to think of what else would. Add trust alone. Like low dose for a couple days or for a while. Yeah. A couple of D-ball. Add some D-ball. Yeah, exactly. There's a lot of ways you could raise that E2 up for quickly. He says. Oh, just a nice comment here from the same guy, Josh. He said, I've been consuming YouTube content, bodybuilding content for the last five years. Found your channel about five months ago. Learn more in those five months than all those other five years. How about that? That takes me back to what we were talking about before the show. This guy is looking for bodybuilding content. Right. And it's not his fault. But he couldn't find the content. Where were you five years ago when I put that episode out with Brandon Curry? You know what I mean? Yeah, but there's just so much content. Yeah. There is. Especially now. Yeah. I mean, I was listening to, I think, a podcast where they talked about how many podcasts, new podcasts go up every day. And how many minutes or hours of podcast material is uploaded to YouTube, Spotify, Apple. And it's mind-blowing. Like, it's mind-blowing. When I started bodybuilding podcasting, there were about four other podcasts. Four, literally. Skip was on one of them. I was going to say, you took over one of them. Like, well, I'm going to dominate PED radio right now. Remember John? John and Shelby had one for a short while. Oh, I loved that show. Blue Collar Bodybuilding, I think. Blue Collar Muscle Radio. That's it. Yeah. That was a good one. I think you can still find those episodes, too. Yeah, yeah. I sent you episode 10, Scott. Of PED radio. Yeah. With John Meadows. Yeah. Yeah. That was good. That was crazy. I wouldn't have thought it would even have been there. 2013, was it? It just said 11 years ago. So that could be like 11 years and 11 months and 11 days. I don't know. But something like that. So, yeah. 14, 13. Probably 13. 2013. So another question in here. All right. It says, 13 weeks into an 800 test, 600 DECA, 600 PRIMO push. Supplier is out and needed to step, need to step, reduce the dose. Because the plan is 26 to 32 weeks. How much reduce the dose till, and then somebody commented. Basically, how much reduce the dose and still progress well? What would and can you do? I assume he's talking about the PRIMO. He's probably, that's the compound that he can't get and that he's, I guess, if you're going to plan a 32 weeks or 10 weeks or 15 weeks of something, it's good to have everything on hand. You know what I mean? Like if your plan is for something, which is why, I mean, I don't know about you guys, but I say this is not a prescription for doses. This is not me telling you exactly what to do. This is, I give a full 20, 20 something odd weeks of compounds, weeks, rough amounts. This is just so you know what to have for when. Right? So like, I'm probably going to start thinking about this compound then. It behooves me that you don't have this stuff on hand already, like at the start of prep. So I would kind of say the same thing to him. Like, probably should have stocked up. But now you didn't. Is he wondering, does he have a lot of primo left or does he only have enough for like three weeks? That's the question. Isn't it just the primo too? Or is it part of the test? And then, cause you could, I mean, if he's doing an 800 test, 600 deca, 600 primo, he could completely run that without the primo. That's what I was going to say. And still do fantastic, right? Yeah. You could add EQ in. You could add something else in. Yep. You know? Yeah. Yeah. Would you replace that? You know, do you, I, I feel like if that was my cycle and I was going to pull 600 out, I'd want something else in just, that's how I, my brain operates. I don't want to go from like starting out for the first, you know, 10 weeks with a high dose and then dropping down to two thirds of that for the next eight, you know, I want to keep it up. I agree with you. What do you guys think about building a dose as you go? Say I've had some conversation with guys on the shows lately about that. Maybe our goal is going to be to run 1500 tests, right? And 1500, well, I'm just going to make some numbers up. We'll say 1500 tests, 800 of a DHT, and, and maybe 300 of an anabolic, some MPP. I don't know. All right. Would you start, would you, would you ever start lower? Say that we've had some time off and we're getting into the cycle. Do we need to jump straight to that 1500 test or would there be any point in starting lower, getting something out of that and building it? And do you ever do that with people? What is, I guess it comes down to what's the person's experience. Are they someone that alternates say blast and cruise of that said cycle you just mentioned? And so they, like those are their doses. They know that work, or is it a somewhat younger or less experienced client? They know that work, or is it a little bit.  or person, well, well, we don't know if you need 1500 mg of test and 800 deca and 800 deca and 800 deca and 800 deca and 400 whatever, we don't know if you need all that, like let's say you're 23 years old and you've only done 500 tests and maybe 500 deca before, we don't need to jump to a cycle that large, even if in your mind you're like oh I want to, this is the cycle I planned out, what do you think? Like well maybe let's start back out with like maybe 600 tests and 400 deca and 400 deca and we can always go up after four to six weeks and we can increase from increase from increase from increase from increase from increase from increase from increase from there. So you get what I'm saying? Like if it's a guy who's in his 35s, 35 to 40, he knows his experience with PEDs, he knows that I cap out somewhere around 1500 tests, X amount of whatever, anabolic and whatnot, then I might just say yeah let's just jump to that cycle, we know it works for you, it's it's let's go with what we know works. Yeah. I'm gonna actually do something similar this next year. I'll start a cut phase in February. And I'll start a cycle. I've been TRT, I think you guys know I've been TRT since mid-July after the show and I'm gonna remain TRT and for the viewers it's not TRT, I like this one, TRT plus. You're not TRT plus? You're legit, like you're talking legit TRT. It's legit TRT and I love it. When you say are you in range then? Like legit TRT or are you on like 250 tests? Yeah, it's like 1099. Oh, okay. 10, it gets down to 1070, I just gotta get back up there. No, but I mean that's what I'm shooting for. Yeah. So, it's coming into this next cycle in cut phase, I'm gonna do something, now I do something similar and always have where, okay, it'll go up a little bit at the 12 week mark considering it might not be trend at 12 weeks, but there will be, the dosages will come up a little. What I'm gonna do this time is I'm gonna start very low. I'm not gonna go much higher than TRT. Here's an example. It might only be a total milligram of six or seven hundred. Okay. But then as I make diet changes, and this is the plan going in, it may, you know, change, it'll be tweaked, it'll be adjusted. But as I make diet changes and the calories come down and or the caloric output goes up, I'm going to adjust gear, increase gear at the plan is to do it basically at the same time. Every time that I make an adjustment with the calories, then or the caloric output, I'm gonna increase the dosage. And we all do something similar to that. Like as an example, you may add orals at six to eight weeks out. I mean, that's clearly, you know, a jump in dosing if you're gonna put those on top of what your injectables are, or adding trend. So, you know, people might be thinking, well, what are you gonna do for milligrams? That's not even, I'm not there yet. I haven't, I have plenty of time to figure that out. But as an example of putting something in like trend where that dosing may not be high because or as high as a different compound, because milligram for milligram, I mean, it's, it's pretty strong. So, you know, it may only be an increase of 300 milligram as an example, arbitrary number. But it wouldn't be like three. Okay, that's the equivalent to 300 milligram of EQ as an example. But those I'm coming into this cycle and into this cut phase with the idea of, increasing the dosage as my calories come down or my caloric output goes up. And I want to see how it's going to work. I kind of like that idea. I think that my initial cycle building was related to coming off to recover, you know, years ago, right? So the thought was always like when we all three of us, when we started cycles, there were like, what, eight weeks, 10 weeks cycles. And part of that was that, because you could only stay on so long before you get so shut down, you want to be able to come off PCT, whatever, and then recover and then do it again. Nowadays, we don't have to worry about that. Everybody's on TRT, basically, right? Or cruise between cycles. So we kind of have more time. I don't feel like we need to like get and I think that's part of what like the, the frontloading was about, because like, we only have 10 weeks. So let's make sure we get the most out of it. Get those levels up from week one kind of thing or, you know, kickstarting. Now I'm kind of like, well, man, if I've been at a cruise dose, or clients been at a cruise dose, or maybe he hasn't done, you know, hardly run gear at all. Had this last year, he's been on TRT. If we just go to 300 tests, like just that in itself is going to like, we're not, you know, big picture, he's not a competitor. So we're not like trying to get on stage next year, you know, we're just trying to make the best games we can. If I'm on 300 tests for that first eight weeks, and he's, he's, he's making good progress with that. Maybe we start adding in something else after, you know, six weeks in and then build it. I don't know. I don't know. I feel like with that, like the anabolic load was a lot lower. So we can stay on it longer. There's that, you know, I don't know. But it's kind of just been a thought that I've had in this, this past year or so. I guess you're getting good progress out of that, Skip. I'd be curious. With your thought process to Scott, you know, there's other things you can add beside AAS too, right? You could layer in insulin up your growth hormone. Yeah. You know what I'm saying? I think there's a lot. I mean, I know there's a lot of synergy between AAS, insulin and growth hormone. So it just brought me back to a conversation I had with a client today where instead of increasing the PED dose, hey, let's up or let's add in some insulin at the peri workout window. Now, you know, let's add in, let's bump the GH up another dose, you know? So there's other levers to play than just AAS. Yeah. And then like you get, say, eight weeks in. So if we went hard and we started with that 1500 milligrams by eight weeks in now, it's like, yeah, you're, you're still doing great, right? There's no question about it. But you're kind of like at the dose you're going to be at versus now we could literally like double where you're at, you know? Or, yeah, I don't know. Just a, just a thought I've heard in Cuba has kind of been doing that kind of thing. And then I just talked to somebody else, Nathan Stiles, who's, he took like a bunch of time off. He, he wanted to get his significant other pregnant. So like he took like basically a year of, you know, his first six months was nothing. And then TRT. And now he's just gotten back on cycle. He's like three weeks in after a year off. So he's starting lower. He's going to build. Yeah. Yeah. And the other thing too, is I'm going to try, basically I had this goal. I wasn't going to say this cause it's just my own thing. It doesn't, I don't think anybody can really have a takeaway here, but I'm, I would like to come out of this next cut phase and end up not going over 50% of what my dosing was last year. It's something, and I'm not going to stick to it if it doesn't look like it's working, but I'm basically trying not to up and increase my dosing any more than I need to, because I feel like it feeds things like inflammatory responses and things like that. And the reason I say that I've come to this in the last couple months, I've been doing a lot about thinking about it prior to that, but just how well the, my offseason is going on TRT. It's, and I'm not on an absurd amount of calories or anything like that, but the recovery is just so good. And I feel so much better and less inflamed without doing as many drugs. So I figure, you know what, the worst case scenario is I get into a cut phase and I feel like, okay, I am going to have to make bigger incremental increases. Okay. But I'm going to try not to do that. I'm going to try to keep it as low as I can and just see what that response is. And if it doesn't work, then I have plenty of time to increase them if I need to. The lolly says I have my next four years in a storage unit. Stocked up. He knows what he likes. He knows what he's going to use. He's, he's planning ahead. I'm a year at a time. I don't know how you guys go, but I don't, I'm the same way. Andrew, I, the last thing I want is myself or my client scrambling to try to get something as I have this thing. It's a pet peeve of mine for years. When a client tells me they ran out of anything, if you run out of creatine and they can't figure it out for like three weeks. And I'm like, Oh, well, yeah, I meant to tell you, I guess I didn't think about it's like, if there's one thing about this lifestyle is red, you need to be regimented. You need to be highly structured, planful and constant variables. Keep the variables the same. And if for some reason you don't, you kind of got to tell us like we have to know that stuff. So it is, it's like, it's like nails on a chalkboard. It's a giant eye roll is what it, I'll be nice about it. 10, 15 years ago, I'd have probably been a prick in my older age. I'd become a little more chill, but it's a giant eye roll. Are you a talking smack to like your wall? Like while you're typing nicer things, are you like, yeah, yeah. It's just like the love of God, like really? Come on. Yeah. Bill just, uh, the lolly, he just competed in his first show and, uh, looked incredible, man. In a couple of interesting notes. Number one, he is, he is like that perfect client with having everything on hand. He was like, what do you think of Proviron? You think that'd be beneficial? You know, I was like, well, we could run that. What do you got? And he's like, well, I get a hundred more tabs, you know, a hundred more days, a hundred more, but I can get it started for the next four weeks. I got plenty. So he already has things anticipating what you might want. Yeah. That's good. Yeah. Never, never used a diuretic in his life. He's like, oh yeah, I have a whole bunch of hydrochlorothizide. Yeah. That's for, here's the thing. Like I tell everyone when I was competing, I had a frigging pharmacy. Literally. It looked, if you opened up my closet and that, well, it's a different house, but you open up the closet, you know, like a traditional closet in a con. Everybody knows that.  I haven't, I haven't used D-ball since 2009 maybe? Yeah. There's probably 400 tabs of it just in case on a whim, I might want to run it or maybe a client needs some that's local and you know what I mean? Yep. So, so Dave gives me crap about that. He was like, because everything I had run in the last year were things that were in my box that were just like leftovers, you know? But that's because for a decade I was, you know, doing that same thing. There were things I had to throw out when I first met Victoria, like we need, when she came here and she's from out of the country, if there's ever a case where we needed medication, she knew that like, you know, I had to throw out when I first met Victoria, like we need, when she came here and she's from out of the country, I had to be a case where we needed medication, she knew that like, you know, I had to be a lot of the time. Like, well, we have several different antibiotics here. There's different, you know, like anything you could possibly need. We said earlier in the show, these things don't go bad. They, they have a long shelf life. So it's not like you're going to buy something and not use it. The only, well, yeah, but to Scott's point, cause I, when I just moved two weeks ago, I threw away a bunch of shit. I'm like, Oh yeah. But I will say the only downside to that is if there's a problem legally, it does look like intent to distribute. True. Oh yeah. That's a good point. You know? Yeah. I know when we end up, you know, I live in a high rise downtown, but when we go to buy our next home, I'm going to go back to having a walk in closet. You know how like women have really nice shoes. My wife has really nice shoes. Cause I'm a shoe guy. I got to make sure she, you know, looks the part of the work. You got all these, you know, lights to show, you know, to, to basically have the shoes and the heels at the ready. Right. Even guys who, who do like, like they, they, they collect, right. They collect Jordans and stuff. Mine's all going to be gear. Just with the lights too. Are you going to have the lights on them? Yeah. There won't be any shoes in the shoes. They'll be in their boxes, but all along display on both sides will be all my gear. How many pairs of shoes do you have? Me? Well, I'm going to ask you in a minute. Oh, I was going to say. How many pairs of shoes do you have? Yeah. Well, I mean, I, I probably have a bunch. Oh yeah. I probably have a bunch to be honest. Cause I haven't, I'm a kind of like, I haven't thrown my old shoes away. I get sentimentally attached to them. Or you're like, I'm going to use them to mow the lawn or I'm going to use them to do shit work. So I have like, if you're not counting those, I have like my hiking boots and my tennis shoes. And then of course I have a couple of pairs of dress shoes. Yeah. You just purposely left out the seven pair of Crocs that you own. Oh, and the Crocs. And the Crocs. I've got Crocs. Two pairs. Gotcha. Skip. I'm getting away from the Crocs. I know you're setting this up. How many boxes of shoes do you have that you haven't even broken into and worn yet? I did purchase this year. 22 pairs of Oliver Cabell or I'm, I'm big on Oliver Cabell or, or, uh, Vaja. And I did, but I'm a color match kind of guy. You know, I'm a color match kind of guy. Couldn't tell. You're a check out my drip kind of guy. Yeah. Exactly. It drives my wife insane. And I love it. Every single time I do it. Oh my God. You must be balling, dude. They have to, they have to watch us too. He's doing watches. But yeah, he's doing good. I had this thing this year real quick. I had this thing this year where I told you, I look over here and I see this. What's that? Nothing. No, but I look over here and I see these guys, Goldman Sachs. They're literally straight across. We wave at each other. I've told the story a million times and it drives me nuts that these 25, 30 year old guys that wear $6,000 suits and they have a regular job and I'm looking at them going, God, I would love to do that. Cause all I ever wear is sweats, 10, you know, workout shit and everything else. And I just thought, you know what? I'm getting older. I want to, I want to dress nice. I want to look nice on the occasion that I do go out. And so I just, I'm like, you know what? I want some new shoes. And then it turned into, you know what? I have always wanted a watch. I am going to get a watch and then I end up with a few more. But now when I go out, I feel like, okay, I feel like a normal person versus a meathead. And I like that. It makes, I don't want to say it makes me carry myself differently, but I, I like it. I enjoy it. So, and I can, I mean, for what it's worth, you know, I don't have kids to feed anymore and stuff like that. I do have to pay for other things like college and stuff, but you know, that's okay. So I'm enjoying it a little bit. Father time, I think was his username, something fighting father time. I don't know if you saw my message. He asked if when he could, could he do a physique critique? I told him if he emailed me right now that we could get that in to the show. So we'll see if he gets that to us. Hey guys, this is something from, uh, the Facebook group for sink big. And we got a lot of questions over there. He said, um, during a bulk, a bulk is, uh, edema around the ankles. Okay. What's the case if blood pressure and labs are in check? Is it like transient or is it like a, like all day kind of thing? That, that'd be my next question. Right. Yeah. Cause I think we've all experienced some very transient, you know, edema in the, um, in the calf region. And you know, some, a lot of people when they fly on airplanes or they're sitting, you know, on a bus or something like that for long periods of time or in the car for long periods of time, you know, they just look down and they press into their, or they pull their socks off and they're like, that's kind of an indent. I don't normally have that. If it's a one-time thing, I wouldn't think anything of it really. But if you're like, this is a chronic thing, even if your blood pressure is fine, I would still go and get, I'd get your labs done. I'd see what's going on with, uh, um, your proteins in particular, but I would definitely see a physician. I'd add to that, that if you're, unless you're just really sedentary like me, Scott, Andrew, you know, if I sit for a long period of time, I may get up and, oh, okay. Yeah. I have a look. And then within 10 minutes, I don't, or if you're standing for a long time and you, same thing, but I think if you're active and you have it and, and especially the older you get, I would almost go so far as to say that if you're consistently holding water in your legs, I would find it hard to believe that your blood pressure is all that same rate. Same. Because I mean, what does it basically say? It says usually that the heart is not able to pull efficiently the water against gravity out of, out of your lower body. So I know if I see it because I'm older, I would be like, yeah, if it was consistent for a few days, like if you, if you go out and you have pizza or you, you know, you have a big meal or two or your Thanksgiving, that's different. But if it's just a day to day thing and if it happens for more than a few days, I would definitely be like, okay, where's my water intake? Is my water intake where it's supposed to be? I'd start questioning things like that. And if everything is where it's supposed to be, then I'd take a closer look. But my take was just a little bit different on it. I felt because there were people in the group that were like, no, you should never have any kind of holding any kind of water. And I kind of felt like, really? I ran a lot of gear and I was pretty damn bloated. And my sock lines were just insane at times, you know, and I was, because I was kind of thinking like, yeah, man, I was like super bloated. I held a lot of water at times. And when you do that, especially if you're on your feet for your job, you know, standing for 10 hours, you're going to get a lot of blood in your legs that like it happens. So I kind of felt like I'm with you guys and I see where you're coming from. But I also kind of felt like unless it was really bad, like, is it pitting, you know, where you stick your finger in, it's creating a big, you know, nasty indentation. But if it's not like that, I almost feel like there's an element of like, I don't know. I don't know. The attitude I got kind of was like people were like, oh, you should never have any kind of water retention. Not never. But I think ideally, yeah, you probably shouldn't. I think Skip's example was best or his the way because, okay, if I had a bunch of pizza and then I went and sat like, okay, yeah. You know, transiently, not a big deal. You rode an airplane. You didn't, you didn't move. You know, those are, those are times where I'd say it's okay. But in your situation, Scott, I would actually be worried to tell you the truth. I'd be worried about low blood, low albumin protein. And I would. Yeah, my, like that was my, like my blood sugar or my, excuse me, my blood pressure was always fine. Everything was good, you know, but if you're holding 10 pounds of water and you're eating a shit ton of food and all that sodium, like. Not good for your heart. Not good for your kidneys. Yeah, but I'm with you on that. Yeah. I'm with you guys. I get it. But you're also younger. How old were you? I mean, the body is far more resilient. But in bodybuilding, though, I just feel like you, you do spend time. I don't know. I, I, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll, we'll take the other side on this one. I understand. You, you, you gotta pay the cost to be the boss. I understand that. Yeah. But I think. It doesn't have to be like a dangerous. I'm not saying like it should be terrible, you know? I'm saying, I think you were tiptoeing towards the line of danger. Yeah. I think Skip agrees that, like Skip said, it's better if it's not, right? Yeah. Yeah. It's better. You know what I mean? Like it's better if you don't hold water in your ankles and your, uh, in your calves. I mean, it shows the body systems are working efficiently. So I would take that as signs of your liver not working very well, which is then going to affect your heart and your kidney. So that's, that's what I would do. Yeah. Yeah. I don't think it's as big of a deal unless it was thick, serious pitting a demon. It's no big deal. Yeah. Yeah. You're fine. I'm fine. Yeah. I keep trying to paint a picture of like, okay, it's not like dire straits, but it's, you know, something to pay attention to. It's a sign. It's a sign that this is.  I was not the direction I want to be going. I was good with it. I grew. Not a big deal. Yeah, no, I just, yeah, I just, yeah, I just feel like we, you get, you get, you get bloated, especially if you're taking like, like, test deca dbol, you know, old school cycle and tons of, you know, I kind of put it up there with low HDL. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. High blood sugar. But over, yeah, exactly. But over, yeah, exactly. Right. Over time, that is, it's, ideally, it's not great. Ideally, it's not great. But can your body deal with it from time to time. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah 2005 or six oh that's early oh i would say that's that's yeah because you wouldn't have heard anybody on the boards in 2005 saying well what's your blood sugar you know it wasn't on the boards i read who's the guy uh the fish oil um oh gosh it's one of the first nutrition books that i read like it was very sciencey and it was all about the miracle of high dose fish oil i think is what it's called and i can't remember the doctor's name and he kept on saying blood sugar glycemic control um uh you know insulin sensitivity so i'm like i'm gonna pay attention to this you know and i remember i signed up through a a catalog i found a diabetes or not a diabetes i found AI don't know some grocery store um magazine right that had a if you're diabetic write to us we'll send you a free glucometer with the hopes that you're just going to keep buying their test strips because that's what's expensive right the test right and i remember i signed up for like three of those and i got all that i had like 20 glucometers at one time because i wanted to test them all and calibrate so yeah because like i just kept on getting them for free i would go and once the internet came out i was going online oh merrick's offering free glucometer i'm going to sign up for that yeah eli lily's going to offer one i'm going to sign up for that so yeah scott and i were like doesn't matter right blood sugar i'm getting huge am i getting huger am i stronger than i was yesterday all right another one from the uh the group says um question that's been eating at me uh since i've heard them talk about it on the transparent podcast do you all consider your genetic proclivity for things when programming he talks about genetically having more slow twitch fibers after genetic testing and i believe that's part of the reason why he programs relatively high volume excuse me i was always uh a great distance runner and less of a sprinter um i'm more of a grinder overall when it comes to lifting rather than a super explosive mover uh and uh although i prefer higher higher weights lower reps overall i've been toying with an absolutely loving higher rep quad work um for my compound movements leg press squat pattern um as part of my top set back offset style just curious as to what your guys thoughts are on this overall when programming i'll take it if you don't okay go go for it go for it well here are my thoughts on it um and we covered this on rep ranges just not that long ago okay you can do the genetic you can do the testing which is not i mean it's pretty invasive it's not terribly fun but if you're willing to go through that i think it can be very beneficial but remember every muscle can be different so you could have a different ratio in your quads than you do in your hamstrings you can have different you know we can go by the book and we can say oh okay these muscles tend to be predominantly you know this type versus this type but it's still so individual or you can do the easy way and you can literally run phases of higher reps and then run another phase of lower reps and yes it's not at this perfect you know completely controlled experiment but you can get a pretty good idea of what you respond to and i think it's important for people to note this and i'm not accusing the person asking the question of doing this i have no idea but just because a a set feels better in a different rep range does not mean that it's more or less beneficial you literally have to gauge that based on progress and if you're doing them both at the same time i don't know how you're able to gauge the process that way you need to control those variables more but i think that running even just as short as 10 weeks of one and 10 weeks of the other can give you at least an idea okay this one works a little better than this so i'm going to give it a little bit more time i'm going to give it 20 weeks arbitrary number to see and then go back to the other and you kind of look at the end of the day this is all our own science experiment what we do with training nutrition gear everything else so there's going to be a lot of trial and error we're trying to save time the viewers are trying to save time too by getting better advice so that they can kind of lean towards you know this side or this area or this particular thing but at the end of the day you just have to trial it assess it and then make the you know the necessary adjustments from there based on how you're responding do you guys um i'm with that 100 by the way yeah oh yeah but do you guys feel on that note of experiment trial and error do you guys feel that you figured out say chest versus legs respond to more volume a higher rep load or a higher repetition range versus like just to give my quick example my legs definitely respond better to a higher repetition range than my chest like my chest i like i'll go as low as six reps you know on a safe machine six to ten seems to be like the sweet spot would you say that you think people in general i was going to get there that like and i think we'll find the studies show that that the fiber types are a little more predominant to uh to that type of stimulus in the lower body with the higher repetitions versus the upper body but i have seen some people that responded really well to like sets of 15 to 20 on chest whereas to me that just seems like almost warm up or waste of time you know look at cyclists the size of their quads yeah okay you can't tell me that when you see and even even more so calves on a cyclist because they're not use anywhere near as much as the quads but if you see that you pretty much would have to know that guy is almost certainly going to benefit from higher rep squatting than low strength power lifting five reps you know that type of thing well actually let me counter that because you're right their quads are out of this world but you've ever watched some of the um cyclists do their leg training like they're in the in the gym stuff because like they're getting that high repetition stuff on the bike right i was watching a video of one of these top guys and he was doing single leg back squats okay with like 405 for sets of like four to six you know what i'm gonna find this crazy i'm gonna find this while we're talking but okay and while you are let me just add that there is something to be said of using your weight training as a cyclist using your weight training to be opposite the training that you're using for you know so that you're hitting both fiber types as well plus you have there's a component of cycling where you have the uphill sprints or that short burst of energy and it also depends on the type of cycling so you know there's there's speed cycling there's long distance cycling and i think the reason i said cycling i was leaning towards the long distance more of the marathon cycling i mean you look at um uh who come on come on mr huh lance aren't sure you thank you i for some reason was drawing a blank not exactly huge quads i mean if you compare them to everything else okay yeah his quads are going to be bigger but it wasn't those quads that are just going to be like oh my god look but you we've seen that before so i guess i'm trying to use an example where the daily activity or the training that is involved in a particular sport clearly not even performance not like maybe they're not even a good cyclist but you see cyclists with those big quads and those big hams and those big calves and they don't fit their upper body it's kind of like but training both sides train fast twitch slow twitch um i don't think that i would take a cyclist into the gym and have them train that those high reps because they're already getting that training it's similar to jimmy when i was working with jimmy what do they do what do what do football players do with their strength and conditioning it's all low reps it's power it's very short they're not training like bodybuilders not training with higher repetitions so i told him i said let's let's do something you have not done before basically let's get you to train more similarly more closely to a bodybuilder type rep ranges versus the things that you have done for years through your nfl career and in your college career and arguably probably when you're in high school too and it wasn't great i'm looking at that video andrew i'll throw that in post-production if i remember yeah legs are those those cyclist legs are just freaking insane he's still bulgarians with a barbell on his back with 397 pounds two i could never do that yeah no hell no not at my strongest so fiber types can change over time too depending on how you train them so especially if you're using slu yeah yeah depending on how you train them though the fiber types can change so  There's that too. How much? How much? I think a lot. I think a lot. I think that you can dramatically? Yeah, Scott talked about it on Muscle Minds. So like you can dramatically change them over time with the type of training that you do. So, okay, so as an example, just to give me again, I'm representative of the viewers because I don't, you know, so I like to ask these questions. If you had hypothetically an 80-20 fast to slow. Yeah. Could you in theory change it? Could you flip flop that? I don't know. Or would it be like you could change it? Or would it be like you could change 70 to 30 instead of 80 to 20? That's what I'm trying. I don't know. That's my, I don't know. And I don't know the answer to that either. So I saved an article on this and I was just finding it. Um, all right. So baseline human fiber types type one are your slow twitch oxidative type two way, your fast twitch oxidative glycolytic, your intermediate ones. And then your type two X are your fast twitch glycolytic, the exposed, explosive ones that, you know, you lose, you lose, you lose in a power clean or, you know, a sprinting. Um, et cetera. So you can't convert type one to type two, two directly, but you can shift between the subtypes of type two, um, X and type two a back and forth based off the training that you're giving you. So, so no, those slow twitch fibers cannot completely convert to a type two, but the other, but, but the type twos, you know, between oxidative glycolytic and then just straight glycolytic, those can convert back and forth. Yes. I mean, isn't that something to do with the conversion or the fuel source of it's, it's ATP related, right? It almost has to be because you're talking about glycolytic, then absolutely. It's ATP related. Yeah. Okay. I mean, it's all ATP related, but like, like you're talking about energy systems to like oxidative, um, phosphorylation versus, um, substrate level phosphorylation. Like what's happening. What's the readily available fuel source in that instant. Right. Right. Well, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm asking for layman's terms here, but are you here's here? Okay. Here's a layman's oxidative. Just think of the word oxygen, right? You're utilizing oxygen. So the marathon runner is utilizing a lot more oxygen to get their exercise done. Right. Whereas substrate level or more glycolytic, you are in glycolysis. You are using more, um, you're not using as much. It's anaerobic. So you're using utilizing, you're exercising in a non oxidative state. Basically. I, I explained that horribly, but added in, she said, there's a certain pool of type two X fibers that are like stem cells in that they can go either way. As far as fiber type and your training decides. She said, or what Andrew said, she wrote that. Yeah, but I completely botched that. I used to have a lecture that I gave and I used to get one at 15, 20 years ago to the college. And, um, to other trainers in our area. And I used to have it down pat and little glimpses of it was coming back into my head, but then they were so out of place that I explained it like a moron. So it's one of those things though, too, that, and sometimes people will scoff at this, but you have so much in your brain for so long that I don't even want to think about the things that I have forgotten. Yes. You know what though, Skip, you hold onto the things that are important. You know what I mean? Like the things that you use, those are the things that, you know, it's, so there's a, there's a, it's funny because I see this with, um, you know, being around for as long as we have, there's the newer crowd of people who come into bodybuilding and they're discovering all these things. I was like, Oh yeah, I remembered that. Yeah. You know, but it's something I hadn't thought about. Sometimes people get caught up in these, the interesting little nuances, but then they haven't applied to anything I've done in the real world for the last decade. So it's like something that I was like, I just haven't paid attention to that anymore. Wouldn't you say your brain focuses on the overall theme of whether something works, whether practice supplement compound synergy between things. So you remember the overall theme, you just forget some of the details of the cross interactions. Right. I think that's the best way to explain it. Like when someone asked me like, I don't know, maybe a question in a check-in and I'm like, I explained it the most simplest way possible because that's how my brain is bringing it up to my head at this point of, right. Yeah. It's going to help keep us burning fat or it's going to keep us, you know what I mean? It sounds dumbed down because it's like, well, I don't remember all the, like, like, like call us this. I used to remember or Krebs cycle. I used to remember all 10 steps of, of, of the Krebs cycle and all the different, um, substrates that would, that would enter. And then all the different, uh, NAD, NAPH, all, all the proton, all that shit. I used to have that memorized up until maybe 2012. Right now. Like, yeah, I know the Krebs cycle. It goes like this, you know, it's how we make energy, you know? Yeah. All right. I wanted to, uh, take a minute guys and share some stuff. Check this out. Hold on a second. I'm a little bit better prepared here. How about we do this? Yes. So there were some people in the Facebook group that had posted some cool stuff up. First of all, check this guy out. How would you say his name? Skip J O W A. The J I can't read it. I have my glasses on, but it's real small. J O W A. Yeah. I'm not sure how you say his name, but look at this progress that he's made. So this is his, where he was before. The J is probably silent or it's like a Howa or Howa. Maybe it's, I bet that's it. Is it Samoan? Ooh. And look at that. That's excellent. Yeah. That's a change of life, man. That's awesome. Yeah. Yeah. That's pretty crazy. He got peeled too. Yeah. Good for him. And I'm guessing this is where he's at now. It looks like he's still got young skin because it looks like the skin was pretty elastic too. Yeah. Yeah. Jeez. Hey, I did that show. Or I was at that show. Were you? Is that, or maybe they just did another Oklahoma show. Sorry. I was at the one earlier this year. I mean, not only did he get lean, but to be able to pull a vacuum like that. Yeah. No kidding. And then check this guy out, William. This is his before and after, which he already had a lot of muscle. But yeah, he's put on a lot. It looks like here. Yeah. These are just guys that were sharing their pictures with the group. Oh yeah. I was like, you know what? I figured I'd throw these up there. They didn't sign off on being put on YouTube, but they did sign off on posting in the group. So they're getting put up here now. It looks good. 30 pounds on this cycle. He went from, this guy doesn't look like he was 188 in the before picture. 188 to, I think he said 213. Put that side up again. He must be 5'5 or something. You know what I'm saying? That's a pretty substantial change. Yeah. It's a change. Yeah. Yeah, I agree. You just look at the arms and shoulders alone. It's like, man, you're talking to this. That's a, yeah. He looks pretty proud of himself on the left too, though. And the right. Yeah. Yeah. He's got that smile. Like he knew he was going to gain 30 and then he's happy he gained the 30. There was a couple more in here too. Let me see if I can scroll down and find them. Oh, this is just a cool one. Father and son did the Iron City Classic together. Nice. Which is Rise 41 posted that up. I thought that was cool. Yeah, it is. Very cool. Doesn't he do a podcast? Does he? What's his name? Rise 41? Rise, yeah. Yeah. It rings a bell. I don't know. Everybody does a podcast now, right? Well, true. Yeah. Oh, there's UC Sumo. Name doesn't ring a bell. No? We had somebody who was like, man, I'm so sick of hearing about UC Sumo. Get your own show. Yeah. Get ridiculously lean and then we'll talk about you. Yeah. I thought there was one more, but that might have been it. But yeah, I was looking for questions today. And so I scrolled through here and I was like, dang, we had a lot of people that were posting up some pretty cool transformations. So I figured I'd just see if I could pull those up. Oh, Casey Young just competed. I worked with him before and then he did his own thing for this show. And he got second place here. This was at, I believe, the Western Michigan. Oh, okay. I didn't notice that. I remember those days. I remember when it started. It was like your neck of the woods. Yeah. There's some food. I think that was it, though. I think that was it. All right. Anyway, like I said, I just wanted to share that because I saw some cool stuff. Share the positivity. Hey, one more thing I wanted to ask you guys. Coming into all the holidays, what is your approach with non-competitors? There's the, you know, they want to figure out like, hey, how do I do? You know, obviously they're going to see this after Thanksgiving. But then in another few weeks, we've got Christmas and New Year's and there's going to be parties and stuff. What do you guys, I want to hear from both of you. What do you tell your people? Three F's. Family, friends, and food. The only caveat with the food, this is food right here. This one. Just so we're clear. Just portion control. If you're not competing, I've always felt like this. Even if you're OCD, black and white, everything, just like give your family a break. Give your grandma a break. Give your wife a break. They're cooking the food, man. Just be respectful enough. Just be respectful enough.  I would say, I tell people, Thanksgiving, one meal, not Thanksgiving day, weekend, weekend, weekend, month, so, you know, one meal is not gonna hurt anybody. One meal is not gonna hurt anybody. One meal is not gonna destroy you. It's on a Thursday. I can't start again until Monday. Right. But do I still get my free meal on Saturday night? It's like, right. I'm like, dude, if you're asking me that, do what you want. But like to me, I can tell you what I did as a competitor who was in the off-season most of the time during Thanksgiving is I would have one meal. You know, I'd eat my regular meals throughout the day and I would have one meal. You know, I'd eat my regular meals throughout the day and I would have one meal. You know, I would eat my regular meals throughout the day. I would go home and I would go home and I would go home and I would go home and I would go home and not bring extra, I wouldn't bring leftovers home. You know, I think it's one meal is not gonna mess anybody up in the bodybuilding world. Now, if you're a competitor in a prep, that's a little different. Sure. You know, you got, you know, we got nationals coming up in two weeks, so they better stay on your friggin plan or we're gonna have some problems. Yeah. You chose the show. I have a guy though who's like depleted, right? And we're gonna utilize that to get some carbs in him. It's not gonna be a big deal. You know, it's, you know, we're not, we're not planning on doing something that like, no, we're gonna repeat this into the show using Thanksgiving food, but like it for him, he's already in shape. So it's not gonna be a problem. We're not trying to race to get there or anything, you know, but yeah, in general. And then, you know what I've told people to, and I didn't invent this idea, but somebody else had mentioned it once and I've suggested it. I've used it myself. And I think that it works out really good for people that are kind of afraid because you do, we do get people that are like maybe new to dieting. And they're like, I just, yeah, I've been making so much good progress. I don't want to mess this up. And, you know, there is that tendency for some people to like lose their mind once they start eating. If I were to get into Thanksgiving dinner, grab some turkey, grab some veggies, maybe even some gravy on that and eat that first. I've kind of preemptively created a governor, you know what I mean? Put that in my stomach first and then go back and get turkey. You would think, Scott, I've seen some people mess some shit up. Yeah. And veggies and then all my sides. And it's, you know, it's a lot, it's a lot more easy to, you know, then just have that meal versus if I start out straight with the stuffing, man, I'm going to just like load that plate up with stuffing, you know? I don't know about you guys because we're all in our forties, but like, do you really care that much about, well, I was being polite, Skip. Thanks. I appreciate the compliment. Do you guys really care about food that much anymore compared to say 20 year old Skip or 18 year old Skip and Scott? Like, do you really like, we've had all the food we've had from diet from a dieting standpoint? Yes. But I will say this. And this sounds bad, but I'm just being honest. I didn't. I, I have the means now to eat really good food. We all do. Versus when we were 20. My idea of eating something when I was 20 was like Burger King or a bag of combos. But I will tell you that a burger at Bardo is something that I'm going to relish and I might actually want. Am I going to break my diet for it? That I'm not going to do. But so, I mean, from that standpoint, yeah, food is different in that sense because I know where to find good food. I am a foodie. But no, when it comes to dieting and understanding, I mean, that's, that's part of being a veteran or a seasoned bodybuilder or living the bodybuilding lifestyle. If you live this lifestyle and you struggle to stay on your diet, I just can't imagine. I don't know what that feels like. That I don't, I'm not going to see food and go, oh my God. I can sit here in front of four, four dozen donuts, gourmet donuts, and it's not going to bother any one of us. But there are a lot of people who they can't, they can't do that. You've got to keep that shit away from them because it's like a drug or something. And that's where they eat it and they go off the rails and then they're just, you know, it's just out of control. I don't know. I can't relate to that. I've never had that emotional connection to food, but I can eat food and go, yeah, it's pretty damn good. I think I would want to eat something like that when next time that I, you know, I'm out with my family or this restaurant. I can relate to that part of it. Yeah. We got asked toward the beginning what your Thanksgiving dinner is going to be, Skip. Like, what's the plan? I, well, first I will be dieting. I've had, we've had a few, we've had a few weeks here. It's been, it's not typically stressful around the Skipp Hill household, but this year has been, we've had, we've had it where you go. So, uh, like this could stop at any time and be cool again. So I am going to be on my diet, but typically we're a ham because the white meat dry, I eat enough white meat for years and years. I don't want to eat it. Give me ham, give me duck, give me something off the beaten path. And I'm, I'm going to eat it and I'm going to have me a piece of pie. Not this year. So you're not, you're just going to stay on plan. There's no, I really am. It's been a, it's been a tough time. It's been a really tough. And for me, that is my, I don't want to say control, but that's my good spot. I have control over those things and some things have happened that I have not had too much control over. And so, yeah, this is, but this is a rarity. Usually it would be the ham, the, the green bean casserole, all the typical Michigan stuff, right? One time a year. Cheese and potatoes, you know, things like that that you don't eat at any other time of the year. So yeah, definitely. I would definitely be doing it. Probably will for Christmas if we're in Milwaukee. But now. Okay. And you're going, you're going to someone's house having a dinner tomorrow night, Andrew? Yeah. We, we have some friends from the gym that are, they just built a really nice new house and they're having, they're hosting a lot of people over some of my other clients and stuff. So nice. We're going over there. We're actually spending the night, which I was like, I got a house. I love adult slumber party. Yeah. There's no pineapple. This isn't a community. This isn't that kind of party. No, no, no, no, no. Uh, I'm telling you though, like, I mean, last year, I don't think we did anything. We, we, it was another day. If we didn't have this invite, like we're just, Rachel's even probably more so than me, not food motivated at all. Like, yeah. I mean, she's, she's what? 12 weeks post show. Now she's actually one pound lower than her stage weight at her last show. So, and, and she's eating, uh, double the carbs, almost double the fat, zero cardio, no stems, no PDs. So yeah, this is the best reverse we've ever had. And she's obviously motivated by continuing that progress, um, going into probably one more season here as a pro. So, but, but I mean, for me, it's just, I've eaten so much food over my life that I'm just like, if, if given the choice of you could eat or not eat and you would maintain the same muscle mass, I'd be like, oh, I'm not going to eat. I would absolutely take that meal away and rather just take that time and do something else with it. So, you know, I'm excited to get a burger. If we're ever in Vegas, you're going with me. They'd be like, get a burger. I'm excited. We're, we're getting catering. Nice. So we got, uh, um, Victoria's dad drove in and then my parents are going to come over. And last time we did this, it turned out to be like a, like a stressful thing where like all this food needs to be made. And this Turkey needs to be cooked for, you know, 3,500 hours and, you know, all these things, like it was a lot of stress. So I was like, well, what if, you know, we just get it catered. And, uh, there's this place in Detroit called slow as barbecue and they're doing really that, like, they're kind of like the barbecue place of Detroit. And, uh, they're doing like a smoked Turkey type dinner with a bunch of different sides and cornbread and stuff like that. So I'm excited. And I'm going to go pick that up at like noon and it's going to be all hot and ready to go. So like, there's going to be no preparation, no work. So I like that idea. We can just hang out and visit on the way. Just kind of break it while you're driving. Just reach in there. Yeah. I heard it's the, um, the most, you guys said it was the biggest party day. Uh, tonight's the biggest party night of the year. I heard tomorrow is like the number one fire department call day of the year because of everyone that's trying to fry. Or, uh, boil or whatever their, their own turkeys. What is it? Uh, deep fry. Oh yeah. In that pressure cooker bomb thing. I guess. Dude, I've been seeing a lot of videos on Instagram where police and, or, uh, sorry, fire department are showing, giving examples of like, this is what can happen. These guys are all covered in their gear and they're dropping it in there. And this thing turns into a fucking bomb. It's like, Whoa, I think they put it in frozen. Isn't that the mistake? Because of the, you're probably right. And it blows. I don't know. It's great. We don't, I always, well, I gotta be careful. I got a VPC. So I'm not gonna say it. Uh, but we don't do the deep fry thing. No, I've never done that either. I'll leave that comment for what we did. And rise does have a podcast, by the way. He's got a rice, rice 41 podcast. So you guys go check him out. He said he lost a bunch of weight for that show. So anyways, guys, we appreciate everybody tuning in for another episode of blood, sweat and gear. Go to a bodyberry.com. Reach out to Andrew for coaching and team skip.com. Reach out to skip. And of course, uh, check out true nutrition.com. Use our code. Think over there and supplement source. That C a for Canadians. Great deals to change week to week. Thank you to everybody. We're at Patreon. We'll be taking more Patreon questions as always. A bunch of those questions were Patreon questions today. Leave us questions for the next show. Of course, that's how we make this thing happen. And, uh, yeah, if we haven't.  and we love, subscribe, subscribe, comment, ring the bell, hit the bell, hit the hype button, all those things guys, guys, and for another episode of blood, sweat and gear, we will see you soon. Thanks guys. You're a good podcast talker. See you guys. Everybody in the live stream. Have a good Thanksgiving. Thank you for saying that. Oh, dude, you want to hear something crazy, Skip. When we first went to YouTube in 2019, you know, channel was doing good. On audio, but on audio, right? But on audio, right. But then I was like, all right, but on audio, right. But then I was like, all right, we're going to hit this hard. Because we had the Advices Radio YouTube, but it sucked. And they weren't doing anything with it. So that's why I started Think Big. And very first week was like the week before the Olympia. And I scored an interview with Brandon Curry. Literally the week before he won the Olympia. And he was at Oxygen. And he was like, yeah, man, I'll do an interview with you. And he's just really, I just train here all day. And then I, you know, I was just sitting around in my room and stuff. So yeah, man. So I'm talking to him, like at night, several days out from the Olympia. He's getting ready to fly out. And then it got like 300 views on YouTube. What? Yeah. Yeah. Because it was just like, well, then after the Olympia, I did another interview with him. Got like 300, 500 views. It was like just a new channel. Nobody knew of it. Oh. And it was like, you know how to hit, you know, you didn't know how to fit everything together. Yeah. Yeah. YouTube put it in front, put that plate of food in front of the hungry people. You know? Yeah. It's, it's, it's so cool. Anybody. I have a, I have a lot of respect for it now because if anybody, a layman, you hear this all the time. Oh, he's a YouTuber. He's an influencer. He doesn't work. You know, they don't know. Like this is not simple. It's not fucking simple. Thankfully, I don't have to blow up a show for like 300,000 subscribers. Cause that's not what I'm looking. I'm just, I'm just looking for PR for expose, you know, exposure, putting out information. So I can continue to feed the machine. I don't want 2 million. You'd have to literally, that's your fucking job. Like forget about training people. Yeah. Look at, um, you guys follow the guy, Jesse James West. Yeah. We met him. Victoria was on his channel back at the Olympia. Somebody hooked her up with him because he was doing a thing on female bodybuilders at the Olympia. And so they did a whole, they ended up like using her footage as like the grounding, part of the segment where they like kept coming back to her, where they're like, you know, they open up talking to an expert and then they go and they talk to people and then they like go back to her. You know, it was pretty cool. Yeah. Well, I was just, cause like I had never heard of him, I guess. And then, uh, Kyle, my buddy had mentioned to me, he might be someone to have on. And I'm like, Oh yeah, I gotta look up who this is. And you look, it's got like 2 million subs on, on YouTube and a million followers on, on Instagram. And I'm like, well, how? Cause I, I'm not gonna be mean, he doesn't have like an impressive, physique. He's not like, no, he's not a physique guy. That's like that. You know, that's not what he's about, you know? But I guess what he did was he just grinded all through COVID. And like, he was one of the only people that continued making content like every day. And people got used to watching him. And then it's kind of like, well, when someone already has like 600 followers, you're like, well, who is this? Maybe I should pay attention to him too. And it's kind of like a snowball effect. Right? Yeah. Yeah. So, yeah. The way I've seen it is that like, there are those cool stories, but for me, I feel like I'm just a blue collar dude that does this. This is like my blue, literally I'm a blue collar fricking podcaster. It's like, I don't, we don't get a ton of views, but we get enough views that it's like, well, I get clients and lights on. Yeah. It keeps the lights on. True nutrition pays a little bit here. The peptide place pays a little bit there and it all kind of comes together. And it's like, I'm making my blue collar a living, punching the clock. But it's fun too, because I know that the, and you've probably seen it, the things that you learn that you're supposed to do, man, that's awful fucking rigid, man. Yeah. You're just locked down on a lot of the stuff that you, I mean, one of the things is to continue to repeat a lot of the same shit and a lot of the same topics. Once you find the thing that works, then you just keep redoing it. Yeah. It's like, who wants to talk about arm training every week? But there are plenty of channels out there killing it that are focused 80% of it is arm training. Yeah. I've seen that happen across, like I've seen channels that have blown up doing that. Like in the shooting channels, the gun channels, there was a guy who did like a breaking news thing about when Charlie got taken out. And they did like this breaking news thing. And then all of a sudden that like brought in a ton of listeners. So then he had to do, he normally did like gun reviews and stuff, but now he did this little bit because it related to guns. And then his whole channel shifted to like, Hey guys, today where there was this news about this guy who did this thing related to this incident, you know? And it's like, and the channel's just like, what's that? Never let a good crisis go to waste. Yeah. Right. Exactly. Went back to his regular material and it was going back to shit, shit views. I don't know. I think I need to do this again. And then, you know, once you find out you might like someone's personality, like maybe he just wasn't discovered yet. He broke the news. People are like, I kind of like this guy. I like how he sounds. I like how he's doing his reviews. I don't know. Yeah. I'm just guessing. Like we got a bunch of views for the, uh, the one we did with Janosic. Like it blew up, went viral. And then we did a followup the next week because I had more information, but then we didn't do it like a followup to the followup, but we did get new people out of that. You know what I mean? But I wonder if we also then lost people because they're like, well, I just wanted to hear about Janosic news. You know what I mean? Did you guys ask him? Cause I don't, I watched like the first 10 minutes and I got sidetracked. Did you ask him about the pushback from everyone saying, oh, he just fakes those or he, yes. He gets paid. Okay. So what did he say about that? Okay. So basically he said that we are, uh, welcome. Everybody is always welcome to check him because we can't, we can't, he can't know who's sending him what sample. So let's say that he was like fixing something and he was telling everybody that this company, was good. You buy that company, you send in a blank sample to him. He doesn't know where that came from. So he, you know, like he's going to then basically correct himself in that situation. Or I guess you could hire one of the other companies that does it. There's like American, there's another company over here that does it now. And you could spot check him or fact check him or whatever you want to call it by sending samples to both people. And seeing, yeah, he did say that he's had a lot of threats. He said initially it was a really big thing when he wasn't anybody, but he said now, like if you threaten him now, it's like going to put you in a bad position because you're doing an illegal business and you're making a threat to a legit business person. So that's like that things get legal real quick in that scenario. Yeah. So he's like, we don't get as many threats, but they still do get the threats, which I could imagine, man. Well, there's a guy that was talking shit about me because remember I, two years ago I broke the, um, I shared the results of January with, uh, of the three samples I'd sent in of a product. Yeah. What was that? It was a company down here that was like trying to send me stuff. And I had heard that Hunter and, um, Hunter, Nick, and a few of the other guys were using it. They're like, this ain't legit, dude. This isn't good. So I'm like, let me save everyone some worry. Let me send it in. We'll, we'll get the results back. And like NPP was dosed at like 50%. Oh, the Primo Bolin. No, sorry. The Masteron came back as Primo. Make that, make that make sense. Okay. No. Like, yeah. And Primo Bolin is typically a more expensive drug than Masteron. So it was like, and then the test was underdosed. I don't know what happened. They had two batches here. He went and he, he printed out the labels. He came back and he went, oh shit. Regardless, the quality control wasn't there and the products were underdosed. So, huh. Yeah. My jokes don't work if you don't laugh at them. Hit that button. Hit that button, Scott. I don't have a button. I don't have a button. I thought we had a button to play sounds. Wrong one. There you go. There you go. I started thinking, I was like, well, what are we going to do today, guys? We have stuff. We have a, we have some questions. Um, what do you say we just, we just do a, a listener Q and A today? Just dive straight into that. I love those. I'm so focused on the one I have to do tonight. I got that Jeffrey Schofield guy from China. All right. I'm a little anxious about it. We only have enough content to do one show this, this time. So we'll put out a show just one time that, you know, one less this week. I just don't have enough time to be able to put together content for two shows. Or just like cut it up and move some of the questions around and release it again the following week. And those that like kind of nod off 13 to 17 minutes in, well, it's new content for you. Yeah. We just, yeah. The second half. We just re-released that. No, you hadn't seen that. I can.