You know, the Anavar, I think, is relatively innocuous and it is gold. Uh, I just can't think of a better. It's one of those things, like I said a couple shows ago, I was thinking, gosh, you know, I just started this 4 DMA, man, these contractions are really crazy. And I'm like, oh, I switched Danavar. And within a day of doing that and increasing the dose, it was that obvious. I was training back and I'm just like, holy crap. Like, this is crazy. So, it would be a quick noticeable obvious change I think for someone who was on TRT to add something like or um you know or Wind Straw. Hey, what's up guys? Welcome back to Blood, Sweat, and Gear with Coaches Skipp Hill, Andrew Barry, and myself, Scott McN. And all of our programming is brought to you by you, the people of Patreon. Thank you guys very much for your support over there. We've got some Patreon questions today. In fact, load us up. I'm going to post a new thread at Patreon for all you Patreon subscribers. Let's get some more questions going for the shows, all of them. Just let me know what show you want your question on. We're also brought to you, of course, by true nutrition.com. Use our code think over there to get some additional savings on your creatin or your creatine, depending on how you want to say it, your team skip blend, your everything else. They literally have all the basic supplements that you need for bodybuilding. So, definitely check them out. Use code think and supplementsource.ca. CA for our Canadians. We had a question about, it's basically like a TRT plus question. This is a question that we've covered on drugs and stuff a ton. Um, you know, basically guys that are running TRT and they're asking like, you know, what can I add to this to get a little bit more, you know, out of what I'm doing. So, that's going to be our our main topic of the day. Of course, we've got a bunch of listener questions. We've got a couple of physique critiques that we want to do. Well, one of them is just like a physique shout out from somebody at the Facebook group. Um, and uh, we're going to lead though by talking a little bit about uh, the Pittsburgh Pro if for no other reason because Skip actually watched a modern show. Take it, guys. Skip, what do you think? Who Who' you like in that show? Well, here's the I obviously I have I was biased, you know. I I was pulling for Nick. So, no hooker. No hooker. Now, as long as I've been in the industry, you know, I was friends with Phil Heath and, you know, back in the day because he was from Colorado. So, I wanted him to win, too. But I think I called it pretty fairly. I I you know, I try not to have those biases. This time, I don't know because I don't watch modern shows. And people might think that's a little strange. Well, you just don't love the sport like I do. Okay. Maybe. Maybe it's just antilimactic to me because I've been watching shows for 40 years. So unless I know somebody or have some type of vested interest or a friend like Nick, I was bowling for him. Yeah. Yeah. And to see the condition that he was in and him kind of I I hate to say this because I don't want this to sound but almost needing to make a statement like we wanted him to be able to be like like look like damn he's back like thank you you just shut up a lot of people and quite frankly he did. Uh I think so there's going to be a lot of hype around the O. I I could see it going both ways if I'm being honest. I just wanted him to win it. I wasn't disappoint I understand his disappointment because he killed it. I think it could have gone either way. Wasn't it tied or something? I I think I've heard that the scoring won judging. Dererick won finals and then they went to a what they call a sudden death where they brought him back out after the confirmation after the routines to do one more round of posing or three more rounds of posing just don't know how I missed that. What could what more could you ask for tuning back into bodybuilding skip? You know, that was such a good show and it it but like I said, I think it could have gone either. I didn't think I thought Derek could have been better and I think that he will be better now because he was like he had to come off stage and be like, you know, you can you can do your thing in front of the Yeah, I'm number one in there. But when he came off the stage and he was just having dinner with his with his friends, he had to be like, "Okay, uh, that was a little too close. I could have lost that." So, I think it's great for the O. It's great for Nick. Derek's going to up his game. I think it's going to be a fun ride into the I'm glad I'm going to be there because for once in a long time, I want to see the show. I was just going for the expo in business. my wife. We're going to hang out for four days prior. You know, I'm going to be there for the amateur portion because I have a client who's uh potentially, I won't say likely because you never know who shows up, but should get a a pro card uh if everything goes the way it's supposed to. So, it'll be a fun week, but I'm looking forward to seeing that show and I will make sure that I'm that I'm at that show. I will be watching it. Okay. What do you think, Andrew? I think and I I think actually I don't think Derek walked away thinking um wow that was close. I think he thought he was winning all the everything I've seen from his camp and everything I've seen from people that you know know him and know his coach and all that kind of stuff. They thought he won all three rounds easily and that wasn't even close. Yeah. Um but I want to touch back on your point about because I've never seen an athlete in our division or our sport get so much love and so much hate and then so much love again all of a sudden and then Yeah. Nick Walker, you know, and some people think he's cocky, some people think he's overconfident, but to to what you said, to your point, Skip, we were all waiting for him to come out because he's been gone for two years off the stage to make a statement. And I think he did that and then some by a mile because he was bigger. He was as lean as he's ever been, and he was peaked to perfection. And it's not easy to do when you have a new coach. You know, Kyle Wilks, one of my friends, good point. Kyle Wilks nailed his peak to a tea. Like, yeah, I would love to have been in the war room with them and and hear the conversations and decisions being made, but big shout out to Kyle Wils. He nailed uh he nailed Nick's Peak. I I you know, some people were saying, "Oh, you know, Nick's glues could have been a little bit drier." It's like, eh, maybe, but he was literally bone dry head to toe everywhere else. Okay. And that's also comparing him. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Full and dry. And that's comparing to Derek whose glutes are always like Yeah. every show we've ever seen Dererick in. He's had those those razor sharp glutes. So, you know, but getting talking about Derek for a second, I felt this was a Derek that was more like the Derek from the Olympia where his legs were very downsized. His upper body was good. He was full. His back was nice and round. He was good condition, but I don't think he was lights out condition. It was like it it was a good version of Derek, but it was more like the Olympia versus the Arnold where we saw him just dominate. Yeah. It was not the Arnold look. I that look is burned in my brain. It may have been that Arnold look may have been the literal best bodybuilder I have ever seen on stage in person in my life. Like it was his aesthetics are so good. His aesthetic aesthetics are so good. And when he's dialed in, you're like that's the best bodybuilder in the world right now. And it wasn't that, you know, it wasn't that. No, it was not that last Saturday. And I I think Nick was the best athlete. I mean, put it this way, a lot of us, if you look online, just after prejudging and after the after they did the confirmation rounds, it was like, and I know we're all armchair quarterbacks, but it was like 95 to 5% people pulling for Nick. And I don't think it's because they're huge fans of his physique because I saw a lot of comments were like, I'm a Derek guy, but man, Nick's got him today. So, I think the general consensus was Nick was the athlete that was on fire. He was peaked. He looked perfect to the best of his possible ability. And I'll say one more thing. When they turn around to the back, Derek arguably has the best back in the world right now, right? Yep. Yeah. That rear double is, I think, unbeatable. Honestly, it's a Here's the thing. Such a good shot. There were a lot of lot of times when they turned around, I'm like, I think I like Nick in these back shots, both the rear spread and the in the rear double. And that I'm not the only one with that opinion. Um, so I didn't see that. I felt like it was close. Like it could have gone either way, but as far as shots go, I would have given the rear double to Derek. My my opinion personally, you know, it's great. No, honest. Yeah. Um, with that being said, you know, he's not going to come back on the show, but whatever, Scott. It's one shot, you know. It's one shot. No, I know. I know. You know, with all that said though, you know, because we said like, oh, what a great idea for the Olympia or it's going to be a great Olympia. Wouldn't it have been better if Nick would have won this one? Yeah, because now you have someone everyone has beaten each other. All the good guys, Hottie, Samson, Nick, Derek, would have all beaten each other at different points in the last two to three years. Wouldn't that have set up the final showdown for 2025 for the Olympia? That'd be wild. With that being said though, I think Nick's going to, you know, I think he's going to be even better this week. I think, you know, what is it? Wednesday right now. In three to four days, I think he's going to be even better. At least that we saw him. What's that? People will see this on Friday. So tomorrow. Yes. Tomorrow. Man, Nick is going to shock the world again and come in at his all-time best, even better than he was last week. And um I'm happy to say that I'm going to be there to see in person. That's nice. Hell yeah, man. I'm happy you're going. You'll have to get some pictures for us and stuff and tell us all about it. We'll do. I I am certain that it wasn't much of a consolation to take second. No question. I mean, he clearly was disappointed. I just I hope that when the dust settles well number one I hope that he you know he pulls this this win off you know New York but when the dust settles the statement that he I mean it's just not just your back like it was holy [\h__\h] like like he won so many people like you said any doubters or any haters I mean he just he just reeled them in like they were fish not even fighting the line It it's it's just it's crazy. And you know, there is that doubt. Let's be fair. I had it. I'm just I'm being honest. I had that doubt. I'm like, man, he's had a lot of obstacles. He's had a lot of ups and downs. Maybe I It crossed my mind. Maybe it's just it's a psychological thing that that he isn't sure if he can do it. But I think in talking to him, I was like, "Dude, you're st you got to you know, you got to be a little stressed. Hopefully you're chill. He's like, I'm not stressed at all. He's calm. I was like, oh [\h__\h] nice. This might this might be good. I I expected him I put my and it's hard to do because I can't relate, but I try to put myself in that after taking the hits over the last couple years and the he takes it in stride so well, better than I would ever be able to take it. And that's why he it's one more reason. It's not why he's there, but it's one more reason why he's there and I'm not because he can roll with that [\h__\h] Huge huge statement. I'm I'm just really excited for I like him. I know some people don't whether it be cocky, arrogant. He said the same [\h__\h] about Phil Heath. You just don't know him. Yeah. Exactly. And you have one interaction with some I'm guilty of it. I had a bad interaction with Lee Labrada years ago and thought he was a dick for 20 years. That's not fair. I've had people run into me and I've been a dick to them for five seconds and they think I'm a dick for 20 years. I don't know if that's fair. So, you know, you're going to have those interactions and you're going to unfortunately, you know, we judge people that way. But I think he won a lot of people. I'm excited. I'm excited for him and I'm I'm actually really looking forward to seeing seeing this battle uh not just, you know, obviously New York, but but in in the fall. It's going to be cool in the leading up to it. Well, we've got our main topic and I will add to just to say one thing on this topic was that uh it's just bodybuilding. We had a segment, you know, is it should Nick Walker retire? I think I titled it because and this was, you know, two episodes ago, right? because people have been giving him so much crap and that you hear that like oh Nick needs to retire and like argument was like on Nick's worst day he's what on his worst day the eighth best bodybuilder of the world. Yeah. Meaning like out of everybody competing at every show everywhere in the entire world the eighth best on his worst day. Why should he retire? And we put that out as a clip and we got a lot of people that were like, "No, yeah, he needs to quit. He's washed up." Blah, blah, blah. And and then now we put out this new clip about, you know, the way the show went and there were so many people and some of those people that were like you said, Andrew, I'm not a Nick fan, but you know what, man? I think he had that show. I think that he got robbed. So, I think it's incredible to see the turn around right now. Robbed. That's that's the word. And it's at worst, Nick is at from top four to better. At worst, he's a top four bodybuilder, which is just going to make a great showdown at the Olympia this year, assuming he wins this next show. I backed off on the robbed part at all. I'll tell you why. I think it goes back to the gota knock him out. Yeah, knock him out. I look at it this way, though. at every show, no matter what division, it's when when it's down to two people or three, who can you who do you look to and you just can't take your eyes off during the pose? You might glance at the other guy, you're like, and then you look back at the guy who's just on. And that was Nick for me and I think a lot of other people that watched the live stream and that were there in person. So, and I think a lot of us knew that was the best version of Nick and it wasn't the best version of Derek. And I think that's hard to remove from the judging when in reality you can't judge it that way. I mean, well, to be fair, you know, one of the head judges, Tyler, has he said he uh by slim margin, I think he said he had um Nick over Derek, but the other judges by committee did not. So, Sure. All right. So, main topic of the day is what can I add to my TRT? Somebody had asked us that this week, you know, he was like, "Hey, I'm on just basic TRT. What would be the route to go um to, you know, either TRT adding more test or TRT plus something else perhaps pervy, lowdosese maston, even micro doing a low dose of trend ace. You know, there are a lot of people out there now. It's it's a different climate, right? You know, 20 years ago, if you were using gear, you were one of the hardcore, right? And and now testosterone is pretty mainstream. And some of the people who will tune into this show aren't even watching competitive bodybuilding. They're just guys that are going to the gym. They happen to be on TRT. And now they're wondering, hey, you know what? The last eight months on TRT, I've been feeling my best. I've been making my best gains. I'm kind of already on. What else can I do without really pushing the boundaries, without, you know, risking my health, without skewing my numbers? And, you know, maybe they do have to go and see their TRT doctor to to do blood work again in another few months, and they don't want it to look too wild when he gets there. You know, what are your guys's thoughts? I guess, you know, if if you want to go the absolute safest route, I would stay on your T TRT and then I would introduce, you know, a lower decent dose of growth hormone. I think that would be the safest compound you could possibly do. But if we're talking about other peeds, you know, I I like to do something with a lot of people that are getting into the peed realm or the TRT plus realm of, all right, we got your baseline of of testosterone figured out. We know where that puts you. Somewhere in the 900s or so, maybe a little bit higher. Your lab markers are good. So why don't we do like a six week experiment with something that we will be able to see noticeable gains whether it's you know 40 milligrams of anavar for that 6 weeks or you know 40 milligrams of windstrol or um you know if if we're doing say like you know 75 milligrams of testosterone you know every other day or every third day let's add 25 to 50 milligrams of master and I like to do these little six week or so experiments and then we can kind of gauge okay how do you feel are you sleeping well? Did it affect your labs when we when we look at your labs next? Are you um are you seeing muscular gains, better performance in the gym? All those different things. And then we can come up with a consensus or an idea of which would be the good compound for you because and I say for you because you know my primo might not be as good as a master for someone else or might not be as good as adding an oral in for something someone else. Uh, everyone has different individuality and as you'll see on the podcast we did with um Scott Stevenson um you know we all have individuality with how we respond to different things based off our different enzyatic and uh genetic makeup. So I I I think it's best in this situation to do low dose of something, experiment with it and you know keep it to like a short cycle and then take some time off and then introduce something else and then over you know the series of a year or two you can figure out what compound's going to work the best for you in addition. Yeah, I'm 100% on board with that. I would I would probably go the simple route, the most obvious route and arguably the first like kind of first step would just take the testosterone from 22 250 to 4 to 500. Okay. The the the main reason being, you know, at first I thought first thing popped in my head was I was like, eh, primo. Then you make a good point, maybe you don't have good primo. True. Uh you know, there's that. And you could, it would be a, it would be a bad experiment out of the gates if you crash your estrogen and then all of a sudden your libido is in the in the tank. And and people who are not familiar with cycling and low estrogen may not know what that they may not realize that without any any blood work. They just they might think it's high estrogen. True. And then start adding an AI or something in. Right. Exactly. or you know it should be a dead giveaway if you're you know I mean if high estrogen is when you cry when you watch Titanic for the ninth time and you can't figure out why she won't let him up on the the panel you know in the there was there very clearly was they've gone over this for years it's just so obvious anyway um yeah I like the idea of an oral I you know anavar I think is relatively innocuous And it is gold. Uh I just can't think of a better. It's one of those things like I said a couple shows ago, I was thinking, gosh, you know, I just started this 4 DMA, man, these contractions are really crazy. And I'm like, oh, I switched Anavar. And within a day of doing that and increasing the dose, it was that obvious. I was training back and I'm just like, holy crap. Like this is crazy. So it would be a quick noticeable obvious change I think for someone who was on TRT to add something like ANA or um you know or Windstrol. So yeah I I I can certainly see I like your idea of experimenting. You have the TRT as a baseline. So yeah, you could play around for a year. You could run your antivirus 6 8 10 weeks come off do something another you know 6 12 weeks later kind of experiment with these lower dosages adding in a little bit of maybe a little bit of maststeron at some point and see and assess how you feel on those and then come back to the ones that you like the ones that you don't out I also add one more point that typically you know the guys that we're talking about that are into TRT plus are usually let's say at least in the 30s Usually, I mean, in your 20s, you're like, "Oh, you know, Tess, Deca, dbol, you know, um, Tren, you know, give it to me. Give me all of it." But guys in their 30s and 40s, I think a lot of the ones that I've worked with, um, they're usually in a better place in life where they have financial stability to where you're like, "Hey, we can do labs every six to eight weeks and really see what's going on and see, hey, is this hurting you? We can check things like estradile and see if, you know, mastonoprimo is affecting that or um, we can see about liver markers. we can see about all these different variables and see if, you know, is this a sustainable compound for you to keep in longer term. Um, I think that's a that's a big thing. You know, when you're working with competitive bodybuilders, we're we're not doing TRT plus 95% of the time. We're we're doing TRT++ times 100, you know, subtract the one, right? Yeah. Um, add the one, not subtract. Uh, you know what I mean? So, it's it's it's a kind of a different ballgame, but in my mind, guys that want to do TRT plus want to make sure that their their health is first and foremost, but then and then the gains are just like two-way, like secondarily, but they're like two-way. They're not like it's not the number one driver in your life when you're in your young 20s, early 30s competing for pro cards or or trying to rise up the ranks, that kind of thing. Yeah. And I think you can do a lot with a little in that kind of scenario. If you have somebody who let's let's take that picture that guy who's in his 30s he's you know maybe financially he's got a job now where like things are settled he like life is uh pretty consistent right you know he can get to the gym when he needs to afford his food um you know has the has the maturity to be able to really lock into a plan even if he hadn't done that before um add in even a a small amount of gear and I think that you know guy like that could probably do a lot and I'm seeing more and more people like that nowadays, you know, there's more and more of them. I'd say more people are doing that than there are like the hardcore guys, you know, just because it is hitting the mainstream and people are starting to see like, hey, testosterone isn't this terrible thing. In fact, I kind of like it, you know. I'm feeling the best I have in 20 years, you know. Yeah. I'll I'll tell you what, you know, right now I'm I guess I would say TRT minus. Um Okay. You know, I've been about five weeks of 15 milligrams of testosterone a day and um so what's that 100 105 I think milligrams a week, which is probably the lowest I've taken it. I did about the same thing last year actually. But um no, my strength is exactly the same. Nice. And that's something I want to touch on is is the training. You know, maybe I'm not doing as much volume purposely, but my top sets are still right there. You know, um my now my diet is I would say perfect as if I was in a contest prep. It's the same grams of everything to a tea every day. Um, you know, cardio is being done, all those other things are being supplements are being taken. Um, so I you can get a lot out of a little testosterone, but if you want to grow like big boy status, you know, TRT++ times 10 and add one, you know, all of it. Taking a little more than 105 million. I bet you are. You guys, I got to take a break to do the whole like, share, subscribe thing, but I also want to say thank you to you. The internet's kind of a weird place in case you didn't know, and I I'm glad that we've put the community together that we have. I'm grateful to read your comments. In fact, I I know a lot of YouTubers that don't read comments. I read all of them and I try to get back to everybody. So, if you comment, I will see it and I'll try to get back to you. Also, the like button is absolutely free of charge. You don't have to pay anything to hit it and it does help us out a ton. It's not going to like push us into your algorithm, but it will help other people to hopefully find the show. So, if you like our stuff, please try to help us out. Here we go. So, it was this guy Jordan. Jordan. And I'm just going to go to if I click him. There we go. We can see all of the pictures he's posted. So, here were the pictures he posted before he competed. And Andrew and I were both we both talked about him. like incredible physique. Well, what I think my point when I saw these pictures, I think he was like a week or two weeks out at this point or 10 days or something. I was like, he's in the kind of condition that no matter what he does, he's not going to mess it up, right? Like, and that's what you guys want to get to. You want to get to that kind of condition that maybe he's not as full as he could be, but he's going to be full enough and he's going to be just so shredded that that's going to be the keynote of his physique. Or maybe he overfills and he loses a little bit of that detail, which isn't going to make it. he's just going to look massive compared to his uh in his structure. So, I think him and his coach, I don't know whose coach is, but excellent job. Nailed it head to toe. Great aesthetics, great conditioning. Yeah. And uh he ended up winning his uh Naba Pro card here. Look at the conditioning in that shot. That's excellent. He's just so crazy. He looks good. Yeah. And I would say he did fill out. Yeah, I was going to say the same thing. Yeah, it's a real good balance between the fullness and the dryness. It's It's pretty damn good. Mhm. Yeah. Great. Most muscular. Then also too, uh we wanted to do a physique critique. Connor asked us. So Connor just won the Emerald Cup. He's a listener of the show and talking to him on email. Uh he works with Stu Sutherland. So Stu brought him in into some uh pretty respectable shape here. He asked us if we could do a physique critique for him. Now he's probably what 6'2. So he had a picture here. Look at So he's like a half a head higher than the other guys in supers. Yeah. Tall dude. So the first first thing that jumps out at me is that I think he needs to bring his back up. But I also don't think he's he's opening his his back up as much as he possibly could in this pose. But if you look at his hamstrings, like they're just so big and overpowering. Um and I mean that in a good way. Like he's he's built a nice set of wheels. He's got huge glutes. Um, but it does make his back look a little bit small. So, my critique would be I think you can a open up that back a little bit more, but b I think a lot of your time should be spent on um, you know, focus on your back region in terms of this offseason. The the legs are great. This one he's just not maybe someone snapped the picture um, you know, before he actually finished hitting the shot. Yeah. Yeah. Well, I feel like he can bring his elbows around more and then he's got to lean back and and arch his chest a little bit. Yeah. um to to complete the shot. Some sometimes when your mom's taking the picture, you know, it's it's it's like you in halfway into the pose and you're like, "Mom, like Yeah, exactly. Sometimes guys aren't hitting it as like they aren't full-blowing it." You know what I mean? Sometimes guys are like, "Oh, well, maybe I want to do it this way so that I show more detail in my back." Have you heard people say that? Yeah, but you can see the scapula out there on the lat spread. I'd be high I'd be surprised if if he were open on that rear double buy as Yeah, I'll give him the benefit of the doubt. Yeah, but I want to point out the last print is not a detail shot. It is a width and size shot. And when you're in contest condition, like you see his lower back right here, that lower back's going to stand out when he's fully opened up. You're going to see he's in great shape, but it's a width and spread shot. You want to take up as much space on stage as you can in that shot. rear double. It's kind of a cross where you want to bring that det Yeah, you want to see that grainy and detail, but um he could definitely spread the scap a little bit more. He's got a good set of arms, too. Yeah, he does. He's got overall just a really nicely built physique, you know, and he said I think he's going to do a national show next year, so he's going to continue working on growing. Can we see the front shot? There we go. I mean, again, just a little bit more back, I think, like Yeah, solid solid physique, you know. Yeah. Um, just looking at nationals from last year, if he was on stage, I don't see him placing outside of the top five. So, I mean, in fairness, can he be drier? It's always, you know, Yeah, I I I do think so. And that's that's a that's me being a little bit more critical because the balance is very good. He's got the young, you know, the young skin. So, I'm a little I'm a little jealous of that. Um, but it probably could be Yeah. You know, a little bit little bit drier by pound or two. Yeah. I like how the adductors are are touching right there. Um Oh, yeah. Yeah. Just another year of bodybuilding. I'd be really impressed or looking forward to see what he looks like when he does get on stage at nationals next year. Yeah. Do you have any type of idea of the background of the amount of time he has invested so far? He's done six shows, I believe, so far. Yeah, I didn't look like that after six shows. Yeah, I think that's what he had said. Yeah. So, good for him, though. He looked fantastic and uh Yeah, you know, a great overall season. Emerald Cup is an awesome show, too. Yeah, it is. Very good show. Always has been. Yeah. Let me see what else we have here because I know we had a bunch of listener questions. And by the way, I should tell you guys, if you are watching the show and enjoying it, then do us a favor and hit the like button. The like button does help more than you know. All that stuff helps us to get pumped out to see more people. We're trying to get the show as popular as we can and you guys are literally you can directly help with that. So, thank you. And comment comment with let us know what you think of this show. Uh let us know what you think of, you know, the the placings. So, we talked about the uh Pittsburgh Pro at the beginning and let us know any questions you have. Comment on the show with questions and then we'll use those questions to make the next show. So, I'm grabbing questions from the previous program. Someone had a comment about they said last time like if Andrew would stop snorting so much coke I'll I'll show I'm like what? And then I'm like I mean it's kind of out it was like two weeks ago or maybe four weeks ago. I'm like it's kind of allergy season down here. Maybe I'm a little sniffly but like that was the most far out comment I'd seen in a while. Yeah. Huh. Well, don't comment stuff. You you you can comment stuff like that. If we get the comment, we'll just have to Yeah. Yeah, we'll take the comment to help boost us in in the show in the algorithm. Yeah, right. Say what you want. Say what you want. Yeah. Um, okay. So, this was just a a a comment. It wasn't a question. It was from Dan Smith. I believe he might be Australian. He's been a longtime listener. We talked about um it was I think the topic was doing a contest prep with no trend uh last episode or the show before that. and he said, you know, before trend was huge, uh it was staz stazzle uh seemed to be the absolute must for contest prep. That was before my time. I can say that flat out. Skip, did you compete back in those days? Yeah, I mean, Winstro was a mainstay. It it always, but is it not now? Yeah, I think it still is. But I I think also like it it's what's readily available to you in your time period is what people use. Like in Arnold's time they used test and deck up till a show, right? And they drank milk, you know, cuz they didn't have 18 different types of uh whey isolate, hydroxilate, all all the different protein powders. They didn't have a lot of these things that we have available to us today. I never in time have we had more access to different compounds to use to create, you know, the perfect physique that we see on stage that we're trying to create. Um, so but yeah, Winchrol's always been, you know, staple, you know. Yeah. Uh, what about this one? Uh, from Tristar Armory. He says, "Quest for the next blood, sweat, and gear. What are your thoughts on test to DHT ratio running test, primo, and mast in a cut phase? Test is at 750. Where would you put the primo and mast 46 years old? 300 of each. Yeah, I like it. Yeah. Yeah. And I don't know. I mean, are there specific, you know, don't really have specific numbers. It's just kind of like a a feel or a you know, kind of a gut feeling, I guess. I don't know about you guys, but I don't I rarely ask someone to get DHT checked on their labs. I don't. Yeah. It's not really I I know a lot of guys are really interested in ratios, test estrogen, test DHT, all those. I'm not a ratio guy with that stuff because, you know, someone might look look a certain way with perfect ratios, whatever those might be. But other people like if we don't know the ratios and we're creating a really good look out of them, what does it matter? You know? Yeah. And and I think sometimes like as an example, if I go if I'm in prep and I go in to the bathroom to pee and I have to reach down and squeeze my prostate to get the urine out, then then I might cut back a little bit on DHT. But outside of that, I don't see an issue. I I feel like a lot of this stuff comes from um I feel like a lot of these people that ask these questions have done like the J3 University stuff. Um that that sounds like a J3 University talking point or thing, I guess. Yeah. Yeah. Diego says onetoone test to primo messes me up. So that's the thing that's that that's for him and he knows that and so he knows not to do that. Yeah. Yeah. Through experimentation, trial and error. It wouldn't go over well for me either. Yeah. New listener. So happy to have found the t the channel and the team. Uh I have two questions. As a 47year-old looking to add mass but not compete. Uh what is a recommended macro percentage breakdown and what is a preferred anabolic to test ratio? Another ratio question. I didn't even realize it was another ratio question. All ratios. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, here's the thing. So, what you'll find with a with a competitor is they're they're it might start out like I'll go protein, carbs, fat. It might start out like 30 50 20, right? But by the end of the contest prep, it might be like 45 prote 45% protein, 30% carbs, and what 25% fat. So, it's hard to say what the perfect thing is. It's kind of like what's perfect for you right now. And what you do is you write yourself a diet or or you have a coach write yourself a diet, one of us. And um from there you just manipulate it, you know, like I I would say make a change and monitor over 10 to 14 days. And if it's getting positive, then you know you're on the right track. And it and again, it's not going to work forever. You know, no change you make in your diet is going to work for Infinium. But um you know, that's a great place to start. Start with something that you can stick to. monitor your results with pictures, performance in the gym, etc., you know, scale, and then from there, you can adjust things. Typically, most people will find pulling carbohydrates first when they're trying to get leaner is usually the way to go. Not always, but usually. Yeah. I don't have too much to add to that other than, you know, if you go to a coach, um, you know, there isn't going to be a formula. We're going to typically take into consideration what you've been doing. uh whether you're eating frequently, whether you're eating once or twice a day, um you know, I nine out of ten times I typically will start the calories higher than what they're already taking in because I don't want to go into a a cut phase with a client if they're already squashing their metabolism. I want to make sure that they're taking in enough calories to start with. So, I tend to start a little higher and then I want to come down from from from there if I can. But that's just a me as a coach and and a method that I use. You could go to five other coaches and they may have six different methods. So, I'll have little different things. And it might be different with like the same coach might do use that method for some people. Like someone who's already fairly lean and we have 20 weeks, we might for the first four weeks add calories, right? Bump them up every week. maybe 200 calories, 150, 100, etc. But then someone who's really really, you know, has a lot of body fat to lose, we might go right into it really hard and fast for the first four to six weeks and then reintroduce some calories as as we go. So there's there's so many ways to to, you know, slice the onion that it's just so hard to say like what's the protocol. There is no protocol. It's it's coaching. It's it's seeing the information and reacting to it and then um coming up with a plan week to week or every other week. Yeah. Um, all right. And then the other topic, the the anabolic topic, I think that for him, our opening topic we did about TRT plus is really kind of a good guideline on where he could get into, you know, using gears. So, we just kind of leave it at that. Um, question for the next show. Uh, managing fatigue on a cut or prep. I'm about six weeks into a cut. Performance is still good. However, the associated fatigue later in the day seems counterproductive. I have to train in the AM as I work in the evening. What are your thoughts? Thanks. When he says counterproductive, like in terms of I mean I mean here's the thing, like there's no way around it. Like when you're in a serious cut and you're I I don't care if you how much food you're eating at two weeks out. If you're in show shape already, you're exhausted. Whether you're eating 3,000 calories or 4,000 calories or 1500 calories, you know what I mean? Like the feeling is roughly the same for every athlete. Agree. It's a deficit because you're just emptying the tank. Emptying the tank, emptying the tank. But to manage fatigue, I think you need to plan um whether it's a skip load or a refeed or um you know, a lot of times now what I do with people is we'll be eating more calories on the days off. You know, let's say they're on a 52 training split. those two days off are actually, you know, much higher or decently higher calorie days than the um than the training days. So, I kind of look at the training days as like a push and then the the non-training days is a pull back. And that doesn't just mean you stick to that within the confines of a 7-day week. Someone might need like three, four, six days and pulling back, whether it's pulling cardio, adding more food, uh pulling training out for a few days. You know, it when you're coaching or when you're working with people, like everything is fair game, every variable. And I'm sure we've all utilized every technique, every tool in the book individually with different clients. Yeah, I'll add a couple things that, you know, I think that so when we do reach that point where we are more fatigued, we tend to do less. We tend to like like say like he's not at work, you know, we tend to be more sedentary. We're like, "Yeah, I'm not going to do extra projects, you know, I'm not going to walk around as much." And I I do think that that will hurt you if you go from say having a very active life. You're cooking along. We still have some fat loss to make happen in the last say 6 weeks, but you know, every minute that you have, you're just like trying to lay on the couch because you're tired. I think that that is not going to be to our advantage. you know, Scott Stevenson, who we have on the the next episode, he would um improve his neat cardio by doing a project when he dieted, meaning like he would like do something like to his RV or he would add like these new struts or whatever to his truck. And so he was like, I'd be out in my garage for two hours a night just tinkering on this stuff. And you know, we went into an episode where just how many calories you burn standing versus sitting. So if you if you know and I think our bodies I think that we want to conserve calories as we're in that position like I think that we're we're purposefully like our bodies are shutting down all of our function to try to sustain ourselves. You know what I mean? To try to fight off the fact that we are getting leaner. So I just want to throw that one thing out there and I'll throw out there, you know, a couple of things that are not necessarily stimulants but things that I think have helped. I think that you nailed it, Andrew, with food being the number one thing. Um, uh, elyroine is really good. Elyroine, it it I I believe it helps with, um, thyroid regulation. So, especially if you're not using T3, it can help with that, but it also helps to sensitize the same receptors that um, uh, that natural stimulants and exogenous stimulants would attach to. So, uh, you know, it would help you to make better use out of, uh, norepinephrine and dopamine as well as caffeine and clen all that stuff. So, I had gotten into a habit of making a cup of green tea in the afternoon because it was also kind of like a little bit of a appetite suppressant for me. And I would mix in some True Nutrition. I don't even know what it was, like a gram and a half of elyroine. Just dump it in there flavorless. Mix it up and it would suppress my appetite some. and and elyrocine does have a mild appetite suppressant effect, but that little bit of caffeine plus the elyroine would lift me up and give me a boost. I believe there was even uh studies done or or excuse me, the military had done research with uh elyroine as an anti- fatigue agent uh for the troops. So, I', you know, I think that that's a a direction I would go before I just started laying into more actual stems, you know what I mean? Because I think that it is common to get like super stimmed out toward the end of a prep. I remember I told a guy he could drink he he said, "Well, can I drink black coffee?" And I said, "Yeah, you know, if you it's black, it's not going to be a problem. You know, it's not going to have cream and sugar. You can drink as much as you want." And then we get to the show and he's complaining of stomach issues and he's got all this stomach acid and you know it's coming out of nowhere and I was like well how much coffee are you drinking? We get to that and he's like oh I'm drinking three pots a day. Well the other thing though the reason why stems aren't great. That's actually a time when you want to pull back on the stems is because you're you're in sympathetic overdrive right? I mean everything you're already doing cardio training but then you're adding stems to the mix like your adrenal glands are spitfiring non-stop and they want they need a break. You need to have a balance of sympathetic and parasympathetic. And that's what I was getting, you know, referring to in terms of taking away time away from the gym, three or four days, adding more food, especially on your rest days, adding in things like KSM66 and ashwagandha and lion's mane, things that are going to help um regenerate in that way. But, um, overall, yeah, the last thing I want is for people to be taking more stems and be relying on DA DMAA or DHAA. Um, what else? uh you know, caffeine in general, all those different things because you'll see someone when you when they're at the last two, three weeks of their prep and they they're mixing like three or four pre-workouts together and you're like, "Okay, you're getting 600 milligrams of caffeine in this plus 25 migs of DMAA plus, you know, whatever other, you know, Yeah. on top of the on top of the fat burning, you know, stems you're taking. That's when you're the problem is is, you know, you get into sympathetic overreach and then you get into adrenal insufficiency where you're not producing any cortisol. you're not producing any adrenal corticoids and that's when your body shuts down when the person's really starts to look flat. They have a very um their a effect is like just very kind of emotionless. It's the same way as if you tank someone's estrogen for for many many days and weeks in a row. Um and you're not going to make progress at that point. So managing that a great point Scott managing the stem load is a big one. Yeah, I get if it's brief and it's a it's kind of a push that's different. I'm I'm in that phase right now and it is the the fatigue is starting to get but the issue is is comparing that to where my fatigue level typically is. Oh man, this is a this is a cakewalk. I mean I I hit PRs yesterday on the hack that I haven't hit in the offseason at nine weeks out. So, but I get out of there and it's not a double cardio, you know, I have double cardio and training and if I'm not doing cardio training, my ass is sitting on the couch. Uh, but I'm not AI'm AI'm a very very sedentary Yeah, I was going to say you're not construction worker regularly. Yeah. I mean, I I never go to get my groceries. Everything's delivered, you know. I I don't I live in a high-rise, so it's not big. You know, we had a big house in Colorado, but this is what 13,400 square feet. I'm not And the gym I train in is tiny. So, it's not like I'm walking around with all these steps even while I'm training. So, it's very very limiting there. So, I'm not necessarily I'm kind of the exception. I'm not losing meat because I never had it anyway. I'm with you, man. I used to, you know, my You guys have step goals for yourself? I don't. You don't? Because I just don't get Here's what I do. I have steps that I have to maintain every day from my prep guy and I do that on a treadmill because I will not get those steps. Mhm. So that is one of my I have a step cardio session if you will. Yeah. That is very low intensity. I always laugh and say I get on it and I don't want to think about the time because I just tell myself it's it's just time. It's not exhausting. It's not physically demanding. You know, my heart rate might be the high 90s, 100 tops, but then I have my cardio fasted that could be hit or it could be less it, you know, with a little bit higher uh, you know, heart rate. And then, of course, I have my my training. So, I'm hitting them all, but no need. I have, but I'm not now. Now, I'm just doing like a lot of hard cardio. So, I I stopped because I'll end up if I don't uh tell my watch that I'm doing an indoor cardio session, I don't think that it actually is tracking those steps and I don't get enough steps otherwise that outside of the two dog walks we do the and my cardio like my steps are super low. Okay. So, then you do have a base form of neat though because you're going for two dog walks a day which is roughly the same every day. Yeah. So, yeah. Yeah. And another reason I was for a while trying to push it higher, Andrew, but then now I'm actually just saying like screw it. I'm going to hard cardio and I'm doing like high incline uh treadmill as fast as I can go. Getting my heart rate to like at times, man, I'm at like 130s, 140s, cranking for 50 minutes and it feels good. So Oh, really? Yeah. Oh, yeah. I'm pushing it, man. And I was never a fan of HIT. I hated it. It's not HIT. It's just high intensity. I am. Yeah. But I I'm doing I'm doing HIT. And I think that's what's helping my legs in the gym. I'm like, how could I be doing hit? And it's, you know, it's an interval. It it's and it's not of this long duration, but that heart rate gets up there fasted. It's funny because I'm like, okay, I have a couple old school stims in me. I'm 55. I'm doing this fasted. If I go down, I'm DNR. I'm going to wear a t-shirt that says DNR. Just let me go. Let me go in peace. Leave my rib cage alone. Um it it but I'm responding very very well to it and feel healthy and energ and we're pulling it back, you know, a little bit now as we get in deeper. And I'm like, can I just keep one or two in there? My favorite cardio. I prefer it. My favorite cardio for prep was when uh I had access to an Olympic size pool. Yeah. And I would do hit cardio in the pool. I think the most I had to do was four 15 minute sessions. And I would I would freestyle it for 10 seconds and then I would walk the rest and on the next minute I so I'd have about 50 seconds of recovery pace and then on the next minute I'd go again. And I'll tell you what, my legs never looked better that year than that year. The fullness was just always there because I wasn't pounding doing two cardio sessions for 45 minutes a day. Um so I always ask clients like, "Do you have access to a decent sized pool?" Like first thing I always ask them um that it's not practical but it's very very effective. We always got the real swimmers that are like hey um do you want me to show you how to do that right? They're like no I'm just trying to get locom motion and burn as many calories in these 10 seconds as I possibly can because it's less cardio I have to do and it works. Oh I got some unsolicited advice from a from a guy at the apartment gym the other day. Oh yeah. What'd he say? Yeah. He let me know that I um I should not be hanging on to the rails. Oh, while I'm doing I wish I was there. I wish we were there. I was nice. I was a little snarky because he has no business. It it pull your shirt up. It sounds shitty, but it's like you're you're so out of your like out of your wheelhouse right now. He was I gave him the quick You know how like when you get looked up and down? Yeah. I looked at him up and down and I'm like, I think I'm good. Yeah. And I literally turned away and he stood there for a second and he walked away and we haven't had any. He's the type of guy that when I go into the gym, I tried to acknowledge him because I see him every morning at 5:00 a.m. I do my cardio before I go to bed. He does his or before my last meal. He does his in the morning. And I always try to acknowledge him. Give him a not he doesn't want he he doesn't see me. I don't really I I'm there in his gym. It's a weird guarantee he his eyes are when you're not looking are following you. Everything you're doing. Well, and over the weeks as I'm getting leaner, I know he's got to be like he ain't just coming in here walking. Like what else does he do? But I just thought it was bizarre that he would offer that after so many weeks of not acknowledging me, not saying anything, but he's going to offer offer advice. And I think I will not I don't think he's going to give me any more advice. Let's get him on the show. See what else he has to offer. Exactly. On them though. I never mind like people are like, "Oh, you know, your client so and so is holding on to the railings or whatever." It's like, "Oh, yeah." Okay. When I'm on a treadmill, I put my hands lightly on the sides, too, because I'm afraid I'm going to fall off on this moving belt if I'm on a treadmill. You know, same thing with an elliptical. So, you know, I've been wearing my plate carrier with three loaded mags to add three more pounds to it. Your heart rate gets up fast when you've got a weighted vest on. Yeah. All right. Speaking of advice, uh we got this comment. Maybe I should put an effect on my voice if I remember um when I read it. Hey Paul, it's called lipolytic, not lipotic. I like that. Didn't I have a comment on that, too? I think you did. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You know, and my I think my point was like, look, we say these words a hundred times a week. Yeah. Okay. Sometimes you get slipped up. It's a it's a simple forian sleep or it's just a slip of the tongue like okay and I'm pedantic like that but the point is the reality is everybody knows what he's saying and that at its core language is communicating clearly and effectively and we all knew what he was saying. So, is he right in the sense that it's not about Okay, technically it is. He is right. But if I remember correctly, he had to edit his comment before saw it, which means Yeah. Okay. So, which proves my point like, okay, you slip up when you write or you say things quickly, especially online when you're when you're, you know, off the cuff. So, Muffy's law and you know that, right? Yeah. It's not Murphy's law, it's Muffy's law. and you make a mistake. You've corrected someone, you make a mistake, and then you put that up. And and the cool thing about it is nine out of 10 times they'll try to bust you because they think that you didn't spell Murphy's law correct. And it's so oddly ironic. It's just gorgeous. And then people will laugh and they don't. Yeah. It's set them up, you know, just set the pins up and then let them knock them down. It's it's it's good. All right. Casey from Patreon has one for us. When is a good time to add anadrol considering it might crush appetite in a bulk? That's different for everyone. I mean, some people it's never, especially if they're already add. Yeah. Well, I mean, if they're at their wits end with food as as it is, it's like don't add it in because you're going to be pulling back to if you're on six meals, you're only going to want to eat three. Um, when's a good time? I mean, I mean, there's a couple different things I like to do. Like if okay if we're at a sticking point with weight and we have tried adding more food and that's not becoming the answer because they're just getting kind of fatter and flatter appearing wise and maybe performance is going down a little bit or they're losing sleep then I would probably add in like 50 to 100 migs of anadrol for like two weeks before it really kills their appetite and you'll see their weight jump six seven pounds they look rounder fuller they're hitting some strength plateau they're beating some strength plateaus um that might be a situation another situation is you might want to use it intermitt ly on certain days like and and and I know someone's going to beat us up in the comments that you can't use an oral to to fix a body part. And it's like, well, guess what? If you can get more training volume, more training uh force and and beat some strength plateaus by using a compound, you're going to build some more muscle. And if that's your weak body part, you're going to improve that body part over time. Even if it's, you know, let's say you're training back twice a week and you're trying to generate more force because you're trying to beat a 405 deadlift for 10 reps. You're trying to get it to 455 for 10. And you do that over four to five weeks using help of of anrol. Guess what? You you just put 50 pounds on your 10 rep max on a deadlift, which is going to equate to muscle mass being gained. I agree with that. I've taken Anadrol for a week at only a week at a time during a D lo and it's worked really well. It's not a bad idea. So, just something to consider. Did you talk to John Meadows? Does he do the same [\h__\h] for real? He was kind of I mean he he was always two like even in contest prep, people would be like, "Oh, bullshit." 250 millig of test a week start off seasonason contest prep. Okay. And then he would just layer in some low doses of other compounds to get into the kind of the kind of look that he brought to stage, right? So, he's a very low dose guy. GH maybe a little different story, but the peeds, the the anabolics or the androgens, very low dose. But what he would like to do a lot of times was he would just cruise at 250 a week and then like 10 15 days out before he had to go to like the Arnolds to make an appearance or the Olympia he would add in like you know 50 to 100 migs of Vanad draw and he would blow up like he would send in pictures from like day one to like right before the day of the show and it's like dude you look like you put on 25 pounds of tissue. Yeah. And he's like yeah I'm still only eating like 1,800 calories too. I've done it on vacation where I know I'm not going to be eating as much and I may not be training as much and just to maximize that recovery for a short period of time. It's good idea. You know, it's just kind of I always looked at it as do other people do it probably not. Is it out of the box thinking just to experiment and see what happens? And and I always get a good response from So that's when you you come up with a great your great discoveries that you can then share with clients because no one else has thought of it, no one else is doing it and it might not work for 100% of people, but if it works for half of them, then it works. And I've done [\h__\h] that hasn't worked and I'm like, but okay, we'll shelf that. So there's that, too. Just don't talk about the things that don't work. Uh Stefan asked us, "Is primo something in the stream, is primo something that you'll pull out a few weeks out of a contest or would you run it all the way in?" Are you sure it's real primo? And if you are, then I wouldn't. You're going to look really good already, right Andrew? Like if it's real primo, you should look better, you know? But but if you think it's just more test prop, then just pull it out because you're probably already taking test prop. And if you really want to, you know, if you want to bring that that estrogen down a little bit, then you probably want to lower your test dose. So yeah, I would leave I I leave Primo in right through um like the Tuesday before show. I think the good thing about being a veteran with gear is even if you're taking seven different things, you're going to know if something is not what it's supposed to be. You know what I mean? I think the only way you wouldn't is if you added three or four of those compounds at one time. Yep. You know, then you might not know. Yep. All right. I think that was about uh all we had. Skip, did you have a word of the day? I did. Did you? What you got for us? Yes. Cesqua pedalion. Oh, I say that word all the time. Do you? Yes. And what? Sesqua pedallion. What it And it's it's a great word because even just hearing the word tells you it's a person who uses words that are way too big or, you know, they're not necessary. You're you're using A-list words and you're a belist word kind of guy. I can't even say that. Cesa cesqua pedalion. I did double check. I didn't want to say it right. Cesques. Yeah. Sesqua pedallion. Pedallion. Saska. Yeah, you got it. Nailed it. First time answer. I didn't find it. Usually I I come AC I I'll hear something on TV and I'll stop. I drive my wife nuts and I'll Google it and then I take a screenshot. I have an album on my phone of words that I have come across just just because I've not heard the word before. Yeah. But uh it was a uh buddy of mine from the old or from the small town in Michigan where my wife is from that we lived in for a couple years um after we met and we moved uh you know from there to Colorado and uh he he called me and say Ces Cesco Pedallion. And I thought, I don't know what that is, but I bet it has something to do with grammar or verbiage. Yeah. So, I had to Google it. Yeah. You're you're how far out now? Uh to the day nine weeks. Nine weeks out. Yeah. Nine and potentially 14. So, things are all right. Things are rolling. The high carb days need to go up. I had a big drop. It's one of those weeks where visually even as the client or the you look at your pictures and you go, "Oh, I'm good with that." Oh, yeah. Those are good weeks. Oh, that was a good week. You know, that sort of thing. So, um it's good. It's it it you know, and hit those numbers in in the gym on the hacks. Um there's just a lot of it's really enjoyable. I I I say it every time you ask me. I say it and people are like, you know, eye roll, that's cool. Just keep in mind when I say that that, you know, I I had a lot of obstacles, man. So, when I'm when I'm when things are going well and I'm injuryfree and you never know how long it's going to last, you just really try to enjoy the process. And I'm loving it. I want to point out though cuz like who was I talking to the other day? I think maybe three or four of us were talking about, you know, when people you come into the gym, you're like, "Hey, how's your prep going?" They're like, "Oh, you know, it's like it's hard." and and they're just kind of dragging at and you're like, "Well, then don't do it." If you're not looking forward to doing it and and this is the exact opposite. You're like, "Things are going great." And even if they weren't, if even if you were having a hard time, you would say, "I'm having a hard time, but I'm loving every minute of it still. I get to do this." And and that's the kind of stuff I appreciate because not everyone gets to do this, it is a conscious choice to do it when you do do it. And you're going to do it to the fullest. And no matter what, you're going to have our respect. No matter what happens, you're going to have our respect because you're doing it to the fullest. And it but it's great that you're having a good time doing it. All right, I gota go. May not be enjoyable next week. I'm going down. It is right now. I'm going down. Guys, go to bodybry.com to reach out to Andrew and teamkip.com to reach out to skip mcnal diets@gmail.com to hit me up. Of course, trrennutrition.com. Use our code think over there. Supplementsource.ca for our Canadians. And thank you to everybody from Patreon. I'll be posting up a new Patreon thread. You can comment with questions over there. You get priority. And everybody here, if you're still here and you still haven't hit the like button yet, then please do because it does help us out a ton. Uh it's not going to change anything in your algorithm, but it will help us to get seen by more people. And of course, uh leave us comments. Comments are huge. We'd love to have you along for everything. So if you haven't subscribed, then hit the subscribe button and hit the bell. The bell is the only way that you're going to find out that you you know we're we're putting out a new show because believe me, YouTube does not like gear content. It is not going to let you know otherwise. for another episode of Blood, Sweat, and Gear. Guys, we will see you soon. And thank you to everybody in the live stream. And thank you to you guys, too.