 I ran the highest trend dose I've ever run in my tenure as a professional drug user. Really? I slept like a baby. Really? And I slept like a baby. And I arguably slept better the more I took, which is not good. I had other sides. Was it a thousand? A thousand? A thousand? A thousand? A thousand? A week? No, it wasn't. I got to just under 900 over eight days. What's up guys? Welcome back to Blood Sweat and Gear. I'm here with coaches. I'm here with coaches. I'm here with coaches. I'm here with coaches. I'm here with coaches. I'm here with coaches. I'm here with coaches Skipp Hill and myself. Scott McNally. All of our programming is brought to you by truenutrition.com. Use our code THINK for additional savings on high quality, third party and in-house tested supplements from a company that you can trust. All your basic stuff like protein powder, the team skip blend, creatin, intra-workout, tons of flavors. Let me know if you have any questions about them. Supplementsource.ca for Canadians. They have great deals that change week to week on short dated and label change products. Of course, we're brought to you by the team. We're brought to you by Patreon. I think we got a couple of Patreon questions today. You guys are welcome to load us up over there. We could use some more questions for the future shows. And by the way, anybody who's new here, if you guys want to comment on the program, we basically hang out with you guys and we answer your listener questions. Skip's been coaching for like over 20 years. I've been at this for, I think I'm full time now for over a decade straight, which says I kind of established at this point, I guess. It's not a side hustle anymore. Right. And Andrew's not here. He's a really good trainer and I didn't like that. So he had to leave. So he had to go skip. And skip had been here longer. So actually Andrew's out at nationals right now. He's got some people out there. I've got a guy at nationals and good luck to everybody. Cause there, this will be coming out like the first day of the shows Friday. So good luck to everybody over at MPC nationals this year. You hope you guys all kick ass. We've got a bunch of stuff. Um, and, uh, by the way too, if you're new here, we'd love to have you along for everything we do. So like, share, subscribe, subscribe, comment, ring the bell, all that stuff. Skip two things. We wanted to cover. One of our listeners had a burning desire for, uh, basically cycles for older guys. How would they differ from cycles for like anybody, I guess. And before we did though, I wanted to get your opinion on equipoise in how your perspective has evolved on it over time. This is a topic that came up recently over on the drugs and stuff podcast with Dave, you know, years ago we were like, it's a, it's like a dryer Deca. You might need to take a little bit more, but that was the beginning and the end of it. And now we realize so much more about it. I think that with the more difficulty of getting primobolin nowadays, uh, there's been more of a push to find another compound that'll help to control estrogen. I'm seeing more and more people that are getting their labs done, um, while using EQ that people are talking. What's the ratio that works for them? There's been just a lot more excitement about equipoise or bold and on than there had been in previous years. What has your personal evolution been with it? I mean, you've been using gear for what 40, 40 years now. I don't know a long time. How long have I third? What is 90? No, don't ask me to do math. 87. Oh, this is how I do. 97. Oh, seven, 17. We're coming up on 40 years. That's a long time, man. That's a lot of, that's a lot of gear in my defense though. That first cycle was like a six week or like 250 megs of testosterone sipping eight. I bet you blew up off it. I dropped my drawers right there. Drop trial in a Western Michigan university dorm room. All he did was open up the door and like five or six miles just rolled around in there randomly. He had a gun over here on the side in a dorm room. Yeah. Well, it was 87. It was 87. You know, like it didn't really matter then. Nobody was doing, you know, weird shit at that time. So yeah, I just, he put it up. He's like, well, drop your pants. Here you go, bud. Wait, wait, wait, wait a minute. What are you talking about? Gave me first shot. I was all excited. But anyway, point is that we, did you have to come back every week and get another shot from him? No. Or how did he gave, he, I got the bottle. I I'm sure I paid. I don't even know. Probably the equivalent of 800 bucks. Premium, premium prices. I'm sure. Yeah, I'm sure. But nonetheless, my point is, is those first couple of cycles, they, they were cycles. I wasn't natural, but you know, it is what it is. Yeah. I mean, obviously, you know, the game was different. Look back in that time, the dosages were very low compared to me. If you were on five or 600 make total, you were like, you were like legit. Yeah. Because I remember times where, you know, I had the organ on deck of the little two, two mil amps. Yeah. Oh, dude. One mil at a time, you know. Yeah. I mean, otherwise, think about it. In today's dosing, you'd be going through what? Four of those a week. Easy. Yeah. I mean, come on now. Right. Yeah. It was cute too. I know I need to get back on track on topic. The EQ. Yeah. I just, it was just so funny to me. There's, I have a lot of stories, but I'll leave them for later. Yeah. The EQ, look, EQ back then was like, okay, wicked pumps, vascularity. It would make you drier. That's pretty much what was, what was known at that time. We didn't know anything really about blood viscosity because nobody did, you know, we're doing blood work and, you know, the early nineties and that sort of thing. So you couldn't know. Yeah, probably not, but it wasn't on our brain anyway. Yeah. Probably because the dosages weren't very high either. So yeah, there, we had no idea the implications or impact on estrogen levels. We didn't have a shortage of Primo, which quite frankly, I'm being honest, if you like Primo and you aren't stocked, you're not very planful. Yeah. Did you really like Primo that much? No, but I do have enough. And you don't like to run it with TRT if I'm being honest. Yeah. But nonetheless, we didn't know those things. So, you know, we learned later what about blood viscosity and things, which is a whole other topic that I'm not sure if hematocrit is higher. Hematocrit is as bad as we always thought it was, but that's for another show. The estrogen component, things like that. We also run a lot higher dosages now because quite frankly, most of us can tolerate, especially if you're younger. There is a connection between those higher RBC hematocrit hemoglobin numbers with age. So I'm not trying to get into the other topic yet, but that plays a part in the older cycle, which I'm quite offended that you would bring that topic to me. And I can't really understand why, but whatever. Skip, what old guys use? Yeah, exactly. We want to know. So we'll just ask the resident, the token old guy. The dosage is higher. It's a great compound. I mean, what, offseason? Can certainly use it. Probably run it through preps the entire time through prep. I think it's a great compound to open preps with. Whether you keep it in or not, I think is a little bit more individual. If you respond to it well, great. Very long, Esther. What do you mean by that, whether you respond to it well? You mean like if you're holding water from it? Well, it could be. I mean, it could be holding water. It could be. Not everyone reacts the same way from the estrogen standpoint either. There's some people who have seen the blood work and go, wow, this really doesn't seem to impact you very much. For other people, it can just crash them, crash your estrogen. So, you know, a lot of this is individual. We, on this show, give advice, kind of blanket advice or blanket statements that cover or can answer the question for the vast majority of people, but not everybody. So, you're your own science experiment. You're your own trial and error. To me, that's the definition of bro science. Yeah. And that's why I don't think bro science, the moniker, is as bad as a lot of people think. If you're experienced and you control your variables, then your bro science is probably going to be pretty accurate. Backed by your own experience. Hey, and just to prove your point too, guys, what is your personal favorite ratio of test to EQ? Comment below and watch when the comments come up, Skip. We're going to have like 500 different recipes. You know what I'm saying? And 200 of them are going to argue with the other 300 saying, that's not right, that's too high. You know, that sort of thing. So, take into consideration that it is very individual. Myself, as an example, if I'm, excuse me, if I'm going to run arbitrary numbers, but if I'm going to run 1,000 milligrams of testosterone and I'm only going to run EQ with it, two compounds, amateurs, oh my God. Anyway, but I'm going to run EQ with it. I can't or won't run it higher than say roughly 50%. So, 500 milligrams. And I know that some people are like, well, I've taken seven or eight, that's great. And maybe you respond differently than I do. Remember, I'm the guy who hates Prima Bowling because it doesn't respond. I don't respond very well to it. But I have many clients who do. So, you're saying 1,000 tests to 500 EQ? Yeah. Okay. But that's not, yeah, it could be 400. It could be, clearly, you know, the numbers still may change. Even if you're looking at it from an individual standpoint and you run 1,000 testosterone, syponate, or testosterone with 500 EQ and you get these numbers. Yeah. Run it again the next year. You may not have those same numbers. Remember, body fat is estrogenic too. So, if you're fatter, you may have a higher level of estrogen. If you're leaner, you may have a lower amount. There's a lot of things that factor into that. And that's another reason why, gee, if the same prep doesn't work the next year or the same off-season diet doesn't work the next year or the same foods because you have, I don't know, come up with some type of intolerance to oatmeal. It happens. Yeah. Same thing with gear. So, it's not always going to be, oh, this worked. I'm going to go back to this every single time. Yeah. All right. Well, listen, we didn't really have a lot to cover on that, but it's something I wanted to bring up and I wanted to get your take on it. But just because it is, like I said, it's kind of an evolving conversation, which is interesting. You think about how long have we all been using equipoise for and to think that a compound that's been around since both you and I started bodybuilding, like that we're still figuring things out. It's still evolving. I think that's pretty freaking cool, man. Well, I think it is cool, and I want to make this point before we move on. I've been around for a long time, and I have always prided myself on there's always more to learn about training. There's always more to learn about dieting. But I've sometimes thought gear is gear. Yeah, me too, man. This is how, I mean, I responded to this way 10 years ago. I'm probably going to respond similarly to it. It's not all of a sudden I'm going to just love primobolin. Yeah. So it's a good idea to keep that in mind, that there's a lot that we don't know about AAS, even though we've got a lot of experience with it. And that even goes to these new compounds. We don't, Redditru Tide looks great on paper. It solves the world's problems, including cancer and, you know, everything else. I mean, I'm being hyperbolic, but it's this cure-all great drug. We don't know if there might not be some negative ramifications with these new compounds or new peptides. So always have to stay up on the evolution, the knowledge, the studies, the things that they're going to come up. And it's going to continue to evolve. I wish I could go forward 10 or 15 years. Hopefully I make it that long. And see what changes happen and how much more we know. Because every year we learn exponentially more than we did the year prior, no matter what it is. Gear, training, supplementation, nutrition. All right. Well, listen, we got this question. This is from Manny. He said, talk about testing NPP for age over 50. Instead of just taking that direct question, I wanted to kind of evolve a little bit. Let's say cycles for older guys. Where do we start with that one? Okay. Now, obviously I am the older guy, so I'm a good person to ask for that reason. But I don't run my cycles differently. Not much differently than I did when I was younger. But that's because I want to continue to stay competitive. But that's maybe only for another year. Okay. So what changes? Number one, what should change is the way you approach the compounds and the dosing from a health standpoint. Yeah. Because when we're younger, and it could be argued, when you're younger, you should look at it the same way. But let's be real. We're not doing that. When we're younger, I'm speaking for myself. When I was 25 or 30, I was going to live forever. And tomorrow was going to happen. And there was no concern about that. You're so much more resilient when you're young, too. Sure. You started mentioning the hematocrit thing. Young guys, they don't have any issue. They come off cycle. They've been out for 20 weeks. And they're like, oh, yeah, I'm 51. Getting a little bit high. You know? Well, I think gear use is akin, I've said this before, to drinking when you're younger. I could drink and maybe a day later go into the gym and I wouldn't notice anything. I'd be like, oh, yeah, no big deal. Not hungover, whatever. Yeah. These days, I mean, I quit drinking 15 years ago for the reason that I would feel like death for four days. Like I was literally, like I wasn't going to train. I didn't want to train. I felt horrible. Face all puffy. Couldn't get my ring off. I'm like, I don't know. Maybe I need to take a break from this. And then it turned into five years and 10 years and now 15 years. But I'm playing with my ring here just to make sure there's room. You know what else is another factor? And this is obviously not specifically gear related, but it will set you up for success or failure that you have to respect as you age is making sure that you get your sleep. For guys that like if you're getting six hours of sleep and you're over 40 years old, I guarantee you, you are not going to make the gains that you could be making. Like the stuff that you can get away with when you're 25 and you're out all night long or whatever, staying up late, you know, on your video game or whatever. And then, you know, you still have to get to work at 6 a.m. Like you can kind of get away with some of that stuff and you can even do that in prep to a degree when you're younger. But seriously, as you and I've seen it, man, I've seen people who maybe they weren't buckled down on their sleep. And we're you get to a point and I'm sure you've seen this skip where you get to a point with a client. We're just like things aren't adding up here. You know, like we really need to dig in and figure out and we start looking at all the stuff. Like, tell me, what are all the condiments that you're using? You know what I mean? How much water are you drinking? What time are you eating your meals? And what time are you like you start breaking down the little pieces because there's got to be something in there. You find out they're only, you know, sleeping six and a half hours a night and they, you know, we've got to figure out a way to get more. What would you say? And I know everybody's going to be different. Is there like a minimum number you would put on sleep, especially for older guys who are going to demand, you know, as much sleep as possible to get recovery? Well, first, I would say it's not a number. It's more than you had when you were younger, only because it's individual. But it needs to be more importantly, it just needs to be a priority. Your sleep needs to be a priority over, well, I want to watch this show that comes out at this time. Or, you know, you might even think this sounds kind of bad, but, you know, I just want to hang out an extra hour with my wife or my girlfriend or boyfriend. Or, yeah, I'm talking to 99% male demographic. They listen. So I assume it's about 1% female. But you need to kind of set those priorities in the sense that, okay, you can get away with it every now and then. But if that becomes a pattern, then you're going to have a problem. It also depends on the quality of sleep you get. Look, we live in a time now where we can track the quality of our sleep. And if you're a listener and you're not doing that, I implore you to track your sleep because there's so much valuable information there. From HRV, I mean, the things that they can accurately track now, it's pretty crazy. The amount of REM sleep you're getting, the amount of deep sleep that you're getting. There are times where I might only get six hours of sleep a couple nights, but it's a really good quality sleep. Yeah. My sleep score might not suffer a whole lot. There are other times where I get eight, eight and a half, and I'm like, this isn't a very good sleep score. Let me ask you something, and I don't want to get too far off topic because I know this whole thing is a gear topic. But when you were prepping and you were using fat burners like Clin or ECA, did that adulterate the results of your scores? Yeah. A lot of your HRV, for those who don't know, your HRV is almost directly related to your heart rate while you're sleeping. So as your heart rate goes down, as it should, then the HRV essentially comes up. So what do fat burners do? And when you're wired and you're constantly active and your brain is active, even stress for that matter. If you've got a lot on your brain, your heart rate tends to stay up. Your sleep quality isn't as good. So you do want the HRV to be as high as possible. You want it constant. That's another important aspect of it, too. You don't want it all over the place. But, yeah, it definitely impacts those things. Because what's funny is deep into prep, even trend, everybody complains about trend makes my sleep awful and I have night sweats and everything else. I ran the highest trend dose I've ever run in my tenure as a professional drug user. Really? I slept like a baby. And I arguably slept better the more I took, which is not good. I had other sides. Was it 1,000? 1,000 a week? No, it wasn't. I got to just under 900 over eight days. So, I mean, it's not huge, but it's huge for me. You lose like an ace, right? Well, no. Yeah, definitely ace. I thought you said eight. The only reason I say eight days is because some people might be going, are your weeks different than mine? They are in the sense that I dose everything every other day. Okay. So, what I do is I just consider it an eight-day rotation because if I consider it six, that's not a whole week. So, it's like my brain registers it differently. Oh, that's not enough. We'll just bump it up. Yeah. So, all these things play into the sleep, but it can be stress. It can be the fact that you're just so active. I am 10 times more active during a prep. Hey, what's up, guys? I got a commercial here for True Nutrition. You've seen me talk about the cold-filtered weight ISO before. This is like the legit high-quality stuff. A lot of times when you buy a protein powder from a national brand, it'll have some weight ISO in it. It'll have some weight concentrate. It'll have some cheap stuff in it. This is like just the pure best quality stuff. So, if you ever deal with gas or bloating, digestion issues, you go with this, you're going to be all right. So, I like the cookie butter flavor. I get the regular flavoring. You can get light or heavy or regular. I get the regular. And this month, I'm trying an experiment because I want to try to save some money. I bought a pound of weight concentrate. So, this is like the cheap protein, right? Because I figured if I can save some money, like nothing is cheap anymore, right? Like everything is freaking expensive. Bodybuilding is expensive. And I want to try to still get enough protein in to grow muscle. So, I'm going to see what happens if I do like a half a scoop of this to a scoop and a half of this. Can I get away with that? Does it bloat me? If not, if I don't get gas, if I don't get bloating, then I'm going to run with it and save some money. And you guys can save some money by using our code THINK. That directly helps to support our programming too. Every time you guys use the code, I get an email that says, hey, one of your listeners used the code. Thank you. All of that stuff. It really does directly help to support our shows. And you guys get 10% off on stuff that you would have bought anyway. High quality protein, creatine, intra-workout. You guys know the drill. All right. I just finished training. I wanted to knock this out really quick. I have to go eat some food. Thank you guys for watching the programming. Let's get back to it. Well, let me throw something at you. And you tell me what you think. I think that a lot of the guys that are listening, I mean, there are going to be people that are at the level you're at. There are people who are competing or they're attempting to compete guys who have been running a lot of gear for a long time. I think there's also going to be a huge number of guys nowadays that maybe haven't run a lot of gear. Maybe these guys got on TRT and now they're wondering to themselves like, okay, what's a good cycle for me as an older guy that's already on TRT? I don't have to worry about recovering. I'm already on test. You know, how can I basically get more out of what I'm doing with my program? They're already training. They're already trying to eat properly. Maybe they even hired one of us to coach them. You know, where do we go from there? And specifically, our listener had Manny had asked about like what test and NPP, you know, but we could cover anything. But I'll just throw that at you from that lens. And what Manny is talking about with testosterone and NPP would probably be the first step that I would tell the average person who was running TRT to step up to. So if you go four to five hundred tests when you're doing TRT tests, you're doubling your tests and then you're adding an NPP at two to three hundred a week. That's a pretty good step up from there. Much more so than the younger, you know, twenty to twenty five year old. Because the older you are, the lower your testosterone levels are. So then you're on TRT. OK, you're running high range. You're running high normal, I guess is what I'm saying. And, you know, a thousand or eleven hundred, which you should be if you're on TRT. I think you might as well milk it and get your TRT doctor to get you from, you know, a lot of them will put you at six or seven hundred or eight hundred. Nah, the cutoff is eleven. Get me to ten ninety nine and keep me right there. Ten ninety nine. And you want to maximize it if you can. And my argument is that's not unhealthy, because if they give you that parameter for a natural testosterone level. At the end of the day, what's the difference? So I would say the only thing that would would throw me off from wanting to go that high would be that if now your hematocrit starts just habitually being way out of range or, you know, you have some other issues. Maybe maybe maybe like at that level. Now you need an A.I. to control estrogen on your twenty four seven TRT. That'd be a point where I'd be like, back it down. I would say go as high as you can without messing without messing things up. And you definitely want the blood work. You definitely want to keep track of where you're, you know, your RBC hematocrit hemoglobin are. You want to keep track of your, you know, your lipid profile. And of course, your estrogen. But I think and I'm going to ask you if you'd agree. OK. Because I know I've seen this. The people that do the guys who do TRT replacement, basically, even if they're running up around a thousand, I would say only about 20 percent. Will end up with high estrogen. Have you seen a different number than that? Again, it's ballpark. I can't you know, I can't. OK, so. Yeah, I go with 20, 20 percent. 20 percent end up with high estrogen with where you say in like with high level TRT. Yeah. With like high normal, like if your blood levels are up around, you know, 800 to a thousand in there somewhere. Yeah, I'd say I'd say 20, 20 percent, maybe somewhere. So then you got 80 percent who don't have to deal with the estrogen component of it. So then all they have to really watch is obviously blood pressure. How much water are you holding? Things like that. How you're. But a lot of times that's a body fat issue and it's a diet issue. Yeah. So if you have a body and they're both related, because if you have a body fat issue, your ass should be dieting. And if you're dieting and you're doing it right, you shouldn't have a body fat issue. So at the end of the day, you shouldn't be holding water. And then you can't really blame the compound for that. That goes to the fat guy in the mirror. Don't if you're holding. That's typically the case. Unless you come into a TRT and you have high blood pressure and you're for whatever reason lean, which is out of my wheelhouse that you need to look at the medical end of that. Talk to medical professional about that. Find out what the issue is. And I think a lot of guys, too, who are on TRT because TRT is so I don't want to say rampant. That sounds negative. It's so common. Yeah. And so many people are on TRT, which I think is great because it increases quality of life. That's just the bottom line. Then you need to look at or my point was that a lot of those guys, maybe not a lot, but enough of them to note. Are on heart medicine. There are a lot. I have a lot of clients who are on TRT who if I had to guess. Half of them, not because of the TRT, but because they're older, maybe they were not in shape for 10 years and they're now they've been in shape for three years. I don't know. Things like that. There's a lot of variables. So, yeah, you have to you have to look at those things and you have to be able to say, OK, is it the compound or is it my lifestyle? If it's the compound, then, yeah, you're going to have to you're going to have to adjust that. Run the lower dose. If you're on TRT and you have to clean out to go back on TRT. Yeah, that's but that would be the exception to the rule. That just is not not a common. People are taking TRT and have ridiculously high levels of metacritin. RBC and hemoglobin. I'm going to say this and I know it might make you cringe, but it's just I am being honest. It's my my opinion. I think that we are figuring out now, which we should have figured out sooner, that the hematocrit levels, RBC, hemoglobin. And they're not is. Oh, my God, they're out of range as it used to be. And I think that's a good thing. I really do think that's a good people. It's the opposite. I think there. I think it's at a point where if you say anything about bloodletting or controlling hematocrit that we will instantly get people in the comments saying like, oh, you never need to do that. You don't need to do that. Right. But I think there is a middle ground there, you know, like and I and I remember saying this today. Like, so like if if so, 55 is OK. Well, how was 56? And if 56 is OK, how's 57? And what if I'm at 62 on hematocrit? Is there a where's the point where it's you know what I'm saying? There's there's still a level. And I have seen guys that are up there in the 60s that, in fact, when I used to do therapeutic philotomy, I met a couple of guys that were like way up there. And I knew they were gear users, too, that, you know, you just there's a line. But I do think I'm with you 100 percent, man, because, dude, 15 years ago, there was like one doctor that was coming out and saying like, hey, guys, we might not need to worry about hematocrit as much as we thought. And everybody was bloodletting and, you know, just trying to get the number down. Sure. Into range, which in turn. Makes you create more red blood cells. So it's like maybe we should just let them die off. Yeah. You know, you have that. You have it as with anything. And I don't want to I don't want to go down this rabbit hole of just focusing on blood work. But it is important that people know that one number is just one number. Yeah. The consequences or the negative ramifications of bad blood work numbers are when you start putting the pieces together and you have, oh, this number is bad. This number is bad. Oh, this one's a little off. But they fit together right there. That's not, you know, going back to synergy. That's not a good synergistic thing. But if you have one that's out of whack, your hematocrit is high, but platelets are low. You're that's a big range. Yeah, exactly. We're in range. But when you start putting them together and you have a bad one here and you have one that's like out here, one over, then you got to be able and no one. I don't want to say no one. The average person can't know those numbers and they can't know how it fits. And I'm not going to say I always say this. I'll say it again. I'm not a doctor and I don't play one on a podcast. I don't play one on the Internet. I don't play one on the phone. I'm giving my opinions based on what I have seen from blood work for myself and thousands of clients for the last 25 years. That's all it is. It's just an opinion. Okay. That's how I'm seeing it. So we've given them 500 tests and 200-ish. Yeah. 200. MPP. Maybe if you want to, you know, I always laugh and say, what's the difference between 200 and 300? 100 meg. What about anything else that you would consider? I mean, because I think that's a great combo. You know, I think that's a great place to grow. You know, most people can't get Primo right now. They can't get Mastron. Those are two really good options if they're available. Yeah. If you say, well, I want to play it a little more conservative and I won't put the MPP in there. Yeah. But I will tell you this. My opinion, testosterone and MPP are going to give you better gains than testosterone and Mastron or testosterone and Primo. I really, I would agree with you. I do think that. And look, the body from a Nandrolone, as far as it being a Nandrolone compound, I mean, that's part of the reason that it's good. Mastron, what's Mastron going to do? It's going to free up more testosterone. I always say, I don't think, I don't like to take testosterone without Mastron. I feel like if I'm taking Mastron, I might as well free up as much testosterone as I possibly can and make that dose of testosterone. Kind of the more the power punch, the better and get the most out of it. We look too much or a lot of people look too closely at the total testosterone. I don't care. I want to know what the free testosterone is. So for this guy, is there anything that you would say is just like, there's no reason I wouldn't use X compound? Is there a compound that he shouldn't use? Yeah, or compounds. Things, things, halitestin, Anadrol. I mean, you know. No draw? Yeah. And here's the thing. I'm a big fan of Anadrol. Yeah. But it's, Anadrol use when you're older, I think is more, for lack of a better word, it's more nuanced. If you're going to run Anadrol and you really want to use it two, three weeks at a time, maybe four, and then off for the same amount of weeks. It's just, those are harsh, those are harsh compounds. You could get, you could probably do well on a relatively low dose of Anadrol. I've said before, I still think that 100 milligrams of Anadrol is overkill, and yet I'll do it. You know, I'm just being honest. I'm doing it, but I probably don't need that. 50, 40 milligrams of Anadrol is a pretty good dose, and if you don't see anything from it, I don't think you're going to go to 100 and go, wow, this is really awesome. Well, we're seeing people go the other direction now. You know, we're seeing people down at the very low end. I think we even talked about that a few couple episodes ago. You know, Vigorous Steve had done a video about basically like TRT plus being like just adding in 10 milligrams of Anavar. And he saw like long-term, no adulteration to lipids, you know, no issues with, you know, various different, you know, health markers that he was checking like long-term. Like, and I've heard people say like, oh yeah, I did 10 milligrams of Anavar for a year. Now, I'm not sure how beneficial that's going to be compared to what we're talking about, like running a cycle. I think you're going to get a boost from it, and it's definitely going to be more than nothing. You know, there is that, but I'll tell you what, I have seen like even 25 for, and here's where I've used it, man. And I've just been doing this recently toward the end of a cycle where you're kind of at that point where we don't have a lot of time left. You know, maybe we do a lab check and everything's still good. We probably want to wrap this up sooner than later, but I think we have another six to eight weeks left in us. We've been on the same compounds for an extended period of time. Guy has a little bit of Anavar, enough to run, say, 25 milligrams for the next five weeks, something like that. Dude, I've seen changes that surprised me with just 25. And I'm wondering too, is part of it psychological? Because we're kind of throwing a new drug in, you know what I'm saying? After everything's been the same for so long, I don't know. But man, I mean, I've even seen the scale moving up too and strength going up and kind of creating some more momentum in a phase where like morale was starting to flatline. You know what I mean? Well, and scale weight and the weight on a bar is pretty black and white. You can look and visually say, oh, and the placebo effect could play a part if you're just maybe not seeing, you know, what you think you're seeing in the mirror. Yeah. But not on the scale and not on the bar. So, yeah, here's the thing. And you know this too. 25 milligrams, it can work great. 50 milligrams, it's going to work a little bit better. Probably. 10 milligrams, it'll work. Is it going to be enough? I mean, three milligrams. I mean, we can argue, you know, arbitrary numbers. It's like, okay, three is better than zero, but are you going to? Is it worth taking? Yeah, exactly. Am I going to really see? So this just comes back to what I've always said. There has to be this comfort level for each person for what they're using. So that, you know, the other thing is you don't want to take more than you're comfortable so that you're worried. Because then if anything happens to you, you get a cold, you, something, anything, you're going to be like, oh, is this related? And that's how it used to be when you went to the doctor. I lived this in those early years and I hated it because everything, when I had shingles that time between shows, I had shows that were two weeks apart. And about five days after the first show, I got shingles in 2004 and I went to see the doctor. And that little bastard, I never told him, never said anything, but I was fresh off a show. And he came in, told me I had shingles. He said, it's probably from the steroids you're using. And I looked at him and I said, if you didn't already treat me, I had to walked out. He's like, why? I said, because you don't have any reason to say that. That's like sitting on a jury and going, the guy looks guilty. It's not from the two hours of cardio and the lack of sleep and all the stress. Like, you know, the stress of the diet had nothing to do with any of that, I'm sure. You know, and look, it's not like I was 260 jacked. You know, I was a light heavy. I'm sure that he probably did think, oh, I wonder if he's, but he never asked me. Oh, he didn't even ask. No, he said it's probably from the steroids you're taking. He didn't say it terribly like a smart ass. He just said it matter of fact. And I told him, like, I never told you that I was taking steroids. How do you know? You look at me and tell me. If you wouldn't already treat me, I'd have walked out. That's the type of crap I have to deal with all the time. The point is, is as soon as they would see or know or have an idea that that was a connection, that's what caused it. And that's where our brains go sometimes if we're not comfortable with the compounds that we're taking or the dosages that we're using. So be comfortable with the compounds that you're using so that you don't feel that this is an unhealthy move. Take advantage of your diet being on track. Make sure that you're feeling healthy, that your supplementation is good. Try to counter any negative sides that you can potentially come up with from the compounds and dosages that you're using. Yeah, I'm with you there. I'm with you there. All right. I hope that gives everybody some good ideas. We did have a bunch of listener questions. And as I mentioned before, guys, if you're new to our content, we'd love to have you along for everything we do. So hit the subscribe button, hit the bell, all that stuff, and leave us questions for the next show. Plus comments, likes, all that stuff that helps to boost our programming up. Skip, do you have the hype button on your channel? You get the hype button now? Yeah, we have some hype points. I don't know. I know that it's a thing, but I don't know to what degree these points, I know it matters, but I don't know how many. It's like, is 100,000 good? Sometimes we get the hype button. Sometimes we don't. I think a lot of people don't know about it. Well, sometimes we don't even get it. Like, it's not even on our videos. Oh. Sometimes it is. So I don't know, man. But if you guys see the hype button, hit it for us. We appreciate that. And as I said, we do have a bunch of listener questions. You guys are welcome to comment with questions for the next one. All right. So this is from the group. We've got the Facebook group, by the way. You guys are welcome to join over there. Think Big Bodybuilding Facebook group. Need help with a cue for upright rows. I don't usually do them, but I wanted to try something novel. I keep feeling it in my rear delts and my traps at the top. How do I shift this to my delts? Oh, I actually like this question. I thought you might. I thought you might. I'm assuming he's using a barbell. Use dumbbells. Okay. Not only use dumbbells, but alternate. Right, left. Oh, really? Right, left. Here's why. When you are pulling up at the same time. And I'm going to have this video up of me doing them because I actually do them on a cable too. But you have to have the cable. Okay. I got to explain this. Not a regular cable crossover because you have to use the low pulleys. But the cable crossover, a typical cable crossover is too wide. You have to have that dual cable station where the arms you can move in or out. Oh, yeah. Like the free motion one. Exactly. No, not necessarily free. But you can move them wide. You can move them narrow. Yeah. Then you can move them up and down. So you want them low, but you want them at shoulder width. Okay. Okay. So it's a low pulleys. It almost looks like you're going to start a dumbbell curl. Okay. Okay. Obviously, your hands aren't supinated. You're going to be, there you go. It's overhand grip. One at a time. And what that does is when you do them one at a time, you're able to not only pull up, but to pull in or kind of over. Okay. When you do them both at the same time, that's very difficult to do. It's kind of like you can row double dumbbells. But if you roll one dumbbell at a time, you're going to get a better range of motion because you're able to pull back further. Okay. I see. And if you think, well, I can do them both at the same time, get a lot bigger. And then your middle traps and everything kind of get in the way of each other. So when you're bigger, it gives you a little bit more range of motion. So what you're doing is you're pulling up. And when I say left, right, left, right, that's me because I'm OCD. I will never do one side for a set and then do the other side for a set. Why? Because one side is going to fail before the other. So I like to go with those alternating reps. But try that either with a dumbbell or with dumbbells or with the low pulley. If you can adjust those pulleys in or out because you can't do them when they're real wide. You can't do it on a regular crossover, cable crossover from the low pulleys. Try it and tell me if you don't like it. And I prefer a hold at the top. Because I think, let me rephrase that. A hold at the top with the cable pulley, not with the dumbbell. The dumbbell is too difficult to do. You mean a hold at the top so you bring it up and then you squeeze for a second? Yeah, you literally hold at the top. And it's more nuanced than that. You'll see it, though, in the video. You not only are pulling up and slightly back, but you're pulling. Let me do it this way. You're pulling at this angle. You're not pulling straight up. So you want to pull out away from your body versus straight up and down. And some people. I got you. I got you. If Tanya's listening, she will do them cross pulley. And I'm not saying it's wrong. I'm saying when I do the cross pulley, I don't like that angle of pull. It's an odd. It's an it doesn't feel right to me. Try both. See what you like. But I'm going to take a shot at Tanya and go, I think you'll like my version better. But if not, let me know. And Tanya can grandstand. We just got a text, me and you, in our group text chat with Andrew. He said, just touch down in Dallas for Nationals. So he's there. I told him that the show said hi. Everybody in the listening audience said hi to him. Make him feel good while he's out there. Hopefully he really wasn't fired. Yeah. Still, I think he gets too much attention. He's a good coach. And I'd rather surround myself with shitty coaches so that I look good. All right. Let me see what else we have here. And I got sidetracked here looking at Andrew's text. All right, guys. So a bunch of you had asked for tank tops. So the day has finally come that we've got them. If you're interested in one of our tanks, check them out at the merch store. I'll have links below. Who knows? You might end up meeting somebody else that listens to the shows, too. I've had that happen more than once. Somebody's like, hey, you listen to that podcast? I like those guys, too. And before you know it, there's a budding bromance just waiting to happen. So if you want to look freaking jacked and support the podcast, you guys can do that all at the same time. Just check out the shirts. What are we all doing for digestion health? My body goes through these phases where I get constipated badly every few months and I can't eat worth a damn. And when I do, I get bad bloating and hiccups within 30 minutes to the point that I need to throw up for relief. Currently, I'm going to be a little bit of a bit of relief. Currently, on 250 test sip, which is nothing new, and stool softeners, which don't seem like they are helping at all. This has completely shot the winter bulk so far. Yikes. Hmm. Okay. First thing I would say before gut health is make sure that you're hydrated. Boom. I mean, that's where I would go before trying to figure, because when you get into gut health, it gets incredibly complicated. Yeah. So I'm not saying that it can't be related, because it certainly could be. But then I would look at the foods that you're eating, too. Did you? I mean, something as simple as you haven't eaten broccoli in a long time and you're eating more broccoli. And the reason that I bring up broccoli is I don't think there's another bodybuilding food or a food that's considered bodybuilding food that is so bad for so many people. It makes a lot of people gassy. It makes them distended or bloated. It just kind of messes with your guts bad. And there's other foods that I know I'll do well for six, eight, 12 months, sometimes a year and a half on oatmeal. Then all of a sudden, blowout time. It's about the best way I can explain it. I eat it, and if I'm not close to a bathroom, I'm screwed. Oh, God. And that's just a tolerance. As bodybuilders, we diet on usually about the same six or seven foods repetitiously all the time. So it's easy to come up with a bit of an allergy where your body is just pretty much like, yeah, I just don't like this anymore. And because we're so regimented, we're so structured, and we like routine, we just sit there and go, you're going to take it. You're going to deal with it because this is what I'm supposed to eat. And your body is just like, I don't think so. I think you've got the wrong idea. Yeah. You've got the wrong idea of what's happening here. You're not going to make me do this. So play with your food sources. Switch one out at a time. Control the variables. And see if it's a specific food. Where you're going to really run into problems is if it comes down to being chicken breast or egg whites or something that we rely on. And you might actually even like to eat. I actually like to eat oatmeal. Yeah. But I don't like the, it's kind of like hot sauce. I can tell you. My wife gives me a heart shot. Oh, it's probably too spicy, and you won't like it. No, I like to eat spicy stuff. But I will get what is probably the equivalent of like period cramps in my stomach. I mean, my stomach will just, not my, not below my stomach. Yes. When I do. Yeah. On occasion, I have something too spicy. I can tolerate. I'm like, wow, this is really good. And then my stomach, not my intestines, my stomach will just, it just cramps up. It just does not feel good. And I understand that period cramps are not in your stomach. So before anybody types that out, I'm, I'm, I'm very clear on how the female body works. I have a wife of 32 years and I have three daughters. The point is, is they hurt real bad. So, sorry. Yeah. Yeah. I wonder, you know, the first thing I would ask a client that was dealing with this kind of stuff is like, is there a certain time of day that this is happening? Can we pinpoint it? You know what I mean? Is it always after meal three or it, could it be something small that he's doing? Could it be even like, like you said, one food, one food source or, or even, um, man, sometimes I have people that'll get digestion issues and they realize like, oh, they switched their protein powder, you know, or they're using some sugar-free condiment. There's something in there. And I know he, he probably would have already thought of this, but I have to say it. And for everybody else at home, like, are there any things that you have changed that you wouldn't have thought were a big deal? Just like anything that you changed at all, you know, anything that you put in your mouth. I've, I've had to say that aside from food too. Exactly. And that's a great point. Nicotine pouches. Yeah. There are times where I'm a nicotine thing. We all have our vices. I don't drink. I don't smoke. I don't, but I have my nicotine. And when I'm dieting, I will take it more. There are times where I put one in and go, I don't, I don't feel so good. Take it out. And within five minutes, I feel better. So apparently I'm on nicotine overload. What about monster zeros? Everybody thinks those are innocuous. They're not. It's like water. Yeah, exactly. Just a little, a little extra boost. It's kind of like coffee. No, it's not. No. What else? Could be even things like meal. It could be, you know, like, like sweetener, artificial sweeteners. I'm not from the camp that say these are carcinogens and you're going to die for no. And that's okay. If people believe that, I think it's crazy, but whatever. I, but you can take in too much and it can, it can mess with your stomach. And if you're dieting, people tend to do things when they're dieting that they don't pay attention to if it's not food. Yeah. And it doesn't have calories in it. They're like, well, and then you realize you're like, oh, you eat an entire jar of pickles. Gee, I don't know why you, your stomach hurts. Like what? Or you're holding water. I don't know why. I just, oh yeah, I have been having more dough pickles. I've been, you know what I mean? I've been eating pickles. We got these pickles. They would cramp your stomach up. They are so hot. Like I'm telling you, dude, they're so freaking hot. It's called, they're called devil spit. That's how hot they are. They're so good. I chop them up in my chicken and mix it all in. Oh my God. Devil spit. Yeah. Oh, I love them, dude. Like there are times that I'm in those and my nose is running and my eyes are tearing up and I'm starting to sweat. And I'm like, oh, they're so good. They're so good. I got to have another one. Damn it. I ran out of them. What? That's, that's funny. So he was saying constipation. I think you nailed dude. The number one thing is you got to have enough water to the colon, right? To be able to hydrate stool, to pass it through. You need that. There's a combination of water and enough fiber. So is he getting enough fiber? Is he eating vegetables to begin with? And if that hydration gets off, then, you know, obviously, yeah, that's going to be your first reason for constipation. The next thing I look at is a good digestive enzyme. I like now foods, super enzymes it's called. And it has all the standard protease, amylase, all your basic digestive enzymes. But then it also has a small amount of betine in it. And it has a small amount of, which is like acid, you know, that replicates what our stomach acid does. And it has a small amount of ox bile, which is good for digesting fats. And normally, if you want to use ox bile, you got to buy that on its own. But just a small amount added to this capsule, plus other enzymatic properties like papaya extract, stuff like that. It's a great little product. You can get like 90 caps for 15 bucks off Amazon. Take one cap with two meals per day, two larger meals. Like whatever your bigger meals are, I'd take one cap twice a day. See how that goes to start. I don't want them to take it every meal because I don't know how they respond to it yet. You know what I'm saying? So let's just try it a couple times and then go from there, you know, and build it out. You know, if you start to see some benefit from it, then take it with more meals. You know, get it three, four, five times a day. I found that could be beneficial. You know what? We didn't ask him and he didn't tell us. I imagine he's not. But, dude, everybody dealing with constipation now seems to be on a GLP med. Is he using some RETA or some trizapatite or something? You know what I mean? Because that's like, I think 2025, I have helped people, I've helped clients alleviate constipation more frequently this year than I have any other year as a coach. I don't know about you. Yeah, I agree with that. And there are two more important things to add to this because I think it's a really important topic. Number one, understand the function of the large intestine. The main function or one of the main functions is to remove fluid through the lining back into the bloodstream. So that if you have, as an example, you have diarrhea a lot, there's something, whether it's gut issue, something is playing into that system not being efficient. And it's not your body in the large intestine is not removing enough water. On the other side of it, if you're constipated, it could be removing too much water. So just understand that that's a very important function. So whatever is happening, if you're constipated, that is playing into 90% of the issues. Sometimes it's as simple as you're dieting and you're not eating a lot of food and it sits there too long, quite frankly. And it's not, that can play a part too. But the other thing that's important, I would say it's number two to hydration. Before you look at foods and everything else, are you chewing the food? Oh, big time, dude. Big time. People will understand. This is what reminded me of that. When you were talking about the enzymes, sedamylase, well, digestion starts in the mouth. And people, if you're just, you know, when we're dieting, food sucks. It's chicken and rice. I'm just getting it down as fast as I can. Or I'm in a hurry or I'm getting ready to do a podcast or I got to go. Or we're hungry. So we're just gobbling it three bites down. Chew the food because that will make your digestion so much more efficient. Otherwise, that food gets into your stomach. I always think of the hot dog eating guy that weighs like 170 pounds. Komasaki or something like that. It ends with, I don't know, it's Japanese, I guess. But he eats those. He just shovels them in. And I just think, how does that not really F his system up? Because once it gets in your stomach, you know, his stomach's like, bro, could you not chew this food? Like, I got to do all this work now. Imagine how long it takes to process food that hasn't been chewed. All the way down to liquefy. You know how I came to this? Remember, I used to complain for years. I had to liquefy my food because I have a small sphincter muscle. And we have more than one sphincter before everybody starts laughing. And there's a muscle at the bottom of your throat before it goes into your stomach. I believe it's like, maybe it's right there, the duodenum. Is that right in the same area? Somebody will cut me on that. I've heard you say this before. And I think you've said it that way before. So that's my main experience with hearing the term. So, yeah. It's too tight. And I would even, like, take supplements. And I'd be, like, having to chase a lot of water because I feel it sit there. And then it'd go bloop. I mean, literally into my stomach. So I'm like, yeah, that's not too good. So I had to lick. I started going, you know what? The only time I ever get in trouble and get food caught in the bottom of my throat is when I'm talking to someone. And I'm eating because if I just eat and I'm paying attention to my eating, I'm chewing my food the way I'm supposed to. And it goes down the way it's supposed to. So that little negative situation made me take a closer look at my eating. And my digestion got better when I did that. So I try to liquefy. I try to walk the walk here. I'm not giving advice that I don't take personally. Liquefy your food. Take your time to eat your food and make sure that it's as pre-digested in your mouth before you swallow it. And that will help a lot of situations. Huge, man. I was terrible at that. I think that that attributed to some of my stomach issues when I was. And especially like when you're trying to bulk and you're eating a lot of food, you just. There's times, man, it's just like chew, chew, take a drink, swallow, chew, chew, take a drink, swallow. You know, they there is that old rule. 30. You're supposed to chew your food 32 times. Oh, is that right? Who does that? I've never heard that. 32. Dude, I get to 10 and I'm like, man, I put a lot more work. And at 10 bites, I never go to 32. When you could even argue that things like rice and oatmeal, maybe they're not as hard to break down. But right. Chicken breast. Oh, yeah. Steak. Oh, yeah. I mean, come on. You know, you just liquefy that stuff. Make it just easier on your system to process and eliminate and digest that food. All right. How about this one? So this is long. I wonder if I can just skip down and go straight to his question. He says, should I continue? I guess I got to read the whole thing. First, thank you guys for sharing your experience and awesome information. I'd really appreciate your thoughts. Currently in a push phase. After about five weeks, my elbow started bothering me. It's not a serious injury, probably just overuse in the beginning of tendonitis. But this week I realized it affects all my pushing and pulling movements, even when I try different angles. Right now I can train normally for lower body. For upper body, I'm only able to train unilaterally on the healthy side while rehabbing the injured side. My question is, should I continue to push the push phase and keep the cycle doses the same? Or should I switch to a maintenance phase and stay on T or T until the issue is completely resolved, which might take three or more months? Another option would be lowering the cycle by 30, 50 percent and continuing the push phase. I always struggle with deciding whether to stay on cycle or even to start one when I'm dealing with nagging injuries. I consider this. I constantly battle a perfectionist mindset. If I cannot train everything 100 percent, I feel like the cycle is wasted. Okay. There's a lot to unwrap here. But the first things that pop. Number one, I want to be clear on one thing because I wasn't clear on it. Did he say he's having lower body issues with an injury to no lower body is okay. You can train lower body. No problem at all. It's just an elbow issue. Okay. So, number one, I'm glad that he said he was a perfectionist because giving us the options is kind of humorous. As soon as you said options, I'm not even listening to your options. I know. I know. Come on, bro. You're asking for advice. I'm not going to only go with your options. But it gives, it implies that perfectionist control type of thing. Here's what you do first or what you need to realize first. And it's not, probably not what you're going to want to hear. Fix your training. Because if you have chronic nagging itis, I call them old man itis issues because the older generation, they have a work ethic that they just put aside things like that. And it's a bad idea. Yeah. So, if you say it's just nagging you and you're going to, one of your options is you're going to drop to maintenance phase, you're not fixing anything. All you're doing is, when you start to have problems with that injury and it gets worse, it might arguably not be 20% worse because you're kicking back a little bit on the weights that you use. You're still doing the same movement. So, you need to get around the movements that are bothering it, which sounds like it's not just pressing. It's actually pulling too. That's not a minor issue. So, I'm not going to diagnose it. I'm not going to get into what the rehab issue is. But I will say this. You don't want to not train. But you want to train that area so lightly that the only thing you're doing is getting blood in that area to help fix the problem. Because if it is an itis issue, it's inflammation, and a little bit of blood and really light work will help to do that, especially frequent work. But you don't continue to press. You don't continue to do those things with any sort of intensity level because it's not going to help it. So, fix your training problem first. Don't worry about whether you're on cycle or not. I mean, I'd argue and say, I don't know if you want to come off cycle if you're trying to rehab something. But that's not even really the point. The point is you need to, as an example, let's say you're training chest and you can't press. Look, please, people, understand that dumbbell flies, for some reason, have been thrown in the trash. Maybe because we have all these new fancy pieces of equipment, we want to use those instead because we can pile on plates. Change your chest training to dumbbell flies. And tell me if you don't see progress from a hypertrophy standpoint. It's a highly underrated chest exercise. It's not like this, oh, isolation, poo-poo type. It's a great exercise on all the different angles. So, I mean, I've told clients this before. If you're having elbow problems with any type of pressing, just don't press for three or four weeks. You'll probably be surprised at how responsive your chest is. Number one, everybody loves to feel sore. You're going to feel sore from changing up your exercises. And two, you're going to eliminate or at least let the tricep that's being bothered or irritated rest. So, the pulling, I don't know because the pulling, we don't know in what position. A lot of times what you can do is you, it depends on the grip that you're using. So, it might bother your bicep or your tricep with an overhand. It might bother it when it's neutral. It might bother it when it's underhand. But it's not typically all three of those. You can usually find a grip or an angle. Maybe you can't pull straight. You can't pull down like from a lat pull or a chin standpoint. But you can row. You can do long pulley rows with a shoulder width and neutral grip. Play around real light and see what doesn't bother it and doesn't irritate it. Because if you continue to irritate it, it's going to continue to be a problem. So, fix that before you worry about what the gear is and whether you should be on cycle or whether it should be maintenance. It clearly needs to be at the very least maintenance and should probably be less in regard to that area with the elbow being a problem. Plus, it gives you time to bang on legs. Yeah. Yeah. If he comes out of this and his legs are better, he grows nothing in the upper body, but his legs are better, he's still ahead. But I know the mentality. It's like I don't want to pull back because I'm going to lose all this muscle. No, you're probably not. You're going to atrophy for the time that you're not using those muscle groups if you just don't train. But you're going to get it back real fast and you're going to arguably get it back faster. Look at it this way. You're going to waste or potentially waste another six months of trying to train around this injury or you're supposed to. He knows he's got to fix it. But it's a Dr. Phil moment. He knows what he needs to do. Yeah. Well, he's saying it from somebody else. He was saying, like, you know, should he continue to train unilaterally on the other side? You know, definitely don't train one side, not the other. If that's what he's asking. Or is he saying that, you know, unilateral training doesn't bother his. He can do the other side is what he's. Yeah. If he can only do the other side, please don't know. I'm glad you brought that up because I didn't get that out of what he was asking. Do I am a man. I vehemently. Oh, I implore people to not train one side. You want to hear something crazy? I learned from Scott Stevenson. I know he disagrees. If you train the injured side, it will actually heal. Or if you train the healthy side, it will heal the injured side faster. At the risk of an imbalance. Because when you come out of the. I know we disagree. I do. And I, you know, I have mad respect for Scott. I just disagree with him on this because I have seen it so many times where you come out of the injury and you have this bigger gap in strength from the weak side to the strong side. So if you know how to balance that out coming out of that injury. Okay, cool. But a lot of people don't. So then they start growing again. They start doing this. They get stronger on both sides and it's not even. I have a client. He may listen to this show. Phenomenal physique. Really good. Okay. He younger and I'll say it this way. Young enough that he made the mistake of getting in a friendly arm wrestling competition with one of his buddies. Yeah. Yeah. He learned a valuable lesson. Learned a valuable lesson with that one. Popped a bicep. Thankfully, it wasn't bad, but it did require like a month off of training. And when he came back, he was pushing hard, man. Came back like with just a fury. Everything is like bench press type movements, heavy compound movements. And we started seeing an imbalance, man, like one shoulder. And it was the side that he had hurt his bicep. You know, pushing that bar. It's crazy how much you can use one side and not use the other in a barbell press. You know what I'm saying? And we saw, I started seeing like massive development changes to the point we had to go to unilateral only exercises and, you know, did some other stuff in there. In fact, I even sent his stuff over to Dr. Marv and said, Hey, Marv, what would you do in this situation? Right. And got his input on it because I figured, well, number one, it'd be great to get his input. But number two, it was like, we got to do something different than we're doing now. Because this is, he didn't go back to normal, man. He didn't go back to normal, dude. It was massive imbalance. Thankfully, it's, it's come back fast now going back to unilateral training. I think a lot of people don't think they're like, well, it's a bicep. I can still train legs. Like I tore a bicep as an example. Sure. Yeah. Try hanging on to the handles while you're doing a leg press and tell me if you don't feel that bicep, try hanging on to the handles while you're doing a leg extension and tell me it doesn't, you don't feel it in the body. And there's, the body works in this very synergistic, vario, homeostatic, everything works together type thing. So when you bench, people will be like, oh, well, it's a bicep issue. It's no big deal. Yeah. Just try to bench and we'll see how that goes. And I'll, I'll tell him too, by the way, this is coached by Mo. I'll tell Mo this, that man, I dealt with so many different tendonitis issues with bodybuilding. And especially when I worked a very physical job, you know, cause I'm using my hands all the time, picking up heavy stuff. It was the worst dude I'd been when it earlier on, I had been to physical therapy twice for tennis elbow. And I, I eventually got smart enough to realize like, okay, I feel this coming on and I could immediately back off and start doing the therapy that I needed to do so that I didn't let it get bad. You know, I think, I think the answer is, is that after you correct it this time, never let yourself get here again. Don't ever get here again. Cause you don't need to, if it's a repetitive use injury, you should, you should see it coming. So this is your one pass that you're allowed to have this injury. But after this, you've got to pay closer attention now that you know, you know, and it depends on your job. You know, if you're a mechanic and you have a bad shoulder or you have a bad bicep, I guarantee it's the one you turn the wrench with. Right. Yeah. I mean, it depends on what you're doing. If it's, you know, that side you use a hammer with because you're a carpenter, you work, you know, construction, you carry drywall on your right shoulder, you know, off to the side or you, we always favor from a coordination standpoint, our brain subconsciously will go to that side that is stronger. And it tends to be the side that we have the better coordination on. That's why we're right and or left-handed. Even people who are ambidextrous, like there's still that side that you favor. They always say, if you're not sure which one it is, just run and jump on a skateboard. Just run and just jump on the skateboard. The lead foot is your, that's, that's your chosen subconscious side that you favor. Yeah. All right. Here's another one for you. Okay. This is from Darren. Interesting question. I'm curious to hear how you want to deal with this one. He says, here's a question for the show. Hopefully you guys get to see it. Well, we do. What's up, Darren? He says, so working a remote job, living in a work camp, two weeks on, two weeks off with high security, x-rays on luggage, et cetera. How would you cycle? And he's doing highway work with picking up trash. Nah, I'm just kidding. Nah, I know who this is. He's, he's up in Canada and he's going further North. Um, uh, how would you cycle test you in EQ and test? The test is in castor oil, um, where you can only inject during your days off at home. Um, lost my T or T script recently and looking for another one. Thanks in advance. If you have any questions, uh, let me know. Okay. So he's, it's two weeks there, two weeks at home, right? Yup. Yup. Think land. Yeah. No kidding. Which I know you like that show, by the way. I started watching it. I wanted you to know. I listened, I listened to you. You, you mentioned it. I, and I'm watching it now because of your suggestion, by the way, I mentioned that. When did I mention that? A while back. A while back. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. I, you, you were like the new season, the land man's coming out and I kind of made note and we started watching it a couple of weeks ago. So we're still in season one. It's a really good part. I don't like those. I don't. Oh, it's not a giveaway. Oh, okay. Yeah. It's not a giveaway. It's just the, well, if you're not into it, you'll figure it out. But just remember this. I don't like the nursing home. The show could do without the nursing home scenes. That's all I'll say. Cause I don't, I don't want to give it away. I don't think it's a giveaway, but so we're just at the point now where they just went there once. So, okay. And you probably saw how silly and stupid it was. It gets, it'll get on your nerves. But anyway, I heard too later on it gets like the further seasons aren't as good. Like the first couple of seasons are real bangers. Well, this is only the second season. Okay. Oh, okay. I guess this guy who, who's the guy who does this show? The Billy Bob Thornton. No, the director. Oh, uh, Taylor Sheridan. I guess that he's known for having like a couple of banger seasons and then it starts slipping. I don't think that's fair. I mean, he's the guy who wrote Yellowstone, uh, mayor of Kingstown. The first season. I didn't see Yellowstone yet. That one's kind of rough. Oh, geez. Yellow. Oh man. I heard it's real good. Yeah. But land man's good too. Demi Moore. Um, there's just, there's, they, I like Billy Bob, Billy Bob. Sam Elliott. Awesome. Yeah. Billy Bob's great. His dry sense of humor. Anyway, I apologize for going off tangent. No, I took you there, man. Yeah. Drew, you did this time. You don't usually, but you did this time. I'm ready. I'm like, Hey, take my hand. Let's go there. Uh, no. So if he's two weeks on, two weeks off is, is what I'm saying. So, okay. Um, I mean, if you load that test, that tests you. And EQ. Before you head out. Yeah. And EQ both. I mean, I'm assuming that he chose those compounds because they're. Yeah. Longer Esther. It's not ideal, but those that's pretty good. I mean, I, I certainly wouldn't want, uh, let's see, you know, shorter, uh, you know, shorter Esther's because then you're going to crash halfway, halfway through, but it'll get you, you know, I mean, you'll have a little bit of an up down. It'll be a wave that'll look like this a little bit, but it, the, what's the alternative? You take nothing. I mean, you can't take stuff with you. And if you're, I always tell people don't cross an international line with gear. Domestic. You can get away with it all day long. Yeah. I don't think he's crossing. I think he's already, but it's the, it's the company is making sure they're not bringing stuff. Gotcha. Yeah. Yeah. And I'm sure it's not gear. They're probably just making sure they don't bring any drugs of any kind. Right. But exactly. I get what he's saying. Yeah. Um, yeah, I would just, I would load those, um, the, the hour before you leave to go, you know, really, I mean, I would drag it out as long as I can, but I would take it before, you know, a couple hours before heading out the door and I would probably, you know, I mean, whatever you would take in that week, uh, well, it's two weeks. So I mean, at least double it. I might go triple, but that's just me. I'm not recommending you do that. You know what I mean? Um, might be overly aggressive. You know, that's not true either because again, blood levels, the longer esters. Um, and here's the thing. He's going to notice it for the first few weeks maybe, but once those blood levels get up, they're going to be relative. It might start out more like this and then it ends up with much smaller wave as far as blood levels. So I think he'd be good after a month. That's a guess. I don't want anybody to, you know, get in there. Well, these are the hours and this is what it would look like. Yeah. Well, if you want to break it down, go for it. But I'm saying that over a handful of weeks, you probably wouldn't notice anything different. With, uh, Nabito, that's like one shot. How, how, I don't even know every 12 weeks or 10 weeks, something like that. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, you could even, I mean, I'm not saying to do this, but you know, they have the implant, you know, you can always get the implant too. That'll keep everything relatively, uh, or at least keep everything a little more stable. If you want to add something on top of it, like a longer Esther, but that's getting up there. I wonder if he could bring any orals with him, you know, like, are they going to count your pills and see what pills you're actually bringing? Why is your aspirin blue? Hmm. It doesn't never seen blue aspirin before. I just wonder, you know, I mean, I feel like, Hey, you could maybe every two weeks. Why? I, yeah, I don't know. I don't even know what his training will be like while he was there. I imagine it's going to be like landman type shit. You know what I mean? Like real rough work. Pushups, pullups and everything else. Well, I mean like the job itself. Oh, no doubt. What are you doing? You know? Yeah. It didn't say what he was doing. Right. I mean, he's not. Yeah. But it's going to be a physical, it's going to be a physical one. I would imagine. Yeah. I would imagine. Yeah. Otherwise they wouldn't give you two weeks of rest. Yeah. It's probably going to be very long days too. Yeah. All right. He says, you guys are great. I've been so many episodes in the last few days. All right. Well, thank you. Appreciate you being here, brother. He says, my question is this. I plan to compete for the first time. I lost my question. Here we go. I plan to compete for the first time late next summer or fall, possibly even winter. I'm 180 pounds. I'm 13% body fat right now. He's running a hundred milligrams of test sip every day. So 700 a week, I guess. He's injectable MK-677. I didn't even know that was a thing. I'm going to be honest. He says he's doing that subq 6.4 milligrams per day and just ordered some EQ and plan to run that at three to 400 per week. Obviously, I'm trying to get as big as possible before I prep and cut. This is my first cycle in two years. I'm responding very, very well. There was two varies in there. Would you run the mass slash bulk cycle as long as possible and compete later in 2026 in order to develop as much muscle as possible? Or would you run this for 20 to 28 weeks and then prep and compete? Why two options? But gosh, this is. It's just personal. How does this how does the show fit into your I say your your family life, what you have going during the year, whether you have vacations, whether it depends on what you have going on. I mean, we're not he's not making a run at nationals. So he has a lot of control over what he does. Look, you could wait. Why not wait two years? You can put on more size instead of a year. Wait a year and a half. You put on six months more size. Wait five years instead of two and a half. You put on double the size. I mean, if you wait until you have enough size, my friend, you're never going to get there. It's it. We're not satisfied. We're not going to go. Well, I'm big enough now. I'm going to. I don't think anybody has ever. No, I'm going to start. Never big enough for your first show. Yeah. So it just depends on, you know, when do you want it? When do you want to do it? The longer you wait on the offseason. Yeah. The more potential time you have to add size. Here's here's something that I do with my clients that may help him in this particular situation. We might have a show planned. Yeah. For, say, a year from now, I'm going to run six months and I'm going to go into prep. They might even already paid for it. And the two. But I'm always flexible. My clients, because I tell them if we're going into a prep that you're not set, it's not like it's that I'm doing the show. Like, it's not nationals. It's not like I have to do this show. Right. If you're still growing and your body is in this, I am just growing and this is so easy phase, I will encourage them. Just consider not competing it, not shifting gears yet. Because you don't always get that time where the body is just rolling. The boulder is rolling downhill and all you have to do is steer it. You don't have to push it. You already got it pushed. Get it going. Then it starts rolling. When it's rolling, man, let it roll until it stops rolling. Or when things slow down or you kind of stabilize and you hit a plateau, then shift into prep mode. Because even just take the contest out of the picture for a minute, getting lean like that and then going back into another growth phase is it just sets you up for such a great opportunity because you're so insulin sensitive. You're so lean. You're just you're just so perfectly wired to continue to grow again versus forcing those gains when your body is just like, look, we have to do one of two things. We have to either go into a prep phase or get really lean or get leaner anyway to resensitize and just kind of reset everything. So leave it open. See how you're growing. If you're growing like crazy, just keep growing. But if things are slowing down and the momentum isn't there like it was before, then consider going into the prep phase. And it doesn't have to be, well, I'm going to start prep on Monday. It could literally be, OK, I'll start prepping three or four weeks. Like I'll feel it out and see how it's going. Things are slowing down. Let's see what happens. You feel like everything is optimized the way it's supposed to be and things are slowing down. Just switch, switch gears, shift gears and then go into a cut phase. A hundred percent, dude. I'm a hundred percent with you on that, man. I've seen it more now having the more coaching experience you get, Skip. And I know that you I know exactly what you're talking about. You get into a position sometimes where you're growing and your body is going to want to keep growing. I would argue this, man. And sometimes when you're in that position, it can be even harder to cut. Like if that body's in a position where the mass is coming on, everything's going well to shift gears real hard and now switch into a cut. It after if that if you're in the middle of that bulk phase and it hasn't run its full course, it can be harder. I think at times to shift that gear. Whereas, yeah, I just yeah, I and the opposite, man. I've seen it where the body just wants to get leaner and leaner and it can be, you know, it can be harder to add muscle at that time. And I'm also with you on this. I don't know how you feel, but I suggest to people because I think there's two mindsets on planning to do a state level show. If you're not on a time frame, you just want to like have this experience. You want to have the best experience you can. Some people will go out and they will buy their passes to the show like immediately. Like, Skip, I'm doing this show in 2026. I want you to help me. I signed up for it today. I would personally I would rather sign up for that show as far off as I possibly can because we don't know what's going to happen. I don't know if, dude, I've had people get in a car accident and break their ankle. You know what I'm saying? And not be able to do cardio for eight weeks. You know, I've had situations where things come up. And now if it's universe, you know, this is your plan to get your pro card. That's one thing. But like you said, man, if it's a state level show, he's not going to remember 20 years or 10 years or even five years down the road, which specific show it was. He's going to remember the experience that he had there, you know, and that's I want you to have the best experience. You can. It doesn't matter if it was three months later or six months sooner, even, you know, there's nothing more or not much more frustrating than that odd occasion where a client or a person, a friend or even us, I guess. We get into a prep and we're just we're forcing everything. Yeah, it's not going well. You're forcing it. And let me tell you, you're going to feel more obligated to that show and all of your either friends or family and everybody. Remember, you're not the only one that's prepping. You're doing the work, but everybody around you is along for the ride. Your spouses, your kids and everything else. They're all dealing with it. And you feel this obligation that you have to do it. And I'm going to tell you, I'm going to be the first one to tell you, I know some people will disagree with me on this and this is fine, but I'll just fall back on my experience of, you know, all the years that I've done this. I don't have a problem with a client or a friend pulling out of a show if they if things aren't going right or they're fighting it or God forbid, they're not going to show up in the condition that they want to or that they feel that they can. Because that whole man up, you committed to it, you have to do it. In my opinion, it's bullshit. Now, if you're just giving yourself an out and you're just setting it all up, that's one thing that's in your brain. That's for you to figure out. That's not for me to figure out. So and not only, you know, obviously, it doesn't help when you put a client on stage and they're not there, but I'm not talking about it from a selfish standpoint. I can I know this sounds bad, but clients will sometimes feel bad if like, oh, I feel like I'm letting you down. Don't feel like you're letting me down. If you're letting anybody down, you're letting yourself down if you're not executing. But if you're going to end up feeling bad about and you're obligated to feel like you're obligated, it's just a bad who's going to enjoy that. That's we're not if you're if you're going to your for your pro card, you're climbing the ladder. That's completely different. But the truth is, is sometimes it does happen. I mean, coaches are so they're not as transparent as they should be. And being transparent, there are every coach, high level coach, mid range coach. You have clients who things just don't sometimes go the way they're supposed to go. And for someone to feel obligated to do that, I just I would never want to put that on somebody. Now, some of the time, most of the time, it's actually the lack of execution. But sometimes you're doing everything right. There's that small percentage. Those outliers, they do everything right. The body just doesn't want to respond. Yeah. So you've got all these people coming. You got all this money invested in your I mean, I've heard it from clients. I got to do it. I just I feel like I have to do it's like, man, that sucks. That's a bad spot to be. How about you just prep for the show? People know you're prepping for the show, but don't don't sign up. The vast majority of shows, you can literally sign up a check in. Yeah. So why not? A lot of times they'll have like a two week thing before you have to pay charge. OK, yeah. Yeah. They'll charge you more. But I mean, even two weeks, man. By two weeks out or two months, but yeah, five months. You know, you just don't know. And then you have, like you said, those things that happen where you get a car accident. Something happens to your wife. Something happens to your kid. Then you got that money invested. Trust me. They're giving you that money back. Fuck no. Sorry. See you next year. NPC. They don't care. Oh, you paid for your your NPC card. Great. Tanning and all that. There's just there's no sense jumping the gun. Some people it will seem like a motivation for. I get that. Yeah. But I don't. It's almost like you don't. If if that's your motivation, you might not understand what's what's ahead of you. I understand. Especially new new clients. New with new clients. New competitors. Yeah. Yeah. I. Yeah. Especially new competitors. I'm with you 100 percent. One other thought to him as far as like, should he wait to gain more muscle, do it later in the year? I'd argue this, man. So we're basically in 2026 now. Right. Like. So whether he competes in fall or whether he competes in summer, it's not going to matter. You're not going to bring this physique that because you dieted or because you bulked for an extra three months, you you look so different. Like the truth is you're more or less what you have now is what you're going to compete with with a little bit more. If you he hasn't run a cycle in two years. So he does stand to make some progress. Sure. But the progress that he makes, even in this cycle that he hasn't done in two years, you're arguably just going to be a better version of what you already are. But it's not going to be something new. You know what I mean? Like in order to do that, you need 18 months. You need a year. You need a lot of time. You're not going to be like, oh, I just barely beat him because I moved up a place. I took the first spot because I trained three months longer. No. And, you know, the funny thing is, every I'm sorry, but this is sad reality. No one else is going to notice the change. Even if you make changes in three months, no one but you. Yeah. You'll know the difference. And you're maybe your girlfriend, you know, your girlfriend, because you pointed it out to her. She's going to lie because you pointed out so many times. Yeah. You certainly walk away. You just did three months ago. Way more hamstrings. Real good. Your dick is still small. I don't see any difference at all. Can we go out to eat now? Are we good? Are we good with this? We done with this bodybuilding? Can we go out to eat? We'd be. Exactly. All right. Skip, do you have a word? I don't think you do have a word of the day. You know what? If I were to do this consistently, I'd be a lot better at it, I tell you. I know you had to. I tell you what, I can do this. Yeah. It's off the top of my head. Okay. Please understand the difference between exasperated and exacerbated. Exacerbate, exasperate. Okay. To exacerbate a situation is to make it worse. Okay. Okay. If you're exasperate or you're exasperated, oh my goodness. Yeah. Big difference. Don't. I've said this over and over. I'll say it again. If you're going to use A-list words, make sure you understand what those words mean. Okay. Don't conflate or confuse. Conflate. Put them both together. Run them together. Confuse. Oh, this one's this one. That one's that one. I screwed it up. Okay. Break it down for me again then. I need to hear this again. Exacerbate. Exacerbate. Okay. Exacerbate is to make something worse. Okay. Because now then exasperate is, oh my goodness, I just can't believe. So you can cause someone to be exasperated because you exacerbated a situation. I can run off a couple more if you want. No, that's all I can handle. That's all I can handle in one day. All right. We'll go with that one. That's all I can handle. So we'll look forward to having Andrew back for the following show. And like I said, he's over at Nationals right now. My guy is, let's see. He just, just looking at his text right now. He's in Texas as we speak. Just landed as we were starting the podcast. So I should be seeing some pictures from him pretty soon. Good luck to everybody at NBC Nationals this weekend. Hope they do good. Skip, do you have anything coming up? Anything you want to tell the people about? Yeah. Christmas is coming up. Oh, okay. On the 20th. Nice. That's really what we're looking forward to right now. Be able to get to spend quality time with the family for two weeks. So I'm kind of hoping we record next week because not going to be around for two weeks after that. We'll figure it out. Yeah. Figure it out. Exactly. That's it. Guys, we appreciate you tuning in. Go to bodyberry.com. You can reach out to Andrew over there. Go to teamskip.com to reach out to Skip. You can hit me up. McNally diets at gmail.com. Of course, check out truenutrition.com. Use our code. Think for additional savings on high quality, third-party tested and in-house tested supplements from a company. You can trust all your basic stuff like protein powder, creatine, intra-workout, all that good stuff. Supplement source.ca for Canadians. They've got great deals that change week to week on short-dated and label change products. We will tackle Patreon questions for the next episode. So guys, do us a favor over on Patreon. Load us up with questions for the show and load us up here on YouTube, guys. It's up to you. It's up to you. Leave us questions. We need a bunch of good ones for the next episode. And we'll be back to tackle all of them, guys, for another episode of Blood, Sweat, and Gear. We'll see you soon. Thank you, Skip. Thank you. We're still live. We're still live. Thank you, guys. We appreciate you on the live stream. I hacked Andrew's account. Not paying attention. That's all right. Because I have to look over here when I'm reading questions and stuff like that. And I'm not even looking at you. I'm not even looking at you right now. When I'm looking at the, like, I'm looking at myself. If I wanted to look at you, I'd be like this. Hey, Skip, how's it going? How do you do that? I just pretend. Dude, I can't. I'm looking at, dude, I'm staring at myself. Right now. And you think that I'm looking at you. I assumed you were just looking straight into the camera. I can't do it. I, if that was the difference between podcasting and not, I would just quit. Because I have tried it and it just does not work. Good thing no one can see my phone, though. You got your phone on a little stand, too, now, don't you? Yeah. No, my wife is holding it for me. You didn't know that? She holds. Yeah, she holds. Through the whole show. Yeah, quit moving. That's nice of her, man. That's cool. You know, pitching in and stuff like that and helping out with the podcast. She's very supportive. Yeah. She's supposed to be at work, but. Yeah, but you had the show to do. Yeah. So it's every other Wednesday. What's the big deal, right? Yeah. Right. She's salaried. Yeah. She works downstairs. She can adjust her lunch breaks, too, I'm sure. You know, you would think, on a little side note, and I'll be careful how I say this, you'd think that because, you know, we live on the 22nd floor and she works on the first floor, that there might be like a nooner. Five years. No nooners. But how, you guys have been married for how long? 32 years. That doesn't have anything to do with it. Okay. It's just for whatever, it's like she's professional. She's mature. So she's like, look, we have other times for those things. Like maybe next month on the 30th or something. No, I think it's, this is on you. She's like, she's the responsible one in the relationship. And you're the one who needs to be like, you know, you got to make the moves. I don't brush my teeth until like seven o'clock at night. Maybe that's why. I don't know. Okay. Yeah. That anyway might have something to do with it. Yeah. It could. All right. All right. I'll bring us in here. Actually, I just have a Texas guy really quick. Got a client who just landed in, in Texas for nationals. And I'm going to save the listeners any jokes. Yeah. My wife could be having a nooner. Maybe she is. And I'm not. I don't know. So I beat you to the punch. Nice try. Save your lame jokes. I did get another watch. I have to explain to her how I did that. Oh. Or why I did that. Not how. But. What color is this new watch? What's bad is my dumb ass bought it three, three weeks before Christmas. So then I was like, going to have to go a little bigger on the gifts. For my wife and Christmas. So I got her some shoes and shit. I'm like, fuck, man. Anyway. Yeah. Talk about test and NPP for age over 50. No. No. No. You know what? Cycles for older guys. How about that as a, as a topic too? Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. All right. Cool. We got our, we got our one and two topics. Ready to do this thing. Let's do it. I can't find it. This is so bad. Anyway, scrolling through here going, oh, that's a really good. She keeps looking for a word of the day right now, guys. That's what's happening. This is all behind the scenes stuff that you guys are witnessing right now.