I'm like, Joe, you know what? It always can be worse. You know, somebody always has it worse than you. And I tell people, when things like this happen to you, and life is not fair a lot of times, you can make two choices. You can hide in a corner and let life pass you by, or you can get out there and do as much as you can do. And I made that choice right then right there that I was going to do as much as I can do blind as you know hopefully as much as when I could see. I didn't know how that was going to look but I made that commitment and it's tough and I'd be lying if I said it was easy. Hey everybody, welcome to It's Just Bodybuilding. I'm Big Ron Parlo and of course I'm here with Dusty Handshot and the producer Scott McN. Remember to like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. Yes. And remember immutant.com. Go to immutant.com. Get your allin. Get your ISO surgeon. Everyone should get on the gear. And I'm wearing the new lift to kill shirt. You can get that too. And Dusty's Dusty's shirt is back up on the site. He's got a new version of that. So the uh the the F attention earn respect one. We're in the C. Scott. I'm watching the Fbombs in the first two minutes for the YouTube algorithm. There we go. Good. watching those fbombs. And today we got a special guest. We have uh the world's first blind IFBB Men's Open Pro, Joe Piraisante. Welcome to the show. It's a pleasure to be on the show. I appreciate you guys having me on today. Yeah. Now, uh Dusty knows you best. I believe you you've been Dusty's client for a while. What's the deal, Dusty? Training. Training partner for years. Yeah. Yeah. Yes. Way back in the day. Um, I'm gonna give a little brief uh breakdown. So, I trained with Joe. Joe, what years were we training? Like when when did you compete at that show? I mean, um, it did the Arizona in 2007, so I think we started probably in 2006. Yeah. So, we trained together forever ago. So, that was very early Dusty. Yes. Yes. And Joe, what's interesting is Joe is a lunatic. Um, completely insane. and will train through absolutely anything. Um, I've seen him do preps that uh you wouldn't wish on someone that you were torturing and enjoy every step of the way. He's just one of the guys that just loves that grind. And when I heard that Joe was going to do going to be trying out for the fast team, which I'm going to have Joe kind of break down what that is uh briefly. Um but from what I understood it is uh basically a team of very very highly highly decorated uh people in the military but to the give you an idea when when they try out for it you've got Rangers who fail Navy Seals who fail like they can't get on they can't go through what they go through to even get on and I remember somebody asked me they said will Joe make it and I said well there's only two options he will make it or he will die because he will not quit. Joe does the stuff that I pretend to do when I go to the You know what I mean? Where you could set your camera up all nicely to collect footage. Exactly. Exactly. So, so Joe, can you give us a a brief version of what it was they kind of put you guys through just to see if you were able to be on with that fast team and also what it is. Yes, the FAST team stands for foreign deployed advisory and support team. We were like um DEA's overseas SWAT team and how it came about after 9/11. The US military went over to Afghanistan. You know, we had somewhat of idea of what was going on. We know Ben Lad Bin Laden was running his training camps, but as soon as they got over there, they soon saw that the Taliban and these insurgent groups were getting their money for their terror activities by the production and sale of heroin. And a lot of people don't know Afghanistan is the biggest producer of heroin in the world. So the military not being subject matter experts on drugs went to the DEA and asked for help. Um so we ended up standing up this team fast team and um had tryyouts because you had to be able to work with the our US and coalition special ops teams with the Afghan partner force. So even if you did that, been there, done that in the past, can you still do it? So they got together this um selection course, it was made up of various US and coalition special forces selections where, you know, not only you got to be able to be physical, you got to be able to be smart, they give you an IQ test, a mental test, um test you when you're stressed and everything else. And it was just um the first week is kind of like the guys called hell week where you're just doing these events after event and just being tortured into seeing if you can hang and you're getting very low sleep, but they feed you pretty good. So that's good. And just to give you an idea the wash out rate of this, I think we started with 36 individuals and only 11 made it through to the end. And I remember when I flew home after the first phase, um, flew back to Sky Harbor and a friend of mine picked me up and they're like, "What the hell happened to you?" And you don't want to know. In fact, it was so bad the next morning I had to go to the hospital because my foot was infected and everything. I lost every toenail on both feet. I had blisters all over. And here I'm in the ER at Arrowhead Hospital. It's trying to explain what happened to me. And I I'm sure the doctor was thinking, "Okay, Joe, why don't you just tell me the truth? What really happened to you?" So, it it was it was crazy. But like anything that you do that's hard and that you do that a lot of people can't do, you just get a feeling of accomplishment that, hey, look, man, I did this when a lot of people couldn't do it. And then before it, I had a shoulder another soldier surgery on my left shoulder because after that I did the Arizona, my shoulder was all tore up again. And um I'm just glad that um I made it through. Yeah, that I I will say although impressive, I was not surprised. Um so for those who don't know, uh also explain because uh I hadn't said this yet, but we'll leave this in. when when Joe and I were training together, he still had a sight. Obviously, he had a sight when he went in the fast team. Uh what went down and uh and how did you lose your sight? Okay. Um it was on my second tour in Afghanistan. We were working with the Australian Commandos, which is a very good special forces unit um from Australia. And we were hitting a bazaar, which is like an outdoor flea market. And in Izzy Bizaars, they sell everything from different sundry items, soaps, shampoos, live chickens, water. Uh but they also sell chemicals and equipment to manufacture heroin, small arms, um weapons, you know, rifles, machine guns, and also IED bomb making material. How do you how do you get there? Was there Did I miss the directions on this? I'm just I'm just curious. I heard small arms. I just I heard all these things that I needed to Scott wants to go shopping. Sorry. Never mind. Never mind. We can send you on a special helicopter over there. No, I'm good, man. I'm good. I would not recommend it unless you had a whole gang of folks. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Don't travel alone. Yeah. Yeah. So, um, so this bizaar came up hot and our team that was there before us, they hit the same bazaar with the Australian commandos, found quite a bit of evidence items and got in a pretty big firefight. In fact, the team leader of the team, a guy named Brett, um, him and I were our two oldest guys in our selection, um, they were fighting their way back to the helicopter and he got the Forest Gump wound where he got shot in the ass. Um be jumped up and stung him. So he hard to hard dude. Um former marine, recon marine, um airborne, scuba, qual, the whole nine. So we this was like I said, this bizarre popped up hot again. So we um were going to hit it. So we usually like to go in at night to use our technology with our night vision and lasers because the enemy usually does not have that. But the issue was that we couldn't find an airwing to fly us at the time. They could fly us at night where the time frame the Australians and us and our partner force could hit it. So we had to shift fire to another unit which was training the Afghan pilots to fly for when we left and we have to hit it during the day. We weren't real happy about that cuz we knew we were going into the hornets's nest. So we decided to go anyways. We got I would say a little too big for our bridges. And um so the plan was we flying in four helicopters, MI17s. They're old Russian troop transport helicopters and they hold quite a few people and they're pretty armed. On one side they have a PCAM beltfed machine gun then a GOW mini gun on the other. Um, so we had the offseason one, our Afghans and another and fast team members and some Australian commandos and uh the other bird and um so we landed just after first light Halloween day 2011 and I was in charge of one element sweeping through one side of the bazaar and another one of our fast guys was in charge of another element. So, we're sweeping through. Well, we start receiving some incoming fire. Not not very effective fire. And then I'm standing outside of one of the stalls in the bizaar behind this old beat up car. And I hear a round being fired. I hear it hit the back of the car. And then I feel the back of my neck burn. I'm like, "Oh shit." So, I dive into the stall of the bazaar. They were searching. I put my hand on the back of my neck. See if I had any blood. No blood. had one of the Afghans look at it to speak decent English and he said, "Oh, sir, sir, it is okay, sir." But I tell you what, man, that bullet got so close to my neck, I could feel the heat off of that son of a gun. Damn. Believe me, I had my I had my guard up after that. So, yeah, we were finding some poppy seed and some other things. Then then shortly after that um the Taliban did this call to arms over their little loudspeaker PA system and basically said today's your day to die. We must rise up. We must get the impidels out of our land. Um and then the the incoming fire drastically increased on us. So the Australians were on the perimeter trying to provide an outer cordon for us to keep the enemy from moving in. But the problem was the bizaar was in a valley. So the enemy had the high ground. And anybody who knows anything about tactics, if you have the high ground, you have the advantage. So we hear them getting into it. We have the marine airwing, the mall with helicopter gunships providing close air support. They're rocking and rolling and um we're finishing up what we need to do. And then we're almost done. So, we get in position to call for our helicopters to come back to get us. So, they're inbound to get us. We only got to probably go about 400 m or so to get to our extraction location, which is not far. But then we got bogged down in the gunfight and we were stalled and we couldn't really move. And I remember so much so that we had to wave the helicopters off and said, "Hey, don't land yet. we're not in position. Just um stay somewhere nearby with your rotor spinning and we'll give you the thumbs up when we're ready for you to come get us. So, I just remember thinking to myself, you know, I know we can't stay here. The longer we stay here, the more the enemy has time to mask on us and you start freaking out. But in combat, you can't freak out. And you want to stay calm and think rationally. So I remember saying to myself, Joe, you need to get your [\h__\h] together right now and you need we need to get the hell out of here. So I kind of like kick my own self in the ass. And so we began um making some progress like leaprogging from building to building and finally get in position to where the helicopters can come grab us. So we call them in. They um come in. Three land. One doesn't. One that didn't land was Afghan crew and piloted. their their pilots aren't as skilled as ours, we'll say. And they said because there was a lot of incoming gunfire on us to include uh beltfed machine gun fire and you get a condition where you get big rotor helicopters like that, they kick up dust. So you get a brown out condition and it's hard to see. So they didn't land. So we run out to our helicopter where we're supposed to get on and lo and behold, the Afghans are already on ours. our Afghans, our helicopter, but like, you know, you need to get the hell off. You know, this is our ride. You know, it's just not like Uber, you can take any damn one. Uh, but they're not moving. I don't blame them. I wouldn't want to go back into that hell. So, instead getting shot in an open field, we said, "Okay, just go." So, the three helicopters lift off. We got us just um I think seven fast team members and two Australian commandos at the time. So we take cover in a ditch. So all the gunfire is focused on us now. Yeah. So it was it was pretty crazy. And then lo and behold, short time later, here comes the Afghan crew and pilot helicopter lands about a couple hundred yards for us. And once again, I said, you know, to myself, we can't stay here. We need to get out of here. I said, this is going to be a very shitty run. So, I remember getting my big ass up and sprinting for my life towards the helicopter and um I remember firing a couple shots on the run towards the insurgents that were shooting at us. Um and everything else is going to be secondhand information which was told to me after the fact. I guess I got to the helicopter near the front of the pack. I started laying down covering fire so my teammates could get on or near the helicopter. And once that happened, I guess my team leader tapped me on my shoulder and said, "Let's roll." And I turned left to run on the helicopter, and that was when I was hit in the head. We believe it was a armor-piercing round from a beltfed PKM machine gun. The round went through the right side of my ballistic helmet, through my right temple, through the frontal lobe of my brain, and out my left temple. So, of course, I fall like a ton of bricks face first. And a lot of people ask me, "Oh, did you get one of those head wounds where, you know, the bullet kind of hits your skull and kind of like just traces around it?" I go, "Nope." Yeah. It went right through my frontal lobe of my brain. So, holy crap. The Afghans had some sushi out there, I guess, that day. Holy crap. Yeah. So, my teammates thinking I'm dead, my teammate goes up to me. I'm, you know, face down, butt up, and he's trying to rouse me. I'm not moving. He rolls me over and he sees my ballistic glasses I was wearing were pretty much shattered and there's a hole in my head. So, they think I'm dead. Throw me on the bird, take off. Um, and then they just check me out just to make sure I that I'm dead. Like, they think I'm dead. They're like, "No, he's breathing." So, they start working on me and start doing some things. And during the process pro process of that I came too which I don't remember and I guess I sat up like Frankenstein and started becoming combative. Um but um they got got me calmed down. They um treated my head wound, treated me for shock, got me to the base we were staying at tearing cow with the Aussies. And um this is kind of a funny story. This is typical me though. So the ambulance comes out to our helicopter. They think my teammates have me on a stretcher. We had them, but they didn't. So I hear this commotion going on. And so what does Joe do? Shot through the head. I stand up to walk off the freaking helicopter. And I guess my teammates like, "No, no, we got you, Joe." They carried me to the ambulance, got me to the medical facility there, and then they did what they could do for me, and then they transferred me to uh another base, Kandar Airfield, where they had a neurosurgeon, an eye surgeon, standing by to treat me. Wow. And some people think training to failure is going to kill them. Jesus. Wow. It It's wild, Joe. I've obviously heard the story, but as I listen I I see it in my brain. I just watched a movie. I just watched the movie. You're seeing the whole thing go down. And so you get out obviously now for the first time in your life, you don't have vision. Um you have to relearn how to live. Uh you are a very very independent person. You've always been that way. You do your own thing. You handle your own stuff. Was that a hard adjustment to need to rely on people to kind of help you through this process? Oh. Oh my god. Yes. And you hit the nail right on the head with that. You know, I've always been a person, you know, you want it done right, you do it yourself. You know, you can't rely on people. Blah blah blah. But it actually was good for me because I had to learn to trust people and I had to learn to rely on people that being blind and being in a situation that I'm in now, I need help and I just can't just do it all myself and there's times where I thought I could or I'd be in a rush to do something and moving too fast then bust my head open and get stitches. But it really helped me to slow down, appreciate thing, appreciate life, appreciate people and you know just learn to rely on them. So it was actually good for me in that point, right? Yeah. The fact that you can find any you know that your attitude right off the bat just finding good in any of it. Yeah. I mean that that would be you know that would be the point where most most people wouldn't be able to come back and find any good. Um and and you've you've you know you've turned yourself into something else now something even more inspirational is you know do you think about that? Do you think about it that way at all? Are you just doing your thing? Yeah. You know here's the deal. When I was in the hospital recovering, um, you know, I'd hear my parents and my teammates talk about all these young kids coming back from overseas, tore up bad. When this happened to me, I was 41 years old, lived a damn good life. My daughter was getting ready to graduate high school, and when I would have a pity party for myself, I'm like, Joe, you know what? It always can be worse. You know, somebody always has it worse than you. And I tell people when things like this happen to you, and life is not fair a lot of times. You can make two choices. You can hide in a corner and let life pass you by, or you can get out there and do as much as you can do. And I made that choice right then, right there, that I was going to do as much as I can do blind as, you know, hopefully as much as when I could see. I didn't know how that was going to look, but I made that commitment. And it's tough. And I'd be lying if I said it was easy. It's hard every day. I have to deal with this being blind. I have to deal with some pretty bad post-traumatic stress disorder syndrome, you know, and bodybuilding helped save my life. Family and loved ones helped save my life. And it um it just I wasn't going to let this beat me. I was going to, you know, get out there and show people and, you know, that just because you have a disability or you're blind that your life doesn't end. You know, it only ends when you say it does. You know, it's cliche, but people say there's a will, there's a way. It's true. You know, I may not be able to do things the same way I used to do things or do them as fast as I used to do them, but if you want to do something, you can figure it out. And blind school really helped with that and everything. And, you know, I'm glad that I got back into competing because that's something I could control. And you know, I was, you know, I got talked into competing um by an old coach of mine, Shelby Starns, and he says, "Joe, let's try to do this." I'm like, "I don't know, Shelby. I don't know if I can do this blind." He's like, "Let's put you on a cutting diet for free here and see how you look." And we did that. And he said, "Oh, no, Joe. You need to get back on stage." He hooked me up with a posing coach at the time, Kenny Wallock. I said, "Let's do this." We chose the Virginia Grand Prix show and this is now 2015 in North Folk, Virginia. I did the old people's class and the young people's class and I won it all. They're like, "Who the hell is this?" You know, who the hell's this guy? And I remember being backstage after just crying just like I'm still freaking doing this, man. You know, so I love that. It was crazy. And you had to rebuild a lot too. You we talked a little bit before the show. You said you were all the way down to 160 after your injury, right? So I mean that this wasn't in like an overnight process. When when did that happen? You said 2015 is when you started competing. When was the injury? How long ago was that? It was Halloween day 2011. We're not talking like a decade later. We're talking a few years. Yeah. You know, they say muscle memory is a hell of a thing, and it's a hell of a thing. But I'll tell you a kind of funny story. My ex-wife, um, she was with me at the hospital and they're like, "Okay, Joe, we're going to bring you down to the little gym and we're going to have you work out a little bit." Like, "Okay, cool." So, we go down there and I think we're doing something like lateral raises and you're like, "Tell me if it's too heavy or it's good." Oh, no. Too heavy. Too heavy. Okay, it's good. So, I'm knocking out my sets and reps, whatever you want me to do. And then we're leaving. My ex's like, "Joe, you know those were the pink dumbbells." I'm like, "Oh, babe, you got to start somewhere. I love it." So, so you do that now. You absolutely know once again you can do this. I mean, honestly, as well as you ever could without vision, which as as a as a bodybuilder, I try to imagine even just putting me on the machine and then telling me to like put my hands up, do everything with my eyes open, and then telling me to close my eyes and do it. And I'm like, I don't I don't know. Like, how different was that to just learn to feel your body moving through the range? that you used to feel ants and see. It was weird at first, you know, I felt awkward a little bit, but I learned to trust the people around me. And actually, I think it ended up being better for me because I'm not distracted in the gym. I'm not worried about looking what everybody else is doing. I'm getting that mind muscle connection just locked in. So, I'm really feeling it better. And I think even in posing, I have to, you know, sure you have to trust your posing coach, but a lot of people will just go in the mirror and hit poses, but there's no mirror on stage. So, I have to learn to do everything by feel and ended up really, you know, improving my posing and in shows, as long as the exped gets me on stage and puts puts me in the right direction and just make sure my quarter turns all right, I'm good to go. A lot of people, unless they saw the expediter me holding his or her arm, don't even know I'm blind when I'm on the stage. Right. That's freaking awesome. So So when did you turn pro and and what show was that? Um 2021 at the Mast's Nationals um in the 50 to 59 year old class as a super heavyweight. You know, we always played this game in the past. I have the coaches, you know, some coaches where I've been 220 lbs since I've been 19 years 19 years old. You know, we'll diet me down and play the glute game and get down to a light heavy weight sometimes and that's just that's not my natural weight. So, at that point, um I finally had a coach and he's like, "Joe, you're a super heavy weight. You know, I don't know why, you know, these people diet you don't weigh down like that." at and I did good, you know, at some of those weights and I almost turned pro at the universe in 17. I got second and just missed out of getting my card. Um, so we decided to go in um we went and did the I had to recall so I did the Michigan. Um I've move had moved back to Michigan at the time. I just did the uh masters to get my qual and I did that. And it was kind of crazy because when we was traveling to Pittsburgh that morning, I weighed myself at home and I was in the low 230s and you know the last day or two before you know you're eating up. You're keeping your water down but you're eating up. I usually gain weight back. So we get there weighing in and I'm in weigh-ins with my buddy who um is from Michigan also and who was a pro, David Reid. he would help me out. And um I stepped on the scale and they're like, "Oh, you're 224 something. I see you signed up for supers." And I go, "Damn, I just weigh 230 something at home not too long ago." And they're like, "What do you want to do? Do you want to do super heavyweight or you want to do heavy?" And I'm like, "Dave, man. What should I do, bro? I don't know, man." He goes, "Joe, do supers. you're going to be the lightest, but you're probably going to be the shortest because on a good day I'm 5'9 on my tiptoes and you're complete. So, I ended up doing that, which was the best decision I did. Um, and we went out there and I remember brought us off. We're prejudging and one of the expediters that has helped me before was helping me and they're moving me and everybody in bodybuilding knows if they're moving you to the center, you looks looks like you're going to probably be doing pretty good. So I'm like I'm like dude I I said, "Man, are they moving me towards the middle?" He goes, "Joe, they're putting you right in the center." And I just got that gentleman drove. I'm like, "It's it's your time to win or lose this right now, Joe. You better get your [\h__\h] right." And went out there, knocked all the stuff out, went back and um you know, you know, we had a good feeling that I was going to get first placed and we went back for the night show, but you never know. You know, yep. you can't put the cart before the horse. So, we go back there and I win um first place and I remember just yes, yes, yes, I got this. But I still had to go in the overall of all the other weight classes in my age and I think I had to get at least second. And so, we went down there and had a tough battle with the heavyweight and I ended up getting second in the overall. Also, I ended up getting my pro card and I had told um David, I said, "If I win my pro card, dude, I'm going to cry like a little [\h__\h] backstage." So, I remember, you know, you get that big life-size, you know, pro card, you know, like you won the the million-dollar check and you get your memo on and you guys know how bodybuilders are, you know, you know, you know, Mr. Macho, this and that. I remember going backstage and everybody stood up and started clapping. Holy [\h__\h] man. And I just the water works. I started crying. David started crying. It was um probably the best day of my life other than my daughter being born. So, it was crazy. You know, after coming through all that, you know, I knew, you know, starting bodybuilding back in the day after playing football in college that, you know, looking at magazines, oh my god, it'd be so awesome to be a pro bodybuilder, blah blah blah. And then after I was hurt, I never thought it was possible, but you know, I freaking did it. And then went on and did the Chicago Pro Masters twice. Um, got second the first time, then went back in 200, now this is 23, and ended up winning first place. So, not only became a pro, um, I actually won a pro show. So, it's a pretty damn good accomplishment. And I just like to show people, like I said earlier, you know, just because you you're blind, you have a disability, life doesn't end, man. You got to keep going. You got to fight. You got to keep going. You can't quit. You can't give up. You know, life's one of these things. It seems like you climb one hill and you get knocked down, you got to climb another one. You just don't You can't give up and you can't quit, man. Yeah, that's unbelievable. It's uh I mean the tenacity of what you were already trained for with like the military and the DEA and the fast training and all that stuff and you were able to take that mentality and put it into something else. And I mean I I feel like running through a wall after hearing your story, you know, I'm not going to complain about a sore elbow for a long time. What was it like? Um, you were on the Joo Wilnik podcast and I got to ask you about that because like I I love Joo. I think he's just such a cool dude. What did you had you met him before? I mean I being in the military, did you already know Joo or anything like that? I had briefly met him in 2010. Um because prior to my first deployment to Afghanistan in 2010, we were um doing training with the um Navy Seals West Coast Team SE one of their team SEAL team 5 and we went to Camp Billy Min in Nink, California to do their land warfare course with them. And they have to do it before they pre-eploy all the time. It's three weeks day and night. um just getting kicked in the balls and Jo was running um camp Billy Min at the time. So I get I met him briefly. We you know get didn't get to know each other or anything and then one of the guys who helped set up that training another SEAL um Jako started the podcast and he was like you know you know knew what happened to me and he's like you know I'm going to try to get Joe on the Jaco podcast. So he called me and he's like, "Joe, would you be willing to go on there?" I said, "Hell yeah, I would." So, you know, got out at range, flew out to San Diego and did the podcast. It was at his um his MMA gym he has there was upstairs in like a soundproof room and we went in there and knocked it out. And I'll tell you what, Jaco, you know, he's the real deal. You know, he's he's he's a serious dude, a real deal guy. And I remember afterwards after doing the podcast, we're like posing for pictures and like Jaco, I said, don't try to out angle me, man. Yo, there there's nothing I can do to out angle you. What year was that? What year did you do his podcast, man? Make making me think now. Um, we're in 25, I think. 20 I think 21 22. Oh, okay. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's that's amazing. I I mean I'm just thinking like how what what what other things? I mean the frontal lobe does a lot. I'm just amazed like you you lost your vision but you've been able to do all this other stuff and I mean did you get a little lucky? Like what did they tell you statistically with how how functional and how everything has gone for you? You get hit in the head with an arbor piercing round. And I think statistically you're done just like you just you're already a million to one when you stood up to get back off the bird. Yeah. No, it's crazy. After they brought me back to the States, they had me in induced coma and they're getting ready to bring me out of the coma and your frontal lobe. It controls your decision making and it controls one of those for a while. Yeah. You whether you get real sad or real happy. And the doctors told my parents, he's like, "Joe could never be trusted with a credit card again. He might just might spend a bunch of money. He might just be at work and take all his clothes off." I said, "Yeah, probably because I was hot. That's why I took him off." And then my mom was like, "But he didn't make he didn't make good decisions anyways. He's not going to lose much." Yeah. I I got to answer your question, I got very blessed and lucky. You know, it affected me to, you know, a point. Um but not as great as they had thought that it would, you know. So, it's, you know, it's it's a process. We'll say that, you know. Wow. Is there anything that you're able to look back on and laugh at now as part of the recovery process? Like, I mean, I'm sure you've had to find humor in in some of the agony you went through. Oh. Oh. Oh yeah. So, okay. This is when I got shot. I was 230, pretty lean. Like I mentioned earlier, I got down to like in the 160s, but they wouldn't tell me what I weighed because they knew I'd throw a hissy fit. Um, so I'm sitting there with my ex and the physical therapist and they're like, "Okay, today Joe, you're going to put your shorts and t-shirt on." Like, how much time do you need? Well, 5 minutes, whatever. So, I'm grabbing the clothes and then I get to the shorts and I'm feeling the shorts and I'm like, "Man, these don't feel like my size." I'm like, "What size are these?" And my ex was like a church mouse, not saying a word. The therapist is like, "U, I'll tell you. Hand them to me." So, I give them to her. She's like, "They're a medium." I took those medium and threw them across the room. I said, "I'm a big size. I wear extra large. If I would put those extra large on them, they would have fell straight to the floor. All my business would have been showing." Wow. I love it. I love the things he's worried about with all that. He's worried as a he's a medium short. Yeah. Hey, I had a question kind of a and this is a selfish question. Uh and also too, I I want to make sure that I I say Joe, thank you. Like, thank you for your service, man. First of all, thank you for everything that you've done for our country. And thank you for for not only coming on here, but sharing your story as much as you do. I feel like our world right now needs hope, you know, and and I am very grateful that you, you know, you you you're taking the tragedy that happened to you and you're turning it into something that is so positive. Like Ron said, I feel like I'm ready to like freaking get out and do something right now after listening to you. But listen, so here's my selfish question. Um, so I I I like to do a lot of shooting training. And what I've realized with the tactical training is all that stuff you you you under kind of like a a false pressure. It's not real pressure. You're not in a real gunfight, but under that pressure, like it's hard to do like small mechanical things and reload magazines, all that. I can only imagine, and I know that at your level and the stuff you were doing, you would have to be so freaking cool as a cucumber. I know you said like you guys had to do like all sorts of mental evaluations. you are the guy that can stay calm in a real active life situation like that. You got to tell me, man, what it's something that I train for. I'll probably and hopefully never have to ever draw my gun in my life and use it. But it's an experience if that, you know, never happen. I hopefully will never have to experience what you've experienced on any level. What what is it like to be in like combat, man, having these bullets fly by you and still know to yourself like, dude, I got to stay calm. Well, and it's crazy, you know? It's like I was thinking to myself, I was over there and bullets are flying over my head and bullets make noise. I'm like, Joe, what the hell are you doing here? You volunteered for this [\h__\h] But you could have been in Scotsdale with me by the pool. Yeah. The thing is, you have to rely on your training and you want to make training as most realistic as possible. And you want to push yourself when you're training and you want to train like you fight, you know, or practice like you play a game. So, you need to wear all your gear. You need to put yourself under stress. You know, we simulate that by doing stress shoots where you do a bunch of physical stuff where you're tired or run and do sprints and just try to get used to doing that, you know, under pressure when you're tired, when you're breathing hard. So, it gets to a point where it's just muscle memory that you don't even think, you know, you just react and you just do it. But it takes thousands and thousands of reps to be able to do that. And you know, and and some people some people can't, you know, I've worked I was on the SWAT team in Detroit, the full-time SWAT team, and even on the fast team, and as a D agent, a Detroit police officer, you know, there's some guys you think are all squared away. And I call them chrome engines, all showing no go. But when it comes down, when the rubber hits the road to real combat, you know, they might shoot great on a flat range and do this, but they can't hit the broad side of the barn when bullets are flying back. So it's a it's it's it's intense. Yeah, I can I can only imagine, man. Yeah, that I was just curious because yeah, like I said, in in my experience, which is, you know, next to nothing. It is all for pretend and it is any any stress we have, we're putting it on ourselves. But yeah, I could only imagine the the level that you guys would have have to have. What about uh did you guys do any kind of like uh breathing exercises? because I've heard of that and and I've uh I've heard of like box breathing has been used in special forces and stuff and I found I use box breathing in just everyday life if I need to reset myself and I could only imagine how beneficial it could be in a situation like that. Well, and I even learned this when I was um trying out for the SWAT team in Detroit way back in the day in 1992. Um, like before you know you get your breathing and you get excited and you start breathing hard like before like we would enter a room like say we're doing a room clearing or building clearing before you entered that room they would have you take a couple deep breaths in through your nose out through your mouth to try to get your heart rate down and your blood pressure down. But like you said, you get in that when you're in a fight orflight situation, you get what's called perceptual narrowing where your eyesight increases, your hearing decreases, and a lot of the blood it flows to your vital organs for protection. So it goes, you know, to your core. So you start losing that defined dexterity, that fine motor skills. And um that's why we went back more to like a saucely shooting where you're facing your opponent as opposed to like a bladed weaver stance because if you get in that situation, you're going to face your target. Yeah. So we started, you know, learning to shoot that way and shooting with both eyes open, you know, and doing, you know, different things like that, you know. So you you do do some of the breathing and also a big thing too which we I even started doing when I was playing college football I was doing was um going over scenarios in your head you know if this happens this is what I'm going to do if that happens. So you have a plan before something happens, you know, so you're just going over different scenarios in your head and your body your brain doesn't know what's real and what's not. You know, you just run these scenarios in your head and you know that seems to help too. Right on. Yeah. Thank you. I just was like I said it was a selfish question, but I I really wanted to hear what you had to say on that. The Cliff's notes version is if you are born a badass, you are a badass. Yeah. You just you just do it. Like I I got to be honest, Joe. You tell me all that stuff and I I I understand, but I'm also very aware that like you said, I imagine if bullets were flying back at me, it's uh I'm not I'm not hitting the broad side of the barn. No. You know, that's just another level. And it's why people are special. And I think it's also why your story is so great because you've excelled in a ton. Yeah. Um, but I think the the true tell is you took on a a situation after your accident that you rose honestly higher than you ever had before. I mean, you had a lot of advantages um genetically, physically, mentally, all these things, uh when you had all of your health and everything else, which would make it easier for people to downplay. Well, Joe is special. Joe is a badass. That is what he is. Um when you take away something like vision, Yeah. Uh, for me, I realize I did not realize how badass you were because it I mean, come on. It's a four-year time between your your accident, losing your sight, your whole life being flipped up upside down to winning a bodybuilding show. That's beyond special. And I think that that's the the part we talk about on the show is mental strength. And there's no stronger case I've ever heard of. So, you know, I I hope that those that are listening and watching this can really grab that up is your your physical strengths disappeared in an instant and you used your mental strength to get them all back. Yeah. Yeah. And that's great. And that's what I'm glad that I had that good mental and inner strength before that, you know, like doing sports and growing up and doing different things and, you know, just I've always wanted to push myself and be the best at whatever I did, you know, and people listeners will probably think this is crazy, too. You know, I'm legally blind. Um, can't see crap. Um, I hunt and shoot with special optics and Yep. Since I've been blind, I've shot nine deer. I got two with one shot. It's all on video. Yeah. You got two with one shot. Is that what you just said? Yes. Two deer with one shot. It's all on video. Um I've killed a black bear in West Virginia. Um two alligators in Louisiana, a wild boar in Florida. I've been tandem skydive jumping blind, snow skiing blind three times. Played golf blind. Um, ran a 5k blind. All kind of crazy [\h__\h] I'm tapping out. Hell yeah. Yeah. Hell yeah. And doesn't even appreciate this one. They do have blind hockey, too, which I'm considering. There we go. Now you're talking, my man. Wow. I got I got one more question for you, and it might be a little bit like, you know, a little bit surface, but um you lost your sight in 2011, correct? Yes. Okay. So, what would you say because you are a guy who's been like in the real [\h__\h] the realest of real [\h__\h] as a cop, as a SWAT team, and as military. What would you say are a couple of maybe the most realistic movies? H because I'm a real movie guy and sometimes I see stuff and I'm like, this isn't military guys must hate this. And then there's the odd movie I see. I think I wonder if they love this one. Well, I kind of I I would have said um lone survivor, but I learned a lot of the stuff that one of the gentlemen that survived said was not true. Oh. Um so that kind of like, you know, crushed my hopes. Um I know American American Sniper I think was pretty realistic. Okay. But I understand that a lot of that stuff wasn't true either. Um, but you're talking like maybe the story was altered, but the actual like combat scenes and how that's realistic. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. You know, in the movies you see, you know, they'll be shooting somebody be shooting on full automatic for two minutes. Um, ammo doesn't last that fast, you know. Magazine, you can dump it in like a second or two, you know. So, right. this endless like, you know, not reloading, you know, is kind of crazy. But, um, yeah, you know, there's um there's um a a crazy movie I just saw that really brought me back like I was in combat was that movie Warfare that's out in the theater now about Can you back up for a second? The movie you just saw? Yeah. So, how does that work? Well, listen to. Okay. I was like I was like, hold on. You just Right. So, that fascinates me. You're still taking in cinema through the fact that you're hyper aware of the sounds and the and what you're listening to. Yes. And sometimes if it's like not a lot of action and not a lot of I'm like, "Okay, what's going on now?" So sometimes I got to ask some questions, but for the most part, I get the gist of what's going on. That's so awesome. Wow. That's amazing. Okay, man. Joe, I uh I was excited to have you on and uh and I hope that that the listeners are as as blown away as I am because I'm sitting here going, I could go for hours. I mean, the the amount of stuff that you've done and then the pieces of tossing in the hunting currently and all that, it's mindboggling. Um, where can people find you or where can they see more of your interviews or when you're I know you do some speakings like is there a place they can go to see all of that to kind of if they want to grab more information and and get more inspiration from you? Yes, sure. Um, I actually have a website for my speaking. It's Joe P. us and it has information on me there. Um, and you can just Google me too on the internet now and a bunch of stuff pops up. So, you know, it's just like I like spreading the word and talking to people doing this motivational speaking because, you know, when we're out there thinking, you know, we're having a bad day, bad month, bad year. It always could be worse, believe me. So, and it's good for me to tell my story and speak to and it's helping other people. It's awesome, man. I'll be sure to put the website too down below. So guys, go down to the description, check it out. Awesome. Yeah, thanks very much. We appreciate you having on, Joe. You've been fantastic. Thanks for having me, fellas. I still want to find out how to get a PKM from one of those bazaars. So, if you guys figure it out, let me know. All right. PKM Scott's going to be sending me pictures of of exactly which which uh which one that is now. Yeah, it's kind of the Russian's version of like our beltfed machine gun, like our um M60 or we now have the 240 and you I can't imagine that you took one of those. That's something. Well, and it's crazy that you know I'll hear like a officer gets shot in the head or this and I'm like, "Oh my god." And I think I'm like, "Joe, you got shot in the damn head." I'm like, "Oh, it's over. I'm amazed that for sure dead, man. I'm amazed that you can shoot and there there's optics that you can use. I I love that that I I because I would have thought that would have been taken away from you. I think that's so cool. Yeah, it's great. You know, and I go on these wounded warrior hunts and with these other guys and you know, the biggest thing we just want to feel normal again. You know, it's normal for us to have a gun in our hand. It was normal for me to be in the gym. You know, you just want to be normal, right? Yeah. Yeah. That's amazing. Thank you very much, Joe Presante. Appreciate you. Appreciate your story and uh everyone appreciates your service, I'm sure. So, uh thank you for uh humbling all of us on a Monday morning here. Exactly. Yeah. Thank you, Joe. Joe, I'll catch up with you this week. I'll give you a call, too. I appreciate it, Dusty. Okay. Cheers. Well, guys, I uh feel like a bit of a [\h__\h] after having Joe on. I did before the accident and now double after. try not to complain about my aches and pains and then I find myself doing it occasionally and I will keep my mouth shut for at least three weeks I think. Yeah. Right. Right. Yeah. Yeah. So, uh I loved your comment. You're like anybody who's scared to go to failure, you know. Recover training to failure is going to kill them. And listen, I you know another thing I was thinking is you know how you hear sometimes people are like bodybuilding it's just about a plastic trophy. It's not worth, dude. He said the words, you know, bodybuilding was part of bodybuilding family. Saved my life, you know. Yeah. And is and I think that is such a cool example to see uh how bodybuilding could be such a positive freaking force in somebody's life. Yeah. A guy like that who's uh you know spent his whole life like extraordinarily goal driven. Yeah. and always having to create things to overcome like I'm going to, you know, join the police force and then like I'm going to go for the SWAT team and then I'm going to, you know what I mean? DA also. Yeah. EA and then going going to DEA and then oh that's you know let's let's step it up and not just be DEA but we're going to do this new fast team and we're going to like always trying to step up levels in life and and bodybuilding is essentially about like endlessly chasing small goals and elevating elevating elevating every single thing about what you're doing. So just to put it in perspective, Ron, like when he talks about the fast team, so like in the the gun world in the 2A community, um that would be like the equivalent of not only the Olympia, but like the top like for all the guys that are out there shooting and stuff and and and for everybody who thinks that that stuff is cool. Like those guys are like the top five of the Olympia, that's who the f team was, you know? Right. Right. Yeah. Like you said, there's Rangers going that don't make it, and there's, you know, guys trying out that don't qualify. 30 38 guys go that are all extraordinarily trained and only 11 make it. Yeah. You know what I mean? And Yeah. When's the last time somebody did a bodybuilding prep and lost all their toenails? You know what I'm saying? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Perspective. Yeah. Yeah. Wow. Yeah. So, so great stuff. And uh yeah, I needed that. I'm going to I'm going to put that to work this week, fellas. And I hope that everybody listening puts that to work this week, you know. Um I mean just hearing him sat up in the helicopter. Yeah. Like you know, you think you're dragging a dead body on the chopper and then the guy sits up and starts talking. Um just crazy stuff that you know that you only see in movies. Well, I think too the the the big takeaway I hope people grab is is the gratitude. Yeah. And uh and I mean I knew him during all of this and yeah I mean obviously he had hard days but overall he's not dwelling on them. No. And and never really did. I mean obviously you have moments but I mean overall just nothing. And and I I hope more people will realize like and even him what's he saying as he's going through all this there's people that have it worse than me instead of I got shot in the head and I'm blind. I mean that's a Listen, I'm going be honest with you. It's a free page to me if you want to be mad at life for a minute. But no, he just opts to go the other way. And I think we need to do that more often. Just like Yeah. 100%. Yeah. And I don't know a lot about I still can't can't get over what he was shot with. He didn't take a 9 mil to the shoulder. No, he took a legit rifle round. Rifle round right through his head in and out. Yeah. Unbelievable. Yeah. Yeah. threw a helmet. So, the helmet probably saved his life cuz it slowed the bullet down just enough. Maybe it had to have been I mean, the other side, realistically, it's one of those cases where if he was differently positioned by a fraction of the he's gone, you know, so it is one of those cases where it's weird to say you were really lucky. You got shot in the head and lost your eyes and you're very lucky or eyesight like Yeah. because any movement at all, you're just gone and you wouldn't even know what happened. No, I I had a freaky story. Um my brother when he was doing his uh his early days of medicine, he had to do some emergency room stuff, you know, he's infectious disease, but he had to work in like the ER and he actually worked in the ER in Chicago at one point. That'll keep you busy. And um and uh he saw a guy when he was in Calgary, he saw a guy come in who fell on a construction site and he had a piece of rebar go right through his head. And they uh they cut the rebar off and put him on the ambulance, left it in his head, sent him to the ER, and they had to like figure out how to remove it. Wow. And um they removed it and the guy lived. And I guess he had like issues where he didn't remember like a whole bunch of grades. Okay. Like there were periods of his life he couldn't remember, but he was still like completely functional. I'm surprised Joe could remember any of that day. Like he he had all those details. was running to the helicopter and everything. You got to be like down to the detail, right? Crazy. Yeah. I can't remember yesterday, you know. Nothing happened to me. I just No, man. Okay. Well, thanks everybody. Um, remember to like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. Yes. And remember immutant.com. Go to immutinant.com. Use Dusty or Big Ron or your codes. Get your ISO surge. Get your all in. And everyone get on the gear. Thank you for everyone that shops on Mutant. We appreciate your code usage. Yes. Yes. Okay. And remember everybody, it's just bodybuilding. Thanks to the Patreon people. You guys are awesome. Yes. Last five minute crew. Whisper. Whisper. Why are we whispering? I don't know.