Because I mean that's phenomenal. The separation in the front. Nobody has conditioning like that right now. Bodybuilding nerds unite. You are listening to Bodybuilding Nerds Radio. Just a couple of nerds who love all things bodybuilding related. This show is brought to you by Think Big Patreon. You're the best. Mutant Nation. Use code Big Ron or Dusty to save yourself on some mutant merch and some sweet supplements. Also supplements.ca for our listeners up north and true nutrition.com. Use code think. I'm digging the whey isolate and myellar casein blend. It's like one of these or one of these. It's the perfect synergy. You know what I'm saying? Scott, Scott McN, how you doing, guys? I I can't repeat uh Oh, I'm sorry. Hey, y supposed to say that first. Yeah, I was waiting. I can't repeat the visual gesture VJ just made when he said one of these or one of these. you don't get us demonetized instantly. I can't uh I can't speak of that. But it's two things that go together very well. We'll say that. Heck yeah. Yeah. Good. So, how's it going? How's it going, Scott McN? How's Let me ask you a question. First of all, what's up? Are you still beating your meat? Oh, every day. Every day. Every day. I sure hope so, man. Dude, I got to tell you, there is Here's the thing. I can even So, the Costco chicken, I think it's like$2.99 a pound, right? Now, if I go to the regular grocery store and I get the Meyer chicken breast, it's all like it's all like hormoned up and uh you know, each breast is just gigantic and it it's all like You're talking about the fresh though. You're not talking about the frozen stuff, right? Oh god, no. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. The the fresh stuff. Um it just it's like so fibrous tasting, you know? I can't deal with it. I feel like the Costco chicken, the 299 stuff, it's not as good as like the fancy Amish chicken breast that's like $6.99, 7.99 a pound. It's not as tender as that. But when you get the old mallet out and I dude, I got to tell you, man, I think I go like a real chef would probably be disappointed in what it looks like when I tender. I literally like flatten the meat out to the point where you go to pick it up and it's in pieces, you know? Just It's good though. It's good. I've got a system, man. And it it makes it so tender. Yeah, that's the best thing about it. I hate fibers chicken. I just bought a ton of uh Walmart chicken, you know, just their brand. It was It was good price. It was like 2.69 a pound. It's pretty dang good, you know. Okay. But it's that chicken with the rib meat in it. I think that's where like the fibrous the fibrous stuff comes from is that rib meat that's in it, you know? Yeah. But uh yeah, I just picked up a bunch of that cuz I'll be throwing that into the diet. Now it's chicken time. So you haven't thrown it in yet? Like you got that in preparation? I have here and there, but now it's going to be like this is going to be like the majority of the protein intake now, you know. Are you beating your meat? I'm I better start. You better start. Yeah, you I better better start because it's a it's an old trick. You got to keep up. Use it or lose it. You know what I'm saying? That's what they say. That's what they say. So, that's the plan. That's the plan. How's your diet going otherwise? Ah, man. I feel like I'm getting fuller. So I can't remember if I think we last we spoke I had like just started a cycle and I was going to do like 800 test and 600 EQ and I said like tentatively you know we'll see how that unfolds but I ended up not going with as much because like uh 10 days into that with this 400 mg per milliliter test it was crippling man I thought it might I I was like the I was hopeful in the first couple shots but after that it went downhill and then I realized ized I'd only ever bought one bottle of EQ, so that wasn't going to last that long. And I I would switch things up and I went to So I'm definitely on 200 test about three times a week and I've taken a couple shots of Trend Ace with that. Now I haven't committed to the Trend Ace cuz like I took one and then I didn't and then I took one and I I think I'm going to commit to the Trend Ace though. Why not? I don't know. I don't know, man. I've got a bunch of it. I could I could run and just at, you know, 150 milligrams a week, which isn't necessarily low dose, but it's enough. It's enough to notice something. It's plenty, man. Yeah. So, the diet's going good with that, but my point being is that the scale stopped going down. I think I'm putting some muscle on, too. So, Sure. Yeah. Just holding holding more glycogen, more more fluids in the muscle cells. You're probably your body fat's still going on. I saw a picture. You're looking pretty good, you know. Thank you. I'm working on it, man. I'm not comfortable with posting them yet, you know what I mean? But down the road, I'll I'll post something. But I Yeah. So, I started eating more protein. Uh, and with that and with the anabolics and getting stronger, like I said, the scale is not really going down now, like 187 and I get depleted. And I lowered the rea for a little while, but I'm kind of pushing it back up now just as an experiment. I was like, I'll take a little bit less and see if I get just as good of fat loss. And now I boosted it back up. I I know you'll have a lot to say on Redda. Yeah, you having just started it, so I'm looking forward to hearing that and I'll chime in more, you know, and that goes but it's going good, man. Loading every Friday and the loads are going pretty darn good, man. All righty. Yeah. Good. My load day is today. Today's my load day. Oh, being our load day, huh? Yeah, it is being our load day. I got all kinds of energy for this podcast right now. Nice. What's the What does the load consist of? Uh about 240 grams of carbs in the day. Protein stays the same. Okay. Maybe maybe even a little less, you know, cuz I'm I'm getting right anywhere between 295 to 320 g of protein a day. Nice. Um so on on a day like today when you're getting a whole lot more carbs, maybe I'll pull the protein a little bit back. Sure. And and and the fats come up a little bit, too. Like maybe 10 grams. Nothing too much. I'm I'm used to only getting like 20 to 30 grams of fat a day. So, um what are the what are the sources for your these carbs? Uh rice. Oh, so you're not like doing a cheat meal or anything? No, I I did have some like uh peanut butter and jelly sandwiches for breakfast. Okay. Oh, really? Yeah. So, you know, it's a good way to start the day. Yeah. Heck yeah. It was that and some Fair Life milk. Yeah. It was great. Skim milk. So, no fat. But, um use code nerds. Yeah. Use code nerds. Save at Walmart. Yeah. Uh yeah. So it like my Monday w Monday Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, I get about 1,700 calories all together between the between the three days and then Thursday, Friday, Saturday, I taper it down to like right around 1,500 calories, so I drop it even further and make sure I'm pretty dang flat so that I can really respond on Sunday. Yes. You know, and I make sure I I set it up that way because those are like Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday are like kind of my heavier days in the gym. Those are going to be like the most taxing days in the gym. Yeah. And then the the rest of the rest of the the three four days is just more like a cruise active rest almost, you know. Yeah. Like there's like an arm day in there. There's a push pull day that's not too heavy, but it it can be challenging here and there. But how are things going at that new gym? Things are great, man. Shout out to the crew out there. Yeah, Carbon Nations. Great gym, man. Great gym. I My nephew was in town this past weekend. Okay. Logan Logan's getting ready for his uh for his first first show. He's going to be doing Men's Physique. Yeah. Huh? Yeah. Men's physique. He's a He's Yeah, my nephew. He's a big kid, man. He's, you know, he's six foot three. Oh, wow. You know. Wow. And men's physique. So, he's one of the taller guys up there. He's got a lot of space to fill out and all, but he's get he's we're bringing him down. We're getting He will say he should have got a hold of me a lot sooner than seven weeks out, but we're getting him down. We're getting him down. We're get He's We're making him work. So, that's a first timer decision. like, you know, I'll work on getting in shape and then I'll reach out to my uncle V, you know, when I've got a lot of time left, like seven weeks or something. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He's only been doing this for 31 years. What the [\h__\h] does he know? Yeah. Yeah. So, uh, yeah, we I took him up to Carbon Nations and his gal and I even brought my wife into the gym for like first time in ever. Yeah. Yeah. She had a great time. Everybody had a great time. That's cool. It's such a cool cool gym, cool atmosphere, cool culture. Everyone's real accepting and real friendly and everyone's looking to help out each other, you know. Everyone's got each other's back. It's a great great place, man. I like places like that. Yeah. Hell of a community altogether. Yeah. You don't find that you don't find that in any just any gym anymore. Yeah. You know, you know, a client of mine, Kevin, he just started going to RTB gym in Lincoln Park. And I told Oh, yeah. He you know I don't think he really had I don't remember where he said he was training before but he mentioned having been there once and he was like yeah you know I'd been there once and I was like oh man if I had the chance to if I was going to get a regular gym membership that's the kind of place if it was close I would go there every day and like a week later he was like hey so I went to RTB and I talked to Tino the owner and I'm going to start training there and I was like okay cool and I started telling him I was like man it will change your training being in a good gym with like good people that are pushing hard and he was like, "Really?" Okay, interesting. Next thing I know, he messages me at like 6:00 at night one evening and he's like, "Dude, I just got done training and the place was packed and the energy was awesome, man. I worked out so hard." You know, some people like you and I, dude, we grew up that's like the gyms we went to. Like everything was a powerhouse around here, you know, or you know, gyms like that. And a lot of guys, unfortunately, don't don't have that. They're like, "Hey, you know, I train at this LA Fitness or and not not that you can't get a good workout in there, you know what I mean?" But yeah, it's not the same as like a hardcore gym, you know? There's a certain inborn mentality that just that just breeds itself in places like that, you know? Yeah. It's, you know, this whole market over the past 20 years have been saturated by places like Planet Fitness or Crunch Fitness or whatever it is. These are all great gyms and they're all well equipped and you can get it great workouts in there, but the mentality the mentality that that people are attracted to, you can only find those in certain certain gyms and certain communities and uh that's this kind of mentality that pushes you harder, pushes you further even when you don't feel like it, you know. Yeah. But when you're in crunch, no matter what stage of my contest prep or offseason I was in, cuz I trained there for a couple years as like a secondary gym, I always felt like I was at like 10 levels more like insane than anybody who trained there versus at like a hardcore gym, you're just it's average. And so you never slip lower, you know what I mean? Because your expectations of yourself become a lot higher like you know what I mean? Yeah. Yeah. Oh, I totally Yeah, I hear you. Definitely. Yeah, that's how it is. So, anyway, you uh you're dieting. You've got uh you lent you laid out the like the different calorie days. You have the load on B&R day today. And uh and I know I kind of spoiled your supplement. Is it a supplement review or is it just part of the diet or what is it the shoot? I don't know. It's both, I guess. You know what? We'll just get into it. How about that? Why don't we just talk about some reta? So, I I I I picked up I first of all, this is Skip's fault and your and your fault. So, I I've been doing a lot of research on GLPs and I was just trying to figure out which would be like the the best one for me to go with. And once I once I listened to Skip talk about it and you talk about it and how Skip was applying it not just to himself but also to his clients and things, I was like, "Well, [\h__\h] it. I'm in this deficit already. Why don't I just try it? See what happens." Well, worst that could happen, nothing at all. You know what I mean? Right. I mean, the calories are down. They're going to get get me get me lean anyways. So, why not this extra push? Why not give it a shot? So, I ordered some up. I started on Thursday and I'm I'm going with the uh the daily injections. I'm not going with, you know, the the weekly the weekly thing. Um, it makes more sense to me and I know how my body responds to basically all peeds and it's just just the way just the way it is. And I'll give this a shot first and you know if I don't see it's working, which I can tell you it already is. Yeah. I can switch over to something else. But for the time being, I'm using 0.6 milligrams every morning. 0.6. So what does that come out to? Comes to about 4.2 through the week. Oh wow. Okay. Yeah. Okay. So it's still it's still going to be like, you know, that recommended two to four dose. 2 to 4 milligram dose. Okay. I'll be interested. And you're how far in now? This is my fourth day. Fifth day. fourth day. I'll be interested to see what happens then. It has that really so I think you're gonna get a buildup effect and yeah I've found and in my experience and and this was kind of listening to some other people who've done it before me like Vigorous Steve and Chase Irons, right? I started out I started out too like really low, you know? I was like, well, I'm going to micro dose it and I'll do like 250 micrograms every other day. And over time what I realized is that it so it doesn't have as strong of an appetite suppressing effect as semiglutide. Like that's if you just want and somebody commented in the Facebook group today. They're like you know uh semiglutide is basically the same thing. It's just more less less expensive. It's like no there's a lot of other things going on with reatide with the GIP and uh glucagon. But um it does I think semiglutide does have a stronger appetite suppressant effect. That's what I've been reading too. And I found so anyway I got up to one milligram about every five days and then maybe one milligram twice a week and and I liked so I started out with the high frequency and I felt like I wasn't getting as good of an effect as with the uh reduced frequency taking a larger bolus and um I think there's some middle ground. I'm not down with the every day. I feel like you miss out on the peak there. there's kind of a a sharp effect that I want to achieve. Gotcha. Um versus it doesn't give it a chance to I don't know. I don't know. And and and just talking to other people. That said, I think we could probably like build our defenses on why we should do it every day versus two twice a week or once a week. And it's probably going to do pretty much the same thing. You know what I mean? I I would think so. Right now, I'm not getting like any appetite suppression, but I don't I never intended to. That was never one of the goals here. I just I don't First of all, appetites doesn't bother me. I don't I'm not bothered being hungry. Not, you know, I mean, it would take many many many more weeks for me to be bothered by it, you know. But we're bodybuilders. We're used to this. We're comfortable being hungry most of the time. You know, there's a comfort there and there's a there's a certain mentality there that, oh, if I'm pretty hungry, that means [\h__\h] is happening. So, let it roll, you know. So, I'm not I don't really care about the appetite suppressant. That was never the intended goal. I just was interested in all the other like um the other with like glucagon type effects, the fat the actual fat loss and using fat cells for energy expenditure. Yes. insulin control, blood sugar control, uh heart control, even like heart uh health markers, blood pressure health markers, all these things. There's a lot of extra benefits to Red True Tide. Yeah. Um, so those are the things that kind of attracted me to it and I was like, well, like I said, you know, the best that could happen is it works like a miracle. The worst that happens, it does nothing at all. So, and so and so far it's it's good, man. Um, I want to say on Thursday when I first started, I was right about I want to say oh 199. Okay. On that day. Yeah. Uh, I started my diet at about 213 and that was about four weeks ago. Okay. So, I've been dieting about four weeks now. What did you weigh like at the Arnold? Were you at that like 213 range then? Yeah, just about there. Okay. Yeah. And then um uh on that Thursday when I started Rea, I was about 199 already. Okay. Yeah. And then um I started, you know, fourth day in, this is my fourth day in and granted it is on those days that I have uh really low calories, you know, 1500 calories or whatever you Thursday, Friday, Saturday. Yeah. This Sunday morning, I'm already down to 194.9. And I'm I'm used to like quick drops in weight, especially with when you pull calories that hard. I'm used to that. But this is something a little different. Like it's like a like a pound more than I would would have would have been expecting. Yeah. And there and there's a certain um I don't know, there's a certain quality like a look to the muscle almost where like flatness or Well, see there's it's like flat. There's definitely flatness, but it's still like halfway full. Okay. Yeah. It's the best way I can explain it cuz I'm used to being really flat on like things like metformin flatten me out like a day or two. You know, there's a difference between metformin flatness and reatride flatness for me at this point. Like I still have like semi- round pecs and semi- round delts and arms and stuff. Yeah. On metformin. It was everything was flat. I was like a pancake, you know. Yeah. So within 4 days at 0.6 six milligrams a day. It It's been doing something for sure. I'm excited to keep keep rolling with it and see how it goes. I'll check my weight tomorrow because today is a load day. We'll see how it goes. I know how how you responded on your low day. It was kind of kind of tough for you to fill out, wasn't it? And that's Now, I'm going to warn you, too, cuz you're dosing it at twice as much as me. I you know, I started at that low micro doing stuff and then I went up to it's still a low dose. I'd still I don't know still call it probably a micro dose at you know about a little under 2 milligs a week considering that it's you know researched at 4 8 and 12. Yeah. But just from everybody I've talked to I don't think that we need that much. Like we're talking people with major health issues, people with uh like major obesity and stuff like that and they're not eating the way we are or exercising the way we are. I think a little goes a long way. So I am a little concerned for you that if you're here because it took about two weeks to really kind of get the buildup of the of whatever dose I'm on. So if you're only 4 days in like that's going to keep compounding uh for the next couple weeks. So you know three four 3 weeks from now I think that your experience it will be different than it is right now. talking to Keith from Parabolic because I said, "Listen, man, you know, at the and one of the reasons I mentioned I kind of pulled it back for a little while. Um, even at two milligrams, I felt like I was having a difficulty in filling out when I loaded." Yeah. And I was like, "Man, this is just 2 milligrams." And he said, "Yeah." Um, for the people that he's, you know, consulted with, which he's, you know, he says being he's the company owner, he talks to a lot of people. He talks to, you know, hundreds. He said like 100 He said like 1 millig or under is like a good maintenance dose to be able to grow but he was like man above that it's hard to gain muscle on uh anything more than that he felt you know and I could kind of see where he's coming from because yeah I struggled to fill back out. Um but now I'm doing good. By the way I found a great bakery in Belleville man that we went to. Oh my god. That's what we did for Friday was my low day. Is that where you got that cherry pie from? So, no, the cherry pie I got from the grocery store. Okay. And then I went to the then we went to this bakery that Victoria found and they had like all these homemade treats and I bought this. It was like a giant chocolate uh cupcake and it had this like cream frosting on the inside. It was like had a big cherry on the top and then that like this just slight slight cherry cream frosting in the center that was frozen. Oh my god, it was so good. I spent like 15 20 bucks on all these different treats, but I had already gotten the pie. So then I gave the rest of I ate the cupcake. I gave the rest to my mom. But yeah, that was It took a lot to load. That's my point. That's my point of the story. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, that's that's a lot of calories to load on. You know what I mean? Like a whole cherry pie. [\h__\h] Yeah, we did. And that's been what's working. So Yeah. Yeah. Cherry pie, a little bit of insulin, and then a meal. One meal, too. Like I did a burger and fries this week. Gotcha. So Yeah. Yeah. And all this is experimentation for me. The second that I find that I am getting so flat that I can't refill on a daily for me, those daily shots, it's easy for me to just pull it back. True. You know what I mean? Skip a few days or something, you know? Yeah, it's it'll be really easy to manage that way. That's another that's another mentality behind why I wanted to do dailies and why I use dailies for everything really. I do think though because of the longer halflife once you stop it, you you know, you might have a week, you know what I mean? 10 5 to 10 days I think before you get the relief. because it is just kind of building building each day, but you're not going to add to it, you know? Right. Yeah. Yeah. And I And once I know that it's, you know, it's having those effects on me, I can always adjust the diet, too. You know what I mean? I just up the carbs a little bit, too. Take take time off of that. And Yeah. You know, it's easy to figure it out as long as you know the game. You know what you're doing, you know? Yeah. So, do you feel dieted now? Like, are you like feeling like lower and stuff? Most of the week. Most of the week. Yeah. I feel it. Especially during training. Yeah. Yeah. Like weights are heavy, you know, and Yeah. And then like recovery in between sets. Yeah. Is like you're just digging deep. You're like, "Oh god." So, are the guys cracking the whip then when you're training? Cuz uh you said they push you along. Yeah, they do. Yeah, they do. They're like, "It's your set." I'm like, "I know. I know. Just give me a minute." But yeah, they're they're good. They're good dudes. They know they know I'm not getting no carbs ever, you know? So, yeah. Yeah. So, they're good. They're good dudes, man. All of them. All of them are good dudes. How's uh how's training going otherwise? It's good, man. I I uh the intermittent trend program, I think, may added a little strength this past week. I How is pumps? Probably pumps are pretty decent then, huh? They're they're on and off, man. They're, you know, they're they're sometimes okay. Um never never cherry pie pretty good, probably. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But then as the week goes on, they kind of fade. You know what I mean? Sure, that makes sense. Yeah. Yeah. I feel like I was actually like training's good. I felt like I was maybe slacking on my cardio a little bit because I didn't have a set plan where it's not like I'm just doing, you know, 45 like my coach is telling me to do 45. I'm just like, you know what, I trained really hard. I did 20 minutes of cardio before I trained and now I'll do another 30. I I've kind of done that kind of thing around like I just noticed last week, I'll be honest, man. I kept I and unintentionally errored on the side of less on more days than not. You know what I mean? Okay. So, I'm going to bump that back up this weekend. Bump it back up. Yeah. Try to drive a little harder. Sure. I've been doing uh I like to do 45 minutes in the in the morning. Okay. Before before I get to the gym and if I can't get that time in, I'll do like 30 minutes on the treadmill, get to the gym, and then do my training, then do another 20 minutes after I train. Okay. So, that's the first section. And then the next section comes later on the day like 3:00 or so. I'll do another 45 minutes. Okay. Yeah. So that's my cardio schedule about 190 minutes a day. Isn't that Isn't that That's a lot of cardio, man. Is that? But you know, you're probably pretty s We're both 30 minutes a day. Pretty sedentary otherwise. You both of us, you know. Yeah. Yeah. Otherwise, it's just naps on the couch and, you know, playing on my phone, laying down. A lot of vertical stuff going on. Yeah. Horizontal stuff going on. So, but otherwise training is good. Pumps are tough to get now. Seems like Oh, yeah. But that's just the way it is. I'm trying to get ready for I've got three weeks left cuz my wife is getting these pictures taken for us. Okay. For our for our anniversary, our 15 year anniversary. Holy cow. And so, she wants some nice pictures and she she has a website she wants to put them on to and do do marketing with too, but she was like, I want you mostly naked for it. And I was like, oh, great. Wait, should this Wish it would have told me that 12 weeks ago. Is this Moly Fans? What is this? I didn't know he had one of those. So, uh, so I wanted to be in good shape for that. So, that that's what all his dieting is for. Anyway, but once this is over, once those once we get those pictures taken and I've had some McDonald's and we're good, I'm going to keep going. I I I'm just I'm like things are clicking and I'm just not ready to stop, you know? Yeah. Once I feel like I'm getting burnt out and I just hit a hit AI'm right now I'm just starting to hit that magic pocket. You know what I'm talking about? Yep. I know about the magic pocket. I can feel it coming, man. I can feel it coming on. Like I'm I'm about to hit it. And this this ruide reat is definitely helping me get there a whole lot faster. Nice. It seems like this makes a lot more sense to me now. Like you know initially my thought was like when you were telling me how much you're taking and obviously I kind of said it too. I felt like it was a little high. It was a little much. I was like, I got to hit your goal, man. You got But now now I see where you're coming from where you're like you're trying to you're trying to push hard for these and it is kind of, you know, what's nice to have those kind of um those those uh goals to set, you know what I mean? Yeah. Little micro goals, little Yeah. I remember you talking about that years ago on Bodybuilding Nerds that you were going to get in shape by I think it was the Arnold Classic or or No, no, it was the Geared Up Gathering. You were planning on flying out to that. Yeah. Yeah. And you you really dieted and you worked with Shelby and you got into good shape. And I remember Adam commenting. You remember Adam McVey was like, "Oh yeah, why would you want to diet down going to an event where you're like keeping your clothes on? You're not you're only going to look smaller, you know?" But yeah, I I think I I get it in like retirement from competitive bodybuilding. It makes sense cuz you get a chance to It gives you a reason. You know what I mean? You know, if somebody says like, "Oh, we're going on vacation and I want to be in good shape for that." It's not that they It's not that they're like their end goal is that I'm doing everything in the world so that I can have abs on vacation and be the best guy by the pool. More so, it's like gives you the motivation to set that date, right? Yeah. Yeah. And you want to feel your best, you want to look your best, you know? Yeah. It's just the way it is. Yeah. Goal goal setting. Goal setting is very good. Very good for your self-confidence, you was very good for, you know, achieving those goals is what builds the best kind of self-confidence in yourself, you know. Yeah. And a goal like that, it's short term. So, it's not like, okay, this is for the rest of your life or until you get to your condition. It's like, no, it's you've got 3 weeks. You know what I mean? And then after that, it'll be something else. Yeah. It's not high commitment either. You know what I mean? It's not like I got I got to step on stage in eight weeks or whatever. You know, it's very different. Yeah. Comes with a lot more stress and a lot more science and [\h__\h] But uh yeah, this is this is good. This will this will be good. But once I get past that, I think I'm gonna go for another eight weeks or so. It's summer time anyways. Why not? What the hell, you know? Yeah, it'll be good. As long as my as long as my training isn't being affected and like my weights don't like the the reps are going to go down a little bit. I know that just body weight wise, that's just what happens with me. But as long as the strength doesn't plummet too bad, I I'll just keep going, man. I don't see why not. Yeah, you know. Yeah. I say go for it, man. I'm I'm going to keep dieting, too. I I don't think I'm going to drop too much more on the scale than about 190 now. I think that I'm stuck around here. I mean, I think I'd have to push pretty damn hard, like remove carbs again in order to drop down harder, but I am recmping now and I am getting in better shape. So, yeah, that's the best. You're I mean, you're close. You're probably right there in the magic pocket then. You know what I mean? Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Once you once you hit that weight where you're just like you really got to dig to go way past it or or you could add a couple of cheeseburgers and stay the same weight, you know what I mean? And then you look better, too. That's the magic that's the magic pocket, you know? Yeah. Yeah. And then the weights go up, too, and your body starts recmping. It's a It's a great place to be. So, I'll be I'll end up being about 190 also by the time we we get these pictures done. Yeah. Yeah. I'm gonna I'm gonna do a full like Thursday, Wednesday, Thursday carb up, Saturday, Friday, Saturday dry out, you know, and then Sunday pictures. Yeah, I'm doing it. Fun, man. It'll I'm trying to say your face. It does look a little It definitely Your face is a little Yeah, a little bit. A little bit. Not quite there yet, but I bet you in another another I give you 10 days from what I'm seeing right now because it is leaner than it was. 10 more days. That's what I give you. All right. Going to get those suck the suck. Got to be picture ready. Yeah. Yeah. Got to have more cheekbones sticking out. Exactly. Yeah. So, all right, man. You know, we don't have any shout outs uh from the show. What? People didn't ask for shoutouts this week. I just don't [\h__\h] care, I guess. Well, I tell you what, though. If you do want a shout out, put a uh we'll put a link in the description and you guys could just uh if you want a shout out on the show, just just comment just comment comment down below. comment, like, subscribe, share, all that stuff. All that stuff. But definitely do comment. Oh, and also listener questions. If you have any listener questions for the show, just let us know in the comments below. We'll happy to happy to hit those for the next show. Yeah. Yeah. And speaking of which, we have a couple of questions here. We do, don't we? We do. We do. Yeah. Do you have one on your end over there? I do. I do. One of the one of the listeners from the last show was talking about I I must have been talking about, you know, getting along with GH and I haven't found the right rhythm and it's been many years since I've tried to figure out the right rhythm for myself. Yeah. And he he he he chimed in on the comment section. I can't remember who his listeners. I apologize who you are, but um he was saying that he has similar problems as I do. Oh yeah. Yeah. In regards to like you know getting um you know gyne gynecomastia type symptoms or whatever it is. um it's just he does doesn't seem to get along with it. Uh and I answered him on the thread and I said, "You know what I've been doing is just like I kind of just go 8 to 10 weeks as far as I can take it and once those symptoms start to get too bad, I just pull it right back out, take another 8 to 10 weeks off or more and then go back on. It's really a cycling thing. I got to cycle the HGH altogether." Yeah. But what I found is that um I think I've just given up altogether. Oh yeah. Yeah. You know what? It's not going to be the end of the world if you give up on GH. You know what I mean? No. I mean, listen, some people are cut out for it. Some people are really cut out for it. And just some people are not cut out for it at all. You know, it's just it is what it is. And I've been in this game a long time and tried a lot of different stuff, a lot of different protocols. And in the end, you got to figure out what works for you, what doesn't work for you. And as bad as I want GH to work for me, it just comes with too much baggage, you know? Just the pumps are great. The anti-aging stuff is great. You know, this the nice skin, that's great. The pumps, the the the mass and the strength that I can put on with GH is unmatched. There's no anabolic for me that matches the strength output that I can get from GH. And that has everything to do with the water retention. I'm sure. Oh, for sure. I mean, there's nothing that puts water retention on me. maybe dbol, but I'd imagine between dbol and GH, if I took like 10 milligrams of dbol, two IUs of GH, give me four hours. I will show you 10 pounds on the scale and I'll throw the 150s around for you. You know, pretty pretty quick, you know. It's just that it's that quick. It's just it's just that anabolic for me. But I don't want to put up with all the the gyno symptoms and all the other symptoms and and the high blood sugars, the high blood sugars and the high blood pressure for me. So, you know, between the blood sugar thing, that's the reason I'm not running it is like I I I could, but I'm like, I like the idea of keeping my blood sugar under really good control right now. You know, I I think it's smart. No matter what, no matter where you are in your in your prep or in your in your cut, in your offseason, you have to keep that under control. Oh, yeah. You know, they say blood pressure is a silent killer, but [\h__\h] blood glucose is a silent killer, too, you know. Yeah. Yeah. So, you just got to watch it. So, so my my my guess my short answer for him is just that if you can't find something that works for you, then just forget it and move on to something else. You know, I hate to I hate to be the bearer of bad news or whatever, but if it's not going to work, it's just not going to work. And there's no meds you can take. There's no remedex you can take. There's no cber you can take. It's just nothing seems to work for it. I think it has something to do with I've been doing a lot of reading on it. um growth hormone the sematotrope in the molecule the amino acid chain is very similar to prolactin prolactin I guess yeah so the GH itself might not raise prolactin so it won't show up on on your your bloods you know when you take your blood values it'll be like a normal prolactin but that GH hormone is acting like prolactin it's irritating the same receptor huh exactly so I think I think that's really what's happening and I could see that that's the only I could make sense of it too you based on what everyone else is saying, what research says. Um, that's all I can think of because no aridex, no aromomasin, no electro, no cable, no nothing helps it, you know. Yeah, it's a really rare response, but yeah, it is rare. I will say that for the most part, I find that like people take GH and they get like a it's a little something, you know what I mean? It's not for most people, it's not huge. I have worked with people who just like they have like a super ability to to just like shuttle fluid to the right storage. You know what I mean? Yeah. I've seen it. I got a couple of couple of friends in the gym same way. I'm just like I don't know how you guys [\h__\h] [\h__\h] you guys. And it's like go for it then for you. It's a game changer, you know? That's a great response. That's a response you could hope for. And then I've seen people that like blow up on fluid, but it's just everywhere, you know, like uh Jussi Suma had gotten uh some Pharma GH and we had been using what we knew was like decent generics at a low dose and then he got this Pharma stuff and it just like bloated him out of control. Like all of a sudden I was like, "Dude, I can't even tell if you're dieting, if we're losing fat or gaining it or gaining muscle." Like I don't even know what's happening anymore because there's no detail anywhere. we couldn't diet with it in and then we had to like dude I was like okay let's add in a half a unit per week and see what we get out of that and then he got like fullness out of it and we were able to work our way up a little bit but like I'm talking basically far as bodybuilding goes it was like micro doing that that stuff you know where sometimes it's just it's not going to be a huge benefit I think you nailed it man that like if it's you're not working well with you then maybe it's not worth it to begin with you know Yeah. Yeah. And that per that perked my attention up to the MK-677 again because Oh, yeah. You know, we're just I was literally just watching Muscle Minds when we got online to start recording. All right. And and the new one, you know, Scott Scott's talking about uh MK-677 and I wrote that off. I wrote that off a long time ago. You know what I mean? Oh, yeah. But I wouldn't mind I wouldn't mind kickstarting a little bit of that. I mean, um at a very low dose, like five milligrams, see how it goes. cuz I will super respond to a very low dose of growth hormone. Yeah, very low dose micro doing it. I will I will respond heavily. But um and I have a feeling that same thing would happen with MK67. In fact, I know for sure that back in the day, this is back when we first started recording, you know. Yeah. It was It came in 25 milligram tablets or capsules. Is that what it was? I think it was. Or the liquid. We'd get the liquid, too. Or the liquid. Yeah. But it was always like 25 milligrams. Yep. And it it was a lot. like it put on growth hormone water on you like debol fast. Yeah. But if you get like five milligrams, you know, and have that kind of those kind of smatropen numbers in your blood and IGF-1 levels, well, it might not be a bad thing. And and maybe that won't directly irritate the gynecomastia issues either, you know. Yeah, maybe. It was interesting. So that research at least and you know who knows if what the truth really is. That was only the study Scott was looking at and found it showed that people who were obese had a better response than people who were um healthy non-GH deficient. People who were healthy non-GH deficient stood the least to gain from MK-677 which is going to be like the majority of our listeners. You know what I mean? Yeah. Um, elderly people also showed a better response than a healthy non-deficient GH. And then also too, they were showing like some people would get results in the start and then a week later it was like back down, you know? So there might be like a benefit to pulsing it, which is something we never really would have thought of, you know, back in 2015 or whatever when we used it before. I do like the sleep you can get from it. I wonder. So, listening to that podcast, one of the things I thought of was like, well, what if you only do it a couple times a week, like you have a really hard leg day and then you take it that night, you know, you have a really hard back day and you take it that night. Would there be any benefit to getting that additional sleep, getting, you know, some additional fluid, maybe would there be better recovery from those extra high bursts of GH? I don't know, you know. Yeah. Yeah. No, that's something to think about. I I would I I would say so, especially guys our age, you know. Yeah. Yeah. You know, although from what I've heard people say, uh uh MK is always notorious to be even worse on blood sugar than growth hormone. Yeah. See, that's what I got to worry about, too. [\h__\h] I hate that. I don't want that. It's the one thing I don't want. I don't need it. So much so much negative stuff happens with elevated blood sugars. You start getting fatter, you know, just out of nowhere, insulin resistant. You don't and you don't even really know what's happening unless you're testing that [\h__\h] you know? Right. Yeah. Yeah. So, got to be careful. Blood sugars keep under control. I got another one over here. Yeah, we got another one. All right. So, it was kind of a question and uh he kind of answered it himself, but I thought we could talk about it. He says, "Uh, I feel like there's so many guys with legging arms now, and I think it's because they're doing push pull legs or some other split that isn't arm focused. Why did all the guys in the 70s have huge arms and chests? Because they prioritized them. Yeah, I would say so. What do you say? Yeah, they did have huge chests, didn't they? Yeah. Like Arnold looked like he was, if you really break his physique apart, I feel like it was all pec. You know what I mean? Peck and arms, you know, pecs and biceps. All those guys had huge pecs and biceps. If you look back in the 70s, man, not everybody had these cannonball delts like you have today. Ah. And they didn't I I don't know if they didn't directly train him or they just bar like they trained him as an afterthought or whatever, but or maybe the androgen load wasn't as high. I don't know. But uh they none of them had these ridiculous huge shoulders like the guys in the '9s or even today have, you know. Yeah. Um but then again, the pec development isn't the same these days as it was back then either. Yeah. Yeah. Or or the bicep development even, you know, like these days it seems like you really got to be genetically gifted to have really good arms these days. It seems like Yeah. I don't know. Are people are people like as a like as a whole do we have more people with like bad arms? I don't know, man. I don't know either. It's just when you when you look at most bodybuilders that are comp that are competitive, you only remember the select few who do have really good arms. Yeah. Yeah. You know what I mean? Like off the top of your head, you know, Nick Walker, Michael Kiso, um, who else? You know, it's like you only you only have a handful of guys where you're like, "Oh, those are mind-blowing arms." Priest. Lee Priest, you know, there all, you know, but back then I would say like 50% of them had great arms. Yeah. Is, you know, like a prioritizing thing back then. Yeah, I guess you could be right on that. I never had like really good arms. I never had good shape for arms, but they would look acceptable because they would get thick and just big enough. You know what I mean? They were big enough and they flowed well with the rest of your physique. Yeah. Yeah. So, they always still worked, but they were never I was never the guy where you're like, "Oh my god, look at that. Look at those arms." You know? And arms are such a cool thing to have, too. You know what I mean? Everybody wants good arms. Well, that's bodybuilding was based around having good biceps. Hey, I remember one like little breakthrough moment I had when it came to arms because like I said, arms were never a strong thing for me. You have great arms, by the way. Like you have great arms. You used to they're okay. No, they're still good. You have great arms now. You have you have great arms. Like V is a guy who like his arms look good in a t-shirt. You know what I mean? And uh I remember you saying you were like, "Yeah, you know, one of the keys, I don't train them hard." And I've heard other people with good arms say, you know, I don't go real heavy. And V says, "Oh, I don't go really heavy." And I'm thinking to myself, you know, none of these guys don't, you know, they none of them go real heavy, so I'm don't really go that heavy either. And then I look at V and for the audio listeners, I'm putting my hands up in air quotes. V doesn't go really heavy. His not real heavy was still heavier than I was curling. So I do think there is an element of being able to like grow muscle by, you know, getting strong, too. You know, even arms, you know, like you were curling the 55s or so. I remember one time and you really nice control with that and I was like, "Oh, I've been doing like the the 40s, you know." Ah, yeah. I Yeah, it's um shoot I I felt like there was a point definitely when I was training them really hard, training arms really hard, and they started to shrink up on me, I noticed. Oh, you know? Yeah. So, that's when I made the connection like, "Oh, maybe I got to pull pull back a whole bunch." But then there was also a point where I started not training them at all and just relied on like press day to do like, you know, stimulate triceps or or back day would stimulate biceps enough and I just wouldn't train arms anymore. Yeah. And they they I wouldn't say that they got smaller, but they they didn't have the same pop, you know, the same roundness, the same the same look as as if I were to train them just once a week, you know. Yeah. Um, and and even then not that hard. Like even now I I don't go over like, you know, six or eight reps for biceps stuff. I'll go higher reps for triceps, but for bicep stuff, I I keep it really low rep still. Okay. Yeah. Huh. I found if I go too hard on arms, I start getting tennis elbow, you know? I'm like, you know what, beach? I'm going to start growing my arms. I'll train them three times a week and then I can't lift anything anymore, you know? Yeah. I get, man, I get that elbow. My elbows are so so I don't know if they're osteoarthritis or both or what, but it's it's uh they're Yeah, they I can't do a lockout on anything. Oh, okay. You know what I mean? That's like instant torture really. I got to rack the weight right away. Same. And for triceps, same way. Like I can only go push down so far I can't get like a very tight full contraction. I remember PJ Braun years ago said that if you can't get a lock out full contraction on like rope push downs or any push downs he was like you'll never grow your triceps and anytime I train triceps now that's all I ever I hear those [\h__\h] words every time I'm like god damn it every rep I can't get that full contraction but and I have noticed that they have receded a little bit but I'm also you know 46 [\h__\h] years old things happen you now so um excuse me you know when my arms were the best remember we went through a phase days in our back training where we were working deadlifts in like every week. There was a lot of deadlifts and I hadn't never been a real strong deadlifter, but I kept up and I'd deadlift too. Sure. And it was at the end of that offseason that my my my traps and my biceps were the strongest they had ever been because of deadlifts. There's no question. Probably the thickest the thickest they'd ever been, too. That's what I'm saying. Yeah, that's what I meant. Like visually strongest, you know. Yeah. Gotcha. Yeah. They Yeah, that there's something to it, man. just gripping and ripping that bar, you know, it gives a nice thick thickness to every body part. Yeah. You know, it's not the same by doing concentration curls. It's a different different thickness to the muscle belly. It's really cool. Yeah. Yeah. Hey, I had one one more thing I wanted to mention. Uh and and this is kind of could I call it even a supplement review? I don't know. We'll call it a supplement. It's not really, but we'll call it supplement review. All right. Supplement review time again. So uh it's just this just a random thought. I had this uh I okay so week or so back uh a GH source had mentioned that uh they were not able to get GH right now. They're closing down. They should be good in two weeks. But it has to do with the tariffs in China. And and I thought so this is all underground. You know what I mean? how are the tariffs affecting an underground product that's getting, you know, shipped in the black market anyway. So, I'm not sure how that works, but I uh I asked around and I spoke to a source about this and uh this source I saw made a video about. So, here's the thing that we we spoke about how like Primo is uh off the market right now. Have you heard about that? Yeah, I've heard about that. Yeah. Yeah. So, a lot of places still carrying it, but I can't I it hasn't really hit yet. I guess but but there are places that don't have it. You know, there are places that don't have it and master now is the next one where there's a kind of like a little bit of a shortage and and I wonder if it's not more people are buying mast because the primo isn't available to them. I don't know. Um I saw this source uh made a post saying in case you weren't aware you know companies are closing their doors because of you know tariffs and these things are affecting the market and there is no primo available on the market now and Masteron is limitedly available but thankfully we foraw this happening so we stocked up on our supply and if you act now you can still get some amazing foresight, huh? Yeah. Yeah. So, I saw that little marketing ploy uh unfold, you know? I I thought and I wondered, man, how much of this stuff sometimes is marketing? You know what I mean? Yeah. Take advantage. So, that was my supplement review. Nothing special. Gotcha. All right. Maybe a supplement call out. Uh yeah. Well, you know what? They can get rid of the Primo alltogether. I [\h__\h] hate Primo. Oh, yeah. I hate it. So, we had people in the comments agree that it was very painful. Yeah. I don't I just don't understand the point of it. I mean, I understand everyone's different and you can, you know, there's a lot of people that don't get any pain at all, which is just mind-boggling to me. Those are the same people that you can they can do, you know, test probe every day and no nope no problems at all. You know, it's an amazing amazing thing. But man, when you take one of those primo shots, I don't know how anyone can train that week, you know? I don't know how how you supposed to do anything, you know? deadlift, you can't squat, you can't leg press, you know, depends where you put it, I suppose, but still it's like I can't train this side of my body. I had a primo shot over here. Yeah. And imagine like doing seven of those a week, you know, or 700 milligrams, you know. Where's he where do you put it all? It's not It's ridiculous. So, you know what? China can have it. Keep it. Keep the primo. Yeah. China, you can keep it. Just you guys do it. We're going to see some top level bodybuilders coming out of China now. Yeah. Yeah. Uh All right, man. What do you say we take a quick commercial break and then when we get back we've got some cool bodybuilding nerdy stuff to go over. Let's do it. Corrido isn't finished until he lifts 1 ounce of the 47 vitamins, minerals, enzymes, carbohydrates, and amino acids that help make his workouts work. Dynamic Muscle Builder. Get $10 in coupons on a free magazine with dynamic muscle builder from Weer, America's total fitness company. They said no one could win eight straight Olympians. And I said, "Watch me. I train harder, ate smarter, and use Twin Lab supplements. Here's the latest from the greatest. Mass Fuel from Twin Lab. I help develop Mass Fuel, so you know it's totally awesome. Get my Mass Fuel drinks and bars. all my complete mass fuel kits and show the world what you can do. And we are back from commercial break and we got some cool stuff to talk about. We're gonna talk about some of the guys doing the Pittsburgh Pro in a couple of weeks here because they are looking phenomenal and this show is going to be just crazy. Like Olympia level crazy, right? Uh but first, we have a couple of other videos. You know, we're nerds. We like to watch things that make us laugh and bodybuilding related stuff. And uh we've got a video of Lee Priest talking about Peak Week stuff. And uh I thought that was pretty appropriate and something that both Scott and I could relate to. And uh probably our viewers would love to watch too. I mean, who doesn't love Lee Priest? Come on. So uh let's let's go ahead and roll that video here. You got know this. I can't think straight. I don't even know how I got to the gym driver here. I can't remember. Why go low on carbs, you [\h__\h] idiots? People still do it. Bodybuilders. the gurus. Peak week. Dumbest thing ever. And I'll say that till the day I die. Why do peak week? How many times do we see it on Instagram, Facebook? Big week has put up their photos a week or two out looking fantastic. I mean, look at that. They're full. might have a little bit of water which if you use sparingly some guys and girls go crazy if the contest is sat later in his career too another whole di pulling water out of muscle muscle's what 70% water pull it all out they get flat they try and carb up doesn't work that's why I've always said if you're looking good and you're full you're hard you're vascular you're like a couple 4% away from getting on stage. All you got to do is pump up, tan up, and if you need a diuretic, need it. I mean, like, if you really think you need it, maybe a quarter or a half the day or two before, then see how you look the day before. If you need a little bit more, only a quarter. Cuz you got to remember, you might have a film of water, a tiny bit, but when you pump up, that water's going to go into the muscle. And even if you were a little bit flat sometimes, but you're harder, you're gonna look bigger on stage. Yeah. Too many guys and their gurus think, I've been dieting 15 weeks. Say you're doing a 16week diet, 15 weeks, eating the same food, training, cardio, taking drugs. So your body becomes this fine-tuned machine. Eat at this time, this food. Take this drugs at this time. Do your cardio at this time. For 15 weeks, you've been doing the same thing. But then the last week, I got an idea. Let's stop training. Let's stop cardio. Let's add some different drugs in and add a lot more food in. We'll see how that goes. Just see how it goes. That's A-50/50 hit and miss. We've seen a hundred times. Yes. That's why if you're full and you're hard, I'll say it again, and you're almost stage ready. Don't do it. Why? When? Why do you got to get it in your head that we need a peak week? You just can't rely on how good you look already and go, you know what, I look good. I'm not going to touch a thing. I'm gonna go into the show like this. Yeah. I never went lower than 250 grams of carbs. People go, I'm going to go low and then jump back up high. Why not just stay high and stay full? If you got no problem losing weight and you're doing the cardio and [\h__\h] you don't need to lower your carbs down. Your workouts are going to be better. You're still going to be strong. Your muscles will be full. All these people go, "I'm on, oh, 50 grams of carbs, zero carbs. I got no energy. You got no this. I can't think straight. I don't even know how I got to the gym driving here. I can't remember. Why go low on carbs? You [\h__\h] idiots. You're taking gear. You're doing cardio. You're doing everything else to burn body fat. You're eating clean. Unless you got some sort of problem where you really can't lose weight. Why do it to yourselves? I never did. That's why I never had to carb up. I did carbing up once and it was hit and miss. I looked okay, but I look way better when I just stayed on the same diet. My diet from week one to week 16 is the same. I only change, like I said, the last week slowly cut my water out. Not completely. The last day or two before a show, I'm still having a liter or a little bit more. Yeah. Just sipping on it. And then I pump up and tan up. I don't go, "Wait a minute. I'm going to deplete on this and then the next three days eat up." Some people do salt. They add lots of salt to me and do like there are so many weird things, hocus pocus I call it, that people try and do the last week. Yeah. Get lyhead people. You don't need that. That's why, like I said, we see so many people looking fantastic. Two weeks out, we see their photos, they walk on stage and we all sit there like, "What happened?" Yeah. You know what happened? You overthink it. You try and do too much. Just as you say, trust in the process. That's pretty cool. Good a week or two out. Trust in that. Don't do your hocus pocus [\h__\h] because I said it's 50/50. A lot of times it goes more wrong than right. So when you get ready for a show, train hard, diet hard, cardio hard, take your supplements, and do whatever. And that last week, if you're looking good, as they say, if it ain't broke, don't try and fix it. So like I say, train smart, train hard, don't overthink it. Forget peak weeks. Every week, do the same thing. And I even train up until the day before. If the show is Saturday, s Friday, I still go to the gym and just do a light thing because like I said, my body's used to it and I can't sit still anyway. I'm not just going to lay around a hotel room. I just go really move the blood around. So mentally, I'm still doing stuff. That's why when I'm competing, I'll be at expo. I don't want to sit in my room overthinking [\h__\h] So people, this is your worst enemy when you're getting ready for a show. Control that like that. I like that, man. Yeah, I like that. It's good. It's good advice. I thought so, too. Like Yeah. you know, he comes off as Lee Priest, but everything he says is true. I would I agree with all of it. If as long as all things, you know, not all people are the same. You know, all bodies are a little bit different. Some people might need a little tweaking here and there, but for the most part, if you are looking that really good all the way through, then don't you change nothing. What are you changing for? You know what I didn't even realize we were doing? I went live to the live channel. We are live right now. Get out of here. Swear to God. Yeah. I usually do go live to the live channel. I just didn't turn I did initially and then it got turned back on or something. So, I just looked and I was like, we got a bunch of comments. What the hell? Are we live? Like, have we been live this whole time? We've been live this whole time. Oh my god. Here I thought it was just us here. Here I I I I part of me feels embarrassed, but at the same time, I'm like, but we, you know, we're doing something we would have done anyway, right? Exactly. We do a little bit editing here, a little bit editing there. put out a nice product. But hey, we're live, so [\h__\h] it. We'll keep going. We don't know if he's still with us, but George UK is with us. And there's another Tanya Miller and Trent. Yeah, we got a bunch of people. All right. Couple of couple of bodybuilding nerds uh cast members. That's great. Yeah, that's fantastic, man. Anyway, uh yeah, so I like that. That said, with Lee Priest, he's got a good point on everything he says, right? He really does. Yeah, it's true. It's almost like he's he's so over oversimplifies it. But I feel like for Lee Priest, it probably was all pretty easy. Do you know what I mean? Like that's the thing. Like when you're a genetic mutant like he is, you just go in the gym and you li like his whole concept is like you just go in the gym and you lift weights and you get so [\h__\h] hot about it. And then you just lose some fat and you you know, you you win the entire, you know, country's show and all that. You know, you become a pro three times basically, but they won't give you cards again. You win every show. You do. So what? Yeah. Exactly. You dumb you dumb [\h__\h] Exactly. There is that part of of Lee, you know. Yeah. Yeah. But but he's right. I like I expect I you know what I really like the part the part about what he was like, you know, if you're training every day and you're used to training every day, don't stop training. You know, I think I think metabolically that makes a thousand% sense, too. you know, you slow things way too down. You you metabolically slow the nutrition down, your absorption down, all these things, all those processes that you're you've been on key with for 16 weeks in a row, you know, you take that away just for what? Potentially polishing a turd, you know, before. Yeah. It's, you know, go work out. Go train. You don't got to train hard. Nobody says you got to train hard, but you should do something. There's the stress, too, I think, that messes people up. So, not everybody, you know what I mean? But like that that last week, even if you don't change anything, I've seen people that like they get real ky and things just like they start holding more water and they aren't digesting things the same and then they they kind of get locked up on themselves. You know what I mean? And the key too is like be relaxed. And I think that's a benefit too to doing more shows. Like a lot of guys do more shows now. You know, years ago we used to just do one and everything depended on that one hour of that one day. But now guys are like, "Oh, and then after this I'm going to do another one in 3 weeks and then I'm going to do nationals and then after that there's another show, you know." Yeah. Yeah. I mean, you learn so much. Why not go for it? You're already in shape. What the hell? Yeah. Hey, you got a fan, by the way. Hey, Trent. He says, "Uh, hi Trent. The guy in the red beanie is so hot." Get out of here. That's what he says. He says, "Wow, that smile is so cute." And then he adds, "And great muscles, too." Hey, I like him. Did we just become best friends, Trent? And he has one more comment a little while later. He said, uh, his laugh is so hot and that physique is insane. Insane. I'm sure that he could get any guy you wanted. So, there's that. Wow. Tren's sweetheart. And like I said, we're best friends now. So, I appreciate Are you blushing right now? I might be. I can't tell. It might be sunburned. I can't tell if it's the beanie or the, you know, I'm not used to hearing that sort of thing about myself. Except from your wife, right? Yeah, except for my wife, but and most of the time she doesn't mean it. She's just trying to get in my pants. Oh. All right. I know we had a bunch of other stuff. Um, what else do we have? What do we want to go to next here? Do you want to troll a little bit? Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I can't get I can't get that video of Terren Ruffin out of my hat. Oh, yeah, man. Let me go back to Instagram here. I mean, he's embodies everything about what classic physique is. And um I honestly don't even know who else is competing against him. I think um Yosema Yosema Beast I think from Instagram. That's all I know is Instagram handle and that's it. God, look at that. Right. Whoops. Jesus, dude. Yeah, look at that. Hold on. I think I froze it up. I froze everything up here when I zoomed it in. It's a good shot to freeze on. Look at Look at the side quad. Yeah, dude. Look at the glutes are in. Yeah. Look at that little back, man. I know what Manion was saying. He was like he's a little little um uh slight in the hamstring. And I didn't know what he was talking about, but you can kind of see it a little bit from the rear only, but not from the sides and stuff. Look at the quads and the Yeah. Okay. I can see that. Which is crazy because I never think of Terren as being slight in the legs. Yeah. By comparison, by comparison to those quads, which you can see the quads from the front, you know, right? Yeah. You know what? I think that's his only knock then. Yeah, I really do. His only flaw. And it's not like got, you know, classic physique. And the only classic guy who had massive hamstrings was goddamn Tom Plattz, you know. So, yeah. Mike Mike's got some Oh, well, yeah. I'm talking about back in the 70s. Oh, I see. I see. The real classics. The real classic guys. So I always compare to the I always compare these guys to the guys back in the 70s and the early 80s60s. Yeah. You know. Yeah, that makes sense. But that might not be the criteria that they're looking for, right? Because Yeah. Mike Somerfield has a awesome lower body altogether. Nice, man. I really I just can't I can't see anyone taking him out out of this show. I really like Terrence's physique, man. I've been rooting for him for so many years now. And I I love seeing what he's become and I know that he's kind of like he's he's out for he's out to prove something to himself this year, you know. Yeah, man. Let me tell you, we were at the Arnold Classic together. We walked around that entire expo and we seen enormous physiques, man. Huge, huge, impressive human beings over and over and over again. Yeah. And the one guy that impressed me the most was seeing Terren Ruffin in a tight black t-shirt. That was that was the most impressive thing I saw at that show, you know, and he was not the biggest, but man, the way the muscle laid on his frame and you could see his abs through his shirt and I was just like, geez, this is this is the guy. This is the guy. Great. Wow. I mean, those hamstrings don't look lacking from this angle. They don't. Not you know what I mean. When he's doing hamstring curls. No, not at all. Look at that. Oh, they're like Dorian. Yeah, dude. Those are freaking nuts, man. They're steel cord. Steel cord strips. Yeah, they don't You know what? That lighting that he was posing was really dark, too. So, yeah, it wasn't That's not Wasn't really fair. Yeah. Yeah, those are freaking wild, man. Here's some more leg training here. I Does he ever squat? I don't know that he ever squats. I I don't know, honestly. I mainly see him training upper body. I like that depth by the way on this leg press. Um I, you know, I've been trying to encourage more of my clients. I feel like when you can get depth like this, uh and you you get those legs are apart a little bit more. You're going kind of down around the rib cage versus getting stopped on the rib cage and cutting yourself short. This is a full leg movement. This isn't like, oh, I'm targeting quads. I'm targeting This is everything, man. This is every part of the leg. The front, the back, the inner, and the outer. You You got to go all the way down, man. Just like in the squat. You've got to get full range of motion. You've got to put your knees up at your head. You know, that's what he's Look where his knees are. Yeah. You see that block? See that block he's got underneath his low back there? I do. Could that be from He's a shorter guy. Could be. Could be. Or or or it just help or it just helps him to keep his back from rounding out too much. I wonder. Yeah. I don't know. Yeah, but that's the proper range of motion. If you're going to leg press, you know, forget about your safety bars or whatever. Get full range of motion or they get that low and then their butt rolls up off the pad. And I think that that's the limiting factors and that has more to do with flexibility, you know. Sure. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. If you got you got to keep your back flat against the board, that's for sure. I like that. It looks like a monster right here, man. Look at that. He's looking full in that shot. Yeah. Yeah, that's about what he looked like at the Arnold. Front double. Do a front double, Terrence. Come on. You know, when he first started competing, I would knock we would knock him on his arms, you know, but his nothing nothing is out of balance now. He's got great arms alto together. Nothing out of balance, I think. Even his hamstrings that look great. I could see more hams now that you mention it, just simply because his quads are so ridiculous. But hey, listen. You know what one of the problems is going to be is that if you do develop more hamstrings, he's already risked looking bottom heavy or he's he's struggled with being bottom heavy all his career. If you add anything more, it's only going to, you know, perpetuate that. You know what I'm saying? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's great, man. All right, let's go to um Oh, one more. One more here. Okay, there we go. Yeah, that's great. That's just freaking incredible, dude. Look, he's got Ronnie glutes. Remember how Ronny's glutes they inserted halfway down his leg? Yeah, I see that, man. Terren has that same thing going on. Yeah, he does, man. It's pretty awesome. The separation in the front, too. Like all that separation between the pecs, shoulders, biceps, lats is really good, man. Yeah. And his waistline is just non-existent, especially in these back shots. Jeez. Yeah. That is literal what you call wasp waste, right? The wasp waist. Yeah. Yeah. Non-existent. Like barely connected. I don't I'm I'm kind of I don't know, man. I because I'm trying to give that a fair shake. If Tyler said his hands were weak or, you know, lacking, I I I don't know if it's that his I think we're splitting hairs to be honest with you when we say if we say Well, also Tyler was comparing him to, you know, Somerfeld. Ah, and that's it's not exactly a fair comparison. Um, but I guess the two might be standing toe to toe at the Olympia, so it might be fair fair comparison after all, you know. So, something to think about. Yeah. Where else are we going to go? Where you want to go next? You know what? Let's go to the open, man. What do you say? Um, all right. Who am I going to look for here? Go to Go to Creo. I want I just want to see what Creo looks like. I seen some updates and I was just like, "Wow, I hope Scott sees these." All right. I have not. Look at that. Look at the Look at the most muscular. Oh my god. Jeez, nobody has nobody has conditioning like that right now. Nobody. That's incredible, man. Not Nick Walker, not Derek, not nobody. I mean, and we're still two weeks out, you know? Yeah. George Farah is doing a great job with him, by the way. Yeah. That's like old school conditioning right there. You know what I mean? Yeah. Heck yeah. And he's not flat. I mean, he might be flat for CSO at this point, but he's not flat looking at all. You know what cracks me up, man is I I remember my shoulder having this kind of vascularity and I remember trying to do a lateral shot, lateral delt shot, and my delt was just covered in all these veins. I was like, "Holy shit." Normally when I'm fat, I don't see all of these. Now I got to dodge them, you know? Yeah. You're probably just like, "Ah, no wonder I'm always bleeding over here." Exactly, man. Exactly. Yeah. He's incredible looking, man. And just his shape, too. Gez, look at this. most muscular wild. He's got some shots that are going to be really hard to beat. I I personally I think he'll crack top three. That's just my call. Yeah. I mean, there's nobody going to be conditioned like him. And he's a monster. He's like two 280, you know? He's not small. This is three weeks ago. So, yeah. Yeah. He's come a long way in three weeks, man. Yeah. Like, dude, I feel like they really turned it up in three weeks. Like, you don't have the smallest waist, but it's not it's not huge. Oh, excuse me. That was 1 month after surgery uh versus April. Oh, so that was a long while ago then. This Yeah. versus this. Yeah. Yeah. That's massive, man. Huge change. And you can't tell really what shoulder issue. Look at the density in those pecs from here to here. Yeah. Yeah. Well, he could train again, you know. Yeah. Right. Right. He could do some pressing now. Yeah. He's incredible looking, man. He's just a just a crazy sight to behold, you know? He's one of those guys you were going to root for because he's just he just has all that bodybuilding aura about him. Yeah. And that throwback look from like the 90s. I think I mentioned this before. He just he's so freaky. I feel like if we were to ask AI to like make the a freaky unrealistic bodybuilder, you know, they bring up him like something that couldn't exist in the real world. Yep. Here you go. It's Mike Mozo. This is what you're asking for. What is Nabia? I see a lot of guys overseas. I don't know man. I was wondering the same thing. I thought you might know. No, I I've been I've been curious. I don't know if it's a clothing brand or if it's a um they make equipment out there or something or what. Yeah, I don't know. It looks cool, doesn't it? Like it does. You know something we don't know. I don't know. I'm a little jealous cuz a lot of their tank tops are pretty cool looking too. And they say that. Nibia. Nibia. Maybe one of our live listeners knows what Nabe is. Yeah. Or or people in the, you know, comments on YouTube in general. Maybe tell you guys tell us. They they will know. You know what I'm saying? Yeah. Very nice. Let me see what else he's got in here. Oh, look at that. That's pretty old school contraption right there. Yeah, it looks like a Smith. I think it is. Man, where's the weights go? Up top like that or Oh, wow. You're really I don't know. I'm confused. Huh. This is definitely a European machine. You know what I You know what I mean? Yeah. It looks It looks Western block for sure. Yeah. Yeah. Or Oh, yeah. Dude, look at that. Dude, it is. I want to try this. I like that. No, we put weights on top, not the side. Put it on top. It's heavier. It's space saving, you know, for uh Eastern gyms that don't have a lot of space, you know. Yeah. Yeah. There's no ends on the bar. Look at that. Right. That is so weird. Really cool though. I would love to try one of those. But why do we load like the only reason we load the outside Smith bars, you know, is because, you know, on the ends is because that's what we're used to with the traditional uh bar, right? In fact, this makes way more sense. And I guarantee it. I I I bet it's heavier. I mean, the entire bar contraption with the weight thing on it has got to be 5050 lbs or more on its own. Yeah. It's like, you know, like the sled and when you're doing leg presses, that thing on its own is decently heavy. Yeah. They got some cool equipment out there in the western block. Eastern. Eastern. Eastern block. Eastern block. Yes. Yeah. I like that. Multicolored. They have good AKs out there too in the Eastern block. They do. Yeah, they do. Bulgaria and Romania. They make the best uh best AK stuff out there. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. I've got a CZP9 from from the Czech Republic. Huh. Yeah. Yeah. Eastern block. It's one of my favorites. It's a double action CZ is a great brand. I love that thing, man. I haven't shot it in a while, but I will definitely be shooting it now. I have the CZ Scorpion. Yes, we should go shoot our CZs for Creo. He might not care at all and has nothing to do, you know, with uh We were like, it's February or the world. We We support you and your business is out there. Yeah. Now, he's not known for having like the best back, but his back double is still like hard and gnarly. Yeah. You know that it's it's just to me I like it. I like even though it's not like Derek Lunsford back or anything. Yeah. But his back double is like kind of astonishing still because he's got those giant arms and huge delts and everything is shredded peeled condition. Yeah. I like that gym altogether. That's a cool looking place. Yeah. I got to try that Smith, but I don't know where they get that thing from. You'll have to make a trip. Maybe it's a Nibia product. Yeah, maybe it is. Maybe it is. I'm not sure if this is 315 uh or those yellow plates are different or they all weigh different. Yeah. Do they? Yeah. Oh, nice control. It looks like a Smith machine with the the control he has in that very nice press. Good form. All different colored weights. Different different weight. One might be 90 lbs. One might be 35. We got one more here. Got a couple more, I think. No, this is No, one more after this, too. I'm just curious to see the machines he's training on. You know, these things are cool. Yeah, they are cool. I like the mag grip. Do you? Yeah. Mhm. I like the We've got a couple of those over at um over at uh Carbon. We've got a like one one that's close grip, one that's medium, one that's really wide like that. They're all them really good. Good grips. Mad grips. I like this movement for that mid upper back area. Me too. I'm a fan. I'm a fan of the long bar on the row altogether. Are you? I like I like the close grip too, but it's a different feel altogether. For me to activate my lats uh in the pull down, I need a closer grip, but for this that's a different story. Mhm. I I do I do I think Dorian was a fan of the long bar there too. Yeah, the row. He he he always said that it helped with his uh width. Okay. So, comes from good source there. Yeah, that Yeah, I don't know if I believe that. That's like remember Joe Russo and he was like well you know I twist my pinky this way and by my bicep curl so that I get a better peak like dude Joe you were born with that peak. Yeah that's right. That's funny. Yeah he great great great arms. I like this pack deck. Jeez. You could do just the use the pads without the handles even if I was thinking just like you know turn your turn your elbows up and just just against the old school style. They should all be built like this, I think. Huh. Yeah. Just just in case you want to do it, you know, old school style. I like that. It's nice, too. If you have uh tennis elbow issues, you don't have to grip onto it, you know. Yep. Yep. Exactly. I've had many of workouts where I just working around tennis elbow. Yeah, man. Me, too. He's got such a big wingspan there, doesn't he? Yeah. For as long arms as he has, they're huge. Unbelievable. Yeah. That's why his front double is so massive. Yeah, I look forward to seeing him, man. Go that first one. The first uh that I think he's setting up to do a side chest. Look at Look how ripped his back is on as he as he twists. Hold on. I have to see it again when he starts again. Yeah, great conditioning. So, watch his low back when he when he redo this whole thing. Oh my god. He's going to pop. He's going to pop. I mean, that's like rolly freaky, isn't it? Like Yeah, it really is, isn't it? Yeah. It froze up on us. Let's start that over. Let's try that again. Yeah. Watch his low back. Oh, yeah. You can see like his Christmas tree from the side. I think I saw one of his kidneys. Maybe what was Maybe it was his kidney. I'm not sure. Yeah, it's good. That's awesome. Nibia. I think I think a solid third. I think a solid third for him. Okay, listen. So, Nibia is an overseas clothing brand that's been around forever. Tells us uh lots of girls have worn it for a long time. Mostly international competitors. Really expensive. That's a Thank you, Tanya. That's great. They're old school and they don't seem to market much. No [\h__\h] I'm going get some sponsor for the program or something. You know, they're kind of people. I I would rock some Nibia stuff. It looks great. Yeah. Yeah. Anyway, let me get back to uh over here. All right. Who else do we want to see? Uh check out Nick Walker. He's looking really really good. All right. Yeah. I was a little worried. You know, you see him on his offseason stuff. I know, man. I know. And this means a lot to him right now, too. You know what I mean, buddy? Man, he's looking good. Wow. What is this? Three hours ago. Noon. Just today? Yeah, this is today. Okay. Yeah, just the one picture. Oh, okay. Here we go. Look at that. That's one of his best shots, too, you know. Yeah, he's got a great most muscular shot. Yeah, he really does. He's looking big, right? Yep. Look at the delt. Looking good. Look at just the width, you know. Yeah. A lot of density there. Hey, that's a good shot, man. Jesus. Yeah, that's a it's a monster shot for him. I will I Dude, so he's going to be up against Creiso, huh? And Lunsford who's got that, you know, the back double in lockdown. Wow. You know, but if anyone can rival him, I got to say it's going to be Nick Walker just because I mean that's phenomenal. Look, that's Look, Nick Walker will beat him in the arms. He'll might beat him in detail and he'll definitely beat him from the waist down in the back double. Nobody's got a lower posterior chain like Nick Walker does in that back double. Oh man though, I got to tell you that uh once for the Arnold when he turned around and hit that rear double, he just looked like perfection. Like I honestly, dude, I was like I I felt like I maybe had never seen anything that perfect in my life on stage in front of me in person. You know what I mean? I mean, nobody's going to beat the the the back. No one's beaten his back. This can give him a good rival. It'll be good. It'll be good. And I'm interested to see him against Kriso cuz I feel like they're both like kind of, you know, they're both mutants, you know. Yeah, they ought to bring Kruzo and Nick Walker out just as like and just make them do front front biceps and measure their necks. I want to see them measure their necks because measure the arms and the necks. Yes. Who's got the thickest neck? Whoever has the biggest uh arm measurement gets $50,000. Yes. Let's see. Nick do some uh leg training here. What's he got going on? I'm not a fan of this. Uh, me neither, man. Me neither. Hack, is that what they call it? I can't get comfortable. Just watching this makes my knees hurt. Look at those hamstrings on him, though. I know. They're wild. I mean, he not might not have the best quads, but I guarantee he's got the best hamstrings on stage, dude. Those hamstrings. Watch how much. Like, look at him now. And watch. They're going to like quadruple in size. They're blowing up as he goes down. Yeah. Jeez. Good god, man. Yeah. Yeah. They're like full-on bicep peaks. Look at it. Look. They look like they're they look like they're about to fall out of his pants. I know. They look like you would a butcher would throw it over his shoulder and carry it into the back room. You know what I mean? It's good control. Yeah. I could, you know, that's a lot of lot of burn burns. Yeah. And the depth, you know, all of that. I like that. Nick's always about, you know, taking like really taking it slow, controlling things, which is, I think, you know, smart for him. It works good for him. And even he's got, you know, he's he's doing the same thing like we're talking about with uh Terren, opening those legs up, getting around the rib cage. Yeah. Making sure you get the depth. Yeah, that's uh Israel is really into that. I think he Yeah. As weird of a guy as he is, is he should be, you know, I think that he's on to something with his training ideas. No, I I agree with them. I agree with that a thousand%. You got to you got to sink your squats just like you got to sink your hacks. So, you got to sync everything. Everything needs full depth. Yeah, this is good. Oh, we got a we got an actual uh posing trunk shot here. Oh, yeah. This is the one. These are these are the ones I saw on Even Fitness, even bodybuilding. Hey, guys. Even here. Yeah. Yeah. I call him Ivan. That's the American in me, I guess. Yeah. You know, he doesn't like that. He I don't like that. No, he's just It's the way I say the words. It's I can't help it. It's even the way it's written. It's written out with an I. You would just think, you know, you look at Italian, it's Italian food, you know. Yeah. Italian. Yeah. He looks good, man. Look at the del hamstring. Oh, yeah. He looks good, man. He looks fresh, too. Yeah. Yeah, he does look fresh. That's a good That's a good way to He looks healthy, you know. Yeah, cuz we've seen him not looking great, you know. I I I I'm rooting for him, man. I want to see him have a a long long career still. Yeah. I just want to see him do well, you know? I don't want to say win or second or third. I just want to see him I just want to see him rival, you know, just see him rival everybody and Yeah. And scratch some make people scratch some heads, you know? Get the respect he deserves, too. You know, I feel like and maybe part of it is cuz he I think people are not for it when you're like, I'm going to come in and I'm going to win the Olympia this year. People don't like that kind of attitude anymore. You know what I mean? Look at that. That's a great shot. Look at the detail. Beautiful. Yeah. Yeah. Tell me it doesn't Look at the detail. Look at the detail in the triceps. Yeah. It's triage triceps on the back double. Yeah. Wow. That is great, man. It's a great shot. His waist looks tiny from behind, too, you know. Yeah. Yeah. You would never know. You never know. You never know. He had a a wider waist from the front, but from the back, it's crazy. A lot of lot of leg training here. Look at these wheels here, man. All gorged with blood. Yeah, I was about to say they're pumped up. They don't look like they're there. When you when there's no separation, they're just bumped up. Yeah. I wonder what one of those legs weighs. 275. Yes. That's I don't I like the way your math say he's 500 lb, guys. Each each leg 275. Yeah. Yeah. I picture rowing it, you know, like doing rows of 275s. Yeah. Like this is Nick Walker's leg right now. Yeah. How long ago was this one? This was from uh two weeks ago. He Yeah, he got into shape like pretty quickly there in the last within the last four weeks. Oh yeah. Yeah, you sure did. I want to see that rear double here. Oh yeah. Good there too. It is. But you can see like that mid back and like all this is dried out now, you know? And the glutes. The glutes and the hip area. It's all it's all sucked in now. Yeah. Yeah. Looks good. Go to um go to Derek real quick because you know we we've just been blown away with KZO and Nick Walker. Yeah. And and I don't think I don't think Derek is is as you know as impressive this far out. Yeah. It's just the way it is. I He's gonna show up. Aceto will whip him into shape. Just as crazy as he was at the Arnold, but he does like leading up photos aren't nearly as good, you know. Okay. I clicked on this video first. I wanted to see this uh leg extension. What brand is that? I wonder. I don't know. I bet you Tanya Miller knows. She does. Resident E expert. Yes, resident expert. We need you. Clothing and equipment. Thought there was a video of him doing posing. Um. Oh, he had a he had a tank top on, but he still looked pretty good. Hold on a second. I'm lost here. There we go. I think when I clicked off, I went to go look at the comments. It the video froze. Let me see here. All right. All right, scrolling down some posing. And maybe this one. Um, not sure, but that's pretty good. Oh, the lighting is [\h__\h] What the hell? Maybe that's the What is it? How far? This is the uh, you know, 3 weeks out filter so that we can't quite see. I I do feel like this is filtered or something. This does not look right to me. Yeah. Looks a little watery. Yeah. Yeah, maybe that's what it is. That was huge. Yeah, it really is, man. God, you saw you saw some uh How about Have you seen these, man? Where uh people are doing these figurines through AI? That's cool. Those are great, man. Those are fantastic. That JC Color one looks pretty realistic, doesn't it? It looks just like him. It really does. Yeah. The one beside him looks like I I didn't realize that was once. It looks like more like Kuklo. Yeah, I could see that. Yeah. I feel like people would buy that Jay figurine, you know? Why not? Just got to get them on my desk. If anyone can sell them, Jay Cutler can. I want a little Jay like that and a little Ronnie, too, you know? [\h__\h] yeah, dude. I would buy them for sure. They would stay in their package and everything. I'd take them out and I'd be like front double bicep flat spread. Put them through their poses. Exactly. You know, exactly. Where's Where's some posing at here? He's got I guess my Maybe maybe it was on like a YouTube or something. Let's see. Let's go to his stories. Let's see. We'll just see here. I don't think he has too much. There's him demonstrating he's a good family man. Here he is sponsor showing his sponsorships. A little bit of promotion here. Little Jay Cutler stuff that has nothing to do with uh with us. Huh. All right. Oops. All right. Well, not so many updates then, huh? Yeah. Just the one. There's this. He's hitting some shots in a tank top. Couple weeks. Well, this might be this might this is just a commercial that be put together. How about this? Here's some This is another commercial apparel stuff. I guess we're just going to have to wait, huh? That's too bad. We're going to have to wait. Some zippers. Nice shirt. What about Martin? I mean, I'm wonder if Martin has anything going on. Let's see. Martin Fitzwater. No, nothing going on. He's doing a lot of uh he was eight weeks out, but that was that was a long time ago already. Yeah, it's still pretty good though, you know, eight weeks out. Yeah, this two weeks ago. It's going to be fun to see how he stacks up against everybody, you know. Yeah. Yeah. It's a different Fitzwater when he's when he's peeled and he's ready to go. Yeah, it really is. And then, and I feel like he's coming in with uh he's coming in with um you know, a lot of uh you know, what's was a lot of confidence this year, too, you know. Yeah. I mean, he's only done well since he's Yeah. since he had his breakout year last year. Yeah. I It'll be good, man, because it, you know, we'll watch Good Veto. We'll watch him. We'll watch uh Kiso and Bonuk all in that second call out is gonna be so crazy. Yeah. Geez. I mean, [\h__\h] that could be first call out, too. Hoping. Who knows, you know? Yeah. Yeah. It's going to be this is going to be fantastic, man. I'm looking forward to it. You're getting me pumped up because I hadn't looked at a lot of this stuff until we're looking at it right now, honestly. So, man. And you know what else is cool? It's like next it's next weekend. Is it next weekend? Next weekend's the Pittsburgh Pro or or the weekend after that. I can't remember. I think it's the week after. I think we have a couple weeks still. And then the week after that, the New York Pro and then week after that it's the Legion Pro or a California Pro or something. It's like every weekend after these next two weeks, there's going to be a great show happening like every every week for the next I don't know couple months. It's pretty crazy. Yeah. Throughout the summer anyhow. Yeah. Cool. That gives us a lot to talk about too on the podcast, you know. Heck yeah. Yeah. On on all the podcast. That's what I'm saying. Yeah. That's right. Yep. Big network on fire. What do you say we check out the Vince Garinda video? Oh, yeah. Yeah. All right. Yeah. Give me Now, it's a bit longer, but we can we can kind of we can kind of like brush through it a little bit, but it it's pretty uh now Vince Garinda was was pretty popular in the 50s and 60s and he pretty much got muscled out because of Weer. You know, you never heard about Vince Garinda. You never heard about his training. You never heard about his diet systems. You never heard about him as, you know, a guru. And he was probably the original guru that there was is Vince Garinda. And uh you never made into the magazines because him and Weer just didn't get along. Is that what it was? Huh? Yeah. He had his own his own way about stuff, his own way about training. And there was a whole group of guys that that would follow Vince Garindo around and and use his diet. Okay. Um and he worked from with people from all over the country, you know. Yeah. All right. And I got to tell you, man, I watched this ahead of time and he's way way ahead of his time. Way ahead of his time. Yeah. All right. Let's see what he has to say. Yeah. Now, see, Vince, people are that Vince's diets were not restricted to the It was loud. Oh, yeah. Next diet. There you go. Right there. And further, many people are under the impression that these extreme diets should be adhered to indefinitely. This could not be further from the truth. In fact, Vint's teachings on nutrition and diet, I believe, are very misunderstood. And for this reason, I thought it was time to clear up and address these misconceptions and try to elaborate more on Vince's nutritional principles and give a list forward to the diet where subsequent stretching will not make. Here's the problem. I'm not on uh I'll have to sign in here eventually, but I'm not signed in. So, I I unfortunately have ads. I don't have uh That's okay. You can skip them. Yeah. All right. Building by many famous stars. Too many to list here. There he go. Now, one of the most important things to understand about Vince's diet is that they were goal oriented. This is very important because not all individuals are the same and we are all essentially different. Vince believed one should experiment and see what works best for you as an individual. This meant initially adhering to the diet given as recommended by Vince Tonda and then tweaking and adapting it to suit your own individuality, your own individual metabolism, lifestyle etc. Now another very important thing to understand is that most of his diets most are not maintenance diets. That is they are not meant to be used indefinitely. As I mentioned before they are goal they have a they have a certain goal. So they are goal oriented. They serve a specific purpose and um they are they are supposed to be used to achieve a certain goal and therefore they act as tools for weight loss or weight gain or more specifically to lose fat and add quality muscle. And as I mentioned once you follow the diet you can experiment with it and see what works for you. Now having just addressed the idea of the individuality of the bodybuilding trainee, we come to another very important way and that is that diets served different needs. This is very very important and you know you got to really get it into your head. Vince developed many different diets for the different needs of his clients. He had diets based on meat, for example, that were high protein diets for rapid muscular gains. He also at times recommended lacto over vegetarian diets, for example, if one of his trainees had nervous fatigue. He even recommended periods of going vegan for detoxification. That's right, you heard it. He actually even recommended going vegan at times. And um having said all of this um and having listed all these examples of the different diets and elements of these diets, Vince encouraged his clients to develop an innate wisdom. He actually called it an innate animal wisdom. And that is to recognize when the diet has stopped becoming effective. When the diet is no longer effective at this point um it is time to actually change diet. And of course, this is highly dependent on the again on the individuality of the trainee. If the diet doesn't work anymore for you, why continue with it? It's time to change it. It might mean that you've been on a high protein diet for a prolonged period of time and you need a detox. So, you might need to go vegan for a week or two. And believe it or not, this is the way that Vince actually recommended his diets to be used. When it comes to the choice of food for Vince's diets, Vince always said, "Think nutrition first." And having said that, he always recommended to remove, of course, junk food, except for your days when you would have maybe one cheat meal a week. Processed foods and instead choose fresh fruit and vegetables, whole wheat grain products over refined um products such as pasta and uh white bread, etc. uh high quality sourced animal protein and even if you could stomach it to um drink raw milk, raw steak and of course raw eggs or Scott Stevenson has talked about eating raw meat. This of course all sounds very much I'm all about raw eggs almost exactly the same like the recommendations I mean rare really rare but so now we finally come to the list of Vince Donda's many many diets and um here we have a following list of diets that I've actually read up on in many of his publications and I just want to talk about each 36 eggs a day and the elements of each so we maximum the maintenance diet this out of of diets that he recommended probably the only diet that he would actually say you can be on this diet year round and it was a good balance of proteins, fats and carbohydrates and again it was used for gradual muscular gains year round. Now, if you wanted to really up the um muscle gains, he recommended several uh other more extreme diets, and I've already talked about one many times, and that is a 36 eggs a day diet, also known as the hormone precursor diet, which is high in protein. He also recommended this. What are kind of other hormones you get by doing that diet work so well was just similar to the um articles from the 1970s the science the scientific research articles it was shown to give a positive nitrogen balance and um was very um good at burning also fat definition diet this is the steak and eggs diet right it's it's famously called the steak and eggs diet and there's many videos on YouTube on this particular diet in short this diet was for getting shredded. And you'll find it in one of my videos as well uh called I think it's uh the the uh diets that Vince recommended for getting shredded. Um it's on my definition series of uh videos. I can eat that every minute for Vince's gym. At the end of my ebook, I actually uh present the Eric Estrada diet. And the point is to not follow this particular diet at all. It just serves as an example. Um, and and he probably had diets for, you know, Don Hoorth, Larry Scott, and all the other people that were in his gym. Understand that Vince was a trainer that understood the individual needs of his clients. And that's the point. That's the point I'm trying to make. Although he had probably hundreds of diets, each had to be tweaked for his spec for the specific individual that he was training. This is very important to understand. the John Hans and having said that that's the whole point of this we should really understand that um Vince although he recommended certain diets it didn't necessarily have to be adhered to 100% because as an individual we all need to adapt things to suit us best all these different recipes such as power breakfast power lunch power dinners there's so many different things if you read his material that's fine you got the gist of it exhausted with all the possibilities that It's good, man. Yeah, it's impressive that there was that kind of information all the way back then. Yeah. I'd be I'd be curious to learn a little bit more about some of his specifics because I haven't looked at the specifics. I've heard some of the stuff like, you know, Yeah. the all eggs diet, stuff like that, which is crazy, but Yeah. Yeah. But I mean, he knew like, hey man, you need steak, you need eggs, you need egg whites, you need protein, you know, you need a lot of carbs. Depends on what you're trying to do. You could use carbs or not, you know? It's like he he knew all this already. He was like way ahead of his time. I like that term he used that innate intuition. It's like in it is it's like a primal and it's something you have to have as a coach. There's like this internal gut feeling that you have when you know something's working or not working or or when it's not working yet but it needs more time, you know? Right. Exactly. No, exactly. Yeah. We know when to add carbs, when to pull carbs, when to add fats, you know, same thing. It's all instinct and visualization. Yeah. Yeah. So he knew all that [\h__\h] all all the way back then. It's pretty It's probably why all of his guys were ripped, you know. Yeah. Yeah. It was cool. They say they say that when he competed himself, he used to get so ripped that he would get knocked and judges wouldn't want him on stage. We don't like all that conditioning. You got to have a little more body fat than that to compete in body. Too ripped. Yeah. Too ripped. Get off the stage. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So that's crazy, man. Pretty interesting. Pretty interesting. Cool little throwback to to toss in there with everything else. Yeah. Yeah. We got a little bit of the old stuff, new stuff, leap pre stuff, fun stuff. Yeah. All nerd, all nerdy stuff. The next time you guys see V, he's going to be uh 152 lbs on the steak and egg diet and 16 milligrams of reach tide per day. So, just hold on hold on to your seats, guys. Vince Vince Garand's fault. Yeah. Yeah. All right, man. What do you say we call it? Are we good or what do you say? This is good. This is amazing, man. We we I think we did everything we could for the day. I hope that people appreciate it and uh let us know, you know what I mean, to if you haven't hit the like button yet, then hit the like button, guys. We It really does make a difference. I'm trying to get the channel built up as best we can. It really is my dream, you know what I mean? To keep freaking growing this thing. I would love to see us hit like 50,000 subscribers at some point. Like, yeah, dude, that would be sweet, man. I'd take that. I know there's a lot bigger channels than that and you know, but I mean I I see I see Think Big hitting 100,000. I don't see why not. Why not? I mean Oh, that would be I I look at some other channels. I'm like they have 100,000. Think doesn't have 100,000. Why? Come on. Look at the talent. Look at the good looks and [\h__\h] Look at the guy in the red beanie. Oh my god. Yeah. So, hey, on that note, for Bodybuilding Nerds Radio and Scott McN, I bid you a D. See you guys.