 I feel like I'm back, I'm back, I'm back, I'm back, I'm back, and I'm gonna collect as many checks as I can, along the way, you know what I mean? How old is Bonak now? We talked about this before, is he 43 or something? Something like that. Some of those lines, yeah, I'm not sure. Yeah, where exactly. Just keep smashing guys that are way younger than him, and bigger. Smashing younger dudes? Yeah. We gotta work on the wording here, Canuck. My visual just went all nuts, it's no good. Maybe we gotta work on where your heads are at. Yeah. Yeah. The Americans are just sick. You put it there. Yeah. Yeah. We use that term in sports. Smashing guys. Hey everybody, welcome to It's Just Bodybuilding. I'm Big Ron Partlow, and of course, got my co-host Dusty Hanshaw, and the producer, Scott McNally. Remember to like, share, subscribe, comment, and... Ring the bell. That's right. And remember, IamMutant.com, sponsoring the show proudly. For I don't know how long now, but they've been awesome. Remember, go to IamMutant.com, get your isosurge, get your all in, and everyone should get on the gear. All the gear. Not to mention the MindFK, which is awesome. I'm on it right now. Change your life. I'm hooked on it. I use it to train. I use it to do other things. You're talking about, is that like sex things? Yes. It's nasty things that I need to be focused for. I'm doing double caffeine today. I got my coffee in my West Coast mug. Nice. And then I got what's left of my Diet Coke from last night's movie. Poo. A little bit, yeah. Double fisting. I did a double, a little bow. Sometimes I pour a little in. Right. We're good. We're good. But your piano music has already been noticed. Nice. Oh, yeah. Yeah. So, uh, soothing morning. I have some soothing jazz playing on my TV because there's some guys working on the high rise and they're dangling outside my window. And, uh, I need a little bit of noise in the living room. So the dogs just, they just mind their business. You know, so you might hear, I might have to mute myself a little bit. The guys might have to cover my ass. It's like, I feel like we're in a jazz club right now. Or Dusty, you said like, we're going to order steak. Yeah. I've been to many restaurants with this same song playing. I'm going to get some linguine soon. I'm waiting for my, I'm waiting for my apps right now. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Okay. As long as it doesn't get picked up by the YouTube bots. We'll see. We'll see. It seems like it's getting a little louder now than it was before, but we'll find out. It's fine. It's fine. We'll find out. It'll be good. It's just because they noticed it. So now they just can't ignore it. It's going to drive you crazy. Yeah. Okay. So what's going on? Woody, why are you going to Arizona? I got to know. Why is Woody going to Arizona? This is important. Wait, what? He's on a flight to Arizona listening. Oh, we have one of our listeners is flying. Dusty's going to derail us. Yeah. I have to know why he's flying in Arizona. Instantly into, and things just fall apart from here. We're already done. We're on a leg to 20 seconds. So we have to wait a minute for him to text him. You can answer in a minute and I'll keep an eye. All right. We're good. Okay. Okay. Before we get going, we got to just touch on something. By now, everyone's heard that our friend Fuad Abiyad was in a pretty bad motorcycle accident in California on his road trip. And, you know, details aside, we just want to take a minute to wish him the absolute best of luck with recovery and just best wishes to him and Summer and, you know, all their close friends. And I know Ian was on the road trip too. And just wishing Fuad the best. And we're pulling for you, buddy. And, yeah, just, you know, don't wish that on anybody. And hope that you're, you know, back in action as soon as possible. And, yeah, just wanted to make sure. That was a tough one to hear in the gym that morning. And I got the text, I'm not going to lie. I finished the chest portion of my workout. And I was like, I'm not here anymore. It's time to go. Yeah. Yeah. Really, really wishing him the best. So just wanted to take a second and acknowledge Fuad. And, you know, thanks for all you've done for bodybuilding. And we'll continue to do. Just take a second for all the fans to, you know, know that we wish them the best. Yep. Okay. What's, we had the Dubai Pro. Yes. Right? Yes. Beiruz Tabani won two years in a row. Fantastic bodybuilder. Now, he's Iranian, right? Which is why we don't see him at the U.S. shows. Correct. And I wonder, will they let him in now? Like, will we be seeing him at the Olympia, especially with everything going on? You know? Yeah. I mean, I'm not sure what's going on with him and Hottie. I don't know what's happening with that. Did you guys hear anything about? I mean, geez. I had a bunch of people say that there was a way for Hottie to get in. So it doesn't sound like it's an issue. But that's obviously through fans who sometimes know everything or sometimes think they know everything. So we'll see. I hope they're right. I want to see him. I mean, I want to see everybody be able to have the opportunity to do what they earned. But, yeah, I really hope they're right. Because I also think that Hottie is the guy that we tend to forget about. And I don't know how. But we do. Yeah. Which is weird. Yeah. And two, if he doesn't show up, number one, it's going to be a stacked lineup, right? Like, no matter what. But I always feel like there's going to be that question. You know what I mean? Like, if he wasn't there, it's like, well, what if Hottie was there? How would he? Then again, though, I guess there's always somebody that can't make it. It doesn't always come together exactly the way we want. Like the other year with Nick Walker. You know, it's like he got taken out. And it's like we were all expecting Nick to be there. And, you know, so there's always that one guy out. And you have to wonder what would have happened if Nick was there. And now, if Hottie doesn't make it, what would happen if Hottie wasn't there? But ideally, man, see him all together to, like, head-to-head with Derek again. Get him next to Samson. You know, all of that. Oh, it says here, Beirut is stuck in Dubai. Airspace to Iran is closed, which kind of makes sense. Okay. Why? Yeah. Well, if you're going to be stuck somewhere, Dubai's not too bad. Yeah, I can think of worse. You know? I'm sure they're taking good care of him there. He's eating well, going to the gym, you know? Yeah. Yeah, yeah. So, okay, yeah, all the best to those guys traveling over there. Yeah, you know, like, I mean, D'Ash was at the show. You know, all those guys, I mean, flying in and out of anywhere in that area right now would be a little stressful. Yeah. So, and what did we think? Let's touch. I mean, I know he was sixth place, but we got to show that video. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. Of Nexzilla. So, I've got this. First of all, there was the top six. There was the top six there. Bonak. Yeah. Bonak getting second? I mean, he just never stops. Yeah. Totally. He won't go away. He won't go away. I feel like he's just like, I'm back and I'm going to collect as many checks as I can along the way. You know what I mean? How old is Bonak now? We talked about this before. Is he 43 or something? Something like that. Something along those lines. Yeah. I'm not sure. Yeah. Where exactly. Just keep smashing guys that are way younger than him and bigger. Yeah. Smashing younger dudes. Excuse me? Yeah. We got to work on the wording here. Canuck. My visual just went all nuts. It's no good. Maybe you got to work on where your heads are at. Yeah. The Americans are just sick. You put it there. Yeah. Yeah. We use that term in sports. Yeah. You know? You ever see those clips where they show sports and they just play the things the announcers say that are just off if you're hearing them wrong? Right. Right. Right. Totally out of context. If you're listening, you're like, oh, man, he wishes he didn't say it like that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And he really drives into them. Oh. There were some that were so bad. I can't even say them because in this context, I know that YouTube would flag the hell out of it. Yeah. That's brutal. Tanya likes the low-key piano music playing. Oh, yeah. I mean, it's a must. We're trying to set the tone here and let you guys know this is a classy environment. I got glasses now. We needed it. It's classy. Ron didn't want to be outdone. Yeah. Here we go. We got to play this. All right. Yeah. He needs to bring his legs up. Yeah. So. I heard Asito on Heavy Muscle said, or maybe it was Dave, said, you knew that looking at him on his own, he's either going to be first place. It was Asito. Either first place or fifth place, and there's not going to be any in between. Right. Right. Right. Right. Yeah. They're either going to put him first on just freaky mass. Yeah. Or they're going to go, wow, you know, the flow and the structure and, you know, blah, blah, blah. And, you know, these guys are ahead of him. Yeah. Who did he work with? Because he's in this time, and he never has been all the way in. You know, like, and he could even get harder. Like, I mean, he's got strided glutes, but technically he could still get more strided. I hope he wants to lose any size. Yeah. He's just about to sacrifice the fullness, eh? I don't know. I think Milos had something to do with it. I don't know if he helped him completely. Do you think he's using insulin? Maybe a little. That's the secret. Or wait, maybe that's the hilarious part is that he's the only guy Milos has that's not on insulin. Right. Doesn't even need it. No, I don't want to spill. Yeah. Yeah. I feel like it should be illegal for guys like him to not wear, like, shorts at all times. Like, even in a restaurant with a piano playing. He can't fit into pants. There's no pants that, you know, like, cheese. Well, he had shorts on at FIBO. Yeah. And his calves, like, I know his calves look like they match his physique. Uh-huh. Right? They're retarded. They look like they match the legs, right? Yeah. But when you see him walking around with human beings in shorts, then you're like, oh, God. Like, and I mean, I've seen some big calves. I mean, Ben Pakulski had crazy calves. Oh, yeah. Dallas had ridiculous calves. I've seen Dorian's calves. Remember him? Frank Hauser's calves. I've seen them all up close. Yeah. Yeah. But, I mean, this guy, this guy just walking around with other people. How tall is he? You saw him in person. Yeah, he's a big guy. Like, he's 5'10", at least. Okay. Yeah. 5'10". Was he 5'10", at least? I mean, I'd say around there. Maybe he's 5'9". I don't know. Oh, he is for sure. But he's not, like, he's not little. Yeah. I think the most impressive thing about his physique at that size is the hairline. Oh, solid. No kidding. That's a hairline that hasn't had to either, he's got great genetics or he hasn't had to use a lot of stuff to get where he is, you know? Yeah, that's maybe a little both. He's probably never taken an oral. Yeah. He's like, why bother? Here I am. Just take whatever he got. They don't want him to pop. I got, like, 10,000 D-balls to my lifetime, and he's, like, never taken an oral. Yeah. It's interesting, that little hernia he has. Did you see that? Watch when he, see how it popped out? And then he can suck it in, though, too. I just, my eyes were just glued to that now. Or is that just his normal outie, does he just have an outie belly button? I don't know. Yeah, I don't, yeah, I think it's a little bit, a little bit of hernia. Oh, Cormier. Cormier does his training and posing. Right. Dane just reminded us. Okay, that makes total sense. I knew that. I knew that. Yeah, yeah. I knew it was Cormier. I just forgot. Yeah. Huh. Yeah, mind-boggling. That show is off the charts. I'm surprised more of the bigger names aren't chasing that paycheck. Yeah. That's a long flight. I think that's one of the things. Like, people ask me all the time, like, hey, what's that Dubai Expo like? And I'm like, oh, it's great. It's just, that's a fucking hell of a trip, man. You have to get there. You have to get there, you know, nine hours to London and then seven and a half to Dubai. Yeah. Yeah. That was definitely business class only trip. Use those points. Upgrade that shit. Oh, yeah. Yeah. So, the Men's Open was $140,000. Was that it? Okay. $140,000. And the total prize is $500,000. Third highest payout event for the IFBB behind the Arnold Classic and the Mr. Olympia. I heard rumors of them planning to surpass everything. Had you guys heard about that? Well, they probably have the money. Yeah, they could easily. You wonder if there's a little bit of political pressure. Like, don't go raising your prize money too high or yet. Right, yeah. You know, some sheik just throws a couple million and give that to the bodybuilders. Yeah. You know how it works over there. Yeah. Yeah. I've actually heard that there is something about that. Like, just people have talked like you can't go more than what the Olympia is going to do. You know? Yeah. Right. Yeah, yeah. Or the Arnold. They're going to piss too many people off. Yeah. You know? Yeah. I've also heard, I saw an interesting, it was like a TikTok guy. And he was saying, why are the gyms in Dubai the best gyms in the world? And he said, because their own, and of course I don't know how true this is, so just let me spout this information off to all of our viewers. Yeah, we'll call it a fact. Yeah. But he's driving in his car and he's like, why? Because he's trying to explain why he moved to Dubai. He's like one of these guys, I can't remember where he's from. Yeah. And he's like, the gyms here are the best. These guys have so much money and these gyms are just, they're flexes. They're just flexing. Flexing. Ah. And so you go to the gym in the afternoon and there's nobody there. Yeah. It's like half empty, all the machines to yourself. You just do whatever you want. There's never, it's never too crowded. They don't, they don't give a shit if they make money. Memberships are reasonably priced. They have a thousand pieces of leg equipment. And he's like, because they don't care if they, you know, they probably own the land it's on and own the building. And they just, it's just a giant flex. They just want pros to come and just want to have fun. And, and I don't know how accurate that is, but it's, it's interesting because like we know how much money's over there and we could see it being a thing. Like we all know people that are rich enough that they have like flex businesses. I know guys that own flex restaurants where the restaurants never made a dollar, but they're like, I love it. It's my steakhouse. You know, like, yeah. And I know a guy like that, you know? And so it's just, it's funny to think of like some of those gyms over there. They have, you know, that new oxygen they put in Dubai with six, six floors and crazy. That's a mall. Yeah. Right. So it makes you wonder, like, young crowd, Google that mall. It makes you wonder how many memberships, how many memberships do you need to actually cover the cost of all of that? That's probably, they probably know it's impossible. Yeah. And they don't care. You know, like we'll make our money back in 50 years. Yeah. Yeah. Maybe. So you said you had some good questions, Scott, loaded up? Oh, yeah. Yeah. We had a bunch of good ones. That's our full contrast coverage there. We're good. All right. Yeah, I think that's good. I think that was solid. We got first place for Kinda, and then we got sixth place. And you guys know the rest. And a picture of the rest. So we're good. A picture of the rest for like three seconds. I like that. That's good. Yeah, we actually did. We had a bunch of really good stuff. Patreon sent us some stuff. Guys from Patreon. I mean, people from YouTube, you guys commented with a bunch of stuff, too. Nice. On that note, comment on the next show. We could always use more questions. And by the way, too, everybody loved the episode with Cuba last week. Nice. Though, Ron, I totally butchered the intro and the exit on that. Oh, it was a mess. Man, we needed you badly. Well, I was hoping. I almost didn't get to ring my bell. I'm sitting here. I was about to leave. I was actually very hurt. I spent the week very hurt because I saw someone commented, best episode ever. Yeah, it was an intense, like, hardcore training episode. Cuba was pounding the table throughout. A bit of my heart died. Yeah. And I was like, oh, of course. It's the best episode ever. It's like if that one Bourne movie that Jeremy Renner made was better than the ones that Matt Damon made. You know, like, oh, damn. Cuba's on our show twice. He's already beaten your 400 episodes. Yeah, each episode Cuba's on has, like, 100,000 views. I was a little upset. But Cuba's a man for that. He was great. I'm sure he brought some passion. I mean, I watched the episode. He brought some real, like you said, real table pounding. I can't get him to stop no matter what I do. I tell him, you know, I was hearing it. I like the part where you said, so we should probably cheer this up a bit. And then we ignored him and kept going. And then he ignored you guys and went right back to, like, you gotta dig in. That's exactly how it went, too. Exactly. That's why he's great. That's why Cuba is who he is, you know, because he just fucking loves to train. He loves the bodybuilding push. He enjoyed that conversation as much as the listeners did, you know? Yeah. Oh, yeah. You could tell. You could tell. He was having a blast. Yeah. All right. So check this one out. So Jonathan left this for us over on Patreon. He says, question for the next just bodybuilding. Which is the best Mr. Olympia second place? But using the current judging criteria. 95, Levroni. 97, Nassar. 98, Flex. 07, Victor. 09, Branch. I didn't include 2012 Kai because he would most likely have smoked the others. Thanks. Well, 97, Nassar was unbelievable. But he still didn't have a great back double bicep. Okay. And I'm not sure if he could beat the 95, Levroni. Because 95, Levroni was one of his best ever looks. Hmm. Damn. That's a tight one. See, even 98, Flex didn't have strided glutes, really. Against Ronnie. Like, Ronnie easily beat him. Yep. And if you put 97, Nassar next to 95, Levroni, he would beat him from the front, maybe. Mm-hmm. But I don't think he'd beat Kevin from the back because Kevin's condition in the glutes and stuff. And the back itself, sorry, not conditioning the glutes, but the back itself, like Kevin's back was better than Nassar's. Yeah. I might say, I might say 97 or 95, Levroni. I might go with that. But 97, Nassar, man, that was an overwhelming physique, too. Just know the back double wasn't great. I'm leaning newer because Victor was so lodged in my head at that show. He was unbelievable. And I'm trying to picture in my mind Kevin standing next to him because Victor was the only guy I can think of that can stand next to Kevin as far as being put together. Yeah. You know, his rear doubles nuts. Kevin probably wins a rear lat spread. Kevin would have been about 250-something. Mm-hmm. And I think Victor would have been 230-something. Yeah. Not that that matters, but. Well, with their heights and stuff, it could be. So those two, to me, would be your top two. Branch was absolutely, I mean, you remember that show. We were both there. He was nuts. But I just think when you put that group together, I mean, the three names we just tossed out. I mean, you've got size and conditioning and height. Like, his condition can hang with all of them, but I think they're put together better. So, to me, it's either Kevin or Victor for that one. That's a great man. Yeah, he nailed it. He made it harder. We can't even, I can't even, like, solidify an answer, so he did well. I don't know. Victor was pretty damn good from the back, too. Yeah, he was nuts. I always loved the way he hit his, the way his lats look in a front and a rear lats, or rear double. Yeah. Both of those shots are just, because they're like, they came off like a square. You know, straight out from the side, etched straight up, crazy arms, great triceps. I mean, obviously, Lebroni, but, oof, yeah. That front double from 07 of Victor's is, like, one of the greatest, it's one of the best stage shots ever. Yeah. I'll see if I can pull some of that stuff in post-production, because I tried to start grabbing pictures, and then I got stuck on, where is that one? I mean, that's 07, Victor. Yeah. That was incredible, man. That is pretty incredible. I still think I would give him the edge on that one. He was blown out. It's funny, because in the context of how our brains remember guys, we remember them in the lineups they were in. And, like, we think, like, you know, like, it's just a different, they're two different, completely different lineups, you know? Lebron was standing in there with Dorian and Sean Ray and, like, all those guys looking the way he looked. And Martinez was, like, between, you know, Jay and, you know, who else would have been in that show? Gustavo, or who else would have been in 07? I don't even remember. Gustavo would have been in there, but I don't think he was in the top. Right. I feel like, um... I mean, Branch was around there, wouldn't he? Oh, yeah. I guess the only thing that I look at differently is, of the names he put out, Victor's the only one who took second that people thought should have won. Like, I don't think anybody thought Kevin should have beat Dorian. No, people think Nassar should... There's people that say Nassar should have won in 07. Right. So, Victor was in between Cutler, Dexter was third, Ronnie Coleman fourth. Yeah. Oof. Right, Dennis Wolfe fifth, you know? Gustavo was eighth. We had Silvio Samuel, Melvin Anthony in there. Oh, yeah. You know, Johnny Jackson in the top ten. The only thing that I think is different about those call-outs when you're talking about the winners is, like I've said this before, I talked to Chris and I was like, well, you know, there's a couple of those shows that Dorian barely won. And Chris literally looked at me and goes, you weren't there. Yeah. He said being there, he didn't come close to losing any of them. Even when he had the torn bicep and all that, he's like, it wasn't close in person. So, that to me is an interesting thing because cameras and everything have come up so far that I feel like we get a... Even though it's not the same as being live, we have a better understanding of what we're looking at versus back then. Because I told him the same thing. I thought Nassar had a shot and he said no. Yeah. Well, here's one shot from 97 that I can grab real quick. I feel like Nassar definitely wins. I mean, they're both close, but the 97 era, early 2000s bodybuilders in suits era was a whole other thing, man. They look like characters out of a cartoon mobster story. I think you're giving him a little extra love because you also would trust him to do your accounting. Yeah. Right. Yeah. You're like, I also think that you can make sure I maximize my deductions. Which is ironic because Ronnie actually took accounting in college. Right? So, Ronnie's the one that actually has accounting. Yeah. But when I'm looking at the photo, Ronnie's the one that I want at the door when I'm negotiating some sort of a Gangs of London situation. Ronnie looks like he has high-end mob ties. Exactly. What's that drink in his hand, too? Is he drinking like some sort of Hawaiian punch? Yeah. Like full sugar? Knowing Ronnie that's a full sugar, yeah. Yeah. There's actually barbecue sauce in it. Yeah. It's a Sprite. It's a Sprite. And he puts the barbecue sauce in it. It's his electrolytes. That's got Masterpiece in it for sure. Yeah. It's the best barbecue sauce they make. A quote that only the old guys will get. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. That was good. I enjoyed that photo. It was fun. It was a good question, too. Let's see. So, we did, like I said, we had a bunch of stuff that everybody had left us. In fact, I think we had a few overrated, underrateds. Oh, yeah. Let me just jump in with those because I pulled up the first one, which was overrated, underrated, the vertical leg press. It was drastically, humongously overrated. No gym needs to spend money on one. It's a complete waste of floor space. It's a dumb machine. Don't bother with it. Yeah. Yeah. You know what's the worst part about? They had one at Independence Gym. I don't care what anybody says. And they put it in the middle of the gym also. To hang your coat on? So, every time, like, a girl would be on it, I'm like, grab a towel, grab a towel. Throw a towel between your legs. Trust me. Right. Yeah, that's a corner piece. Yeah. That's definitely on a wall without a mirror. Right. That's where that one belongs. So, yeah. Yeah. And I don't care what anybody says. Oh, it hits the quad. No, it doesn't. It's a leg press that you just tipped. Yeah. And then you can't put the back down. Yeah. So, you can't actually open it up at all. So, you're stuck in a 90 degree seat. It's basically putting the leg press with the back in the wrong position. Yeah. You put the back all the way up and then just set it on the, yeah, it's dumb. On an angle. Yeah. Yeah. And I remember all those days I thought, oh, I want to try one. And then I used the one at Gold's Venice back in the day. And I was like, oh, the range on that's kind of shit. And then I thought, oh, I'll try it. And then I used an Arsenal one or a Nebula one at Armbrist. And I was like, oh, it's kind of like the range of motion is like terrible. It seems hardcore in theory. Yeah. You know what I mean? Until you use it. You're also doing sets of like 30 because you're in there so easily, you can max the thing out for reps. The only thing that machine is good for is if you're peeled out of your mind and you're Dennis James and they're filming you like two days out from the Olympia and you want to see 900 cords just driving everywhere. It just displayed his conditioning like nothing I'd ever seen. I remember as a kid watching that. I'm like, what the fuck? There's no other type of leg press that will give you that much spinal compression in your L5 S1 and all that. It's just terrible for your back. I remember I used to have to get in there and make sure I was right where I needed to be because once you unrack it, you're stuck. Yeah. You can't wiggle around or adjust yourself. And you're like, oh, my feet are too low. Yeah. Yeah. And I see people with home gym setups that fall into the trap of not being able to purchase a leg press. I don't have enough space and a good one is really expensive. But I found this one on Marketplace. You know, that's a vertical leg press. And I tell them, hold off. Especially here, we have, I think it's called Workman. There's a local brand that was here until like the, maybe the 90s. I think they closed up. But they had stuff even with like chain driven machines and stuff back in the 80s. It was in the 70s. Cool stuff. So I've seen those floating around. No, Waitman. Sorry. That's what it was. Waitman. W-A-T-E. Waitman. All right. What about this one? We've got another overrated, underrated. This is a late entry from one of my clients who he just guessed that we were recording or something. He texted it to me. Carryon luggage. Overrated, underrated. And his thought is, he said, I'd rather just check a bag and not drag all my crap around the airport. Other people want to see me jam five days worth of clothes into a small briefcase and a backpack? I board a plane with a little handbag with a meal in it and my headphones and a bottle of Diet Coke. And I just raw dog it all the way to London. I never board a plane with like luggage. Ever. So the thing I'm carrying with me is. I can't stand that. Food for the flight. Yep. Which is like two or three meals depending on how far the flight is. Yeah. My computer because I don't throw my MacBook down below. I don't trust those people. Oh, God, no. And then the two bottles of $700 water that I bought in the airport. Yeah. Because that's my biggest flex in life is that I buy water at the airport. Right. I don't like that. I don't like using a little dispenser that they have there now because it's warm. Oh. I'm like, no, no, no. Nikki loves that. What she call it? I got something water and I'm like, it's warm. That's all it is. It's warm. I don't mind. I don't mind it. I'm all right. I bring in a tea bottle. I got a cold Diet Coke. I got a liter of Diet Coke with me. There you go. Yeah, but you drank less than a liter in a movie. Like you had leftover. That's a good point. Maybe you forget who you're talking to. I also had a water in my movie. Oh. So there you go. I got a mix. I got to have fluids. A multi-fluids. Yes. I'm split on this one because I like a good carry-on bag. Oh, I just took it. I knew he would. I don't ever do. You're taking cameras and shit. I get that. Yeah. I don't ever do the actual like suitcase luggage, you know, the small wheel bag. I have one of those, but that's just for like overnight local trips kind of thing. I carry a backpack and then as my personal item, I carry my CPAP. That way CPAP isn't in the luggage. That way I have more room in the luggage for clothes and all that. And then the backpack has, you know, bottle for water, has my headphones, any camera stuff I need to take. Of course, computer. I'm trying to think what, and that's generally about any medication. I'm not going to put medication under the plane and hand sanitizer. Got to bring the hand sanitizer. I have a real issue with people who have the backpack that's enormous, first off. Then they bring an absolute checked item on the flight. Like a wheel bag that almost can't get it in the overhead? Yeah. I hate that. Dude, dude. Check that bag. Also, when you get on the flight with your backpack, can you remember it's on you when you're turning around and kicking the shit out of me? Yeah. Oh, I just want to grab the back of it and yank them down sometimes when I get hit with it. It's those people where the backpack is thicker than they are? Yeah. Yeah. There should be a rule. You have to be thicker than your backpack. Mine goes under the seat. I don't want to put it up there because I don't want to have to deal with getting it down later. I don't want to have to deal with it in the middle of the flight. So I just put it down there and I can get my computer out when I'm allowed and that's it. Let me tell you how I know my carry-on's proper. It doesn't matter how little the plane is on a puddle jumper. It fits up top. My bag will fit up top no matter what flight it is. No problem. My bag will fit under the seat in front of me no matter what plane I'm on. That's my carry-on. It's my little mutant ISO bag. Yeah. So here's what I've done before. I've gone on trips where I didn't pack. I pack pretty light. I always challenge myself to pack light. And I've got that big OGO bag that I roll around with mutant, right? That I check. And there's been a couple trips where on my way home, I'm like, you know what? I can put my ISO bag in my check bag. Yeah. And I've jammed it in, took my headphones, and boarded the plane with nothing. Just headphones and a drink. And I fly home from Toronto like four and a half hour flight just to drink. Headphones, no bag in my hand. I love that. And I love that I'm the guy that has no bag. Everyone else is like pulling shit out of the... I can't stand that. Yeah. Yeah. I tend to be the last person that boards the plane too. I'm not in a rush. My seat's waiting for me. I just wait until the area is in. And I'm not worried about overhead space because some people are panicked. They don't want to run out of space. But my bag goes under the seat. So I just sit there and I watch everybody panic board. And then when the line thins out, I just casually stroll on. I'm always in an aisle seat. Last call, walk up. Yeah. I've been the last guy to board a plane dozens of times. Have you? Very last guy. Oh, yeah. I sit right by the front. I just wait until every... And I just get up and go, let's go. Yeah. Yeah. I'm on. We can leave now. Yeah. Yeah. I know I'm an aisle seat anyways. All right. Question for the next show. I'm looking to add one piece of leg equipment to the home gym. Here are the options. Which would it be? Compact leg press. Oh, excuse me. Compact leg sled linear hack squat is what he... It's the one that does both, I guess. Oh. Yeah. There's actually a few good ones. There's a few of those that are pretty good. Well, hold on a second. He says compact leg sled and then in parentheses linear hack squat, comma, leg press slash hack squat, comma, Smith machine, comma, leg curl, leg extension machine. It's a little hard for me to give a great answer because I don't know what else he has. Right. Does he have a squat rack? Oh, he says... What's he got? He also adds, the weight of the equipment is an issue because it's in and at it. Contractor said it was good for 800 to 900 pounds in one spot. I'm 230, so that doesn't leave me a lot of room for a nice hack squat or leg press. Ooh, 230. Based on that new information, I'm buying a Smith. Yeah, because if it's a leg press or a hack, he's going to be able to put like, you know, at least 500 pounds on it. And then with the weight of the machine and him, he's up over the limit. He's going to be in his living room. But if he gets a Smith machine, Smith machines are lighter and he'll be squatting up and down, which is less weight. You know, maybe he's only putting 300 pounds on it. Plus, he can do his shoulder pressing, his close grips. He can do a lot of other stuff in there. Yeah, that would be my vote for sure. The weight is the game changer. Yeah, and I don't know what he had. Maybe he should go with the Tom Cruise mentality. He just needs a different contractor. Yeah. Just get a different contractor. 1,200 pounds. You're good for 1,200 pounds. Should be fine. Yeah. I like a good leg extension, leg curl combo. If he can do squats, he can also do, you know, a lot of Bulgarians. You know, he can do that on his own, right? I like to get a leg extension and leg curl in that workout. But I guess, I mean, I don't know, man. Don't ask me because I built a home gym and it ended up being all leg equipment. That's what happens. Every good gym becomes leg equipment. An extension leg curl is a great piece. They are. Absolutely great. Absolutely great piece. Yeah. So if he doesn't have anything like that, then maybe that's the answer and he can just squat with a barbell. Yeah. All right. Let's see what else we had here. Oh, somebody asked me. They said the Think Big shirts are out of stock. Would love to pick one up. I will get on that. I'll let you guys know when I hear an update on that. By the way, too, you guys are welcome to comment in the stream. I feel like we need Jim for this one because I have a feeling none of us are going to know what this is. But Jim would. He says, so when we talked to Cuba, Cuba was anti-stim. It was like your stims are messing up your workouts, especially when you get really intense. Plus, you can't eat afterward. And somebody named Fresh RH says, but the stims are so freaking fun. 1.5 scoops of DNFM. DNFM. He says, and it's so fun doing your sets and vibe in between with music looking for your pump. DNFM. Is that the same as MDMA? I don't know. I feel like it's a new one that we don't know about. DNFM? Yeah. I'm trying to think of what that stands for. Is that an acronym? I googled it and it was popping up all sorts of other options that were not related. Did it have anything to do with party drugs? Because I feel like that's, you know, maybe we're just missing the boat here. Yeah. With him grooving to the music. Yeah. Okay. Then you guys don't know either. Like I said, maybe Jim would know what that was. I know a little bit. What about, okay, so this was a comment on one of the previous episodes. It was one of the reactions we did to Ronnie. Somebody just recently commented to Dave. He goes, I'd love to see him train at Planet Fitness these days and be all loud. And they wouldn't say crap to him. And that stupid lunk alarm. Blah, blah, blah. He goes on about that. And it made me think, have you guys ever trained at a Planet Fitness? No. Never? No. No, I've never trained. I've never been inside of Planet Fitness. I went to one one time. What was it like? It was for cardio. It was nice. Like, I mean, I didn't train. But everything was new. And you got to do, like, because nobody used it, you know, pretty much. Yeah, yeah. And you got to, like, get tanning with your membership. It was like a, it seemed like a place you'd go to relax more than anything else. I do know that when we first opened West Coast Iron, I have a friend in L.A. who owns a place called Global Fitness. Yep. And he's, like, a giant equipment, used equipment refurbishing warehouse. Like, he sends containers overseas and stuff, right? Yeah. And I called him, and I was like, hey, I need some cardio equipment. And we don't have a lot of money. And he goes, tell you what. He goes, I got a bunch of treadmills out of the Planet Fitness. I'll just put some gray plastic on them, and you can have them at cost. Huh. And he gave me, like, a killer deal. Like, we paid, like, 800 bucks a treadmill. Wow. For these treadmills. And they came up, and they were out of the Planet Fitness, and they were, like, six years old. Yeah. And they were in, like, mint condition. That's what I'm saying, man. Old people had just walked on them. Yeah. That was it. Yeah. And they lasted for, like, several years. And then we eventually got new stuff, new Matrix Cardio. Nice. But, yeah, it was just funny how, like, they came up. And, I mean, all the plastic, he replaced all the purple with gray. Yeah. But, like, they were fine. They were completely fine. Brand new. I remember when we were there. He had equipment in there, like, cables that you could see had never been used below, like, a halfway of the stack. Yeah. Like, you see where the pin had gone? So, they were brand new. Yeah. Because he actually had a contract with Planet Fitness. So, every time all the Planet Fitness in California, whenever they would rotate their equipment out, he would get all their equipment. Oh, okay. He had this nonstop influx of Life Fitness and, like, the Hammer MTS. Like, any pin-loaded stuff. Yeah. It was all pin-loaded, right? And, you know, cable stacks. And he had tons of that shit. And you could tell the pin had never been bottomed out on most of it. Yeah. It was a good place to get used stuff. Never even replaced the cables. Like, they were good. Yeah. Good place to get used stuff. Ooh, we had another overrated or underrated. Stairmill. Overrated or underrated? Well, it depends on what you're using it for. It's one of the hardest types of cardio. I mean, one of the things I don't like about this step mill or whatever you want to call it is that it is a little higher impact. So, if you have, like, you know, like your thud, thud, thud on your knees and stuff. But if you're, you know, if you've got no problems with that, it's a hard cardio, man. If you've got to burn some calories, the step mill is probably the, like, if you're just going to spend a half hour on a step mill, man, that's misery. Is anyone else waiting for Ron to answer the question that's listening to the show? Because he hasn't answered it at all yet. Accurately rated? I'm going drastically overrated. Ooh, you took my answer. I'm going to say slightly overrated. You can get lean without it and all that. And I never really used it very much at all. Yeah. Okay. I got, I, with Dusty, I'm with Dusty 100%. I feel like, because you don't necessarily absolutely need, because I've known some people that are like, I need the step mill. I got to have a step mill to get in shape. And I get it. I understand what it does. But I really do believe that you can get in shape with any piece of cardio equipment. You know, as long as you get your heart rate up. It's more about preference. And I get, I get, honestly, I understand the benefits of it. But you could use a treadmill. You could use a bike. Like, you could use an elliptical. Or you could use one of those arc trainers if you really wanted to. Those are good. Yeah. I like an arc trainer. I know Dusty's got dogs, but what was your reasoning? Oh, so for me, it's just because exactly what Scott just said. I had two clients that they're like, oh, my gym only has one. And we both need it. And now it's broken. And I'm like, and then they're just like, we're going to try, we're going to get to a different gym. And they kept running on the same problem. Like, I don't, I wrote step mill because you had them. I don't care. Right. I think like the, on the opposite of the spectrum, I think an elliptical is drastically underrated. Because people use an elliptical incorrectly and think it's easy. If your head is going like this, when you're using an elliptical, you're riding it. If you're, if you're doing it right, you don't move. Your head is level the whole time. And the only thing moving your arms, your legs, that thing will whip your ass if you use it correctly. So I'm with you a hundred percent, Scott. I'm like, I'll ask clients, what do you have at home? Yeah. I have this. Perfect. We will use that. It's fine. I can get you in shape on anything. Tom has one. It goes hard. Yeah, it is. Tom's got one in the live stream. Opinions on psychedelics and bodybuilding. I know they are rampantly used behind closed doors. However, there are some risks when combined with mind-altering hormones. However, some claim they could be beneficial due to the changes of brain chemistry that could counteract depression onset from drug use. I'm going to let Ron answer this because I already know his answer. I don't want to steal it. I don't even know my answer. I got to think. Oh, then I know it. I'm going to hit it with you real quick. The first thing is, just like weed, remove the idea that you're using as an advantage. You're using a psychedelic because you want to. That's the point. Right. So, get that out of the way. Stop trying to create a reason that you're pretending that it's good for bodybuilding. Yeah. Once you remove that, if you want to do that, do your thing, I guess. But I've just, I've grown to the point in life where I see it all the time, where I just feel like, same with alcohol. If you want to have a drink, go ahead. If it's required for you to have a better time, I think you have a problem. Even if you're not an alcoholic. Like, it shouldn't be something you need to do. Like, anything that you're doing, to me, if you're smoking weed, if you're loading up on nicotine, whatever it is you like to do, if you can't just stop it right now because it's time to, then to me you have an issue. Yeah. That's a very good point. I find the research on psychedelics helping with, like, clinical things, like some of the studies that have come out with, like, PTSD and helping people get past stuff, that's incredible. And they need to explore that to the farthest extent that they can because, you know, I think that a lot of the drugs used to combat depression and all that stuff can be very dangerous. Oh, yeah. I mean, we see what happens when people go off of SSRIs and stuff like that. You know, like, people go off Prozac and then, like, kill themselves. It's, like, insane. And, you know. Make a note. You got something. Sorry, I just stated a fact. Facts are dangerous. Exactly. Facts are dangerous. I got another fact to throw in on that one, too, with, like, the antidepressants. When they're having, how do I word this without getting in trouble? Any situation where someone has brought a weapon that things come out of in large groups, the person using said thing every single time has been on some form of an antidepressant or something. So we're always trying to pin it on them being this, that, and the other. I'm like, there's one common denominator, and that's listed as a side effect. Yeah. There's been some very crazy shit happen, and I think that a lot of the psychedelic research is very interesting. Like, there's a couple studies now where they dosed people, like, a couple of times, and they stopped, like, addictions and stuff like that. Yeah. Because, you know what? I mean, it has to do with transformatively. They see their life different, and they see themselves differently and all that sort of stuff. I think one of the things that, you know, like, a lot of people say, would you ever go take ayahuasca in, like, Peru? Yeah. And one of the reasons I don't want to do that is because I hear about people, like, I hear that people, like, rewires them, and it changes their mind on things. Yeah. Oh, yeah. But I like my life. Like, I don't want to come back from Peru and be like, I don't want to own a gym anymore. Yeah. Yeah. Right. Like, I like owning a gym. So I don't necessarily want to, like, hit Control-ALT-Delete on my life and, like, come back and be like, you know what? I just want to live in the bush. Yeah. Like, I want to sell my businesses and just, I'm like, I'm not, I kind of like my life, so I don't really need to go to Peru to do ayahuasca. But I get it. I watched the Aaron Rodgers documentary they just did. Well, not just did, but a year or so ago last week. And he's huge on that. And it was really interesting to see how it affected him and that changed his views on a lot of things in a better way. Because he was having a hard time with identifying with the fact that he was a football player. He didn't want people to know him as a football player. And essentially, by the end of this documentary, he's like, I don't know why I struggled with that. It's what I've always wanted to do. It's what I like to do the most. Now I'm perfectly fine with that's how people see me. You know, it's very interesting. The, I just saw someone put up shrooms. I had done those yearly for a while. And I will say on the mental side, it did help the first time just to realize how much nonsense I used to worry about. Yeah. And it was like literally the next day I woke up and I'm like, I felt like I was in office space. I'm like, I don't care. Right. You just walk around the guy you don't like. You don't even give those things attention anymore. You're like, eh, okay. Yeah. Yeah. I never actually like, you know, just to, not that it matters, but I never mentioned this at all on the show. But I like quit smoking weed like over a year ago. Mm-hmm. Completely. And I had like a bit of weed at Christmas time. And then I like, you know, I think I had a hit at like a concert I went to. But other than that, I like completely quit smoking weed for like a year. Yeah. And the interesting thing is that nothing changed. Yeah. So, and that was one of the reasons I quit. I was like, oh, I'm just going to quit smoking weed and I just wonder what will change. And nothing in my life changed. I still do all the same stuff at all the same time and manage all the same projects and get all the same stuff done. So, I don't know if it really means that my life didn't get better or my life wasn't affected negatively. I don't know. Right. Yeah. I don't know really what that means. But I think it's a good thing. I think if you were to quit, say, quit drinking or something and your life got radically better, then you really know you have like, you're doing too much of something. And usually if you get to a point where you need to quit drinking, you already know that your life's out of control. Right. A lot of times. You know what I mean? I was more like just curious. I was more like, I'm just going to quit smoking weed. Just see what happens. Same. So, nothing really changed. I'm going to tell you guys something. I don't know if, I don't think I've ever said any of this on the podcast before. Probably not going to blow your minds, but I might blow your minds. So, back years ago, you know how like we do a lot of like bodybuilding education and like we share all this information. We have the internet. There was a time that I would have, people would have seen me as kind of like the exact same thing, but with psychedelics. Right. Like back years ago. And to the point where like, and I forgot about this. When I was like 19, 18, I was trying to figure out how to set up a pirate radio station. And it's like, it totally tracks, you know what I mean? With where I'm at today. But yeah, it was something that I was like really into researching and experimenting with. But I'll say, you know, like Timothy Leary on one side of the fence back in the 60s. And like Ken Kesey and the Merry Pranksters were on the other side. So, Timothy Leary was all like, you know, at Harvard University and keeping things like very scientific. Where the Merry Pranksters were like setting up parties around the country in 1965. With like big barrels of Kool-Aid. And they're like, this is the Kool-Aid for the lions. And this is the Kool-Aid for the lambs. You can pick which one you want to drink from. And I'll say this. Through my experimentation, which this isn't the reason I got in recovery. That happened much later. I realized that most of my experiences were not productive. And that's because I wasn't in a productive setting. And I used them as a recreational compound. You know what I mean? It was because I wanted to take it. There was no intent or purpose behind it. And I do think that we are getting to a place now where it blows. Like if you were to tell me this stuff back in 96, 97, my mind would have been blown where we're at with psychedelics today. And I do think that there are some really potential good benefits to them. But I also think that you have to be in the right setting with the right intention and in the right mindset to begin with. I think that a lot of people are chasing an answer, trying to fix something. And they're desperate. And that sometimes those people are the ones that they've had issues with ayahuasca where it changes them for the worse. They go to do this experience and they come back and they're just never the same again. And the same thing with the other psychedelics. And I've seen that happen to a lot of people. I had one very positive experience with psychedelics. And I hadn't used them in a long time. And I lived in New Mexico. And I was dating this girl. And I knew that I needed to get out of this relationship. And out of New Mexico. Yeah. I love New Mexico. I was in Santa Fe. I was like, I got to get out of this relationship. And this hippie chick I knew from town had picked these mushrooms from the side of the mountain. And she's like, I have a freezer full of them. So I went to her place and she gave me some. And she said, now, only one stem and one cap because these are really strong. Okay. I was like, okay. Yeah, I got you. And I took these. And I left work like 9 p.m. at night. And I had to be to work at like 1 o'clock. No, excuse me, 6 o'clock the next evening. And that was the longest window I had off for the whole week. Working in photography, it was this back-to-back constant up all night. You know, basically sunrise photo shoots to, you know, developing film in the evening and then hitting the bar with everybody I worked with. Like just partying, working hard. Working hard and partying is hard. So anyway, I drove five hours. Got out of work at 9 p.m. I drove five hours down to White Sands, New Mexico. And I ended up sleeping in the back of my van, in an old van at the time. Didn't have anything back there, just like a sleeping bag. That was it. And I waited for the sun to come up. White Sands, New Mexico. Do you remember The Doors, the movie run? Oh, yeah. Do you remember the peyote trip they did? And it was in the desert. Yeah. That was in White Sands. It's made out of gypsum, that sand. So it's pure white, like the color of talcum. It's made the same thing they used to make, talcum powder. So it's literally like this white rolling. It's so white that the sky looks purple when it's blue. And that's not on psychedelics, right? Right. So the sun's coming up and I sit in White Sands and I climb up to the top of this hill and I get the mushrooms out. And I eat two stems and two caps. She said, I don't just eat one, you know. Pull the running gulman. And I sat there and I waited for a sign, you know. And I waited and I waited. And eventually this crow flew around me and it landed on a hill two hills away from me. And I said, okay, well, there's my message. I need to walk that direction. So I started walking that direction and I found a mountain on the horizon. Now, mind you, they had these big poles that were like 20 foot tall and bright colored so that you could follow them out into the desert. This path, there was no poles. So I'm literally walking straight out into the desert looking at these two mountains on the horizon and trying to go that path. And I thought to myself, well, as long as the wind doesn't pick up, I can follow my footsteps back, you know. So I walk and I walk and I walk and it got really hot. And I had a poncho and my camel back and a bottle of Gatorade and that was it. And like nothing ever happened. Nothing came to me. There was no like definitive moment. And I finally gave up. And I was semi-heat stroked. I turned around and I started walking back. And I was walking literally for hours and hours. And I realized that on my walk back that my path wasn't the straight line I thought it was. I realized that there was like this big hill. So I walked around it. Or there was this like little shrub that I wanted to see. So I walked over there and I started seeing that like, you know what? Maybe the path that I walk in life isn't the path that I intended. It's just the way that things happen to go. Life takes you in these different directions. But I get to where I need to be. And somehow in having that realization, I came back and I broke up with that girl. And I never had any like remorse or anything. I just I was struggling with breaking up with her for a long time. I did it. Cut it clean. And I moved on. And it was never a problem since. Like that was it. And I had a stroke too. Like major. And he didn't die in the desert, which is good. Yeah. Thankfully, the wind didn't pick up and I was able to follow my path back. But that was the only time that I had like a positive experience. That's interesting. Sorry. Sorry for the. No, no. That's a great story. I love that. I love how the path, seeing your path and everything. Yeah. It was crazy out there, man. When you get far out in the desert by yourself, you start seeing. And I'm not talking about like visually seeing things. Like there's just shit out there. Like I brought back like because it was a missile testing range too. I found like pieces of shrapnel that were embedded with like melted to sand and stuff. It was. It was strange, man. That's where they tested like the first time to bomb back years ago. These are all signs that I need to get back to the road. Yeah. It was crazy, man. It was good. Sorry. That was it. That was great. No, no. That's great stuff. That's great stuff. So we go back to bodybuilding stuff after that. Sure. All right. Can you? Can you? Yeah. Can we have to do that? All right. Question for the show. And he posted it on our show. He said, okay, let me know how much HGH should you take for muscle growth? Thank you. Well, I mean, let's assume it's really good GH. I mean, how much do you take for muscle growth? I mean, you need at least three or four IUs a day, I think. I mean, anything less than that is kind of just like you're in the longevity HRT zone if you're doing one or two a day, I think. I mean, that's just a meathead in me. I don't have a study, but I'm just thinking from personal experience, like three or four a day is enough to help on paper. Does that make sense? Yeah. I can tell you that for me, when Chris would start, we do four like all year. Yeah. And then during prep, he would kick it up. Six, eight was like our peak. And at eight, I would be losing fat and not losing weight. Yeah. And it was, I mean, there were two preps I had where my lowest weight during the prep was like eight weeks out. And my weight on stage was five to 10 pounds heavier than that. Completely peeled. I always had sock rings on like over four. If I had over four, I use a GH. I always knew I had water because I would have like pretty deep sock rings all the time. Did you get like the carpal tunnel and stuff from it? No, I know other guys that would really complain about that, but mine was mostly sock rings. And then I dropped the GH and like within a week, I'd be like ankles would be dry. Yep. Yeah. Same. But I didn't have the sock rings because I wear short socks. You gotta just get sock rings down by the short socks. Oh, this is terrible. Jennifer in the live stream. She says, what do you say to someone when it's your offseason and someone comes up to you and asks you if you're pregnant? LOL. Yes, this just happened. Oh, it used to happen to me all the time at three 20. Hey, bro, you pregnant? Oh, wait. Just let them know. I just said pizza hut. Yeah. I'm not pregnant, but I'm in just as much pain. Right. I don't think you're supposed to ask a woman if she's pregnant ever. You know what I mean? No. Ever. Unless she tells you that you're pregnant. Then you follow up with like how long. My first wife's mother had done that in front of me at least two or three times to someone who wasn't pregnant. I'm like, ooh, how do you make that mistake once and then go, this is a question I'm going to keep asking people that are fat. I don't know. I've been talking. I've run into people that I haven't seen for a long time and they're clearly pregnant. You don't say. Like eight months. Ron's like, don't say anything. And I just ignore it like it's not even a thing. I see their face is all swollen and their hands, their rings are squishing, their fingers, and they're like, hey, Ron, how are you doing? I haven't seen it before. I'm like, hey, what's new? How's it going? Don't look down. How's the husband doing? Oh, good. His company's doing well. Good to see you. Yeah. So what's new? And then they'll go, well. And I'll go, what? I'm not doing it. I'm not doing it. Like I don't fall for that trap, you know? Well, I've kind of, you know, I have been working out lately. I don't know what they're going to say. I just pretend I don't notice. That's funny. They have to say. He sees a foot kicking and he's like, still not sure. I'm 37 weeks pregnant. I'm like, really? Yeah. You look great. My mom told me I did that when she was pregnant with my sister that we were in the line at the grocery store and I'm learning as like a two, three-year-old kid like what being pregnant is. And I said, mom, look, that lady's pregnant too. And she was just like a real obese woman. Oh, that's it. Yeah. I had a friend that went to the Olympia one year and she's a huge bodybuilding fan. She's going around to everybody at the Meet the Olympians with her son. Yeah. She went up to one of the female favorites of hers and her son goes, why do you sound like a man? Oh. And she's like, oh. Kids. Kids just so honest. Just bam. I love how kids. She's like, I just grabbed his hand and we just left the table. I love how kids haven't learned to lie yet. You know what I mean? So kids haven't learned to like. Yeah. Straight to your face. Oh, I was like, that was cozy. She goes, yeah, I didn't get that autograph. We just walked away. Yeah. Yeah. On that note. Hey, when we're talking about psychedelics and all that, somebody said my grandma accidentally had weed gummies at Christmas one year. It was her best Christmas ever. Oh, that's amazing. I had someone give me some weed cookies and I'm not a big, like I was never an eat weed guy just because it's such a commitment. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Like it's an eight hour show. It's an eight hour situation, right? Like it's just, I just wasn't into it. You know what I mean? So someone gave me some weed cookies and they actually sat in the fridge for a while. And I remember I came home and Emily was on the couch and she's like sitting there like this. She's like, I ate one of those cookies. And you're like, what cookies? Cause they're spinning. Yeah. She's like one of the cookies in your drawer where you keep your junk food. And she's like, that's a weed cookie, isn't it? And I'm like, how long ago did you eat it? She's like about 45 minutes ago. And I'm like, yeah. And she goes, how strong is it? I'm like, I don't know. Buckle up. I didn't eat any of them. They've been in there for months. At least that might make them weaker or something, you know? She was kind of mad, but laughing. She's like, fuck, fuck. I was going to do stuff. And I was like, you're not doing anything now. And this is Emily. She literally consumes zero drugs or alcohol ever, right? She's just straight at it almost. Yeah. Just completely zero tolerance for any of that. Just like a sledgehammer. You remember Jake Wilson I used to train with? He's a pro. So he had the same thing happen, but he went to a party and there was a cake. And he really enjoyed the icing. So he had like smashed extra icing on his. And he's eating it. And the lady who made it's like, so all of the elements are in the icing. You know, old school Hollywood buffet. He got couch locked. He was literally just sitting on the couch. Couldn't stand up. Literally. Literally. He's like, I was just locked. He goes, I couldn't get up. I couldn't move. What do you mean, Hollywood buffet? You mean drunk during the food? Well, what else does that mean? I don't know what that's supposed to mean. Anyone who's seen the studio will get that. What a great scene was that, eh, Scott? That was amazing, man. The good news is Scott's cookies have not been, or I mean, Ron's cookies have not been touched since. And they're just normal cookies. Yeah, at this point. Yeah. You can eat them all now. Yeah. Do you guys remember there was a story of the couple that called the 911? Yes. And it turned out that they were cops. They got them from the weed from the evidence locker. Oh, my God. God. I think I'm dead. Yeah, I think I'm dying. I think I'm dead. We're going to get demonetized for that, but whatever. And then in the middle of that, he's like, what's the score of the Red Wings game? Yeah. Sometimes you need to know. Oh, man. And then the girl on the phone's like, I think you could just wait this out. Yeah. Like, you should be able to just wait. I think I need an ambulance. Yeah. So they were cops. They got that weed from the evidence locker, and they got in some big trouble for that one. They called themselves in, basically. So that's on them. Yeah. Yeah. But, you know, come on. You get zero experience with weed, and you're going to bake what? You know, they probably stole, like, ounces of weed, and they baked them into a tray of brownies. Yeah. It serves you right. Who is this melon head's last comment, Ron? How do you say that guy's name? Oh, Dan Fedelock. He just had a typo there. Oh, okay. Dan Fedelock? Maybe see Dan Fedelock. Well, Dan Fedelock's an old training partner of mine. You're kidding me. Yeah. He won the Canadas in 04. He was a great bodybuilder. How did he spell his name? I don't know. I don't know what he's doing now. Well, I just misspelled it. It's F-E-D-E-L-U-K. Fedelock. E-U-K. Yeah. Great bodybuilder. Yeah? Was he a good poser or something? Yeah. He did a cool guest posing where he painted himself red like a demon. Oh. And that was at the 2006 Nationals in Saskatoon, where I actually got second in FUAD 1. Oh, you're kidding me. And Dan Fedelock was a guest poser at that show. All right. And so, yeah, I did see that routine because I was at that show in the super heavyweights. I don't see it showing up here. I was going to try to grab it if I could. I do see a picture of him. Big bald dude. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I don't remember when he shaved his head, but yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Good looking bodybuilder for sure. Yeah. He was good. I think that was about all the questions that we had lined up here, guys, by the way. It's pretty locked and loaded there. I had thrown a couple in. Let me see something real quick. I asked JetSheetBT for some just to see what it came up with. And I thought this one was decent. Looking back at legends like Doreen Yates or Ronnie Coleman, would their success translate today or would their all-out training style be considered reckless by current standards? Would their all-out training styles be considered reckless by current standards? No, they showed results. And I think that's what... I don't know. They showed that path. Yeah. People are attached in... What's in vogue is kind of like the intense thing happening now for that crowd. I'm thinking of how people look at JP. And in 10 years, there will be people who will be like, I can't believe JP used to train like that when we know so much more now. You know what I mean? Right. Like, there will be that crowd. Just like there was about Doreen. Just like the Doreen crowd would be like, oh, remember the way Arnold trained? Four hours a day. You know what I mean? Right. Yeah. I feel like that's been turned up a little more by bodybuilders who believe in just going to the gym and training hard. I think I don't... Like, in the gym, I don't see a bunch of kids training for reps and reserve. I don't hear a bunch of chatter about all these things. And it seems as though it's being highlighted more than it actually is. That's the thing about the noise. The noise is louder than it's actually... You know what I mean? It's amplified falsely. Yep. I think if our current Mr. Olympia... Like, if Samson was putting up training videos where he lifted like Ronnie, right? The same style as Ronnie. Mm-hmm. Then people would just... There'd just be more people lifting like that. They wouldn't be criticizing it. There'd just be more people lifting like that. Because whoever is Mr. Olympia always dictated a certain style of training. Like, when Dorian was Mr. Olympia, everyone was trying the Dorian split. And when Ronnie was Mr. Olympia, everybody was squatting and deadlifting and doing lunges. Yeah. I remember it. I saw it happen. Nobody was barbell lunging during the 90s. Yeah. Then everyone was. And then all of a sudden, Ronnie wins the Olympia and his video comes out. And then everybody's parking lot lunging. It was just like... It's just how it is. So it would just... It wouldn't be criticized. It would just be emulated. Yeah. I also think the thing that gets thrown off now is... Say you come into bodybuilding now. Okay? And you follow James Hollingshead. And you watched him train. You go, this is how James became what he is. But it's not. Like, James talked about that. Like, there's no reason for him to do an eight-plate squat anymore. He doesn't need to do that. He's already done it. Now the risk-to-reward ratio doesn't match up. No. Right. He's older. Things will break. But back then, it was needed. So I think sometimes you watch people and you... If you see them now and don't know how they got here, you just assume this is what they've always done. You know what I mean? I mean, same. Like, we've talked about this before, Ron. People are like, Jay doesn't train heavy. I'm like, I've seen Jay incline 470 before in front of me. Right. Like, what are you talking about? You saw him do that in person, huh? Yeah. Like, it's like, no. He used to train heavy as hell. And then he didn't need more muscle mass. He had to change the way he trained. He was getting older. You got to look into those types of things. So you just can't do that. And I think that's where the carryover kind of gets lost in some of these. Because the question mark is, well, how did they train when they're where you are to become where they are now? Yeah. You know, how did they eat versus now and then? You know, same thing. I mean, a lot of these guys have their size. They're not getting as heavy in the offseason. They don't need to. But they used to. Right. You know? Yeah. Yeah. Or let's see here that DNFM was do not fucking miss. Yeah. Okay. That makes sense, Eric. That's JP's pre-workout. Oh, okay. Okay. I like it. Yeah. See, I thought it was like, yeah, like 1,3-DMA or something. You were looking for like an ingredient. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Something I didn't know about the bodybuilding chemists we're making. Yeah. Is that like, what was it? What was that 1,3-dimethyl? Yeah. So I figured that it was going to be a conversation like, yeah, so we took 1,3-DMA and we moved one molecule from the seventh position. Yeah. Exactly. There was a lot of that in the early 2000s. Yeah. A lot of that molecular tweaking. Yeah. No, it's completely illegal. And it works twice as good. Remember the FDA used to like, because they would target exact things. They're like, oh, cool. We'll just change a little bit. Now it's legal. Just move the carbon. Move the carbon. Then they kind of blanketed it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Just get in front of this. That was solid. I had a question that I really liked. What's that? That I got to hit you guys with. I had two. What is one thing you've learned from Scott and one thing you've learned from Dusty? That was asked of me on my question box. So I thought I would present that. I know what you learned from Scott. So I had time to think about this. You guys didn't really have time to think about this. So I'll go first. The joke was that I've learned from Scott is stay strapped or get clapped. But actually, sort of both of you guys, but mainly Scott, is one of the things I really respect about you, Scott, is that you're evidence that you can reinvent yourself. Hmm. Hmm. And you can completely change your life. And you can reinvent your life. Okay. More than once. Yeah. And you're not ever stuck in a place. You can completely leave that place behind. And you can move on and create a completely new life. Huh. And you can find new passion. And you can move in a new direction. Because your story is very inspiring. Wow. And I mean, for those of you who didn't see the Dave Tate interview, it was mind-boggling to me. And so that was something that I've learned from you and that I really respect about you. So that's one thing I've learned from you. And then Dusty, too, is similar. But, you know, Dusty, I've learned that, you know, you can stop doing bad habits and terrible things. They weren't terrible. They were fun. No. One thing I've learned from Dusty, Dusty, you're very, like, very, very, like, this is what I'm doing. Huh. Mm-hmm. And you do not give a fuck about what other people suggest. Or, like, Dusty does his own life. Dusty's life is created by Dusty. He is the curator of his existence. And it's great because I think about it sometimes, like, oh, what should I do with this? What should I do with that? And I think, well, what would Dusty do? I've actually thought that. What would Dusty do? Well, he would do the thing he wants to do the way he wants to do it. Yeah. I'm like, oh, why don't I just do that? And that doesn't mean that he's close-minded to listening to ideas. No, no, no. You know what I mean? It's just that he's taken many of them into account already. Yeah. He just doesn't, Dusty doesn't drag his feet. You know, some people are indecisive. And they're like, well, this one friend said this, and this one friend said this. And then six months later, they haven't made a decision. Yeah. That's not Dusty. Dusty's like, I'm selling my house and I'm moving. Just bought a house today. Yeah. Three days later. Just bought the house next to it. Yeah. I'm like, oh, okay. Yeah. I'll be able to do the podcast. Just let you know. We don't have internet until, you know, whatever. Tomorrow. Yeah, yeah. Dusty's very decisive and he pulls the trigger on things without dragging his feet or wasting time. And that was before the death as well. But since the death, you've been very decisive as to what you want out of life and what you expect from other people if they want to be in your life. Yeah. Which is also a great thing because some people don't have a standard that they hold other people in their lives to. You know what I mean? And they waste time letting other people waste their time. Right? Dusty doesn't let anyone waste his time. You're either in or you're out. I'm doing this. This is my life. On or out. Like, the train's leaving. And so I respect that. So those are two things I learned from you guys. Yeah. I hope you like them. I hope you like those. I appreciate that. We're stuck with them either way because that's it. Yeah. Because we're live. Yeah. I was going to have Scott edit this one real quick and give you a little, what about this option? Yeah. Hey, I've got one that I'm going to apply to both of you guys is that you, with the podcast, that getting to know you guys, we just get in, we get it done. We make the best of it, no matter what the situation is. And I've mentioned that before, like the first time that we sat down to do the live podcast, I think we all kind of looked at each other and we're like, we're not sure how this is going to go, but we're going to make this work. And it's going to improve, you know? And I think that there's no pressure because I have podcasts with some people where it's like, everything's like, oh, fuck, it's on us if we don't do this right. And like you guys just are like, well, we'll just make it, you know, we'll just do it. And we'll, it'll be, it'll be what it is, you know? And we can accept that. Yeah. I've gotten that from both of you guys. And I feel like that that's rubbed off on me over the years that I've become more laid back to a degree in the way that I do things because of that. I think chasing perfection prevents people from getting a lot of stuff done. Yeah. Oh, yeah. And that doesn't mean that you shouldn't try to be perfect. But if it's going to paralyze you. Yeah. Then you're never going to move forward. And a lot of times, like, like I think of some of my favorite bands and they'll talk about their first album. They hate their first album. It might be your favorite one, but they're like, oh, God, the guitar solos are terrible. We had one day to lay them down and the drums sound horrible. We had a week and we were running out of money and we just had to get it done and push it and punch it out. Exactly. And, you know, a lot of times the things that you're worried about, no one else gives a shit. Like with the reactions. Sometimes with the reactions, like we just kind of took a leap and just got into it. And I didn't know how it was going to go. You guys didn't know how it was going to go. And I think it's turned out really good, you know? Yeah. No, it's definitely. I was going to say that one of the big things that I've seen. I think Scott cheated, by the way. He did a two for one. Yeah, he did. We're going to let it slide. I would say the big thing that I've seen from Ron is, and I know this, but it's really driven home because I'm around enough, is the importance of relationships. And I'm not talking about, I mean, we're talking, it could be a five minute thing. Ron has a Rolodex of people who could reach out to him at any point, whether it's for a business opportunity or just information, whatever, because he takes the time to really like invest in talking to people. Yeah. You know, I told that story about what happened when we were in Germany. That's all the time, you know? And I think the thing that I kind of drove home with that is that's in the importance of being at your best all the time with these first impressions and things like that. Like that guy we saw, he met him once. And somehow in that timeline, enough was laid there where that guy took a little note in his head and was like, I need to know this person, you know, and kept an eye. And I think that that's something that, you know, a lot of us and myself definitely included is where sometimes you're like, I don't really feel like talking right now. And you just kind of shuffle to the left, skip that situation. And you don't know how many of those you've passed up that could be not just beneficial for you, but, you know, I mean, as cheesy as it sounds, it could be like for the world. You know, those relationships are enormous. And I think the big thing with Scott kind of along the lines with what Ron said was it's not just the evolution from way back in the day, but, I mean, the evolution that's taken place since we've done this show. You know, Scott was very, when we started Scott, you were very, you wanted to make sure that the viewers were okay with what you had to say. Yeah. And that's kind of part of what I was saying, too, about getting from you guys. Sometimes you didn't want to weigh in. And now it's the opposite. I think you've realized that just the same reason we brought, we had Scott, for those of you guys who haven't been with us a long time, Scott did, we just convinced him to come into an episode. We're like, yeah, you're in today and you're not going to, because he was behind the scenes. It was just Ron and I. And as soon as we hung up, Ron or I, one of us reached out to the other one and we're like, we're never going back because it was just so much easier. And as you've gotten, you know, as I say, you got off the fence with everything. Yeah. You're just like, this is how I see it. And I don't think you can benefit people when you were trying to decide what they want to hear, possibly. Yeah. And, you know, there's a lot more voice in that. So when I watched that, I think that showed that you are somebody who's very aware of where you're at now and where you're like, you know what, I'm fine with who I am. So I'm just going to roll it out there. And I think a lot of people have responded. And that's why when Ron and I do expos and you're not there, people are like disappointed. They're like, where's Scott? I'm like, ah, he didn't come. They're like, what? And I almost am like, yep, just stuck with us. Sorry about that. Dusty, that's what I'm saying. I feel like hanging out with you guys that that's rubbed off on me. So there's that. So I owe that to you guys. You know, it's funny. I watched the thing. I wanted to bring this up on the show anyways. But Nikki got me completely addicted to the podcast with Chris Willis. Yes. Oh, yeah. Modern Wisdom. Modern Wisdom. So I listen to that all the time. He's a great guy. And he had a great quote actually from Alex. And he said, and this is something I think everyone who's listening should think about, where he said, Alex was saying, I thought of something the other day. He said, from today on, all the wealth I accumulate, all the things I can create over the next 20 years, when I get there, I'd give it all back to have the health and the ability to do it like I did 20 years ago. And he said, that's when I realized that the richest time of my life is right now. And I think about that, like just dealing with bodybuilding and stuff. I'm like, you know, when you go to the gym, when you're young and you're trying to make a dollar or whatever you're doing, don't lose track of the fact that you're living possibly one of the best times of your life right then. Like I never thought about how will my body feel? What will this do? Is my knee going to be fine today? You look back, you're like, dude, that was the best time. Yeah. You know, so I find that all very interesting. So, and that same thing could be said now from 20 years from now and the same thing 20 years from then. You know what I mean? So, I think a lot of people are living for tomorrow, not realizing that today is actually probably the best moment. Right. Chris Willicks had a great quote that I just posted to my story, actually. He said, imagine that someone is watching your life as a movie. Okay. Oh, I saw that. That's great. And right now, at this point in time in the movie, what are they screaming at the screen? Dump the girlfriend. Like, you need to quit that job or the killer's in the basement. Dump the girlfriend. Or, don't eat that, it's poisonous. Like, what are they screaming at the screen? Yeah. Like, it's so obvious. The guy who's backstabbing you is your boss. Right. Yeah. Like, and just try to stop and think about that. And nine times out of ten, you already know what they're screaming at the screen. Yep. Like, you need to quit doing that. Yeah. Or you need to start taking care of yourself. Yeah. Like, whatever. Whatever it is. Wake up earlier, you know, or whatever. Imagine someone's watching your life as a movie, and right now in the movie, they're screaming something at the screen. What is it? And I thought that was like, whoa, that's a good one. I like that. Yeah. On the opposite, when I used, before I reformed myself, I used to say, live a life writing a book about. And it wasn't a book that had a happy ending. But it was an interesting one. Let me tell you. Right. What Not to Do by Scott McNally. Yeah, exactly. Exactly. Yeah. That was the beat poets thing. You know, the beatniks. Like, William Burroughs and Ken Kesey. Or, excuse me, who was I thinking? Ginsburg and all those guys. They were all into the idea of that art was life. So they lived their lives. And that was what you wrote about, you know? Right. Yeah. Makes sense. Yes. It's funny. You've mentioned Burroughs and Terrence McKenna in the same podcast. Yeah, we got a little heavy in this one. No, it was good. It's back to back. I just want you to know. I know both those guys. I don't think I mentioned Terrence McKenna. I think. Oh, who did you mention earlier? You talked about psychedelics. I did say Ken Kesey in The Merry Pranksters. And then I said, oh, who was it? Now his name's on the tip of my tongue. Oh. Timothy Leary. Timothy Leary. Yeah. That's what you mentioned. Timothy Leary. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. They had it all planned out where you used like, like you came in and you had like IV medications. And before you were administered the dose, they'd give you like a sedative so that you were relaxed. And then they'd give you an amphetamine so you were relaxed but up. And then they would, 45 minutes later, then you got the dose versus these other guys had a big garbage can full of Kool-Aid and dumped the stuff into it. Drink as much as you'd like. That's wild. That's wild. I met Ken Kesey. He was in Ann Arbor at a book signing. And they had the further bust. It was spelled F-U-T-H-U-R. And it was like their movement to think further. The bust was like the original hippie bust painted all the colors on the outside and painted all the colors on the inside. They had a PA system on the inside to blast what was going on to the outside. And then they had a PA system on the outside to blast what was going from the outside to the inside. And it was Neil Cassidy who was one of the beatniks. He drove the bus. He was like kind of a pretty crazy guy. They all had pretty rough lives. You know what I mean? Right. In the end. But Ken Kesey was still around back in the 90s when I met him. That's wild. There's an old – there's a clutch song that has a lyric that I always laughed. And I won't tell you the whole lyric. But the one line is, Be Leary of Timothy. And most people don't get that line as kind of a little flip of the name, right? Be Leary of Timothy. That's the one line I'm always laughing when I hear it. You know? Yeah. Crazy guys. Crazy guys. Hey. Drink the Kool-Aid. Okay. Is that it? We're going to wrap that? Wrap it up. We will monetize this one as drug-related content, entertainment, and educational. With some minor violence. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. We don't say that. Okay. We don't say that. I was going to say something before – I was going to say something before we finished. Oh. I was going to say one thing about TV. Let's say it. Good. So we all know the Tyler Sheridan shows, right? Yes. Yellowstone, Landman, Lioness. Yep. I'm watching that now. Lioness is good. Yeah. We got right into it. Second season? Yep. How about the ending of that first season, eh? Yes. That fight in the kitchen? Oh, that's fantastic. Lioness? Lioness. Yeah. Great one. I haven't seen that. Oh, that's good. It's solid. Cole Kidman's in it. But it's – They didn't waste any money on actors. I can tell you that. Okay. It's good. I like the Cole Kidman. Tyler Sheridan takes that formula and he drops it on Yellowstone. Oh. It's ranches, right? It's like Sons of Anarchy but ranches. Yeah. That's exactly what that was. He just drops it on the oil industry and you get Landman. Okay. And then he just drops it on Lioness and it's the special forces. Oh. Anti-terrorism. So it's all the same characters. You got like this character who's kind of like that and this character who's kind of like that. And it just – it's the same formula. It's just – he's just – He's smart. It's always working. Formula that works. You know, episode one takes you here. There's a bit of a – you know, episode three you get a big punch. Like it's a formula, a total formula. And we just finished season two. It was probably technically the worst one but it was fun. It was total junk TV. But we watched Tulsa King with Sylvester Stallone. Okay. And it's kind of the same Tyler Sheridan formula but it's dropped on kind of these gangster mob guys that are running a weed business. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I like that one. So it's been fun. But it was fun seeing Stallone the whole time. Like every couple of episodes, Emily will look at me and go, I can't believe he's 76. Yeah. She just scratched his name in the list of five. But the thing about Stallone that's impressive in Tulsa King, I mean, it's not like – you know, he's got a T-shirt on sometimes and he looks like great. Yeah. Right? But it's like his posture and how he moves. Yeah. Like he walks like he's 50. Yeah. You know what I mean? Chest up, walks, you know, carries himself, moving around. And you're just like, Jesus, because her uncle's the same age. Yeah. And she's just like, I can't believe that he's 75. And then, of course, you know, he's banging chicks. Yeah. And you're just like dying laughing. It's pretty funny. But Stallone's done well. Done well. Four units a day, year round. Four units a day. Yeah, for sure. Four IU and some kettlebells, some barbells. Yes. Yeah. All that. And a Costco membership. Little TRT, Costco membership. Dusty knows the deal. Okay. So, anyways, anyone who wants to, anyone who enjoys the Taylor Sheridan formula, there's four shows for you. And now we got the Mayor of Kingstown. We might watch the Mayor of Kingstown. So good. Which is the same formula, but it's dropped on kind of the prison industry. That one is fantastic. Right. Jeremy Reiner is awesome. Jeremy Reiner in it. Yeah. So, anyways, that's our thing. Victoria, if you're watching, write these down. Okay. Are we wrapping? We're wrapping. Okay. Thanks, everybody, for watching. Remember, like, share, subscribe, comment, and... Ring the bell. Yes. Remember, Iammute.com. Get your isosurge. Get your all in. Everyone should get on the gear. You can go on the website, order any supplements that you need, and you don't have to leave the house. You don't have to do anything. They come right to your door. You'd be amazed how fast they show up. People quite often go, I got my stuff already. That's super fast. So, just give it a try. If you're like, Dusty and Big Ron are your codes, use them, abuse them. Please abuse them. Okay. Patreon. Thanks, everyone. Think of everybody from Patreon. And I'll get on the t-shirts for Think Big. I've got the link to that below. And check this shirt out. I know you guys saw it last time I wore it, but you can get these at the West Coast Iron website. Right, Ron? Yes. That one's not on the website yet, but it's coming. Okay. Okay. But you can get other ones. Yeah. Go to the West Coast Iron website. We've got some shirts up. We've got lots of cool stuff. We've got the Death Row Records one. Oh, that's a cool one. I love that one. But it's West Coast Iron. Yeah. We've got that one. We've got the weed shirt, the West Coast Iron, but with the pot leaf on it. Yeah. All you 420s, go check that out. So, you'll love that stuff. Get a hoodie, whatever. Okay. Thanks, everyone. Remember, it's just bodybuilding. Thanks, Paul. Thanks, Paul. Thank you.