 I go, I go to the car show, I go to lots of car shows, and now if I had all Ferraris there, and I've got to judge the best Ferrari, that's easy because okay, this one has a nicer interior, this paint job's better, this paint job's better, this paint job's better, this, you know, but they're all the same car, now if I go to a car show and there's a Ferrari, a Lamborghini, a Bugatti, a McLaren, I'm like, they're all great cars, it's only going to be my opinion on what I think is the best, that's what bodybuilding is like, it's like a car show where you've got all these top supercars, and then it's your preference on which one you like. It's just bodybuilding, it's just bodybuilding, I'm Big Ron Parlow, I'm Big Ron Parlow, with Dusty Hanshaw, and the producer Scott McNally, remember to like, share, subscribe, comment, and... Ring the bell. Yes, ring the bell, and what else, there we go, hype button, of course. Remember, I am mutant.com, go to I am mutant.com, get your hardcore ISO, get your MindFK, your big greens, and everyone should get on the gear. Big Ron and Dusty are your codes. Today, we are going to try not to break the internet, but we've got, we've got Lee Priest on, man, thank you so much for joining us. Try not to lose your show, you mean? Yeah, yeah, well I'm going to say ahead of time, it's a pleasure to have you on. That's good, yeah. We're finishing with a band. In case I do, go to Rumble, we're going to put the show on Rumble. We'll put that link in here. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. So, Lee, first of all, we've got to say, we get a kick out of the fact that you actually watch the show, because you show up on the live chats, and I don't know if that's just because there's nothing going on at that hour of your Australian life, and that we're the only people on, but it's nice to know you're in the chat sometimes, and always contributing important information to better everyone. I wouldn't go that far. Now we know you fucking mind. I just come in there and put fucking bullshit in there to make it, you know? Well, hey, we need that. You know, I think sometimes we all take, that's why we call the show It's Just Bodybuilding. It's not like it's just bodybuilding. It's like, it's just bodybuilding, right? Definitely. It's like, don't overthink it, you bros, science dumb cunts. Fuck. Yeah, no. Just go lift some weights. How basic can it be? You lift weights up, you put it down. And it's like, you want to gain weight. Lee, Lee, I want to bulk up. What should I eat? Everything, you fucking dickhead. Just go fucking eat. How hard is it? I want to lose weight. What should I do? Eat clean. It's not hard. Do some cardio. It's like, people try and overthink such a basic sport when it comes to training, when it comes to dieting and everything. It's like, it's not rocket science. It's like, just stick to the basics. And, you know, people say, oh, you know, bro science, it says this. Look, I can say that in the book. But in reality, if you go to the gym and you're doing an exercise, if you're using pretty good form and you're feeling it and you're getting a great pump, who's to say that's wrong? If it's working, fucking do it. Some skinny little fucking dickhead sitting in his room going, what a bro science says. They're like those fucking vegetarians that look like they've got stage four cancer. It's like, how are you eating a fucking steak? They never look healthy, do they? They don't look healthy. No, there's a lot of pale vegans. I'll say that. Yeah. Very, very, very sickly looking, isn't it? Very sickly looking. Yeah. Yeah. You can be pale like me as long as you're not skinny. Right. I'm speaking of speaking of pale. I just saw the latest shit on the thing with that. I like Christopher Nolan movies, but now they're using that black actress of Helen of Troy. Right. That's right. Okay. It's like, I don't care. Look, if it's a made up character, change into a man, a woman, a fucking goat. I don't care. But if it's someone who's actually in history, imagine fucking the outcry if we had Liam Neeson play Malcolm X. Come on. If this black woman, because Helen of Troy was described as this beautiful woman, pale skin, blah, blah, blah. If this black woman was Helen of Troy, there wouldn't have been a fucking war. They would have said, fucking keep her. We don't want it. I'll have to brush up on my Helen of Troy. I'm not up on that. I can't remember the date. She wasn't black. Let's put it that way. It's like having a Japanese Jesus. It would be. It would be. That'd be actually funny, wouldn't it? Actually, I'd watch that movie. That'd be funny. Everyone there on the mountain would be like, what did he say? And we're in trouble. Okay. So, Lee, we got lots. You can make fun of Christians. That's when we get into the Islamic faith, you get in trouble. Right. Well, yeah. Well, you're in Australia right now. You got a lot going on down there, don't you? Oh, yeah. Same as America. Same as America. You know, I remember the good old days when they just let me in. I know. Isn't that weird? You can't get into Australia if you've got a criminal record, but this country was built on fucking convicts and criminals. Right. Right. Well, I can get in. I don't have a record. I'm just saying. They might question what's on my phone. Oh. I don't know what's going on there. I think they're doing a bit. They just look younger than what they really are. That's all. Yeah. There it is. I'm not sending this link to my family. So, I got to tell a quick story. I've told it before. Not like we have to start here, but you were the guest poser at my first show. Oh, yeah. Which is very weird because I didn't guest pose much because I was too busy bulking up, getting fat. I didn't like the guest pose. Right. Right. And I remember they flew you to Edmonton, Alberta for the 97 Northerns. And I just happened to have gotten back from my first year in Australia. So, I was proudly wearing this Gold Coast gym jacket. And I show up and I didn't know you were going to be there. And all of a sudden, I'm like, Lee Priest is here. So, I remember showing you my jacket and you were like, I've trained at that gym. Like, a lot. And we talked about it and you had a, it was the classic era of the Superman t-shirt. You had a Superman t-shirt on and you were in really good shape. I can't remember. This would have been in the springtime. Must have been, because was it like getting before, getting ready for the Olympia or just after? It would have been like May of 97. It would have been springtime. But you were in great, you were in great shape. Yeah. I remember. 97, I did the Iron Man and the Arnold. Yeah. So, you would have done those. I would have decided. I'd probably just done them or something. Yeah. Because it's very weird I'd be in shape. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You were in great shape. Yeah. Round is a shape. Exactly. Yeah. No, you were in great shape. Yeah. Body of a god. The god is good, but it doesn't matter. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You were in great shape and blew everybody away. But I remember you were that experience that a lot of young bodybuilders have when they meet a pro and you had like a big hoodie on. Mm-hmm. And I remember thinking, oh, like, and like, you know, you're a shorter guy. And I remember thinking, oh, he's not that big. Like, you know, general volume of space, right? Mm-hmm. Like, he's not that big of a guy. And then you took your hoodie off and just had your Superman t-shirt on. And everyone was like, oh, fuck. And it was like, you know, it was, it was, you know, like a lot of bodybuilders need that lesson, right? Exactly. And so that was, that was good. That was, it was, it was good. But you were cool. You talked to everybody, hung out, like really chill. That's why you shouldn't judge bodybuilders backstage when it's cold and they're dehydrated, okay? Right, right. Never judge a man when it's cold. That's a big goal. And your legs. Your legs always make it look smaller anyway. I was in the pool. But if you've got like a 30-inch quad and this thing's in the middle and you've got 30-inch quads, it's not going to look big. You know, if you've got like 12-inch quads like most men do, of course it's going to look bigger. So shut up. It's one of the universe's greatest injustices, Lee. It is. It is. Yes. But I was going to ask you, you said you didn't guest pose a lot, but I wanted to ask you like, I know you're a crazy story guy. You've got a lot of stories. But what's the best you were ever treated at a guest posing? Did you ever go anywhere back in those days? Because those are the guest posing days. Every show had a guest poser. Every promoter had to fight somebody. I can't remember his name. I know he was on the fire department in Hawaii. And I went there a couple of times. The guy that used to run the Hawaiian show. Okay. Back in the 90s it would have been. Yeah. I'm not sure if he ran the Gold's Gym as well. But I know he was on the fire department. That was pretty good. But I never did much because Ed Connors would get mad. He's like, Lee, you could be making so much money like Jay Cutler. I'm like, Ed, I said, if I've got a roof over my head, food on the table, I can go to the gym and train. Look, I've never been money business orientated. Me, I'm just, if I've got enough to get by and I'm comfortable, that's it. I don't need more because I'd have friends that were millionaires. I had new friends that were actors and some were down to earth, but some just wanted money, money, money, but they're so stressed out working and doing this. You could never enjoy it. And, you know, I could have guest posed every weekend, but I said, I would have been too stressed out. I hated traveling, so it wouldn't have been worth it to me. So I'll just stay home and watch NASCAR. But yeah, the one in Hawaii was good because even when I went there, McDonald's was a sponsor. So I was there for a week and I got this gold McDonald's card. I could just go to McDonald's anytime I wanted. That's amazing. But I used to laugh because in the morning, because I get up early and go to the gym early, I was like the God of Honolulu Beach. I'd go down there and by the end of being there a week, I was feeding at least 20 homeless people. I'd go in the morning and buy more breakfast and take them out breakfast. With the gold McDonald's card. Yeah. Yeah. I'd just run it up. I'm like, fuck it. See? See? Look, look. Look at the true behind the scenes behavior. Exactly. Yeah. Yeah. They must have been upset when I left those people because for a whole week, I was just taking them breakfast and shit. Oh, man. Hash browns for everybody at the beach. It was great fun. What about, did you have a worst guest posing? Like, did you show up anywhere and they were just completely unprepared and it was like the worst trip ever? I don't think so. I think most promoters try and do. Do you have a worst pigs pigs pigs pigs pigs pigs pigs pigs pigs pigs pigs pigs pigs pigs pigs  I donkid, I don't know, I don't know, I don't really think anything's ever gone wrong, or have ever had a bad experience, no, because I'd always remember it, because I'd have a good story to tell, but I don't really, I've had like people come up to me, I remember, I was, I think I might have told you once, I was guest posing in the South, this would be in the mid 90s, I had the earrings in, and you know, I guess, was it back in the day, your left ear or right ear was gay or something, and the other ear was, I don't know, whatever. You're from Australia, so you're like, what? I mean, a girl and a girl and a boyfriend come up, and they were like that, they go, oh, can we get a photo show, so I'm signing the photo, and she goes, excuse me, I hope you don't mind, I got a question to ask, I'm like, sure, what is it? She goes, down here, it's like, if you have this ear piece that means you're gay, and this one's that, she goes, you have both your ears done, because I'm thinking, well, that's just a normal thing, isn't it, both ears? She's like, what does both ears mean? I didn't miss a beat, I'm just signing, I went, that means when I'm finished fucking you, I'm gonna fuck him, and I just kept signing. The look on her face was like, oh, oh, who picked the photo? They always say silly stuff like that, even like, you know, I always saw Tom Platt do a seminar, and when people would ask him about the steroids, he was always honest, and I was always the same. So sometimes I'd be at a seminar, and you always see him down there, up comes the hand, do you take steroids? And the guy last week was with his friends, I could tell I don't have egg on each other, but then he had this pretty girl beside him. I think it was his wife or girlfriend, so he was like, do you take steroids? I said, hold on, I said, I'll answer that, but does she take it up the ass? I just said, while we're asking each other personal questions, we must be that close, I'll answer yours if you answer mine. See, I've been telling people for decades, the seminars aren't the same anymore. No. They're just not like they used to be, you know? I remember those days. Well, I think people are just too scared. People are too scared. Well, you'd always seem to be nudging each other. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I remember being at a seminar with Mike Matarazzo, and he was answering questions and everything, and Mike kept looking at the crowd going, do you guys have any real questions? Uh-huh. I think after one shot, we ordered burgers and fries, and he went to the toilet, I come back and I ate it. He was only gone two minutes, he's like, where the fuck did that go? And he's looking at me, he goes, you couldn't have ate it that fucking quick. But when I was bulking up, he used to come into the gym and goes, Lee, stop eating. He's like, you're like a fucking tick, you're going to explode. I was like, 285, but I actually got him really good with Mike. Mike was one of the good ones down to earth, could always joke around and have fun and that. Yeah. Yeah. He was a really good guy. What was your favorite, how long were you at Gold's Venice, or how long were you in LA for? Almost 10 years. I only had Gold's for about three years, but then I went down to World Gym and I got on really good with Joe Gold and, you know, Louie and Eddie Giuliani. It's like the old crowd was there, no music. So, you know, Gold's started to get a lot of egos in there strutting around. I'm like, fuck off. It's like, just go train. So, I preferred that environment of the older guys where I'd just go in and train, tell old stories and, you know, just good old atmosphere at World. You showed up in LA around, was it like 93? Yeah, being in 93, yeah. And you were both there for about 10 years. And I remember. Then I went to Texas for almost four years and then Scottsdale for another almost four. Oh. And I'd see Dusty and Gold's Gym at Scottsdale Gold's. Ah, shit. Okay. I remember that classic scene and I think it's the 98 Battle for the Olympia where you pull up in your Hummer. I think you're driving a Hummer. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. And you get out in the parquet and it's like 5 a.m. or something. Like you're at the gym super early. And you kind of point out, you're like, ah, it's a good morning in Venice. Is carjacking over there? We did a reaction to that. Criminals. Criminals on the street. Criminals over here. Yeah, yeah, we did a reaction to that. There was that little room that used to go in there on the Gold's Gym. There's that little personal training room that Dusty would be in sometimes off to the side at Gold's Gym. Yeah. We had a studio in there, so they let us train people in there and on the floor, which was a jackpot until eventually the owners realized we had way too good of a deal. People get mad at me sometimes. You know, I go in there with Crazy Mike, Big Mike. Yeah. They'll have that wall, you know, just behind the cardio area. Then that's where you come in. That's when those fucking balsa balls come out. We're like, what are these fucking balls? Who's going to exercise on a big inflatable ball? Take it to the beach. Every time we saw it in the gym, we would fucking boot it over that wall. We'd go over the other side to reception. We'd just go back to training. I'm sure the girls hated us every time we come in. What's going on now for you? You're in Australia. Are you in Sydney? Newcastle. Newcastle. About two hours north of Sydney. And you're from Newcastle, right? Am I correct? Yeah. Okay. So is Silverchair, right? Isn't Silverchair from Newcastle? Oh, yeah. See? I know my 90s music. No, he's almost Australian. Almost. I lived there for two years. I got an honorary pass for some Australians. You start saying the words like, crikey. Crikey. You know what I still say? I still say, how are you going? How are you going? I'll see somebody. I'm like, how are you going? And they're like, every once in a while, it comes out of me. And they'll look at me and, fine. Like, it's a weird thing for me. See you in a fortnight. See you tomorrow. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. You don't call them wankers? You fucking wanker? I still say wanker sometimes. That sneaks out. Canadian, Australian. That's a hell of a mix right there. Yeah, it's a weird combo of words. And so many things in common, like our governments and prime ministers. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. All fucked up. Yes. So there's a lot going on in modern bodybuilding, Lee. And we wanted to have you on and ask your opinion on some stuff. I think Scott had a short list. What was the first one you wanted to ask him about, Scott? Is that like a dig up my height there? Go ahead, Scott. Yeah, yeah, yeah. How big are your biceps? You have like a long list. If I was Andrew Jack, you'd have a long list. If it's me, you have a short list. You have a tall list. So we want to throw this one at you. We see Samson is pushing up like incredible wins, right? He's 350, isn't he? Yeah, he's blowing up right now. Yeah. And there's a bunch of controversy, you know, like everybody who's doing podcasts and everything has something to say about it. And we wanted to get your opinion. We heard Fuad, I think, said like, hey, I think that this is a good idea. On the other hand, Sean Ray, who is another great bodybuilder from your era. I don't know if you're familiar with him. He said he thought that this was a mistake, you know. And looking at like where he was at last year, the big criticism was that, you know, he just didn't have the same volume he had brought in the past. Yeah. What do you think about what Samson is doing now? Is this going to pay off? What's your take? We're not really going to. No, it just comes down to individual because, shit, I got told when I used to bulk up, you know, I can pedal around anywhere from 208 to 218, but I'd bulk up to 285 and I'd always get told. Well, I remember Get Big had Deadpool. I was always on that because Lee's going to die. He's too heavy. He's bulked up and blah, blah, blah. And, you know, so, you know, it's an individual thing. Samson knows his body. I'm sure if Samson was feeling unwell or hard of breathing, yes, of course, when you're lifting heavy weights and you put the extra body weight on, sure, it's going to be more taxing on the body and that. But, you know, I know Dwight always says he goes to that Merrick Health and gets his blood done and gets his heart done and that. But still, anything can still. I've seen fucking healthy guys that eat chickens and salads and John dropped out of a heart attack. So, you know, you can die any time, whether you're bulked up or fucking just an average person who just exercises. We've seen many people do that. So to say it's like this and that, well, you know, we take steroids and stuff. So, yeah, could it be a bit more dangerous? Yes. But maybe, look, I've seen people, to me, it comes down to genetics. Genetics are going to make up a big thing no matter what you do in life. It's like you can see people drink and smoke and do drugs. And like I said, go on and on, fucking 67, you're still drinking. And then, like I said, I've had mates who weren't into bodybuilding, but they don't like healthy lifestyle and go play rugby or just, you know, and be really lean. 45, drop dead of a heart attack. So, you know, I think no matter what you're doing in life, when your number's up, it's up. Sure, maybe using a bit of steroids and getting heavy, maybe you could speed up what could naturally going to happen anyway. But, you know, as long as he's feeling good about it, the main thing is, if he's going to get up that heavy, if he can keep that, you know, what he's gained and don't lose it all and come in shred, because really he doesn't need any more size. He's being conditioning. So, if he can come in conditioned, then he's going to look great. Like, you know, Andrew Jack, he's just growing and growing. And, you know, to me, like, Samson looks good, but Andrew sort of has that freakier cartoon body look to him. So, I think Samson should be looking over his shoulder at Andrew, because Andrew's coming. So, you know. What do you think of the Olympia this past year? Yeah. I was going to ask you about that with Andrew and Samson specifically. Do you feel like with the changes, like, that we've seen, I'm sure you've seen over the last little bit of him, six weeks out, who do you see taking their physique further based on what you've seen over the last couple of years? I probably think Andrew. Andrew, because like I said, Samson. ! PAMPSA, PAMPSA looks good, but you're going to get to a point where you're going to get to a point where you can't put on any more mass that it's just going to come down to conditioning which isn't a bad thing because we've seen a lot of bodybuilders over the years who might not get any bigger every year but when they come in a bit more conditioned you know and you see the separation more the illusion is you look bigger on stage under the light so you could be the same body weight but yet look you know 10 pounds bigger than you were last year just due to conditioning alone so I think Andrew is probably going to be the one to watch you I think Andrew is probably going to be the one to watch you I think Andrew might come out of the one to watch you might come out of the one to watch you might come out of nowhere soon like you know when Ronnie was just sitting in that lower level for a while and went boom straight to number one so that's like last year's Olympia and I feel got mad because I said look I respect Derrick but to me when I was looking at him on stage my eyes either went to Andrew or Hardy that's who I was looking at I wasn't really thinking Derrick you know Derrick's good okay and that sort of thing but you know and then when Tyler come on saying explaining all the shots this and that but then he lost me when he said Derrick won the front double bicep I'm like what? that was one of Derrick's worst shots with his fucking bicep it is a front double bicep and that and then I don't know the way guys stand too their legs flared out like they've just been riding a horse across the fucking you know Yellowstone National Park it's like it's like in our day we're told heels together heels together and to me if you're doing mandatory poses everyone should do the same because you know when someone does a tricep shot some would do it straight side on some would do with their leg back like Dorian some would put a twist on it I'm like that's fine but once they call it a tricep shot or front double bicep that should be the same everyone does the same shot so they can judge you on it and then if you want to put your little twist on it go right ahead but you know people try and hide their flaws and stuff but if you've got to judge bodybuilders they're going to be doing the exact same pose you know if someone does an abs shot someone can't be doing the vacuum it's like we want to see your abs not your rib cage so you know blow the air out you know yeah I actually agree with that and I know Tyler did the one video where he explained how even though I can't remember the athletes but somebody was doing the side try with her quad forward you know like how Ron would do it and he was saying that looks great but that's not the pose I asked for and I like that he mentioned that but I think they should go a step further and they should correct it they should tell them like side tricep please please turn to the side like you know not to treat them like amateurs because that's something you would do at an amateur show like you know they would correct someone right but turn to your right no your other right yeah your other right yeah but someone always goes the wrong way yeah but but I I uh I do think that they they all need to be on the same page because it um it confuses a lot of the people in the crowd too because they'll say oh you know his side triceps better and then I'll say but it's not the pose they asked for and they're like what do you mean and they don't you know so that sort of stuff standardizing more of the judge that's where I said like just keep it all standard hit the pose they want that he calls for hold it for a couple of seconds and then if you want to flick your leg out do it after it but like I said for everyone to be judged fairly you got to be doing the exact same pose and to me I've always wanted it to where you can have a top six sometimes and the guy that gets third or fourth he was never compared to number one or two so to me if you're not a winner of a show and you think okay this guy's the clear winner you should stand everyone else in the top six right beside him because even if you're a couple of competitors away you can't see the comparison when they're side by side so you know we sometimes always see well are they deliberately keeping this guy away from him because he looks really good over there if they stood him right beside him would he show up the guy that ends up winning so just to take all that bullshit out where people complain and that just put everyone side by side let them stand the judges you know probably after pre-judging have a big idea who's winning the show so put everyone else beside him because you know you always hear the guy in fifth you know I got fifth but they never compare me to fucks and such and such who won so to take all that bullshit out stand everyone beside the guy who you think is going to win so you know what was your we talked about that after the olympia last year because there were a few guys that we thought yeah maybe would have jumped up if they would have ended up next to him and like you said that was my initial thought too like maybe they didn't want to put him next to him because then you have to answer for it you know what I mean well I even thought you know you know we all saw nick beforehand and I was disappointed with how nick looked on the day I'm sure nick was too but you know I'm hoping nick does really well at the honor because his picture is looking great right now so I just you know it's like I thought brandon curry maybe should have beat nick at the olympia and I thought that was one of brandon curry's best showings so you know I would have had him a bit higher and stuff so you know there's a few like I said you're always going to get controversy because it's a opinion based you know it's just like a muscle beauty pageant and it's what the judges like and stuff but I've always said when you get guys if they're all in shape to say this guy's the best is really hard because you know back in the day you'd have a dorian a flex or a nasa or somebody if they're all in great shape to me they're all mr olympia it's just that flex has the beautiful symmetrical shape dorian's the freaky masses like which one do you pick okay dorian's number one but that doesn't make flex a lesser bodybuilder it's just the judge's opinion on that day so it's sad when you have so many good champions with you know it's like I said if you go to a car show I go to lots of car shows and now if I had all ferraris there and I've got to judge the best ferrari that's easy because okay this one has a nicer interior this paint job's better this you know but they're all the same car now if I go to a car show and there's a ferrari a lamborghini a bugatti a mclaren I'm like well fuck they're all fucking great cars it's only going to be my opinion on what I think's the best and someone's going to go oh you picked a lamborghini you fucking idiot the fucking bugatti's a lot better than that you fucking asshole so that's what bodybuilding is like it's like a car show we got all these top supercars and then it's your preference on which one you like but I said if they're all the same then it's easier to pick one right do you think that's something that gets lost on the newer we see a lot of people now the younger newer competitors people coming into bodybuilding and they're so in love with it which is awesome that's I remember being that guy um but they don't seem to get that part of it like I always understood because guys like you would always say like don't ever expect to make money off this like this is this is a hobby like I remember pros telling me that like I did not expect to make money I just happen to be a pro right yeah um and I see a lot of people now we talk about it the sort of person now chasing the pro card thinking there's a career behind it thinking this is their new this is their important job oh yeah um what what what do you what do you think is you know missing what what what are they not getting what are what's going to be the big shock for them down the road I think they're expecting too much because it's like I want to look like he-man I never not the new he-man movie that fucking twink fuck him but no I just thought about the fucking preview you haven't seen it don't worry about it no no I'm no better off no better off yes Jared Jared let out a skeletal looks good it's like a big blue muscular suit but he-man himself it's like all right so yeah but yeah what I think they expect too much because I got into look like he-man I never got into to be a bodybuilder and when I started building muscle sure I was only 13 someone said hey there's a school boys division under 18 you should give it a go and I'm like I don't know I'll give it a go okay I liked it and I started competing but even when I come to America to do an empty show I still didn't think I was going to be pro I had no idea you don't want to be pro whereas people today I'm going to be pro and I'm going to win the Olympia you get people saying Lee how do I get noticed and that I'm like just be you it's like just train hard like it to me if things are meant to be it's going to be and if you love training and it gives you passion and you have fun it's like anything if you do something and you have fun doing it doesn't seem like a job you're going to do it you're going to put more into it because then you finally work out hey I can make money from this and I'm just being myself and then you know and then if you do become something people will like you or follow you and stuff like that but I think people they try too hard it's like I want to get followers I want to get this I want to that it's like just do your thing it's like that's why I like Sam Sulak you know I would have done the same thing you know it's like oh remember when he first came out he's eating cereal drinking chocolate milk I'm thinking fuck did I know what I was eating when I was a teenager and shit if I had recorded all of that I would have been like this guy's an idiot but like Sam was just himself he didn't say follow me do these exercises do that he just recorded what he did people like it and they started following him because he was just being authentic being himself so I think if you just be yourself and and he really loved doing it then do it and I said if things are meant to be they'll be it's like you get the ones that go I want to be Mr. Olympia I want to be Mr. Olympia it's like yeah that's a good goal to have but maybe start smaller maybe do a local show first and then work your way up because maybe in five six years you might just change your whole thing you might be like yeah I don't want to be Mr. Olympia anymore but the main thing is just to have fun and enjoy it and let just let things fall in the place where they fall you know I find if you just try too hard and you get the ones who are 27 24 7 bodybuilding this and that you're going to go mad you'll drive your family friends mad because that's all you talk about that's all you want to fucking do it's like you know you've got it you've got to say you've got to have a passion sure but also live in the real world and have a life on top of that right so I've I've heard about 10 different versions and I thought I knew a pretty accurate version because of who told it and explained it to me about how you actually got your pro card but then you messaged me after an episode and you were like actually that wasn't quite how it happened like I think I was on the right track but what exactly happened I heard you went to worlds but then you went to LA  and then, there you go pro card, there you go pro card, okay, there we go, there we go, sometimes you got to do what you got to do what you got to do, 20 bucks is 20 bucks, 20 bucks, 20 bucks, LA is expensive, even in the 90s, yeah, because I won the Mr. Australia when I was 17, and once you win your national title, you normally get a pro card, but they said I was too young, so I didn't get it, so I'm it, like, like, like, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, the other end of the phone like he finally flies me over there like ed connors would call him lou zuik refugees because it normally fly people over and then just leave you stranded so i went over there i was staying at the marina pacific hotel i think it's called the irwin now but i was staying there i just went down to gold's gym and and you'd just done the just done the world championships right is that true no no this was um a bit after that this was probably the following year so okay i came over to do um because lou zuik invited me over to do the negra four's amateur show so i was coming over for that and then i went to the hotel straight down to gold's just started training and ervin gelb happened to be there and i started talking to ervin and he said would you like to do a photo shoot now because ervin was going to photograph the negra four show which was a week later i said sure so we're doing a photo shoot and manion just happened to be in the gym and manion come over and just started talking you know what have you done this and then he goes what are you here for i said the niagara fours is like but you've won your national title haven't you got a pro card i said they won't give me one so manion ended up contacting paul graham in australia i think they spoke to tony doherty so they gave me the pro card when i was over there that's how i got it and i ended up doing the agra fours pro show instead and that same week ed connors took some photos sent him to weeder so that week i had lunch with weeder and got a contract so i was only coming for two weeks ended up being 20 years so it's crazy holy shit so you just proved like suck a good dick right to the straw that was that was a great timing that was a that was a fruitful workout you got a pro card and a weeder contract from going to golds right now right now i'm feeling warm i got up it it's like what is it here at 6 35 i got up at 3 a.m so i figured i'll go to the gym quickly do some cardio and i took some pre-workout just to do cardio i can keep feeling these hot flushes coming on it's like why do i got to put that shit is it the better alanine that gives you those fucking hot flushes and shit yeah i think the beta makes you itchy yeah yeah like remember niacin like niacin back in the day you take niacin and you just go 17 winning national championships you know yeah yeah and they were telling me you were too young for a pro card right but that was just bottlenecking everything wasn't it because there's no one that's trying to give it out and also when i was 17 that's where my mom wanted to compete and like i told the story my mom she's like me she just loved to eat food and she was a little bit overweight and at 17 i she's like if i ever get in shape you do the couples and i'm like you know 17 i'm thinking last thing i want to do is be on stage with my mother so i'm like yeah you get in shape i'll do it eight months later she got in shape and we're the first mother and son to win the national title together in the world and i came over to um actually met me lost in 89 when i was 17 so i come over to do the a a a a universe carlo rodriguez and marlon darton used to run it was in um arizona tucson arizona i met me lost there my mom and i did a guest posing as well i played second in my division at the universe when i was 17. oh wow it's absurd you're talking like growing men who've been at this for ages you know what i'm saying how did you do at that niagara pro show that you hopped in i think i've got eight people said i should have been high even me lost was there because he filmed my routine i hadn't seen it but me lost sent me a video not long ago everyone said i should have been high but being you being the unknown but i just remember being on stage i don't think i was even really paying attention to the contest because you know i was coming to do an amateur show i still i think i was only must have just turned i was 20 because i remember i turned 21 at ed connor's house so i was 20 and all i remember doing was standing on stage i'm like this and i'm just like this i'm looking down i'm like fuck there's david durf there's fucking such as i'm just like you know coming from australia all i all i saw was the magazines now i'm on stage with these guys so i'm just happy to be up on stage and backstage so i wasn't even really thinking about the contest when did it cross your like when did you start thinking oh i'm i'm gonna win a pro show and i'm you know i'm gonna go to the olympia and that sort of thing never never thought i was gonna win one to me like i said i hated competing but you know once you got the contracts that you had to compete a couple of times a year like i said the only good thing about competing was you get to go to the contest to meet the fiends and it's i was always about the fiends and stuff like that just hanging out talking to people so to compete that's why you watch only a mid-series videos when he's got me on there i'm like mitts don't talk to me i'm training for eighth place i'm training for ninth place i was never one leads i'm gonna win because you know there's no 212 back then i knew how good these guys were and i was a realist all i could do was i can just go in my best and whatever happens happens that's why i you know i never got upset about my placings my fiends were like you got screwed you got this and maybe that's why i got a bigger following because they get upset that i got screwed but to me even the olympia my mind was always said okay if i'm going to the olympia people go what do you hope to get i'm like 10th because back then if you got the top 10 you qualified for next year yeah i always had i always had my mind set on 10th place that was it anything above that was a bonus so the first year when i got fifth but then they changed it but yeah i got top six three times so to me back in that era getting top six was a win to me so you know then i mean i think i got second runner up four times before i won it so anytime like i was majority in the top five top three at a lot of pro shows in um the european tour i think four of them shows it was like kevin nasa me kevin nasa me and then i think one show i went to fourth and paul got third so yeah to me placing against those guys back in the day anywhere in the top three or top five that was just as good as a win to me so i never like i said never once did i say i was going to win a show even actually when i won the iron man i remember looking at lonnie because i said i got runner up four times or five times i said you sure just check it again before you give me the trophy i think the day before when they're doing the wayings they said how you're going to do tomorrow i'm just like a second again it's like i said i just never took you know judging serious it's like i look i did my cardio 100% died 100% train 100% like i said after that it's out of your hands so it didn't fucking bother me you're you're chill you're chilling me out just listening to not caring about places well i used to hate me backstage because i'd be backstage and kevin would get mad like let me take it serious i'd be backstage joking around i'm like it's okay to have a laugh you're not gonna fucking smooth out but it's like if all the hard work's done why are you so tense and angry backstage like it's going to war and then i never understood when like somebody would win you know i'd win some shows and you know i'd always joke around saying ifbb was international federation of black bodybuilders because if you look at any lineup back in the day which one doesn't belong it was little white guy up with all the black guys so you're between ronnie and flex and chris and paul and yeah the iron man i think the iron man it was like that year flex won i was second ronnie was third it was aaron baker fourth and then poured or poured that could have been fourth but every time it was a top six or top five i was the only white guy so i would always always make fun of it so yeah but as i said but people just take it so serious and i'm just lighting up and i never got mad that gets sometimes mad when the white guy won i remember when i won in australia because we just done the arnold classic and chris had won the australian pro i think three times i could finally because i got my green car i could finally travel back and forth so i heard chris backstage at the arnold he's like yeah i'm going down there but that's a walk in you know i've done this and then i went oh so i went down another week early i got in great shape ended up winning chris got second and he was like this is bullshit this show's racist he only won because he's australian i'm like you're the same judges that gave you first place the three years you won at chris to the same people so but what he's like you only won this because you're australian i'm like well welcome to my world when i compete in america right right right what was your what was the you know i i mean you you you speak like you know you weren't focused on the placings but what was like the most meaningful win was it the iron man i think when i was racing winning the racing things was more meaningful because if you race you win it's like whether it's on the circle track road race when i won the championship in the drags it's like it's you it's no one's opinion so right i don't i don't really think i the only thing i said winning like i said i think even i gave a speech when i won my first um the san francisco pro in 02 when chris was second and dexter was third because i remember backstage there because people saying lee what did you weigh i said what do you think i weighed they're like you had to be 230 i'm like i weighed 199 and then i turned to chris i said chris what did you weigh he's like 260 i said fuck you got beat by a guy under 200 pounds you  I just like, I just like, fuck you. But even now, I just faint the fans, I said this was for them, because it was never about me winning, I didn't really, you know, couldn't give two shits, that's why I don't have one bodybuilding trophy anymore, I like I auctioned them all off and some people have them in their gym, some have them at their houses and remember when I was auctioning them off, Sean Ray's like, well you must be hard up for money, but it's like they're in boxes, I had them in storage, I move around, they get broken, I never look at them, because I'm like, I got the right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right right Ironman trophies, I got like $2,000 in that, or the money I gave to animal shelters and stuff like that. That's awesome. I heard a great story about some football player guys that were over at Brady's house and Brady was like, I'll show you something. They were talking about they're just being guys and he's like, I think it's in the garage. I'll show you. They were looking through some boxes in the garage. He was trying to find a pair of, I can't remember. Oh no, it was Gretzky. It was Gretzky Dusty. They were trying to find a pair of skates so they could go play some pickup. He's like, I need size 10. He's like, I might have a pair. They're digging through boxes. He goes, what's in here? He goes, that's Stanley Cup MVP. I don't remember. Like a Stanley Cup MVP trophy just in a box in his garage. Didn't give a shit. I like that because I still, like I said, I said it on another, even on my documentary, which is still on Amazon Prime. If you want to watch it, Rebel with a Cause. It's like, I just tell people when people go, you're Lee Pris, you're Lee Pris. I'm like, I'm just fucking Lee. They're like, oh no, you're just, look, I understand if someone looks up to me like that, but really I'm no one special. And I'd say to someone, what do you do? They're like, I'm a plumber. I said, mate, you're probably a great plumber. You know, I'm a great bodybuilder. I'm no better than you. It's like, to me, everyone's the same. And that's why I don't get it when people go, oh my God, you're Lee Pris. I'm like, mate, I'm just Lee. I'm a fucking idiot. I'm no one special. Hey, if I've inspired someone or done whatever, you know, if I've inspired someone to improve their life, maybe I've inspired people to take their life. It doesn't, it doesn't matter. Works both ways with me. But yeah, I just, like I said, I don't see myself as anyone special. That's why I don't need any of that shit. You know, we do see some people where bodybuilders or whoever, they do a podcast somewhere and everything behind them is trophies and medals. And that was like, that doesn't define who the fuck I am. Trophies and medals and shit like that. That doesn't mean shit to me. So, you know, to me, it's like, if I meet someone, I don't give a fuck who you are. It's your character and how you treat other people is what I'm going to be drawn to, not because you're famous or you're someone special. It's funny you say that. I was, I was watching a YouTube or a Instagram clip the other day and it was a coach in the bodybuilding world. And he was talking about how he helped this guy go from nothing to something. And this guy plays here and this guy plays here. And he goes, yeah, these are the things when I'm on my deathbed, I'll be thinking about. And I was like, that's pathetic. Like, really? Like, that's what you're going to be thinking about on your deathbed was prepping guys for, you might want to get your life together. Right. I'd be thinking, I'd be thinking of friends, family, my pets and shit like that. Oh yeah. Dogs. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. Like I said, I've never, you know, people always get, the only thing that annoys me when people go, Lee, you've got an ego. I'm thinking, I've got the furthest thing from a fucking ego. It's like, to me, I get enjoyment out of helping people and shit. So on my deathbed, I'd be almost like, I should have helped more people. I should have done this. Cause I still go out and do stuff. I'd like, I never mentioned it, but cause my mom and all my friends brought up on my documentary, how I just go out and pay bills for people or buy groceries for people, or just give out gift cards. And I did it this Christmas. I went and got a whole heap of gift cards. Like I think each one had like $200 on them. I just got a whole heap of them. I showed my wife, she's like, what are you going to do? I just give them out to strangers. So I was walking down the side, we just handed it to a lady and the lady happens because my wife manages it, like a tobacco gift shop. And then she goes in and she goes, this guy out there just gave me this thing. It's $200. Is it real? And she goes, Oh yeah, that's my husband. Yeah, it's real. It's what he does. But I get enjoyment out of doing that. So I said, I'd be like, I just, like I said, especially the elderly people too. Cause you know, a lot of sadly now people don't really speak elderly people, but I've had some of my best conversations when I've been out on morning walks and you just stop and talk to older people and they just chat away. Whereas, you know, young people today, they're too busy into themselves and they're fucking phones. And they're not even, I said, I'll take my phone walking to take a photo at a sunrise. Or if I'm going around the beach, you might get some dolphins or something. But yeah, young kids and everything now, I'm just like, they're just walking along head down here like this. I'm thinking, you're missing a fucking beautiful sunrise and shit like that. And that's the sad thing. Yes, I know we all, I said, I always get in arguments with people about phones in the gym. I'm like, unless you're a heart surgeon on call, don't have your phone. Look, doing cardio is fine. But if you're serious about bodybuilding, your phone's distracting. I don't care what you say. Even if you've got it for music, you might go to change a song and you see, Oh, I've got a couple of messages. Let me just have a quick look. But anytime you pick up something like that, your whole focus is out the window. So if you can't go an hour, hour and a half without your phone, you've got fucking issues. And we just, so I remember I was saying the other day, like when we were young, I think we had the nightly news at six o'clock. That was it. I think morning cartoons, Fred Flintstone and Bugs Bunny. And that's like, that's all you'd see. The rest of the day, you're outside playing with your mates. You're having fun. Now, 24 seven, you just look at Instagram or anything and just the fucking shit that comes up in the news feeds all the time about riots and drama. And this is no wonder people are fucking, and angry. It's that's all they see is fucking negative news 24 seven. And they're just addicted to it. That's why they were fucking hating everyone before years ago. It didn't matter if you're black, white, what religion you were, who you voted for. You could still be friends with people. Now it's like fucking you voted for Trump. You would support ice. You're a fucking idiot. It's like, everyone's just like, I said, it's the old divide and conquer. And the media is doing a great job. And for some reason, fucking us dumb humans have fallen for it. I'm like, can't you see what's happening here? It's like, we have more in common than we do different. So why are we fighting over fucking stupid shit? 100%. I actually made a conscious effort over the last week. I do this once in a while, but I went hard this week. I unfollowed like a hundred accounts. I just went through and I just went like, like, you know, I follow too many, I don't know how I wound up doing it, but too much news, too much like, you know, opinion piece type news. Even if I agree with it and I just unfollowed, unfollowed, unfollowed, unfollowed, unfollowed. And I'm just trying to like detox. Yeah. And man, felt good. Felt good. Just like no more, you know? And, uh, so I totally get what you're saying there. And I wanted to ask you, I wanted to backtrack a little, cause you mentioned something that I wanted to ask you about as far as not being able to look at your phone for a while. I want to know more about the racing. Oh, I want to know a lot of people out. We don't, I know what cars you were driving, but a lot of people don't know exactly. Yeah. This was, that was a cool event. I used to race up there. I don't think you see it. That was me at Las Vegas doing a burnout. That was me and hot rod. Cool. And that's mean to helmet. You can't really tell, but you know, and the other one was all racing. Yeah. But yeah, I did, um, super late models to begin with like circle track. And then I did a bit of road racing in the Corvette and had a race truck. And then I went to the car. What, what is super late? You said super late models. It's similar. It's just like different levels. They look, they're like a NASCAR style car, but just a lower level type thing. So, you know, you're all at different types of cars. So similar, similar to NASCAR. Right. So you're doing like loop racing. Yeah. Yeah. Just, yeah. Circle track. And then I went from that to road racing and did some of that for a while, but then, um, hot rod fuller, he was a fan of mine. He, he, he raced top fuel, and he was at the Olympia one year and goes, hi, I'm a big fan. I do this. And he goes, do you like drag racing? I said, well, I sort of watch it, but I don't really know anyone in it. So like, he should come out to the track sometime. So I did. And for like a year or so, I just sort of hopped in his car and sort of had a little bit of fun. He's like, you should go get your license. So I went to Frank Hawley's racing school in Pomona, got my license. And then they had a grad race where they bring back the top grads. And I went back and I won. And that was my first race I ever won. And then one of the instructors there, Thomas Bauer, and that he had like a team and that had cars and that. So he's like, do you want to come race? And then I'm like, sure. So got into the first, I was just near the end of the year. So I did a couple of races in the following year. I did a lot of races. My first year, I got rookie of the year and finished third, the championship. And then the following year, I'm like, I'm going to try to do as many races as I can. Cause you know, the more points you get. So the following year in 06, the same year I won the Ironman. I won the championship drag racing. So. That's awesome. That's awesome. What did you, I just watched F1 the other day, of course, you know, F1, you know, the top, top shelf. But the, you know, the shots from inside the cars and the, and just how fast they're moving and how fast. the drags that you get up to about, depending on the tracks, they, they slowed them down from a quarter mile to a bit shorter, just because to make it try a bit safer, but you still get over 300 miles an hour. Oh God. Really? And it's like just under a quarter mile. Yeah. Yeah. And five G's, five G's when you take off almost, and then negative five, when you pull the parachute. So that's why people would be like, Oh, my Tesla goes from this to that in this many.  I go, well, well, well, the dragster goes from zero to 100 in 0.8 of a second, so. Man, so what's that, did you have to train, do you have to train for 5G's or is that something you can learn to train? Well get used to it, you get used to it, you get used to it because like when you are getting your license you don't do a whole quarter mile flat chat, you only do the staging part, you know we stage at the lights, then you do the burnout part, then you might only do a few feet out, you launch but then shut it down, then you go like a big further, you know, then you might do half-training, and then you'd slowly build up because the hardest thing was, because the hardest thing was, because I'm so used to lifting weights, you'd be holding on like this, you got that funny butterfly handle, because once you get in, shit wheel racing, we went to the million dollar race, Flex, I was in MD, because Flex followed me around for two weeks, training and racing, we went to the million dollar race, it's like one of the biggest races in Mississippi, they had like 400 races, and I made it down to the quarter finals, I got down to the top 16 out of like 400 races, and people coming over, what's your name, you just beat such and such, I'm like, who's that, oh he's a top drag racer, I'm like, oh okay, I'm just having fun, I don't know who anyone is, but the thing was, I got that out, so I was happy, I forget how much money I want, I want a bit of money, but also I actually, I cleaned up when I went to Vegas, I had this dial in where, say there's 100 cars, everyone puts in $30, and let's just say, it's like a bracket race, you say I'm going to run 7 seconds, right, and it's like, whoever gets closest to their time, because the thing is, if you say you're going to run 7 seconds, you go 6.59, you lose because you broke out, you've got to get 7 or maybe a bit over, so you can't go too quick, and then your reaction time comes into play as well, so you don't want to go red, but, so I'm listening to what he's saying, such and such said he's going to run 8.20, you know, and he ran at 8.21, and he has a reaction time, so I'm like, fuck, that's got to be hard to beat, so I'm just listening and listening, I finally go up, take off, get down there, my mates waiting for me at the timing booth with the paper, and he's like, oh, you just piss people off, I said, why, he goes, well, you said you're going to run like 8 seconds, you ran 8 seconds dead on, and your reaction time was 0.00, had the perfect reaction time, so, I kept the time slip, when you're that close, anything under 10, you're close to going red, because it's just a split second, so he goes, you just pissed a lot of people off, so, I won all the money that weekend, and every time I went to the track to race the next day, and here comes Lee Priest with the perfect thing, I'm like, stop saying that, you're going to make me look mad now, oh, that's wild, it was always fun, yeah, but like I said, the drag racing was fun, you can't beat the adrenaline of anything like that, but like I said, we go to Mississippi that one time, so fucking, you've got a five-layer race suit on, you've got the helmet on, and once you're strapped in with the harness, you've also got clips on your arms, so your arms are clipped in, so you can't move in case it rolled, your arms can't flail around everywhere, so, just sitting in the car sometimes, I remember in Mississippi, the car before me put oil on the track, like, you want to get out, I said, I'm just going to sit here, I'm sure, by the end of that day, my suit would have been probably 20 pounds heavier, just from fucking sweat, like I said, it's a lot of fun though, I miss it. How long were those track races? It's only over a weekend, you get there Friday, and that practice, and Saturday, they don't start having like the, like elimination rounds, and that, then the finals, generally on Sunday. And the race lasts an hour and a half, or how long are you going for? Well, on the drag racing, it's like a couple of seconds. The longest part, on a circle track, yeah, depending, it could be like how many of a laps, some might have only been A-50 lapper, some could be 25, some might be 100 laps, so it just depends on what track you're at and where you're going. Okay. This is something that we've talked about on the show before, and I think it's awesome, because here you are competing at the highest level, and you had hobbies. And this, Ron pushes on this all the time, that guys need to do other things, and I've talked about this with sports, like I played hockey at a high level when I was a kid, and our coaches used to tell us during the summer, play other sports. Yeah. Like, get away from this. Yeah. I feel like that's really lost in the bodybuilding world now. You know, when I was first bodybuilding, I knew I wasn't genetically made for this, so I was like, I've got to be so focused, and that's how I'll beat guys. And then I hung out with Jose for a few years, Jose Raymond, and he's like, you've got to lighten up. You should go out. Have some French fries. And when I loosened up, I got better. Yeah. It's true. Yeah. And I tell people, because like, yeah, from the age when I was young, I thought, you know, I enjoyed it. I had to be more serious. But then, probably because I started young, I learned young too, that I didn't have to be that serious. But I think we all made that mistake when you get into bodybuilding, I've got to be just trained, eat, and sleep. Train, eat, and sleep. You know? You know, if you're in a relationship, your girlfriend says, you want to go to a movie? No. I've got to train. I've got to eat. It's like, I've got to be fucking miserable. It's like, even to get ready for a show, do you have those when you get ready for a show? As long as you're angry and miserable, the diet's working well. This is good. And when you do loosen up, and you're getting ready for a show, and you're looking good, you're like, something's wrong. I'm too happy. I can't be getting in shape. I can't be feeling good. This isn't right. Because I think we're programmed to think we've got to be miserable. It's like you speak to yourself, your girlfriend says, let's go for a walk. No, I can't. I've got to rest. It's like, as if going for a walk's going to burn any fucking muscle or do anything. But like I said, I think we just programmed that you've got to be so focused, you can't have a life outside. And sadly, I see so many people's lives passing by because being the golds, I'm going to be pro. I'm going to do this. And they wouldn't get a job because that interferes with their training. They wouldn't get in a relationship because that could interfere with their training. 10 years go by, 15 years go by. They're lonely. They haven't got a job. They're still in the same place. They're still not pro. So you've got to have that balance because some people think you've got to be all in or not. But look, when you go to the gym, sure, give it 100% if you're dieting, 100%. But when you're not at the gym and you've got your diet food, you can go have a normal life. Look, I'm guilty. When I was younger, I missed a lot of Christmas dinners that I could never get back now because I don't want to come over because I've got to eat fucking chicken and rice. I don't want to see you eating all that beautiful roast food. And I missed out on a lot of family functions because I just wanted to be miserable sitting at home. I didn't want to watch them eat all that food. So you've got to find that balance. And like you said, my last show I did was the universe. I was getting ready for that because I had seven years off and suspended from the office. I feel like I'm going nabber. I'm thinking, fuck, if I don't do well, I don't want to go online. What a fucking loser, blah, blah, blah. So I'm like, I got into it. I was dieting so hard and doing this. I was actually stressing myself out on this comeback thing. And then I met a girl that had four kids and she moved in. And people are like, fuck, Lee, you're moving a girl down with four kids while I get ready. And actually it worked out for the best because as soon as she moved in, the kids, when I wasn't at the gym, I was taking the kids to the park, the kids to the beach. I felt more relaxed. I'm like, you know what? I'm just going to treat this as a guest posing. So I'd go to the gym, do my training, eat my diet food. But when I wasn't doing that, I was out taking the kids to the park, the beach, wherever. And I said, well, once I relaxed more, I actually got in better shape. That's enormous. I think, too, some people, I think some people are almost afraid to do other things because they, I think subconsciously, they're worried they'll like those things more than bodybuilding. And they've already invested so much into their bodybuilding identity that they're afraid to like jeopardize it. And I said that, too. I said, that's the mistake people can make. Yes, you can love bodybuilding. And like I said, yes, everyone wants to be Mr. Levy, but it's not going to happen. At least you're at a top 1%. That's hard to even win a pro show. You could be, that might be a good state level. And that's as far as you're ever going to get. Or you might be good at national level, but you're never going to get pro. If you do turn pro, maybe you're never going to be a great pro. But like you said, I think people put all their eggs into one basket. They focus just on bodybuilding. Like you said, if they had tried something else, they might have excelled at that. They could be number one in whatever else that is, but they've just put on hold or didn't even think about because all they want to do is be a bodybuilder. So you've got to keep your options open to do other stuff. But like I said, if you enjoy it, I never got into the racing to win anything. I just got into the racing because I thought it was fun. Same as bodybuilding. And I find that if you have a passion and it's fun and you enjoy it, you're going to excel at it rather than, I find you try and force yourself to do something. And it's like, I want to do this because of this or that, or I want to do this because I want to be noticed and that. Then things normally go south. So if it's a passion of yours, and like I said, I get a lot of things down and I say, do you think I have the genetics for this? And I said, look, I don't know. I can't tell by looking at a photo of you now, if you're going to be a top bodybuilder in four years time. I say, just do everything you can. And I said, to me, to be a top bodybuilder, like you've seen pictures of other bodybuilders when they're natural. They haven't already. And to me, I said, before you even touch a drug, if you love training, if you train, you eat, you rest. Before you even touch a drug, you'll know you're meant for bodybuilding because you'll just naturally grow. There could be four mates that go to a gym, train, eat, rest. One of them is going to be, everyone's like, fuck, is he on gear? Look at him. You know, it's like, if you got it, you got it. And that's in all sports, no matter what it is. People are just naturally gifted for different things. But sadly, bodybuilding, I think I mentioned before, like I have friends that play golf and tennis and they do it for fun. They're not there going, hey, Lee, fuck next year. Dokovic is dog shit. I'm going to fucking wipe him out. I'm going to take him out. It's like, they know their limits. They do it for fun. But for some reason, every guy in this state that goes into a gym and sticks a needle in their arm, thinks they can be Mr. Olympia. But if they're not, well, that's because he's taken fucking more than me. That's why he's there. Blah, blah, blah. I just don't want to do what he's doing. It's like, no, you just don't have the genetics. Just admit it. Doesn't mean you'd have to quit training. If you love training, go to the gym for physical health and mental health. But just because you're not going to be a pro bodybuilder, it doesn't mean you have to chuck it all in. Just fuck. You might have the brains to be a top fucking computer programmer. Be a good in-shape computer programmer. Make big bucks doing that. You know, stop.  You're not wasting your time trying to chase a goal, it's never going to happen. But it's like you said, Ron, sometimes they just put so much focus in the bodybuilding, whatever they are really gifted out or good at has passed them by because they just, I have this one thing and that's it. Right. Right. Right. I, I, I, I, we've all heard, uh, legendary stories speaking of gear, of, uh, of you, uh, of you, uh, I've heard stories of you, like, you know, loading up a sustenon and just leaving it on the table for like a week. Right. Right. Right. I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I And like, Paul, Paul being your roommate saying, are you going to take that? And you're like, oh, I, I, I forgot. Like, like, what, what, what, what's the thing? I think I was like, I got into bodybuilding because I developed good without the gear. The people go, well, why did you take it at 19? It was like, well, at 19, then I knew I was coming to America to compete with the Americans. And if I was going to turn pro to like, but you had good genetics. I'm like, well, so today. It's like, yeah, I can have the best genetics in the world. It's only going to take me so far. Now, if these guys have just the good genetics and they're on gear, sadly, I've got to take the gear to keep up. But I was never one of those who relied on it. You know, I've trained with guys. Let's go heavy. And they're like, I can't go heavy. Why not? I'm not on anything. I'm like, if you think that way, you're never going to fucking go anywhere. They like, they rely on it too much. It's like, I could have a shot. Then, fuck, two weeks ago, I thought, fuck, I've got to take a shot. I wouldn't care. Then I'll take it two weeks later. Well, I've got mates where, let's go somewhere. Not, not Friday. I've got to have a shot. I'm like, take it Saturday. I've got to have a shot. I've got to have a shot. Have a Friday. I'm like, seriously, come on. It's not that fucking serious. But I think so many people get dependent on the gear and think they can't do it without it. Because if you've got good genetics up there, yes, the gear will help. But it's not the end or the be all. It's like, you know, it's not going to turn shit into gold, no matter who you are. It's like, that's why I always use small amounts. People go, well, he's lying. He used double. But I said, the most I ever took was, you remember Travis Smith, don't you, from Nuclear Nutrition? Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Like, I was good friends with him. And he said to me one time, Lee, you're only taking 400. Let's go up to 800. Let's see. I'm like, really? So for a couple of weeks, I did 800. I felt shit. And people were like, how could you feel shit at 800? I said, I did. Mentally, I felt shit. My strength felt shit. I went back to 400. And I felt good again. And so when I tell the people to dose us, they're just like, because I can just tell straight away when I went to England, kids over there are doing anywhere from two to five grams just to test a week. I'm like, where the fuck do you put? I said, I don't know if you're benefiting. I said, the guy you're buying it off, he's benefiting very well because you're going through a lot of gear. But in their mind, I can just see because, you know, some of these guys that take gear, we've all seen them. You could point them out. You go, does he even fucking lift? But he's taking gear. So I look at these young kids. If I say I'm taking 400, they're like, I'm taking 1,000. He's twice as big as me. He's fucking lying because they just equate more gear to being bigger. But it doesn't fucking work that way. And I tell people, if you're on these fucking huge stacks, come off it for a few months. Go back on a small amount. And I bet it's going to work just the same. More is better. He's just so far like crazy. And like I said, the thing was, when I did my first course, it was DECA, 200 milligrams a week for eight weeks. I put on 20 pounds. And later on, I tried Sustanol. The thing was, I tried, like I said, the TES, Sipinate, Amphate, Suss 250, DECA, Dynaval. I tried every drug by itself alone. That way I knew how it worked with my body. So if I did get ready for a show, I'd be like, you know what? I like DECA and Dynaval together. I might take Suss 250 and Anadrol together. But young kids now, they hop on four different drugs. Oh, they're working. I'm like, how do you know which one's working? You just threw four drugs together and you're like, yeah, I'm getting bigger. They're working well. It's like, you've got to start with one because if you're taking four, maybe only two of those are really working. You know, our bodies are all different on what we, you know, take in and that, what your body uses, same as vitamins, everything. It's like maybe those other two, you're just wasting your time. You don't need it. So if I got ready for a show, generally be like DECA, Dynaval, maybe Suss 250 and Clambuterol. I never take more than three. I didn't really count Clen as a drug. I was just, but if I use steroids and then the last six weeks, I might switch from Suss 250 to Masteron, go from Dynaval to Anadrol just to keep me nice and full. But I never went crazy amounts. Like my whole cycle, if I add it up, would have been like, give me, add up to 400 a test and 250 the Suss 2 on. And then let's say I had like 30 milligrams of Dynaval a day. Probably he's touching on a gram of everything combined a week. So which some kids fucking take that in one shot. And as soon as I tell him that, oh, he's lying. I'm like, why am I lying? Like all the shit I've told about my life, my sex life, things I've done. You think I'm going to lie about fucking steroid? You said, look, if I took 10,000 milligrams, I'd say, look, I took fucking 10,000 milligrams. I wouldn't give a shit. Just like, you know, I told that threesome story once when I was fucked up with the missus and I looked down, the guy was blowing me. And people are like, what? I said, well, yeah, I was in the moment. I'm in the moment. But they all use 400 milligrams. I was squeezing her boobies. Okay, I believe you. I believe you. She's riding the guy. She's riding the guy and I'm squeezing the boobies. I'm looking at my girlfriend thinking, who's sucking my dick if she's up there? And I looked down. I'm like, oh, fuck it. What the hell? I'm in the boobies. And people go, Lee, that's gay. I said, listen. Lee, you're gay. You're gay. I said, look, that happened once. That would be, oof, early, early. You crash one car and all of a sudden you don't know how to drive. Exactly. Yeah, 2000. It would be 2000. I said, look, that happened once. Not once I've ever, from that day it happened. I never thought, fuck, he's a good looking guy. I wish he could suck my dick. It's like, I never, I never thought. Because listen, I said, I'm the type of person. I said, I've told all my sex stories. I said, if I was fucking gay, I would tell you because I'd have some of the best stories that, you know, I was reaming him so fucking hard. And his head was hitting the fucking bed head. Oh, man. I wish I was gay just so I could have a whole heap of new stories to tell because I'd have a ton. I know you've run out of stuff to do, Lee, because you did it all. Jesus. If I end up dead on drugs, I'll tell you, like, you know what? He died trying to make new stories for us. Yes. The sacrifice was real. Over the last 10, 15 years, too, I will say, Lee, that I've heard you tell your gear stories and they've always been the same. It hasn't been like one time you said one thing, another. And I think that's a sign of telling the truth, too. Like, if you got somebody that doesn't believe you, just listen. Go back. All those videos, all those old podcasts, they're still there. It's the same stories every time. That's not what happens when people are making stuff up, you know. Some people try and catch me out. He said he did this back then. I'm like, no, you didn't listen. Go back and listen to what I said. Because some people try and catch me out. Back here, you said you only did this many grams. I said, go back and listen. Oh, OK. Yeah, I misheard. It's like, like I said, I've got no reason to lie. And, you know, I said, the main reason I told the truth was I lied to my mom once and she belted the crap out of me. It's like, no matter what you do in life, always tell the truth and be honest. And I have been. But then, you know, when I tell my stories now, my mom will send me a message. Maybe they'll be that honest. Maybe we leave out the blowjob from the guy, Lee. No, but the thing is, I'll tell that story because, look, I'm not ashamed of what I've done. It's part of life. Fuck who gives a shit. But to me, I tell that story because imagine if years down the track, the guy went, listen, Lee, if you don't give me $2,000, I'm going to tell people I sucked your dick. I'll be like, go ahead. I've already fucking told him. I don't care. That's old news, bro. You're not going to blackmail me. If I tell all my secrets, you're not going to blackmail me. They're already out there. I don't care. What about the SEO stuff? That's another thing that's been going on. Everybody's like, oh, man, women's physique, PMMA, everybody's on SEO. This dude's using it. That dude's using it. How is SEO use, in your opinion, from what you've seen back in your day compared to now? What do you think about it? And is it a bad thing overall? To me, we always put substances in our body, don't we? Steroids and shit. So to me, look, I know NASA used it a bit in these rear delts. I remember one time you got an infection. Maybe for small body parts, I don't mind it. Because to me, I got in an argument with someone because I said, it's really no different to a girl getting breast implants. They're like, yeah, but the breasts aren't judged. And I said, no, the breasts aren't judged. But the overall look is because when I was with Adela and that and around that sort of, she won, what, the Olympia six or seven times in the Arnold Classic. But being around her and the other people and the girls, you'd hear judges tell them, you know, maybe if you just get breast enhancement and that, it'll make your physique look better, your place better. And yes, they say it's not judged, but let's just say there's five girls who don't have breast implants. And the judges are saying, hey, and the girl that gets fifth is the one that gets her breasts done the next show she wins because she got them. So they are really judging them because they are saying it does improve your overall look. So even though the breasts. So to me, a guy putting a little bit in his rear delt, but I'm thinking a little bit to add, like say you've got these huge front delts and sides that we're just lacking a bit there. If you put a small amount in just to improve that look, to me it doesn't bother me. But if you're trying to puddle in to put muscle somewhere where you don't have it, that's when it becomes a problem where if you can't build the muscle first before you've got to add that to it. You know, some people are like, they just don't get a good bicep. So the whole arm is probably 60% fucking PMMA or oil or something. Then it's like, man, maybe bodybuilding is not for you. So if you just use a small amount maybe for those little areas, you might just want to bring up a peak on the bicep or read delt or something. Fine. But going for a big muscle group to try and create a muscle, then you go on too far. Yeah. I feel like with that, it's one of those things where if you can't, if I'm not sure if you've done it, then either you didn't do it or you did it really well. So fuck it. Look at Rich Piana. Look at Rich Piana. His arms now. Look at Rich Piana.  comments, comments, comments, comments, comments, comments, comments, comments, comments, comments, comments, comments, comments, comments, comments, comments, comments, comments, comments, comments, comments, comments, comments, comments, comments, comments, comments, comments, comments, comments, comments, comments, comments, comments comments, comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments comments styrate if i had sin files like i used essiclene once to try it in my bicep and that's stunned like a motherfucker so bad i go to the gym i'm like i couldn't even fucking train i'm like how is this even fucking good i can't lift any weights i feel like a wasp fucking bit me for two days on the arm and it's just red and inflamed i'm like this is bullshit so i never tried again after that but people would use all that type of stuff or even they might side inject you know thinking if i keep shooting here it's gonna grow you might get scar tissue but to me yeah people say you side inject it's like well most people did the glutes we all should have asses like fucking baboons if fucking putting it in the muscle makes it fucking grow so you know our asses should have been like fucking queen latifah or someone by the end of the contest yeah yeah what what about getting so getting gear in the 90s in la so i mean we were all worried about counterfeit gear and fake shit and i assume everyone in venice probably was all networked with the same kind of dudes and you're getting the good stuff but were you guys at that level at the olympia level and the pro level were you guys still like being having to be really careful about whether shit was counterfeit real or well i did um like my podcast i do with john on um bodybuilding and being to where we don't really talk bodybuilding it's just fucking talking shit i had scott on there and scott used to run the max muscle in um venice he actually went to jail did some time for sale but he pretty much sold to everyone and like he's now married to my he's married to my ex caffi now and i stayed at their place when i was over there and he came on the podcast he goes i can tell you right now he goes i'll tell you exactly what lee took he took a bottle of this and a bottle of that he was like the main one i went to because he got the good stuff yeah so i think over the years you know it watered down you know depending where you got it from and that's why i'd always give bodybuilds a hard time in venice because i drink i've always drank tap water i only give a fucking not in fucking india or somewhere like that where the water's contaminated so people are like lee do you know it's chlorine in that water and shit and blasting and don't get your drugs from mexico you're injecting shit into your body you don't know where it's from and you're worried about drinking the fucking water it's like get out of here you know it's like it's weird what bodybuilders latch onto i'm not putting that water in my body but yet you just got some bottles or somebody you're going to just right into your bloodstream with the picture exactly yeah yeah especially with all the new the the new peptides coming in yeah but scott was the main guy we had a couple of europeans that would come over once in a while these german guys would come over and bring their little suitcases with them full of stuff all the all the ampules on a parabole and snap off ones and all that sort of shit back in the day i've heard stories be like such and such staying at a hotel and all the body was begun to this guy's hotel buying all the gear yeah what about the uh you know how long were you at one of the houses that ed owned how long did you stay for about a year year or so and i know there was a lot of bodybuilders coming and going and you saw some great ones come and become great it would get mad at me because ed would be like lee you don't talk to the bodybuilders about this and i said ed i talked to him like i talk about normal stuff i don't want to talk about training i'm going to come to gear to this like everyone paul to let live with me i saw what paul would load up but i never asked him what's your cycle in all the years i ate with stridum all of them not once did i mention gear because i don't care what you're taking what you take is what you take and what i take is what i take i'm not going to be like oh that's what you're taking i'm going to do the same because everyone's different so to me that's why i said the steroid thing was never talked about because i didn't care i don't care what you're on and ed will get mad he's like lee why don't you try and learn stuff and he's like ed i don't care what i take works for me so he'd get mad at me like well you should because they might have different ideas well that's their ideas i don't care i don't need to know what gear they're mixing if it's working well for them because what i'm using for me works well for me so you know i said i tried the growth twice never did it again never did insulin my whole career so maybe it might have felt back then but it's like i said i just wasn't that into it i never that once i looked at the pictures once in that um underground steroid book where it had fake and real i'm like well i can't tell the fucking difference but in all the time i've never read one of those books never again i have young kids on page such and such and they're like fuck me dead get a life that's like you know the gear thing was just i was never obsessed by it i didn't didn't care what uh what how many contracts did you have over the years you had a weeder contract for a long time right you had a weeder contract for a long time and then i think i was went to pro lab after that and then pro lab got brought out i remember those pro lab ads with the tire oh yeah oh yeah and the boxing bag yeah yeah yeah david paul pictures and then i went to twin lab for a while and then i was with them for almost five six years and they got brought out then i was being with other little companies in between and stuff like that but i was just with a company and from nutrition i just signed with them when i was over there in la at that fit expo a month or so ago i've been with them 10 days i never spoke to the company sid who does um a lot of my managing for me now he spoke to me that and the guy was unhappy because within 10 days he only sold one tub of protein with my discount code and like fuck i barely advertised that i'm with you i said people who are my fans probably already have protein so they're like well when this runs out i'll use lee's code and buy more and he told sid that i've got other ambassadors that sell more than lee i thought with his popularity i was like 10 days mate and he just started going on so we decided to leave the company said look if he's going to be like that this is fucking ridiculous you know so then after we left we agreed to part ways he went and told people that he got rid of me because of my behavior and that and i found out so i wrote to him he goes i'm sorry i'll reword that but it's like too late now you fucking put it out there didn't you sir yeah on the next podcast later i'm doing today i'm really gonna rip into him oh my goodness but i do i do have things in the works and maybe like i said i'm with young la now use code priest oh there you go oh let me see the shirt let me see the shirt was that popeye what is that oh that's awesome that's nice there we go yeah so yeah code priest at young la but they've been really good and i'm speaking with i can't see who i'm speaking with but it'll probably be announced at the art of classic where i'm going let's just say where i'm going i get on really good with the people and i think people will be happily surprised you're going to be in columbus yes awesome and i'll be at the arnold uk with the company that i'll be signing with okay well we will be there too there yeah that's going to be at the arnold uk as well yeah we'll keep an eye for you if we know we're going to be you're going to be there yeah yeah i'm thinking too um i'll be at pros gym as well because i think matt from pros gym is going to let us have a table there as well so it should be i think people will be pleasantly surprised who i'll go with so nice oh that's cool okay well thanks a lot man it's been great to have you on i what is it 7 a.m there 7 30 in the morning or something 7 20 a.m i've been that's almost i've been up since three oh my half the day that's the thing i'll get up at three o'clock i'll go train and do stuff i'll come home do housework because i'm a fucking adhd neat freak it's raining today but i've got seven cats so you know i'd take care of the cats and the dogs and and then by 10 o'clock up there there's a time and i'm like i've done that i've done that i've got dinner ready i've done this it's only 10 o'clock what the fuck am i going to do for the rest of the day there you go we need another hobby are you going to race again uh i wish but no in australia it's too expensive when i was over there with the team and that you know lucas oil oil and toyota's were sponsors and that so when you got sponsors it's a lot easier to race going the team we're like lee why don't you get your own car i'm like why don't i have to get a truck and trailer and if it blows up i gotta fix it i said don't take the fucking fun out of it goes i like racing your cars if it blows up i just go home right give me another one exactly yeah but no i'd love to be fun you know sometimes we have like the australian v8s here and they'd always have these celebrity races and they'll get someone off a soap opera in australia to go on there like these cunts suck so why have i never asked i could just play dumb i've never raced before can i do it take your tv show run that cut off the track that's me you know what one of my favorite australian i think it's australian specific because i don't think anyone else does it but it's one of my favorite australian things it's those crazy little jet boats that they race in the little ones yeah i think they did it in the states as well really shallow water yeah yeah yeah it's like now there's a navigator it's just like a rally type of thing i love that i've done navigating too i've done navigating a few times in race cars and that i won rally races yeah i've done i won two races being a navigator and i was good friends with john schneider from the dukes of hazard and i navigated for him oh no way holy crap in the general league in the general league yeah we ended up ended up fourth in that race but the other two and that i'd navigate like one i think i've got the navigator trophy somewhere but yeah but and he comments  I've got all these things here, certificate of achievement, but demonstrating superior driving ability while completing these racing courses, always because here in Australia you can drive bad, they call it a hoon law, you go to court for driving like dangerously, I've got like probably 10 of these things saying I can handle cars at high speed, but then they go to court I can say your honor, look, I'm licensed to drive like a dickhead. Yeah. Did he teach you how to slide over? the hood like the hood like the hood like the hood like the hood like the hood like the dukes of hazard. the car the car the car the car the door but he had he had he had I think he had free from the actual show. One of them he had in the garage which all the cast has signed and the one he raced was from the show too but it was all done up with the roll bars and shit in it. Yeah. On Sundays because I'd train him sometimes. Yeah. That's when he was on Smallville. So I'd go down to the set while he was filming in Smallville and he gave me his beautiful like Smallville Jersey but then he gave me this like black leather Superman. jacket from the show but i'll go down to the warner brothers lottons training but on weekends i go to his house and every sunday would take the general lead down to the donut shop this is just a story you have sitting on a shelf yeah in your head yeah yeah i never do that on all the episodes i've listened to i hadn't heard this one before i didn't know you were friends with john schneider yeah yeah and the thing was when we show kathy and i'd been married so i was with kathy at the time and kathy and i wanted to review knew our vows so john's ex-wife ellie he's not with her anymore but he goes oh come on let's go to vegas so he flew me kathy john and ellie went to vegas on his private jet and got remarried again in vegas so that's awesome the thing is john schneider is like would go out places sometimes wouldn't even do his hair just put on a t-shirt and shorts i mean like so down to earth like just a typical guy you wouldn't know he was famous or got money he was just like typical just just a great guy to hang out with wasn't one of those like he gets some movie stars you know don't look at me don't do this like you know he's like a man of the people type thing and that so yeah he'd have syndication money too hey he'd have smallville money and hazard money and he's actually he's actually a good singer too i had some of his albums he's actually a pretty good country singer and he does a lot of stuff now if you follow him on instagram or facebook he still does a lot of stuff around the country helping things that goes to race tracks and still races and does appearances and stuff so that's awesome see well if if i hope if young bodybuilders listen to anything from this story it's that you know getting your dick sucked once does not make you a specific way is that the lesson or no more of a race car lesson maybe okay the lesson is the lesson is just be yourself look just be yourself if you want to get your dick sucked by a furry a guy your mother that could be a bit weird but hey you know if you're in the appellations that's probably normal who cares so it's like i always just tell people be yourself who cares what people think no matter what you're doing like you could be the best at something and be perfect someone's always going to find something to hate about you or dislike about you so don't try and be someone you're not just to fit into a certain group just be you and if people like you they're going to like you and the people that do like you for being yourself they're the right people to have around you you don't want people around you who only like you because you're being fake something you're not because if you do show who you really are they'll be like oh oh we don't like him because i've got so many friends if they go to this group they act a certain way over here they'll act a different again i'm like just be your fucking if i be myself they won't like me then fuck them then if they can't like you for being yourself just be yourself you'll be a lot happier because if you try and please everyone you're never going to please anyone so and the main person to please is just be happy within yourself so you know there you go that means getting your dick sucked by whoever you know and trust me trust me you might with dusting you might know because you've got a bead but trust me if your eyes are shut a mouth's a mouth you can't tell the difference if there's a glory if there's a glory hole trust me you don't know if that's a guy or a girl on the other side i thought glory holes were honest this whole time whoever whoever needs that 20 bucks on the days behind this okay well i know that perfume mom oh goodness okay thanks lee you know i think we made it i think we made it without getting anything tragic happening to uh you are youtube monetization we'll let youtube decide that you know what i mean yeah yeah so thank you you'll find out when you go to post it yeah exactly thanks lee you know uh thank you it's great to have you know obviously we love the guests that take the time to come on the show but you know you are a true legend of bodybuilding one like i said like i said i'm just lee like i'm just yeah yeah but hey you know you're just the only lee thank god there you go we got one so we get one we get one look at looking at my reflections bad enough i'm scared there's two so yeah yeah yeah okay thanks a lot lee lee priest everybody thanks for coming on the show at the arnold thank you very much yeah we'll see you at the arnold yes yes okay peace out lee thank you so what do you think guys lee priest i think we survived yeah we'll find out minimal editing yeah we'll see what happens we'll see what youtube says after this scott you're allowed three cuts i believe he's gonna have to cut the very very beginning that you guys will now not see and then we'll go from there i think we're good i think we're good yeah that's fine no uh it was a good time and i appreciate lee it gets up super early which just happens to work for us obviously yeah on the side of the planet so that was that was cool but uh it was you know cool like i met lee like i said in 97 and um he was also one of the bodybuilders you know i've mentioned a few guys like you know mike matarazzo and paul de let and and and chris um cormier um i mean some some of those guys man you met them at a show and then you would see them like three years later at gold's and they would be like hey you're the canadian guy like they might not know your name or they might but they would remember you and um which is crazy right yeah the good old days of guest posing and if you think about it they probably have less people to remember than now with social media yeah right yeah you know and that's tough and there would always be a few people at every appearance i'm sure that they would remember because they would have you know conversations with them and stuff but i was always thought you know lee was one of those guys so really cool to have them on and um and uh you know it's great that lee really knows who he is and how he is because i'll say from him training at scottsdale gold's for so long when he says he's just lee that is there were people in that gym they're like oh that lee guy that muscular guy and they had no idea because he's not the guy that tells you you know what i mean yeah he just he really does see himself that way and i think that that's something people should uh should strive for you know yeah and i think that's why no matter what he was doing racing bodybuilding not bodybuilding sponsored not sponsored lee is always happy because he's not trying to be anything he's not and uh you know like i said seeing that for a few years and meeting him you know obviously coming up when we did ron like lee was lee yeah you spend like three minutes with lee and you completely forget he's the bodybuilder and you're just hanging out with a cool guy you know yeah yeah and a lot of stuff that he says like you know he he just he's he doesn't he doesn't mean any offense to anyone he's he's having fun and making jokes and yeah and and that's how and that's generally how a lot of aussies were they were just really just like free-spirited like chilled out people so um you know he's uh he's one of the biggest legends we've ever had on right yeah he really is we've had he's probably one of the most popular of all time because of who he is more than the bodybuilder he is yeah yeah yeah the the he was the original 212 division yeah all by him yeah it was just him so uh so yeah it's a good time so remember everybody like share subscribe comment and ring the bell hi button hi button there we go i'm leaving a little space for that and uh remember i am mutant.com go to i am mutant.com or mutantnation.com dusty and ron dusty and big ron are your codes get your hardcore iso your big greens your mindfk and of course everyone should get on the gear thanks everybody and remember it's just bodybuilding you