 Well, stressed, stressed, stressed, stressed, stressed, stressed, stressed, stressed, stressed, stressed, stressed, stressed, stressed, stressed, stressed, stressed, stressed, stressed, stressed, stressed, stressed, stressed, stressed, stressed, stressed, stressed, stressed, stressed, stressed, stressed, stressed, stressed, stressed, stressed, stressed, stressed, stressed, stressed, stressed, stressed stressed, stressed stressed, stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed stressed I was like, if that's the only difference, send some my way. Hey, everybody. Welcome to It's Just Bodybuilding. I'm your host, Big Ron Partlow, with Dusty Hanshaw and the producer, Scott McNally. Remember to like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. Yes, the bell must be rung. And remember, Iammutant.com. Go to Iammutant.com. Use Dusty and Big Ron as your codes. Save money. Avoid people. Get a discount. Get it delivered right to your door. Hey, Dusty, that sounds so good to me. I can't fathom not doing it. I had five people last night after 8 p.m. decide they did not want to see humans in the next couple of days. And I know because I got these notifications just one after the next. I do not want to see people this week. I want to thank you guys. Every time a show comes out on Wednesday, I always get a cluster of mutant emails on Thursday. That's cool. That the code is being used. Our contracts are coming up for renewal, Dusty, so use those codes. I need it. Use those codes. I have been using big greens every day. Here's how I worked it in. So I started drinking it first thing in the morning, right before I eat, not first thing. So basically when I make breakfast. Right. And so far, I've been like, oh, my eggs are cooking. I'm going to drink it. But I think I'm going to switch that to after I'm done eating because it's so delicious. I kind of want to save it as a dessert. A dessert, yeah. Pro tip, you definitely want to put it in a shaker cup. It mixes a lot better. If you just put it in a glass and you stir it with a spoon. Who does that? Well, I did that and it was a mistake. So just a pro tip to everybody out there. Is that a thing like regular civilian greens people do? I do that with everything. Protein shakes. I just like I'm lazy. So I just put it in a glass and stir it up. Oh, wow. Not a good move. Definitely use the shaker cup. It levels it up to a 10 out of 10. So I just want to throw that out there. Okay. I put mine in with ISO. I mix it all in that great big shake I do. So I have like my fiber, protein, all that. This pre-bed blast. Pre-bed blast. Yeah. Actually makes for a morning blast, but never mind. I was thinking that. Yeah, yeah. Morning blast is a different thing before the Sunday football starts. Okay. We're here on a Monday. I like that everyone's popping into the chat. That's good. We don't have Christmas colors. We're a little early, but we're good. Not planned. Yeah. Not planned. How was the weekend? How was the weekend generally? You had a good one? Dude, it is soup season. So Nikki is making a different soup every Sunday. Oh, that's cool. So I've never heard of soup season. What is this? Well, I created it. I don't know if it's a thing. I just say it because I decided that this year I wanted soup every week as I'm in fat season. And so this is what's happening. I like that. See, this is an example right here. This is an example of something I admire about Dusty. He creates his own reality. He's like, we don't. Yeah. Yeah. We don't. Yeah. Like, he's just, and then speaks about it as if it's just everyone's, in everyone's lexicon. Yeah. They should know. Everyone soup season. What do you mean? Like, that's something a Seinfeld character would do. Yeah. Just invent, just invent soup season. And then just act as if it's a thing and expect everyone else to fall into place. That's how it becomes a thing, Ron. That's beautiful. It makes me feel like I'm missing out. They're not doing soup season. I admire that. Now, you got three of your friends' wives cooking soup. And then they get two of their friends' wives cooking. And then next thing you know, there's a whole cluster of people having soup season. Yeah. Yeah. You got soup season and then football during the day. So I got church at 3 o'clock, which is leg day. I got the games before leg day. I got a post-workout soup season right into the last game of the night. What else does a man need? See, this is what everyone should aspire to do is to create a reality that you want to live in. Yeah. I like that, Dusty. It's magic. Okay. Okay. Let's get moving on these topics. I was looking at you sent so much stuff over, Dusty. Scott gave me 13 minutes to plan the show, so I got time. It was good. It was good. Thank you, Nicky. We appreciate you. Okay. Which is the starter? What are we starting with? We're starting with the news. Big news. Or is using SEO. That's like the headline. The rumor. The accusations. The rumor. People are like, oh, no. Or is using PED other than steroids and growth hormone and insulin. That's my favorite part. Now, I haven't heard any of this. Is this just that you got to put your shots somewhere? So you put them in his delts or something? Like, I didn't hear. No, they're claiming he's using SEOs, like the high-passman oils. Yeah. But when Scott mentioned this, here's the thing that bothers me is where do we create this moral line of what's okay? I'm like, if it looks good, who gives a shit? Like, if all of a sudden your bicep looks perfect, hats off. If you go too far and mess it up, probably shouldn't have done that. Big red swollen arm, yeah. Yeah, I mean, you've seen the guys that go too far. And the funny thing is, is that also happens with just injectables. You know, where guys hit the same spot too much. You see car tissue build up and all of a sudden it looks like dog shit. So I don't see the problem. So I told Scott, I said, you know what's funny about it? Everyone's jumping down his throat. And all I thought of is, man, I ordered some. I was all ready to get my biceps going because they were terrible. And the pain and the fear I had when training back because they were like, obviously loaded up. I was like, I'm going to end up tearing a bicep trying to make my bicep bigger. So I had to stop using it. And I'm like, I pointed out because two reasons. One, everyone claimed that SEOs in my triceps, which I was like, if it made them look like that, I'd be proud of it. I just didn't have to. But I did try the buys and it just didn't work out. Yeah. So what are people even using now? I thought like SEOs are just like, they're, I mean, no one talks about them in my world. The hyaluronic acid is the one that everybody is. So it's not really that. So the old, the old style SEOs are gone. Like where you're having like a synthetic oil sit in this site and they're trying to. So they're using hyaluronic acid. I don't think they're completely gone, but I do know a lot more people are leaning toward that. Because all I've ever seen from big use of that stuff is damage. Like, you know, guys that have like, like I've seen guys lose a bicep. Like it just collapses. Like they hit nerves and their bicep collapses. You know, I mean, I've got a tricep that is, that is really messed up, but I think it's a C5-6 thing. Now I did use to shoot them a bit. It was like a once a week, put my gear in there when they were at their biggest, but I never had like anything happen. So I'm not sure if, if I did something to that tricep, but because my, you know, I'm pretty sure it's C5-6 in my neck. But I've seen a lot of damage from SEOs. You know what I mean? Over the years. I don't know if it's the SEO, Ron, or the fact that you're hitting a 23 gauge shot in your arm every single day. Right. It's the process, the whole thing. Because I know like the, the one that I had looked into, and again, this isn't a shot on the product. It's just, it was on my body and how it reacted. You were supposed to take a milliliter per bicep head for 10 days, then two milliliters for 10 days. And then three milliliters for 10 days. In each head. In each head. So think about the amount of, of pinning in there. Um, but again, like, I just think it's funny that they're hammering on him. Cause I'm like, well, I know he didn't have very good biceps and now he does. And, uh, yeah, I'm going to call that winning. This is bodybuilding. Like, where do you call these lines? He says he's not, by the way. Yeah. You know, he says he's not, but so there is that. And, you know, regardless, I don't care. Right. Right. There's also the fact he added 40 pounds of stage weight everywhere. Yeah. So let's remember. Let's all be honest. So if it wasn't for that, we wouldn't even know. Oh, wait, nevermind. Yeah. Yeah. We would. I get so irritated with those things. I was like, if that's the only difference, send some my way. Right. Check this shot out here. Check this out, guys. I just think SEOs are just like, they just don't work. They look like shit. So he can stand next to kind of. Tim Budesheim. Who's even kind of like. Freaky. Behind him a little bit. You know what I mean? He's not even the closest guy to the camera. Kind of giving him the angle. Yeah. Yeah. And he looks freaking massive. Yeah. Yeah. No. You wouldn't be like, oh, he just switched from classic. Didn't he? Yeah. You know what I mean? Like 20 minutes ago. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Listen, whatever they're claiming or not. Here's what I would say if I was Erz. Since he says he's not using, which I fully would believe, that's a hell of a compliment. You've brought your biceps up enough. That people cannot believe you could have done it any other way. Right. Yeah. Right. So you got called out, Dusty? People said that you. Oh, there's been a lot on it. Yeah. Because his triceps are so huge. And so I used to pin them. Yeah. So that was, you know, that played a role. And I never had an issue with that. But it was just, there was a lot of problems because I had, you know, I wanted to try to use them before. I just couldn't. So I was, and it's, that's why it was so funny is people would hammer you got obviously seated on this. I'm like, I would tell you. Cause I don't care. Right. Like, right. That's the part that just has always thrown me off. It's like, if that were why my triceps looked the way they did, which I thought they looked good. I'd be like, yeah, you should probably ask me how I did it because it worked. It could be the skull crushes with two 25, or it could be that, um, either way. Yeah. No. And again, if I was doing that in my tries, then why wouldn't I put them in the weaker body part? And I tried to, I remember back in the nineties, a buddy gave me a bottle. I can't remember what it was. It was like synth and all or synth the raw or had some name like that. Yeah. Yeah. And I remember I put like a mill in each bicep. And they were so unbelievably sore and red and swollen. And I was crippled. I couldn't do, I couldn't train my arms. I couldn't train back. I was worried. I consider going to the hospital. Oh God. And then the next, like, cause it was horrible for one day and I was like icing them down and what to do is like pop an Advil. And then the next day they were down like 50% and I was like, okay, they're going to be okay. And I was like pumping blood into them and I was like worried and it was agonizing. I couldn't even brush my teeth. Like it was pain, like real pain in my biceps. They were just so red. I didn't have that. It was just, you know, it's the same thing I ran into before with like when I was younger with different gear is like, if something takes away your ability to train or eat, then whatever it's supposed to be helping with isn't worth it. Yeah. So like, I didn't have pain like from the shots. I mean, yeah, they were sore, but not bad. But when I would train, I was like, okay, I'm doing a, like an overhand grip pull. And all I'm thinking about is this feels a little scary on bicep. Yeah. It feels a little scary on my bicep. Guys tore their, guys tore, buys and tries. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, you just think about what you're actually doing that. And this is, you remember I'm, I'm within the first week of this thing and I'm supposed to triple that after 20 days. Not going to happen. I'm like, yeah, this isn't going to work. So, yeah. But yeah, I just thought it was a comical thing you brought up, Scott. And I think that people just, you know, it's like that muscle discord channel. Like they just love drama. The drama. Gotta be the drama. You know, good for Matt for putting out shit that people want to look at, but I can't. Like I like him as a human and I hate him as a online person. I'm glad I know him as a person. So I, so I don't actually like, I'm like, okay, this is your internet persona, which is a douche. But the real you is cool. And I, and I'm like, Hey, business plan, you're doing your thing. But like, you know, that's what people want to see. They love bullshit. It's like you put out good, clean content that actually has value. You'll get 50 views. You put up some nonsense. 10,000. I, I just feel myself. I don't know if it's cause I'm 50 now, but I just like, if I see two people arguing, I just walk the other way. Like if I'm walking up to my buddies and I see there's like, they're arguing, I'm like, Oh yeah, I don't need to talk to them. Come back. I don't need this. Or you know what I mean? Like I just, if like all that stuff. So, you know, the same sort of feeling dusty, like you might like the people involved, but I want none, none of the drama. I want none of the argument. I don't want to be a part of it. Don't ask me what I think. I don't even want to know enough to have an opinion of why you guys don't get along. Yeah. You know, that's what's funny though. Is I just, I don't care enough for people to agree with me to argue with them. Right. So if I'm, if I'm like laying out a fact, it's like an absolute fact and you push back, I go, okay. Okay. Let me, let me, let me, let me ask you guys something. Let me ask you guys something. So, you know, a lot of the listeners have no inside track talking to pro bodybuilders other than like what they hear on podcasts, right. Or what they see on social media. And there to a degree, there is a veil, right. Between what the audience sees and what's actually happening, you know, behind the scenes in hotel rooms before shows, stuff like that. How common is SEO use in your experience that you're aware of? I mean, I worked with, I worked with Chad Nichols for a full year, over a year. I worked with Chris Asito for eight shows. Not once did either. Now this is Chad. He trained everyone in the nineties and Ronnie and everyone. Not once did either one of them ever mention putting something in my arms or like it never came up. Not once. Didn't mean in the conversation. It wasn't even a thing like never occurred. And so, you know, people like to say, I find one thing with bodybuilding is the people at the bottom think the people at the top are doing absolutely everything lunatic that they can think of. Because that's what a lot of the people, a lot of the mid people do all that shit. That's what you just, you nailed what I was going to say. That's a mid move. You're mid, you're mid. Yeah. You're hoping. And again, I don't think there's anything wrong with it, but you're hoping that that will be the thing that allows you to go up to the level with the guys that don't need to do it. Yeah. It's the same reason, like when people say that like bodybuilding became unhealthy, I don't disagree that when they started chasing Ronnie at his peak, guys were like, I got to throw the kitchen sink at it. And the problem is, and I obviously don't know, but I feel a safe assumption that Ronnie wasn't doing anything crazier than most of the guys. He's just genetically better. So then you got the second tier and worse, the guys like me, they're like, well, I got to do more. And you're like, bro, it's not going to help you. Yeah. Right. Like your risk to reward here. I mean, that was how my career ended. I looked and was like, what could I do to be better? Okay. How much better I'd be? Yep. Still 10th. Okay. I'm out. Yeah. Yeah. And look at like, look at guys like Jay and Phil and, and the guys like, I'm guys that were, you know, crushed it. Dexter, like, look how health, like these guys now, they walked away from bodybuilding completely fine. They didn't do the shit that killed a whole bunch of the mid tier guys. You know what I mean? And the kamikaze stuff that guys were doing to, to just try to keep up with the Joneses and all that stuff. They're just so much better. They didn't do any of that stuff. Yeah. And people need to realize that. Years before that, this would have been, this would have like probably overlapped with you, Ron. Esicline. That was like before our time mainly. Yeah. But that was something that a lot of the guys were using in the nineties, you know, from what I hear. That's completely different. That's not a site enhancement oil. That's a, I don't know exactly how to classify esicline. It creates an inflammatory. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But it's like an intracellular inflammation that, you know, it's not like a watery balloon type of thing. Yeah. Like really intramuscular. Cause the guys still look like super hard on that stuff. Yeah. You know? Yeah. And then I, I used to hear that the timing was important because you would look super hard and then like it kind of, kind of spill out after it leaves. So you had to time it. I remember hearing stories about, um, you know, I had a friend who went to the, the Naba universe, the Naba worlds or wherever it was. It was in Athens, Greece. And, uh, so he was like, this is late nineties. So he gets to Athens and he goes to the pharmacy early. He gets there like on Tuesday and he goes to the pharmacy and he's like, Hey, cause he heard there was still some esiclin floating around. And he's like, Hey, do you have any esiclin? And the, the pharmacist was like, no, the, I think he said the Russians or someone, they bought all of it or they came and bought all of everything I had. He had no sustenance. He had no juice at all in the pharmacy. Everything was cleaned up. Dang. And, uh, but there's like the mythical esiclin amps that went extinct. And then I heard someone started making like underground esiclin. Cause I mean, you know, like of all the raws, someone could make it totally be a thing now. People would love that. Yeah. But I never saw it. I never, I've never seen it. You know what I mean? Yeah. Nolitol is the new one that I hear people have used, but I don't know anybody personally who's using that. You know? And I, and I talked to you guys, I talked to, you know, a lot of people in the industry. It's not, it's not like a, a common thing. No. You know, remember the people don't realize Scott is that anything that has a chance to make you better can also make you worse. And that's a hell of a swing at the end. If you're right where you need to be like, you know, Chris, you stay all the time. I don't try to bring anybody in a hundred. I bring them at 95 and them at 95 will probably beat everyone. Cause if we shoot for a hundred and miss, we land at 80 and we lose. Yeah. And that's, I mean, when I hear like the S to clean, I never knew how that stuff worked, but I mean, imagine you're like, you're sitting backstage on the classes before you and you look perfect and you're like, Oh God. Oh God. Like you just did a 20 week prep and a year long offseason. And you're just going to roll the dice at the end. I mean, I don't know about you guys, but I don't like save up all my money for the whole year and then head to Vegas, just drop it on black and be like, well, here we go. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Like quite a way to, quite a way to run. Um, yeah, I just, I don't know. That stuff's all a risk, especially if you've never tried it before. I remember hearing stories like there's these, I'm not, I'm not saying these are true, but there's like these mythical rumors that used to go around of like, you know, Flex Wheeler would like do a back double bicep and they would like put a dot on every muscle. I heard that too. You know, and then they would do a little Esseclan in every single thing. Like that's the old rumor. That's what we used to this mythical story. In reality, Flex probably played Madden in his room. Yeah. I know I've told you this guys before, but that's, I know where the rumor comes from and it's because, uh, I had a friend that competed against him and when he went to the show, he saw Flex backstage and he was like, I'm going to smoke this guy. And they said he started watching him pump up and he put on 20 pounds right in front of me. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, I'm fucked. So I think that that's probably where that stuff comes from. Cause people don't realize how much, like he said, he watched him put on 20 pounds. Yeah. You're like, what the hell just happened? He probably had some of the craziest illusion we've ever seen for real, you know? So off topic, but I saw a thing about there. A lot of people were, I don't know what it was for a video or something, but a lot of guys talking and they said that Flex Wheeler has the best genetics bodybuildings ever seen. He just didn't give it like Ronnie or Dory. And I mean, he's right up there. He is right up there, man. That was when I got into bodybuilding was when he was right there. And I just remember thinking like, that's not human. Yeah. Yeah. It's perfect. I mean, there's nothing about his physique that wasn't perfect. I remember when I told you that story about how I saw him at gold's Venice and like a sweatshirt training chest. And then Charles Glass was spotting him and then he took his sweatshirt off. And I was just like, you know, like I was still learning how little it mattered, how you look in clothes. Right. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. Like, cause I was in the Ingold's Venice and I looked and there's like Paul DeLette's over there. And you're like, that guy is humongous. And then you're like, this guy over there is thick as shit. And then Flex Wheeler just kind of looks like a Olympic athlete in his sweatshirt. Yeah. You're like, oh, you know, wow. He's only benching two plates. And like, and then he took this, the sweatshirt off. And I remember just those lessons as a kid, as a young bodybuilder really like wake you the fuck up. And I think some people need that. Like it's really, really good. It lets you know, like, damn, I've got a hell of a pipe dream here. That's the top. That's where it is. And you just think, I better have a backup plan. For me, that was seeing Steve Kuklo at like, he was like 19 years old. Yeah. And the problem was at the time, somebody told me, he was like, oh, it's cause he's on a bunch of gear and I didn't know any better. So I'm like, oh, so this 19 year old kid has been hammering it real hard. A few years later, I, you know, more experience. I figured it out. But yeah, I saw him at 19 years old at the 2006 Motor City something or another Motor City Classic. And he just walked through and beat everybody hands down. He was like, he had a baby face. He was a child, you know? And there's dudes up there that have been competing for like 10 years, did everything right. You know, he just walked right through. I remember my favorite Steve Kuklo memory. Cause he's such a nice guy. Like he's, he's awesome. You see Steve, it's like, he's great. I remember I went to Destination Dallas the first time. So this would have been like, I don't know, 2014, maybe 13 or something around there. So Steve was huge. Yeah. And he was in the gym and he was doing standing calf raises with shorts on. And like his calves, people don't remember. Kuklo's had like the out of this world, top tier, like high shelf Hennessy where the Hennessy goes, right? He had those calves and, uh, and he comes over to me. He's like, Hey, how's it going? And I, and we were chatting and he was so, I think he had just won a show like Brazil Arnold or something. He was so humongous and ridiculous. And I go, dude, what the fuck is going on? He goes, Henny had me eat a hundred pieces of sushi yesterday. I'm going to pop. And his face was like, cause he was post show. So he was huge and ripped with like a big swollen face and his calves were the size of my head. He just looked insane. He's like, I had a hundred pieces of sushi yesterday. It's so funny. That's wild. Oh man. Love it. Okay. Okay. What's next here? Scott, you're on the list. I'm on the list. We get on the list. Cause if I look at my phone, then it looks like I'm uninterested and I don't like that. Okay. Uh, so we have a bunch of questions here and also to, we had some stuff in the live stream, dusty real quick. I know the answer to this, but since we had the live stream going question for dusty, did you experience your greatest triceps growth in strength while doing DC training with Dante? Yes. Not even close. I mean, my triceps were naturally good, but obviously I think they exploded because of the basics. And I do have to say this guys just random, not that anybody cares, but last week I started going, I went back to DC training cause I've had my training partners doing it. Okay. And so I'm literally a week and a day deep. Yeah. And I'm like, Oh shit. Like, I don't know. I think that people need to figure out the training that they need to do. Cause my body already feels different. Yeah. I told Nikki after two shoulder days, I'm like, my shoulders are going to get big again. I'm like, I mean, it just, whatever agrees with your body volume, intensity, frequency, when you find that thing, do not leave it under any circumstance. Cause like I had no intention of doing this and I'm still not like the intensity is coming up, but it's nowhere near what it used to be. And like I said, I mean, it's, I'm five workouts deep and I'm like, in two months, you're going to know I'm doing this. Yeah. You know? So there, there's something about the stuff that works for you. So the answer to that is yes for me, but I'm not saying it's the answer for everybody. Okay. Here's the question then. Uh, if you, and maybe we could go around each body part here, we all give our exercise and then go to the next body part. If you could only do one movement for each muscle group for the rest of your life, what would it be? Maybe you start with chest, right? Uh, well, I mean, I'm less romantic about movements now and more just, I speak in like that angle that you're at. Yeah. Yeah. You know what I mean? So a good, like we have a plate loaded Atlantis, um, flat press at my gym. It's seated and it is my favorite chest piece. I think ever because it's, it just feels like I'm moving perfectly. It's super heavy in the stretch position. So it's very taxing. And then it deloads a bit as you get to lockout. Right. And I'm a little weaker in the lockout now because of my one tricep. Right. So it really, really fits my body. A strength curve, heavy out of the stretch, deloading a bit, converging slightly. I just, it's perfect for me now. I mean, in a younger, younger guy would have said dumbbell inclines because I want to pick up the big dumbbells and I want to look cool. But now I could do some working sets on that. It's got almost a slight incline at the top. Right. I think my chest would just stay exactly how it is forever. If I just did that, cause it would keep, it hit all the muscle. It wouldn't go anywhere. Right. Yeah. All right. Next body parts. How about you, Dusty? What's yours? Oh, you don't want to do all of them. Okay. I would just think it would be to skip around. Cause I mean, I would just say like a Smith incline, but it's just cause it's comfortable. There you go. All right. How about back? Oh, that's it. I need two for back. I need a width and a thickness. You only get one. You only get one. So to solve this problem, I would do a slightly high row. Right. Like not quite a mid row, but like I'd find a good slight high row. Okay. Do you know what I mean? Not just, if you're thinking to try to cover the whole back, you could kind of do what you needed on there. There's probably several pieces that would do that job, but I mean, I think since I can only have one piece, I'm going to do the body masters T bar row because it has both handles. Yeah. I'm getting around the system a little here. You get that kind of the, the lat pull handle and the upper back pull. Yeah. Yeah. That's a great piece. Yeah. Yeah. Great. I'll go with that. I'm circumventing my own rules. What about legs then? Hack squat. Yeah. All right. Yeah. Love a hack. You got to remember the legs are two, it's two muscles. So you got quasi and hamstrings and then I'm going to do a seated leg curl because the seated leg curl to me is the King for hamstrings. Bar none. Yeah. Oh, you're, you're splitting it up. I gotcha. Yeah. That's two. Wow. Yeah. I'm going to go with, I'm going to go with a leg press though, just because when I'm 90, I'll still be doing a leg press versus I probably won't want to get on my body master hack. It's going to be way too heavy. That's like seven bands on it. You know what I mean? And that's a, that's a really good call. Cause you could technically do like the elevated heel kind of toe style leg press to go like leg extension style. And then you could do like a high foot single leg for the, you know, the glute more. And you can, you can do a lot of little calves, you know, you do have a lot. I don't bother with that. They're, they're not there. I trained them even though they don't matter to them. They're never going to grow. How about shoulders? Yeah. Dumbbell laterals all day long. They work for me. I'm going with that too. Me too. I'm going to do a, uh, my favorite side lateral is actually a cable one arm side lateral. Cause I feel like there's more tension out of the bottom and I can load it really effectively. And I can get where there's no pain. I can get the ankle just right where it moves, you know, where there's no Velcro sounds. Do you ever do the, um, like laying on the bench with the cuff on the wrist? We do those all the time. Oh yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Those are good. I can really target those. And I mean, like you said, that stretch is brutal. I have a very pro cuff training partner. So he likes to break out the cuffs. He likes his cuffs. He's even worn out a set of cuffs. He's going to love this. Did he wear them out? Did she wear them out? Anyways. Yeah. Yeah. Who knows how he's wearing out those cops? Yeah. I was going to say he's bringing his home life into his gym life. Cuffs last me a long time and his are getting beat up. Yeah. Yeah. Look for scarring on her wrists. Yeah. Or his. Hey. Oh boy. I forgot about that. There you go. Okay. I got to give a shout out. I got to give a shout out to my training partner, Braden, right now. He's in Thailand with his wonderful woman. Speaking of cuffs. No kidding. Speaking of cuffs. Yeah. So hopefully he listens to this on a beach in Thailand somewhere. Yes. Absolutely. Okay. All right. We got that. That. All right. Official with bison tries. Anything special with that? I kind of feel like, oh, you're just picking a bicep curl. Pick an extension or something. Dustin, you would probably be doing your skull crushers, wouldn't you? Nothing beats a good press down for me. It's just all I need. I would say with only one movement, I'd do a reverse bench. Oh. That seems to always give me the most for my tries. Okay. Yeah. Plus, I can still make my wrist do that, which I'm just really proud of. I had a client the other day. He sent me a video of him like benching just because I said, send me some form check videos. And he goes, oh, my, my, I think he said his hand was, something was bugging him. So he flipped his grip and did reverse grip bench. Just change it up because he had like a sore shoulder or something. Yeah. And I'm just like, oh, God, I can't even do an empty bar like that. I can't even hold the bar like that. I don't even. You never see people doing reverse grip bench. I feel like. No, I just was amazed at how adaptable he was. He just, I just turned my hands over. Pro tip for the listeners at home. You start doing reverse grip bench on like Instagram, you'll get all sorts of views. Because like, when's the last time you saw that? You'll love this, my training partner, because we just started about, I needed about six weeks with him before we could get into this kind of programming. So one week we did close grip bench on the Smith. And then the next week we did reverse. And, you know, very respectful. But he finally goes, so what's the difference? And I said, we'll finish these two sets and then you tell me. He got done with one word. You say, look, he goes, got it. I'm like, there you go. There's your scientific answer. Feels a lot different, doesn't it? Yeah. I've never done one. Really? Oh, they're great. Like I said, I don't even know if I can hold the bar like that. 50 is not the time to start, Ron. Yeah, I'm going to introduce a strange barbell movement. 52 is when you should do it. Yeah. 52. A lot of people starting new shit at 52. It's that or a Corvette, buddy. You got to make your choice. No vets. Okay. Oh, there's so many good ones in here. I want to get the listeners in on this, too. The best fast food burger and the best fast food pizza. Fast food. So what what what what classifieds as fast food pizza? I would be like Pizza Hut, Domino's like the ones. Okay. I'm thinking like you walk in and buy a slice because it's fast food. I didn't know. No. Yeah. I thought you were talking about that strange period in Canadian history where McDonald's served pizza. Dude, I watched a whole documentary. That is weird. There is a whole documentary on that. Yeah. Oh, yeah. There is. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Obviously, it didn't work out too well for me. They don't have it anymore. No, no. McDonald's made a big mistake. Do you call it something? Was there a name for that? It was like just McPizza. McPizza. It was something. Victoria had the name. She said that like she said you got them at school sometimes. There's like something at her school that they would get them. Yeah. They bring them in on a Friday and everyone got a little mini pizza. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We didn't get that. Canadian schools hate you guys. We had all that shit all the time. There's like one store, one place. I can't remember where it is, like West Virginia or something that still sells them to this day. Really? McDonald's. Yeah. No way. I can't remember where. Yeah. That's awful. Okay. All right. Answers. So the best fast food pizza is Little Caesars. And let me tell you why. Caesarnomics. Price. $9? $6. $6? A large pizza for $6. End of story. Is it as good? No, but I don't need a coupon. I roll through. It's hot and ready. They throw it in my car. I'm out the door. Like, I'm too cheap and all those pizzas are okay to me. So I'm just like, $3 less. Yep. This is the best one. I'm going to try one. I don't think I've ever had Little Caesars pizza. You're kidding me. Man. Nah. You know, they're from Michigan. You're not nearly as white trash as me. They're all over here. Do you know who owns? So is Domino's. Domino's is from here, too. Right. How about this? What do you think the arena that the Red Wings play at is called? The Little Caesars Arena. Yeah. Yep. And their amateur hockey team, like, for the young kids that are coming up, you play for Little Caesars. Oh, dude. Little Caesars sponsors all, like, the little, like, the kids' hockey. But that's their team. They always have. Yeah. It's nuts. They always have. Yeah. Domino's is big, too, with sports. They have Domino Farms out in Ann Arbor, and that's where, like, the University of Michigan does all their physical therapy and stuff. It's pretty cool. It's pretty cool. They have, like, a big petting farm there owned by Domino's. I do think Domino's is better tasting. The Little Caesars, just for the record. It's just a little much expensive. You guys don't have Panago, do you? No. I don't know that. No. Panago. It used to be Panagopolis, and then they shortened it to Panago. It's a Canadian thing, but they're excellent pizza, fast food. I order them all the time. Yeah. We need to go there. It's like a baked crust, so there's no grease on the bottom of the crust. It's like a baked crust. They're great. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Okay. I haven't had pizza in a long time. What about the burger, guys? I don't have an answer, by the way, because I haven't eaten pizza in a long time, really. So do you qualify, like, Fatburger as fast food? Yes. Because that's to me. Yeah? Okay. Wait. I thought. No, it's got to have a drive-thru to be fast food. It's got to have a drive-thru to count. Yeah. I think that's my cutoff for drive-thru burgers. But that means then Five Guys is not. No. Right? Okay. Can't be. Do they have a... I remove the seven-minute wait restaurants. They're not fast food. Agreed. Okay. Okay. Agreed with that. I would say... I've changed this. I used to always say Wendy's. Oh, it used to be. Yeah. But I don't know. A&W is pretty good. That's a Canadian thing, too. A&W. We have those here. A little more. We have A&Ws? Yeah. A little more. To me, it's a little more wholesome. I don't know. When I get an A&W burger, I'm always like, yeah, I don't feel so trashy. So mine is going to be the Flame Broiled Whopper. Okay. It hits. But I will tell you this. So I hadn't had a fast food burger in a really long time. And so I was like, I want a Whopper. So I went and got one, and it was excellent. Yeah. Right? So then a week later, I was like, I want another Whopper. And then it was not excellent. It just turns out I had missed them a lot. Right, yeah. Literally, the next week, I was like, and it was the same. I just realized, like, no, I was just having a moment. I had a funny, I did something funny a little while ago. I had a single nugget. Someone was eating nuggets. And so I had one chicken nugget. Was it Jay Cutler again? No, no. That's the best nugget story ever. Jay, that's the best story ever. And I had one single nugget. And I was like, God damn, that was, like, really good. Like, it was crunchy and golden and perfect. And just the right temperature. Mwah. That was a nugget. I'm going to get some nuggets on the way home. So I buy a 20-pack. I'm like, I'm in. Fuck it. Yeah. 20-pack of nuggets, barbecue sauce. Ate the whole thing. Middle of the night, I have to get up and just shit my brains out. And, like, I have not had to get up in the middle of the night to take a dump in, like, a long time. And that, like, woke me up. I was like, oh, my God. I got, like, half asleep. Ugh. Yeah. And I'm like, this is a McDonald's. It was rough. Yeah, it was rough. I hadn't done that in a long time. And I don't know what it was, obviously. It's just the fat. Or the plastic. It's not microplastic. That's just plastic. Yeah, yeah, yeah. They were good, though. Yeah. Okay. I'm going to go McDonald's on that one just because I think of Dave Palumbo and his. You remember Dave had that. Oh, yeah. He's talked about it for years. The arachidonic acid. The McDonald's, you know. And so I'm a fan. And there was a period of time that for my meal four, I would get two McDoubles, two medium fries, and two apple pies every day. How many thousand calories is that? I was eating a couple. I was trying to push to 8,000 calories for a while there. And that was like 2,000 plus right there. That's like a pound of fat a day stored. He got big, but he's muscular. I still had abs. See, it's funny. I still had the outline to my abs at the end of that offseason. It makes you wonder when you eat. Like, I wonder how many laboratory tests they have on two McDoubles, two medium fries. How much of that food maybe just goes right through your system? I don't know. Yeah. Because you think the calories, right? Like, I know what it's like to eat like that. And you're like, I should be heavier tomorrow. Yeah. There's no sense if I'm not. Yeah. It's mathematically impossible. Yeah. Yeah. Maybe the plastic doesn't digest it. We should do our own research study here. We could get some volunteers. I bet you, if you guys are listening at home, you want to be a volunteer, we'll do the two McDoubles study. You know, we'll get people involved. Remember the Super Size Me documentary? Oh, yeah. I remember when that came out. And then, remember what happened a few years ago when he died? No. So, Morgan Spurlock died. Right. And then it came out afterwards that he was an alcoholic. Oh, yeah. So, he was drinking the whole time he did Super Size Me. I had no idea. So, his liver enzymes were way off the chart. Remember how sick he got? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That was just like, he was already drinking a lot. And then, he went to all McDonald's. And then, his butt. Oh, my God. I had no idea, dude. I remember that documentary. Yeah, it came out afterwards, Eddie. He really loved his booze. It happens. Huh. Okay. Mac was about to die. I was like, oh, crap. I'm supposed to be plugged in. Scott's going to be mad. Oh, God. Okay. Okay. What else we got? I like the three pieces of advice. Striving to be the best bodybuilder they can be. Perfect. Bodybuilder. Not person. Bodybuilder. Who cares about what kind of person you are? Yeah. I don't care what kind of person you are. You can kill cats for all I care. I got one. I got one. I'm going to throw in. Say kill. I'm alive. Yeah. I'm going to have kittens. Be in a good relationship if you're going to be in a relationship. Or none. Yes. Or none. Oh, I thought you were going to say with food. With. No. Are you kidding? That ain't going to help you as a bodybuilder. Unhealthy food relationships. Yes. Either way. Disordered eating. Yes. A lot of disorders. Terribly. Being in a healthy relationship. I have seen. Or not. In my own life. I've seen in so many lives of people where like everything's going good. And then they're in that relationship where things are up and down. It's like they have three months where everything's just cranking. Then they get in a fight. Whatever. And like, oh man. I just. Yeah. I just haven't been able to follow the plan. Just, you know. Literally. And that's on you. Like the first time it happens, you know. It's like, okay. You got caught off guard. But if you let that repeatedly happen, that's a pattern. And that is you. And you have to ask yourself, why do I. Because you do. There's something about it. You might not actually want it. Like on the surface. But there's something in you that like desires to keep repeating that. So. Oh yeah. You gotta. You gotta get a handle on that. And seriously. Because if you got problems like that. You're not going to be the best bodybuilder you can be. Because you can't be consistent. So there's an external stability thing in your life. Yes. That has a huge bearing on. My advice is to prioritize earning a living and saving some money. And it's not that bodybuilding isn't the most important thing in your life right now. But growth hormone is really expensive. Right, Ron? Yeah. But you do not want to be a broke 40 year old bodybuilder. Yeah. Not something you want to be. And it'll happen to you quickly if you don't make smart decisions. And make sure you can earn a living that'll support your very expensive hobby. That'll probably never make you a dollar. So that's my advice. Yeah. But you will be jacked. Yeah. Big coffin. Ron, that was a great one. I stole yours. You always do the money thing. I got in there. You jumped in there. I was going to say, though, what I think when I think of bodybuilding, it's make sure you enjoy just the every day of bodybuilding. Because if you don't, if you don't love this part of it, I really don't think you can be great. Because it's too long. The investment is too long. There's a reason that Ron still eats the way he does and trains the way he does with the goal of shrinking. And Scott and me, you know, you took, we took away competition years ago. And the bodybuilding part that most people hate stays. Because guys that love this, this is bodybuilding was the result of me doing the thing I wanted to do, which was train and eat. And I was like, well, I might as well compete. And I think that a lot of people get into training and eating because they want to be bodybuilders. Exactly. Yeah. Ask yourself, could you go five years without even thinking of doing a show and not miss a workout? Mm-hmm. And if the answer is not absolutely, then ask yourself questions about why you're competing. Like competing should be because you love bodybuilding so much. It shouldn't be the other way around. If a bodybuilder were to hit a rear double bicep in an empty gym, did he really hit that rear double bicep? Did anyone see it? No. If there's no one there to see it, are your glutes actually striated? And if there's a lot of people, why don't you have pants on? Sorry. That's good. Why are you in my gym? I've got questions. We have rules here. Yeah. Okay. What's a song? I like this one. What's a song on your playlist that would surprise people? Oh, man. I don't think anything on my playlist would surprise anyone because it's so all over the place. Ron, this is an important one for you. So you're going to lead off here. Oh, God. What playlist? I'm doing this. It's on your phone. Okay. I'll just bring up. Okay. So I have a here's a playlist I have. It's just a weird playlist of like every time I hear a song and I'm like, oh, I haven't heard that song in a while. That's cool. I'll throw it on this playlist. So it's not a training playlist. It's a driving around playlist. And I've got here's. Oh, God. Okay. I've got this one. Do you know that Joe Pesci made a rap album? Oh, boy. Oh, I'm not even doing this anymore. This is ringing. I'm out. I'm out. This is ringing a bell. Are you telling me this is on your playlist? Yes. So I was watching a BMX Flatland video from like the year 2000. And they always have cool songs. There's one thing the Flatland and skate videos. They always use cool songs. Right. And they use in this rap song. And I'm like, that sounds like Joe Pesci. Yeah. And then I Google it. And it's Joe Pesci. He made he made music. And he made an album in the character of his character from My Cousin Vinny. No. That's one of the greatest. Wow. Go ahead. Okay. And he's got a song called Wise Guy. Yeah, he does. And it's all about being a wise guy. Right. Okay. And you guys, I don't want to play it on here because we'll get copyright strike. But you guys pull up Wise Guy by Joe Pesci and just sit and listen to it. It is perfect. It is. Yeah. I wouldn't have guessed that, Ron. I would not have guessed that. It was not. It was not on the bingo card, was it? No. No. It's not just like him. No. No. Oh, my God. All right. We got to cut it. We got to cut it. Cut it. We got to cut it. You're going to ruin us. It's the bitches that are getches. Right? He's talking about there'll be your downfall, right? It's the bitches that are getches. That is amazing. Yeah. Yeah. So, Scott. Wow. I'm not doing this now because I don't have a joke. We can't stop. I don't. I didn't know it was a contest. I just got posterized. To the rim. Yeah. Yeah. Listen, it doesn't even have to be a contest to find out you lost. Right. That's what just happened. Because what happens when that song, if I'm playing that playlist and that song, and there's like 100 and, wait a minute, 218 songs on this list. Yeah. So, I'm driving in my car and it'll come on. Yeah. It's a gift. It's a gift. It's a gift. Yeah. I want to be one of our listeners that never met Ron before. And it's a nice summer day. I'm driving down the road and up next to me at the light is Ron Partlow. And that song is blasting. That would break my mind. He's got his windows down. Right. Exactly. He's sitting in the car with his wife. I think that's Ron Partlow. Yeah. What's he listening to? He must really be up on the coolest, latest music. Right. Oh, yeah. The worst part is if you didn't say who that was and push play, I'd be like, it's Vinny. It's Vinny. Yeah. It's Vinny. Yeah. It's so obvious. Yeah. Oh, that was fantastic. Ron, Nikki, Ron did not disappoint with a good song. That was her question, obviously. 99% of these are hers, but whatever. Yeah. Yeah. He's good. He's good. Okay. We're moving on. I can't. Yes. You guys didn't even go. I'm not going after that. We lost. Let me tell you something. We lost. If Kai Green's doing Dirty Diana before my poser team, I'm not doing that either. Put on back and whack. I'm just default front double most muscular. I'm not even fucking playing this game. Yeah. Yeah. That's just back and black this one. Get out of here. Yeah. Okay. Okay. I always joke at a bodybuilding show if there's ever a music screw up and they can't. Like, you know how sometimes a person uses it? I just go back and back. And they'll just fix it. Yeah. Okay. What else did we have here? That was fun. No. We got to do some of the... Oh, the this or that. This or that. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. God. I didn't scroll down far enough. These are the fun ones. They're quick. Because we are not good at quick. So, we're not good at a lot. But we're definitely not good at quick. Sports car or truck? Truck, obviously. I've had the Mini. I've had the Mini for years. I love it. But I've kind of won a truck. Atta boy. Yeah. I could never own a sports car. I feel like it's the opposite of my personality. And it would be weird. I would feel very strange in a sports car. I would feel like I'm wearing a costume. You have to do a pistol squat to get in. Yeah. Yeah. I can't do those anymore. Yeah. I'm not a sports car guy. I feel like it would be so strange. People are like, what are you driving that for? Whose is that? It depends what kind of sports car, too. Because I like European cars. Like Porsche. I love Porsche. I'd love to have a Porsche. Or if we want to talk really cool stuff, like the old Porsche are so sweet. I would love to have one of those. Like I picture me in Victoria driving in the country through the summer, you know, top down. But, you know, that would be not my everything. I could see Ron in an old muscle car, though. Okay. Yeah. If you were to Shelby GT and you pulled out of the gym, I'd be like, of course he owns that. And it'd be, you know, it's a bitch that gets you on the radio. I could drive a little. I remember my buddy bought a 69 Camaro. Like he went out of his way to do the 69 Camaro thing. And it had like all the trimmings. It's big. You know, you open the hood. It's all chrome with the yellow wires. Oh, it's awesome. It's, you know, jacked and juiced. And he came and picked me up. And we went. Yeah. We went. And we went for a rip. And, you know, when your buddy picks you up in a car like that to take you for a rip, you know, you're floating around corners and smoke behind you. And you're G-forced into the seat. Yeah. And I remember thinking like, oh, shit, this is so cool. But what would I do with this? I'm just going to drive it to the gym. Yeah. I'm just thinking that. Okay. See you. All right. Okay. Next one. Let's see. Oh, diazide or Lasix? Who's this? Diazide, right? That's a no-brainer. Lasix is too risky now. Yeah. Nautilus or Prime? That's actually a good question. Yeah. I like that one. Because people. So here's my take on Nautilus. People sleep on Nautilus. I think Nautilus is. People forget Nautilus is a U.S. made strength company. So they're still making their strength stuff in the States. Yeah. They are the most legacy brand in the entire industry. Yeah. No one's been around longer. And I like all of their stuff that they currently make. I like the leverage line. I like the pin-loaded stuff they make. It works good. It's good quality. I've spoken to some of my friends that have kitted gyms. You know, they'll buy like, I need a new circuit for my gym. So they get all new Nautilus. I get that impact circuit or something. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And they're like, fuck, everyone loves it. It's good. It's great. What's that chest press? Like the plates are down low behind you? Yeah. That's their leverage line. The leverage line. I like that. I like that. The flat and the incline are both real nice. I just don't like the leverage row because the movement doesn't move the way your body does. It's not. It pulls like away from you. Oh. Yeah. Because that's funny because I know what you do on that row. You get back, right? Yeah. That's how I had to circumvent it. The way that I use that row is how I always used to use the flex leverage because it's copied. But I stand up real high on it. Like the pads actually kind of below my ribs. So you're pulling in for like the low lap. Yeah. And I pull down to like my hips with it. I really like it like that. But I know what you're doing on that. But that's also rows are kind of funny because I got long arms and they're weird. But I like their stuff. They make great stuff. And then when it comes to Prime, Prime does certain things really, really well. And then there's other things I don't really care for. I think they're unnecessary. Like the adjustable cam and the strength stuff, it's not needed on every piece. To me, there's a lot of wasted space and a lot of like if I had half of it, if I had all those plate loaded machines, those pins only need to be on a few of them. Yeah. Most of them people don't care at all about that stuff. It's great stuff though. But I have nothing against Nautilus. I like it a lot. Is there any line that like you would, if you could only pick one line of equipment to outfit a gym, right? Well, we're kind of going through that right now because we're talking to all the manufacturers and distributors for the new location of West Coast Iron in Edmonton, right? Yeah, yeah. So the thing is not everyone doesn't make everything though. Right. No one makes everything. Like we're talking to Hammer, but I don't want that piece and I don't want that piece. Right. And then we're talking to Nautilus and they're being really great. And I like a lot of their stuff. And then we're talking to, we're looking at prime stuff. There's this piece, this piece, this piece. Like it's hard to narrow it down to one. But I mean, Hammer is unquestionably the most durable equipment in the world. Like if you don't like Hammer, that's fine. But just know that every gym owner out there has to fix shit. They have to maintain shit. There's constant upkeep on some of this equipment. And when you buy something fancy and new that everyone likes on Instagram and you get it into your gym like we have and it breaks immediately, you think, what the fuck is going on? That 35-year-old Hammer row has never been touched. I've never greased it. I've never lubed it. I've never tightened it. And then I buy this new piece that everyone loves and its bolts are snapping. Welds are breaking. Seat things are breaking. You can't adjust the seat. After six months, got to order a new thing to go in the seat. I just cannot stand that. I think that these equipment manufacturers are just brutal. And when it comes to durability, man, in a gym, especially a gym like ours, it matters so much because the last thing I want is five pieces down. That's one thing you get when you come to our gym is everything works. If a cable is broken, we get it fixed right away. So there's a lot of stuff out there. They make a great pull down, but the bolts on, everything break. It's hard, man. It's hard to get away from Hammer. It's hard to get away from Nautilus. It's hard to get away from Prime. These are all American-made brands. I'm still looking for old Cybex stuff, for fuck's sakes. Yeah. Just describe my entire gym. Yeah. We have all of that. Yeah. Yeah. And some of the new stuff's great. Don't get me wrong. It looks good. But I mean, how long has it been out there? Some of these guys have only had it in their gym for a year. There are pieces of equipment in our gym older than some of the members using it. Yeah. Yeah. And I just, I love knowing that. I'm seeing them like, you're 15. And that was born in 1989. You know? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, so like on the Hammer stuff, Ron, last trip to Arizona, I went to the Golds I used to train at. All the Hammer stuff that was in there in 04 when that gym opened, still there. Yeah. Not moved. Right. Never done anything. I trained on it like an asshole for 12 years. It's fine. Yeah. It's indestructible. But of those two, I lean towards Nautilus just because, like you said, Ron, they don't make anything that I hate. So I could outfit a gym with them and be okay. I would probably not use it all. But they also have pieces that I love. Like, I've tried every variation of a Nautilus explode pulldown. Yeah. Those are cool. They're not the same. They're great. It's fine. But if you put them right next to each other and ask me which one I want, or if they're both in the gym, I will wait for the explode. Right. Right. Yeah. So that's another thing that people don't, if you're not paying attention to equipment, that's what's happening. So all of these, the bodybuilding equipment world is transforming. People don't notice what's happening. But all of these small companies that are starting up, not all of them, but there's a whole bunch of companies that are starting up like Ronnie's Gym Equipment, right? Ronnie's Tough Equipment or whatever. And it's an American company. It'll be called like Hardcore USA. Okay. And their office is in California or wherever. But everything else happens in China. Yep. Right? Because it's third-party manufactured. So they're ordering their stuff from a manufacturer that makes stuff. So what you can do is you can go to these, they call them OEMs, Original Equipment Manufacturers. You can go to an OEM in China and you can say, okay, what do you guys do? And they're like, well, these are all the blueprints that we have available to everyone. And you're like, I want to make that. That's a copy of the Flex Press. And then I want to make that. That's a copy of the Nautilus Nitro or Explode Pulldown. I want to make that leg press. I want to make that. But I want to put this feature on it. And then I'm going to brand them as mine. And I want round tubing instead of square so they look a little different. Right. But it's all pre-planned blueprints and everything. It's like pre-ordering. It's like getting sweatshirts printed for your gym. Yeah. And you're just ordering third-party manufacturer equipment. So then when someone goes to your website and they see, oh, this guy makes a Flex Press. It looks just like the Flex Leverage. And the Nautilus costs $4,000. And this one costs $2,500. So I'm going to get that one. And you order it. And you get it. And it's hopefully pretty good and will last a long time. But if it breaks, now you're dealing with a warranty through a company that doesn't actually have any parts. So then they'll get a part sent to you. So you're dealing with someone who's a third-party manufactured stuff. So that's one of the things that's happening. And there's a lot of that now. That's why all these copies of old Flex Equipment, old Nautilus explodes. Everyone's making a pulldown. Everyone's making the seated. You know, everyone's copying these pieces. And that's where it's all coming from is OEMs in China that are doing third-party manufacturing. That's a huge point about the parts, though. That's huge. Right. So if you're ordering one piece or something, it's not a big deal, right? But we're looking at outfitting an entire gym with like 150 pieces of equipment to start. So you need servicing. You need proper supply chain when you're dealing with the warranties. You need warranties. And you need, you know, like... Especially you because you know what your members are going to be. Right. You're going to use the equipment. Yeah. So it's one thing to buy a piece here and there. Like, oh, let's try this out. You know, that's fine. You can fix it yourself if you have to. But you just have to remember, you know, when you wonder, why isn't my gym, why didn't my gym bring in this cool piece I want? It's because maybe it's third-party manufactured. They're just waiting to see how that company does. We got to hold off. You know, so there's a lot going on there right now. The American manufacturing is, of course, sort of going by the wayside. Not many companies can afford to do it or make it function as a business model anymore. So that's kind of why that's happening. Hey, just going to throw it out there. One of our biggest fans says that we should talk more about gym equipment. That we're totally sleeping on how good those topics would be. Because, you know, like, especially with all of our experience. And Ron, with your experience as a gym owner and your depth of knowledge, that we probably should get into that more. There's a lot of good stuff in there. Oh, cool. Her name's Victoria, by the way. Ah, okay. Yeah, well, I don't know. She's probably another fan of me. Got it. Yeah, but, you know, she might not be that smart, right? She might not really be worth listening to. Yeah, probably doesn't know much. Yeah. What would she know about bodybuilding? Yeah, yeah. This guy here says, Ron, I'm all about the Sorenx. Sorenx is great. That's a USA manufactured as well. They really dominate the college, like, you know, the whole college university thing. They go to a lot of, like, college weight rooms and they'll have, like, the row of Sorenx racks and the row of Sorenx benches. You know, they really kill it there. I got to send you guys the video. FSU just redid their football area, again, their gym. And they just did the other one, like, two or three years ago. And then they decided they wanted the football team to have their own. So they did it again. And when you see the space, like, I'm going down there next year for a game so I can train in there and then I'll go to the game too. Right. Yeah. Go check it out. It's incredible. Those colleges, too, they just, a lot of times what happens when you order equipment is, I don't want to give away any secrets, but let's say you want to buy a leg press off Hammer and you talk to your local rep. He'll send you a quote and the quote will say, you know, $11,000 or $10,000 for the leg press. But then discount and then your price will be like, I'm just making numbers up, $7,500. And you think, oh, I'm getting a $2,500 discount. Now, you're automatically getting that discount because you're a private gym. And they know you're not going to pay $10,000 for the leg press. Yeah. So they give it to you for $75,000. But the government, the city-owned rec center and the privately funded university, they don't ask for deals. They don't know what they're doing. They just say, build me a gym. And they go $10,000 for the leg press and they sign the check. They have no idea. $1.5 million spending for me. So those are the prices that government-funded, city-funded, and universities pay. Oh, you are so correct about Georgia's football gym. Anybody who plays ball in Georgia, when they go to the NFL, it's going to be a drop down. They have the most insane gym you will ever see. And that's the Bulldogs? Yeah. Obscene. That's cool. Go, Dogs. Sorry. Okay. Yeah. Anyways, that's just something I noticed. That's how I think the world works. Agreed. Okay. What else we got? Coffee or energy drink? You have to cut one out forever. Oh, if I'm cutting out forever, I'm going to cut out energy drinks. Because my espresso, I'm back to espresso pre-workout. Give me four shots and I'm on my way. I would have to have my coffee in the morning. First of all, I have a wife who makes coffee every morning. So it's made when I get up, which is beautiful. I wake up to a house that smells like coffee. It's amazing every day. And she can't live without it. So it's going to get made. So all I got to do is wait. If I wake up and it doesn't smell like coffee, I just stay in bed until it does. So it's perfect. That's your official alarm is the smell. It's not time to get up yet, right? If it was time, it would smell like coffee. Of course. There's a series of events that occur before I get up. And one of them is that smell. So I would have to have that. It's like a morning ritual. It bonds us. If I didn't share coffee with her in the morning, she'd be all by herself out there in coffee world. She wouldn't have any coffee. No. It would change the dynamics of our relationship. Can you still do pre-workout is the question, though? That's not an energy drink. Totally different. Okay. Energy drink comes in a can. So this is how much of a connoisseur I am. I would just wait until 3 in the afternoon. And I would just pick up the coffee pot. And I would swirl what was left. And I would dump it in a cup and slam it cold and go, let's go train. There's grounds in your teeth. It's funny. I trained yesterday. I had a guy that had never trained with me yesterday. I had my coffee with me. And he goes, going old school. I was like, yeah. He goes, I respect that. Raw dog in it. Yeah. So I got to tell you guys, I was shocked this morning. I had a client compete over the weekend. And he sent me a gift. I didn't expect this to show up. And he sends me a picture on WhatsApp this morning of a box on my porch. And he's like, hey, is this your house? Just making sure. I was like, yeah. It's already delivered. So I got there. There's this massive freaking box on the porch. And I bring it in. It's like a fancy espresso machine. Damn. Fancy espresso machine. I got to show you guys the. I mean, I'm all hyped up on coffee right now. Like this. Wait, hold on. Want to move it over a little? Oh, yeah. A little closer. I can't get it. I can't get it. I got it. Oh, it's moving. I'll have to put it in post production. I didn't know it was a video. But it's. Yeah. Let's see. Maybe I have. So does he expect to come over? I give you that. I'm coming over soon. For sure. Yeah. It's. I can't get the lighting right because I have everything all fixed here. But it's it's like a fancy freaking. Right. I think you have a computer on there to give you like a demo on how to make a latte and stuff like that. Open a little store. You literally could. You could start charging people. And he loves his coffee. He he he has the same machine. Shout out to Bill, by the way. He looked fantastic. Bill. I showed you guys a picture of him. I saw Scott in the summertime and then he could run an extension cord out and have a little coffee in this like lemonade stand for kids and he could just make all the passers by in his neighborhood. Make a little money. Get the camera out there. I'll set up my podcast to do it all at the same time. Change my mind and have a coffee. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But he changed my mind on guns. You could sit there with your your your open carry. Yeah. He has a he has the same machine. He he went to an Airbnb for the show. He took his he's like, dude, you're going to think I'm nuts. He sent me a picture. He's like, I brought my coffee machine with me. Yeah. He's because he wanted. Yeah. He wanted his own coffee. He's crazy in the best way possible. Bill. It's like a move Dusty would do. Yeah. Oh, absolutely. I bring my fan everywhere. My fans been to Germany, Australia, Dubai, a little twelve dollar Walmart special has been everywhere. You got to do like Jay and get them to keep your fan for you. Hey, I'm going to come back next year. I'm going to come back next year. Can you just put this in the staff room or something? Yeah, sure. Mr. Cutler. I'm like, what the fuck is going on? Or you could just send someone else to get you one like you did this year. Yeah. It's a hundred dollar Walmart fan, you know? Okay. Yeah. Okay. Oh, this is the East Coast or West Coast. Is that a rap thing? No, this is just you're going to live on one side of the country or the other. Well, I am already on the West Coast and I like the West Coast. And in Canada, the East Coast would mean like Halifax or something. And now you're getting a lot more Canadian winter. If you're on the East Coast, you get Canadian winter. You get a hurricane warning. You might get a hurricane. You get like ice storms. You get, you know, that sort of shit. You live on the West Coast. You get crime, gang warfare, communism, failing health care. I thought you guys had that everywhere. Yeah. It is. It's especially good in BC, though. It fails especially hard. It's very strong. Very strong. Yes. In the States, I am a converted East Coast guy. Yeah. And I think part of that is for the same reason you just listed. Well, you were a Scottsdale douche. Yeah, but I loved that. But then I was also. I loved it. I loved it, too. I loved it, too. But then I got to spend so much time in L.A. You died. And then we went back to L.A., Scott, the last time. Yeah. And when I say the last time, I'm not saying it's the last time you went. It's the last time I went. I was like, never again. Yeah. I don't ever want to come to California again. And I'm out. So, yeah. East Coast, for sure. I just feel safer knowing that everyone's armed. Every once in a while. Every once in a while, I miss. Not miss. Like, I wouldn't want him back. Wouldn't convert. I wouldn't convert. But the pre-death Dusty. The different Dusty. The other Dusty that we knew. Every once in a while, I remember how he used to have, like, three gym memberships. So he could, like, meet milfs. And he used to have. There was the cardio gym. He had the cardio gym, right? And he had, like, the back day gym, which he said was for the back pieces. And then he had the leg day gym, which, again, was apparently for the leg day pieces. But I saw through the charade. I know how much driving he was doing. And now. In my douchey car also back then. Yeah. And now this new Dusty. It's like we're talking about an old era. Different human being. Different human being. Okay. Old being the key word. I'm going to have to go with. I'm going to go with Tupac. You're sticking on a way. That's my answer. Yeah. I would take Tupac versus Biggie. I mean, I like Biggie. Don't get me wrong. And I just. I liked his style a lot. But I'm just. I'm going to have to take a side. I'm going to go with Tupac. So you're not even going to let Eminem give you a little push over there? If I had to pick between the three. I mean, well. He's the only one still around, isn't he? But he really wasn't part of that feud. No. I don't think. No. I love. I'm not, like, a huge rap guy. But I have some friends that are very, very big into, like, real rap. And they know everything. Yeah. And I love all the stories about, like, I watch. You'll get those YouTube shorts and Instagram reels about the brothers in the rap game giving props to Eminem. Yeah. And how, like, none of them ever don't give him props. Like, they say crazy shit about him. Yeah. They're, like, these, you know, the most hardcore guys. And they're, like, he's the best. Yeah. And it's, like, oh. Okay. Yeah. Not much of an argument there. Like, none of them. I haven't seen a single interview where they're, like, nah. Like, they're all, like, oh, yeah. He's the best. He's better than all of us. You guys don't even know. I don't know what it was like in other places. But understand, like, where I'm from is not too far. Yeah. You're from the epicenter of that shit. Yeah. I'm not too far from where he's from. And there was literally at the time that he got real popular. Slim Shady. Every little thug started dyeing their hair blonde. Absolutely. Every freaking thug at the, who's, like, walking up to the gas station had blonde hair. And his buddy next to him had blonde hair. Every single one of them. They all were, like, mimicking that. And they all started, like, rapping with the same style. And having that, like, that same attitude. Like, it was truly a movement. That video for Slim Shady where there's all the clones. Yeah. That was such a, like, what's it? When something, a premonition. Yeah. Yeah. It was, like, it made it even worse. Like, that video came out. And then everyone, like, I saw, like, white t-shirt, jeans, blonde hair at the mall. Oh, yeah. Hundreds of them. And this is in Western Canada. I'm like, God. So, imagine here we had that. We have ICP. So, there's also that happening at the same time here. There's nothing like a juggalo. And then we have, what's his name? What's his name? Kid Rock. Kid Rock. Thank you. So, we, like, kind of a blend of all of that. All just kind of swirling around, you know. So, just that. Yeah. Just that. So, you have Black Detroit. And then that's White Detroit to me. So, White to me, when you say White Detroit, I'm like, Kid Rock, Eminem, Insane Clown Posse. Like, no normality at all. It said a lot. Yeah. It said a lot. I forgot about Insane Clown Posse. What a great one. Oh, yeah. A gem. Look that up, kids. Trust me. Yeah. Yeah. Juggalos. Oh, man. There's something else. They're popular around here, too. I know a girl who worked at a record store. And when they would. So, back in the day, when they would have concerts, they would sell tickets in person. And you would get in line at the record store. The worst. Speaking of which, I guess it would be like a music store. Excuse me. Not a record store. Yeah. And when the Juggalos would come there, when ICP would play, like, they weren't even allowed to come in the store because they would destroy it and steal everything during that time when, like, the record or, you know, the tickets were about to be released. They had, like, banned it. It's the funny thing to me is how the U.S. government technically considers Juggalos a gang. Yeah. They're a criminal organization. They're, like, a criminal organization on the U.S. government's list. Isn't that wild? Because of some incidents that happened with Juggalos. Yeah. But, like, imagine being afraid of Juggalos. Come on. That's kind of hilarious. Depends. Depends what time. Depends, like, if I'm in the 7-Eleven parking lot at 11 at night. Right. You know? Right. And then Scott's, like, no, no. What are you doing at 11 at night? No, the Detroit Juggalos. This is theoretical. The Detroit Juggalos are the real ones. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. What else we have on the list? I can't believe we talked about Juggalos. We never know where this is going. No. Oh, we got to do this one. Arnold or the Olympia? As just a whole? The whole thing. You guys know my answer. Yep. Um, that's funny. It used to be the Olympia every time because it was easy, fun, simple, one little flight, warmer, you know, all that stuff. But this year, I just thought Vegas is unlivable now. Yeah. And I, I was irritated. Like, I mean, we, it just was irritated by how much, how expensive everything was. I was irritated by $50 egg whites and toast. I was like, fuck you guys. And, and I didn't mind that little, I was like, you know, when I go to Arnold, I go to breakfast and I eat and I'm like, oh yeah, right. And whatever. I'm going to sign the bill. Like, don't give a shit. It's regular prices. You're in a normal city where normal people live. Ohio prices. And, uh, it just, yeah, I don't know. It's just something about Vegas is weird to me now. I just had a weird vibe last time. We had a great time and everything, but I would almost always say the Olympia because it's Vegas, but yeah. I don't know. Now Vegas is a crutch instead of a strength. I agree. That's Ron knows Scott. I don't really things like that. I don't even think about when I order food off of a menu. I don't look, I don't care. Whatever the bill is. It's fine. Yeah. Ron, I, and Nikki had lunch at the expo in the little thing in the front. Yeah. We got five crappy chicken and rice meals and it was my turn to pick up the bill. It was $136. Oh, do you guys remember when we went out to lunch? What? They had those burgers that were under a heat lamp. You remember those Ron? I pointed it was like two for 50. Yeah. I was like, what? The worst burger you've ever tasted guaranteed food poisoning two for 50. Yeah. Yeah. And you know, $5 for a diet Pepsi. Yeah. And that was $9, $9 for a sugar-free Red Bull at the hotel. It was nine bucks for a bottle of water. I remember at the hotel too. I'm like, you know, that stuff. And like I said, there's a point where people with money still get irritated because you're ripping them off. Yeah. So like when you have a friend who's worth $10 million and he says, fuck, everything, here's a ripoff, eh? Yeah. You think, holy shit. This guy's like, I got a friend who's loaded. And he was telling me, he's like, yeah, Vegas was fucking crazy. I couldn't believe it. I don't want to go there anymore. And I'm like, you're loaded, dude. Like loaded, loaded. Yeah. Like you sleep at night. But a bottle of water is still not $9. Yeah. Like he goes to sleep at night and makes, you know, 30 grand every night. But he's like, eh, this is unreasonably expensive. Yeah. It's not. It's not. That's why I laugh because they're like, why is Vegas dying? I'm like, I can tell you why. Yeah. Yeah. Terrible. So I'm going to go a complete agreement on that. Plus, I felt like the Olympia was dead. The Arnold was slammed, like the actual Expo. Yeah. The Olympia this year, I was like, and I think for the same, and I think if they leave it there, which I guess they're going to next year, it's going to be a bit slower. They're going to have to move it. I thought they were going to. Someone's going to have to. I think they're stuck there for a little longer, but I think they're going to end up going central. It's going to end up like Dallas or something. I think Texas will probably wind up because they're already a big bodybuilding hub there. They can move it to Dallas easy. Yep. A lot of hotels. A lot of places to use. Lots of places to go. Big. You know, who doesn't want to go to Dallas is a great city. I mean, I've always loved the Arnold has always been my favorite. And it's just that I like the small town feel of being in the Midwest. And I, you know, on a personal level, I don't know if it's because I'm closer, but I always get the, like, it blows me away every time I've been there. The level of interaction that I've gotten with listeners and stuff. Yeah. I feel, I feel like a little, like a freaking celebrity or something. When I go to the Arnold versus the Olympia, there's a lot of cool people that we always get to meet, but it just, to me, it's not as the energy's not the same. And the energy just overall, I feel like you take the Arnold and you pack everybody into that one building. It's a big building, but you pack everybody in there for all these different sports. And it's just like, God, there's nothing. It's such a unique experience versus Vegas. You're kind of in there and it's bodybuilding. But then when you step back out, it's like, you know, every, it's Vegas again. Right. Versus like everything right downtown is all bodybuilding for the entire weekend. And it's just so just, you know, concentrated right there in that little spot. I think it's pretty cool. And you know, nobody's going to go off to see a show there, you know, there's nothing else to do. So they're right there for the whole thing. Yeah. Great. And you know, you come off the plane and there's like, you know, I mean, I remember one time I got off the airport and they'd coming down the escalator, huge Ronnie Coleman, like 25 foot high Ronnie Coleman on the airport. And you're like, Oh damn, we're cities on taxis and buses have Arnold classic written on them. And you know, it's like, you can't get away from it. Agreed. And I feel like when you see like a big bodybuilder that like, when you go to the Olympia, you expect to see crazy things. Like when you go to Vegas in general, you expect to see crazy things across the board. And when you go to Columbus, Ohio, and you see some of the best bodybuilders, it just feels more special. It feels more real to me. Yeah. Yeah. What impacts the whole city too. I mean, they're, they're very glad to have that event there. Yeah. You know? So agreed. Well, I think that's a good tie off point. What do you guys think? I could, I could go there. That's good. Cool. Hey, we had fun. We had a good time, gentlemen. Yes. Great work, Nikki. Yeah. Yeah. I, everyone's got a little homework to do. Yes. Yeah. Remember everybody. It's a bitches that'll get you. Hey, I cannot wait to hang up just to listen to the whole song. It's wise words, Dusty. We've all warned our younger friends. Be careful. I was warned many times and ignored it. Yeah, I know. Okay. Okay. Remember everybody. Huh? The hype button. This is the first time. Do you guys know about the hype button? Like, share, subscribe, comment, hype button. And ring the bell. Wow. There you go. Felt like Travis Barker with one arm there. Yeah. Yeah. You're just waiting for the... There you go. Yeah. No, no, no. And of course, iammutant.com. Go to iammutant.com. Avoid people. Save money. Get stuff delivered right to your door. And save money. Did I mention that? Yes. And so you can afford to go to the Arnold or the Olympia. Put it in your fund. It won't save you enough to go to the Olympia. So you guys know how to. No, no, no. You won't make it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And remember, dusty and big round of the code. So get in there. Get your hardcore ISO. Get your big greens. Get your mind FK. And everyone should get on the gear. Get that gear in you. Especially while you're training. Yes. Okay. Thanks, guys. Remember, everyone, thanks on the live chat, by the way. Yes. And we appreciate you guys tuning in. And remember, it's just bodybuilding. Beautiful. Five minutes. Love it. See you, guys. Hey, thank you.