What's up, guys? Welcome back to the podcast with Dave Crosslin. I'm Scott McN. All of our programming is brought to you by Eval Bloodanalysis.com. You can get your lab work done by Dave if you're in the UK. And if you're doing gear, you definitely should be getting your labs done. We're also brought to you by stumsports.com. That'sportsnutrition. They're also in the US now. We used to say if you're in the UK, but you can check them out in the US now, too. They have some great health stacks and uh if you're on cycle, you should definitely check out their health stacks. We're brought to you by true nutrition.com. Use our code think for additional savings and uh get some good highquality protein powders, creatine, everything else you can think of that you need, all your basic stuff. And of course, supplements.ca for Canadians. Great deals that change week to week. Dave, we've got a topic proposed by one of our listeners. what are the best anabolics? They'll say, "What's the best gear that you can get via prescription?" And that's probably going to be different for you than it is for me, isn't it? Well, basically over here, you're only looking at really testosterone. Um, the only other anabolic that's I wouldn't say commonly, but is also prescribed is oxyon. Oh, you guys get oxies over there. We get oxies for anemia. Yeah. In fact, you also you have and I know it's not like big growth factor. Uh, Proviron is available there too, isn't it? We don't have that. Yeah, that's strange. I find that weird. Yeah. I don't think it was ever a prescription medication here. What is it Pervyon prescribed for in the UK? It's usually around TRT infertility. fertility or like because I okay I'd heard of it as being like an ED med. Yeah. So that sorry falls under the the sort of fertility bracket in a sense increasing free testosterone levels. So um therefore aiding in erectile function and testosterone uh stimulated sperm. Hey IT. Good news. All your gear is pretty much legal to own. not legal to sell but legal to own. So you guys kind of get a pass on everything. Um here in the US not so much but man with these clinics nowadays and and really it's the compounding pharmacies that are really bringing this stuff in. I'm trying to think man I I feel like of course test we have test right we have deca right another common one and uh from there we don't have trend no trend so test deca no equip obviously not well we should you know you you have finished yet we don't have that you have tren twin tablets trend um for cattle we're talking about for for prescription cription use. So you find a farmer who has cows and you use his prediction prescription for finisher and then you make up your trend. Yeah. No, we don't do that, Dave. We don't do that anymore. We're talking about what creative go to your doctor and get a prescription for doc. I need you to write me a script for Winstrol, which is another one that man in some places I see it's not available. Yeah, but a vet's a sort of doctor. Yeah. I mean, if you talked to a veterinarian and you said they weren't a if you were like, "You're not a doctor." I think that would kind of be offensive. Do you know what I mean? Because it does take a lot of work to become a veterinarian. It's animal doctor. Yeah. So, what do we got on our list then? Test Deca, EQ. Uh, Master's not Oh, excuse me. Not EQ. I meant to say Winstrol. Uh, Annavar. So, Annavar was supposed to be taken off the list. Um, all right. Okay. I I still see people getting scripts for it. So, I don't know, man. But we'll put Annavar in there. I I think that's fine. So, Masteron isn't No, no. Mask. All right. So, I just wondered if there had been a carryover from the early breast cancer treatment days that Masteron was still, it may not be readily done, but it was actually still potentially there. Yeah. Not available, you know. nor is pre is primo. I don't think primo is available. I've never seen anybody with a primo prescription. So, I'll say that. I mean, we're not really talking about a lot of compounds then, are we? I mean, I was wondering though is now there because I think there's there's a potential of two things here. What's that? So, one is what you can actually get as a prescribed med and one is what a doctor technically could still prescribe. Okay. Um, and I'm wondering if there's like Master's the one that's popped to mind because Masteron was prescribed for females for breast cancer treatment. I'm wondering if it still sits in in treatment that it is allowed just they don't do it because you have tomoxy blend now. Yeah. I I'm not sure. I thought I saw uh it being on a list that said discontinued. So, I guess the question the guy was probably trying to get at was like, okay, how can I get jacked on just things that I can get a prescription for? Do do you think it was how can I get jacked on my insurance? I like that idea. I don't know if they're going to write you at high doses. you know, you're not getting like I I think that's the Yeah, I think that's the problem, isn't it? That if if you are going through a medical process, even with the compoundingies where they interpret the rules rather loosely. Yeah. Um there's always going to be that limitation on dose um because of the fact that it is a medication. So as a result of dosing is always going to be very much on the low end. um you could potentially stockpile, but I mean if you're only getting prescribed 10 milligrams of anavar a day, that's a lot of stockpiling. Yeah. Um so there is um so the compounding pharmacies are usually working with the TRT clinics. The TRT clinics are usually out of pocket. So I'm, you know, there is some, I'm sure, that work with insurance, but the majority of them, it's out of pocket, and so they have the freedom to write the dosing that they want, you know, and surely there's some legislational control about limitations on dosing. I mean, I've seen guys get prescriptions of 300 tests, no problem, you know. So, I mean, I know that's not crazy talk. We're not talking a gram. Uh I've never seen a gram prescribed but I have seen I have seen 300 and plus you know deca on top of that too. Yeah. Which which is cyclic really in its totality isn't it? Yeah. Um the the funny thing is over here you can get prescriptions for 100 milligram of oxy a day. Wow. Huh. How how do you go about doing that? What do you need? Well first you need anemia. Okay. Okay. Yeah. And it needs to be like anemia anemia, not you know iron deficiency or or vit B deficiency. It needs to be actual genetic anemia. Mistake guys. Yeah, I know I know a guy that was on a 100 milligram of oxy um for his anemia. Do do you guys have any doctors over there that kind of bend the rules for people? Because it seems like across the board they're pretty strict. Yeah. So TRT is a big boom industry over here. The same as it is in the States. It hasn't gone as far as you guys have. It's like, you know, GH prescriptions are very unheard of. Okay. Um, the highest I've seen prescribed is 200 meg. Um, now what I've seen generally with the prescribing TRT clinics is not so much that they're abusive on the dosing. Uh, most of them are quite reasonable there, that they are liberal on the qualification. Oh, okay. Um, I mean, I know one TRT clinic has actually altered the ranges on their results. Mhm. So, that the medical low-end TRT, now I'm not saying that, you know, you're not going to get symptoms before this because you are, but the medical low-end range is 6.9. Um, what this TRT clinic done is made the medical lowend 12 on their results. Wow. So now there is without doubt argument and strong medical argument that if you've got a test level of 11 or 12, you're going to benefit from TRT. In fact, even the NHS um when you get into the proper endocrinology departments in King's College and stuff like that will say that even 15 and more would be considered as viable for TRT if the individual was symptomatic. Huh. So it's not pushing the scope from a from a you know clinical point of view. Yeah. But obviously it's incredibly misleading to the customer because if you've got a customer that that isn't particularly symptomatic and they've only just looked at they're going to be under the impression, well I need TRT if I'm below 12. Now the non-symptomatic you could argue do you want to commit this? And now anyone listening to this is most likely going to go, "Of course I want to go on gear course and I get that." But there are people out there that actually don't and they'd rather avoid it. And if they're non-symptomatic, they would rather go, you know what, if I'm suffering from it, I'll leave it alone. Um, that seems very alien to us and seems very strange, but those people do actually exist. Yeah. Um, so the topic though, the topic here at hand is Sorry. Go on. Cycle. we're putting together how can I grow off of only compounds. And here's my thought. I bet you that the another potential perspective is, hey, I just don't want to break the law. You know, I I want to know that all my stuff is legit. Maybe the guy travels a lot and he's like, I got to take the stuff on airplanes with me I'm not bringing with me underground train with a kangaroo on the label. You know what I mean? We don't really do kangaroos anymore. We don't have a lot of vet gear. That was 20 years ago. But you get the point, man. You used to have a kangaroo on your labels. Yeah, we had kangaroos and bulls and everything else. Yeah, there was a lot of vet gear coming in from Mexico. I will have to dig out my show and tell box one day and go through all the old gear I've got in there. Oh, that would be fun, man. Be good. Might remind me. We'll do it next week. We'll call it like show and tell with Dave. Yeah. Um well, test obviously because it's it's really the only compound you can get in any decent quantity. Yeah. Uh and even even if you were prescribed on a a lower end, it's easier to stockpile to a dose which would be have some positive impact. Yeah. Uh I think orals tend to be a little bit not really worth the hassle. No, I mean I'm not saying they're not going to add something, but what what's a common prescription? I would have thought really with an you could have struggled to get over 10 or 15 milligram day. So I worked with a guy that had a prescription that was each capsule compounded was 25 anavar 25 windstro each cap and uh you know he was like hey I got these their prescriptions so they're going to be real good can I use these for my prep and uh I dieted the guy down and we used them and and normally I wouldn't be like hey you know for the last 6 weeks let's use a combo of these two things I'd pick one and usually I'd pick Winstrel if given the choice because I do feel we get a harder drier look for for the stage with Winstro. But yeah, we combined it and did 25 of each and it was golden, man. It was good. Yeah. I mean, if you're getting it at that sort of doses, then all of a sudden it does become a viable addition. I thought we'd be stuck at around 10 with prescriptions. So, yeah, if if you're get if you're getting 50 MIG, then yeah, that's where crack on. Crack on. Crack on. Definitely crack on. Thank you. All right. Uh so, why what sort of doses have you seen Decarat then? This has got me really curious now. 200 to 300 usually like that 200 on average I think I've seen 250 you know. So you could quite literally build with the right you could quite literally build a 300 300 split with A-50 milligram oral cycle which is decent. Yeah. Yeah. Or you could save the anavar/winstral for the contest season or you know the the diet phase. you know, start out with your test in deca 12 weeks, whatever doses you're going to run. We'll even say, I mean, gosh, if you're a TRT guy, like you do nothing, and then you take your test to 300, that in itself is going to give you a boost. Add in 200 DECA per week, do that for 12 weeks, you are going to grow better than you would have on 150 tests alone, right? And if you've never cycled, like, you could make some gains on that. But ultimately, I I think you and I both agree we'd probably go a little higher than that if given the choice. Yeah. But I'm still quite shocked at those dosages that are available of private script. I mean, have you actually seen anyone with that combination without I've seen 200 Deca and I've seen 300 test together. I don't know if I've seen it together, but I I have seen I'm I I could, you know, I don't like keep track, but I I'd say I've seen 250 test with 200 DECA, not a problem. In fact, guys, I would love to hear you comment. You know, what have what's been off? Sometimes we have guys that don't even take it, but they're like, "Hey, I went to a clinic and they offered something to me." You know, sometimes they're like, "Hey, I'll just take my prescription test and then I'll add whatever I want from my source." You know? Yeah, it's uh well um I'm surprised I'm surprised that you're looking at a total dosage of 500 milligram a week from a prescription. Yeah. Yeah. I mean I'm sure that that's not super common, but our listeners can tell us, you know, and and I guess does that cover it then, man? I mean, we didn't mention what would you do with growth hormone, but hey, if you got a script for growth, then you that's that's technically available through prescription as well. Yes, it is. Um, yeah. I mean, you know, low dose every every evening. Now, you're not going to get an insulin script, though, without actually diabetes, are you? Come on. Yeah. Don't tell me you could flag that as well. Yeah, you're probably right about that. We do get T4 and T3. Hang on, though. Can't you buy insulin from Walmart? Yeah. So, uh, Novalin R, uh, or or Humalin R, they're over the counter regular. The R stands for regular. It's the regular speed insulin. And they do that so that if there was a diabetic emergency, you have access to insulin. Now, that said, I have seen people turned away. I'd say it's not a good idea to go in there in your stringer tank top right after you got a pump and then tell them that you need a bunch of syringes and insulin. You know what I mean? Go in in a fat suit and tell them you're diabetic. Yeah. Can I get them insulin? Give you all you need then. But yeah, to get like the long acting Lantis or or to get the fast acting like Fiasp or or um uh Humalogue, you have to have a script for those things in the US. Yeah, but T3 T4, those are available. You can get those all day. And I'm I'm seeing them pretty quick to write scripts for T4 T4 and T3 as well. you know, they just they what they want to do is they take everything and just like optimize you so your test levels are redlined, your T3, T4 are boosted up. Uh they'll get you on the growth hormone if that's you know something you can afford and they'll give you an AI too. They'll give you a remedex usually. You know what it it's actually quite amazing how much abuse a human body can withstand. Oh yeah. When you look at what the optimal is for someone from a health point of view with diet and exercise and everything and then you look at how far we can go away from that and still actually survive quite well. Yeah. I mean it's it's incredible how tolerant our bodies are. Oh also metformin available and all the you know now trespatide and uh uh semiglutide retroide. Yeah. You say R is not not not passed clinical trial yet, has it? But it's it's getting there. Yeah. Um it does look impressive though. Uh and it does look to I think it's about 15 10 15% more effective than the other two. Yeah. I'm a big fan. I'm using it myself. I got on it back in a couple months ago now. I've been doing really well with low low dose too. And I don't believe it's as bad for the sides. Is it? Is there the same pancreatic concern with reta as there is with sema? So, as far as that like the appetite thing to start, um, bratide out of the three of them seems to have the least blunting effect though it still does take the edge off even at a low dose. I'm sure the higher you go that the research is being done on a study with 4 millig, 8 millig 12. Yeah. And and most of the people I've been working with, we haven't been using more than two per week. I'm using two milligrams every eight days. So, four every four day, excuse me, one every four day. Um, and I could definitely tell a difference. Uh, it doesn't have that control though, like semiglutide is still the strongest for appetite control and it still has the smallest window for side effects, you know, versus cuz you look at it, man, it's like 2 and a half milligrams or so is the top end dose versus 12. You have a lot more room to play with reetta. I I thought that uh reta was milligram for milligram the lowest side effects. Yeah. Yeah. I I I would think so. Yeah. And but uh I I actually wasn't aware that simmer had a stronger appetite suppressant action than than Oh yeah. Much more so. In fact, you can if you take too much out the gate, man. Drug, doesn't it? You what? Reta just seems to be the more refined drug at the end of the day which I suppose in a way it is because it's it's almost like stage three isn't it? I mean you had sema which was a GLP-1 then you had Mjaro or to zip which was GP1 GIP and then you have reta which is GLP-1 GIP and glucagon. Yes and I have noticed that my blood sugar does stay pretty balanced even when I am in a position where I'd feel like it'd probably be getting pretty low otherwise. So yeah, I'm happy with it. I'm happy with it. I know there was actually there was some clinical significance with SEMA around pancreatic pancreatitis. Yeah. But it was own I think it was only about one or two%. And obviously there's there's a lot coming out now about people having problems with the drug. But the other issue is that yeah, but how much were they taking? You know, were they within prescription guidelines or were they just hammering the [\h__\h] out of it? And and I think that's where it gets very very muddy on on these drugs is you know are they as risk risky particularly sem because that's the one that's had the most popular widespread use. Yeah. Um you know is the risk there or is this more of an abuse issue rather than an actual compound issue. And I think too one thing we have to consider and this is kind of a a note too to any of our listeners that may not have been in the best shape before they started bodybuilding. Um look at the population of people like of course it's widespread use of some oflutide but there are a lot of people who already were like dealing with some a lot of coorbid morbidities you know what I mean like a lot of health issues maybe already somewhat diabetic maybe already holding a lot of body fat longterm you know what I'm saying who are the people they aren't like the guys and gals that are eating a clean diet and going for walks every day and getting a lot of fresh air you Yeah, there is that. But there's the other problem as well is that with that user group, so this is I don't mean this to sound nasty, but they are generally uneducated around diet and health healthy options. So what happens is they do reduce their intake, but they still reduce their intake of crap food. Yeah. So now the body's got even less nutrition to deal with and what nutrition it is getting is pretty garbage. where at least within this community for the most part the intake's healthy even if it is reduced. Yeah. So I think we went sideways. Does that wrap us up? I mean what was our final say on our on our prescription only cycle. Whoever whoever's getting the test at 300 and the decade 200 share your doctor's details please. Everybody needs to know this. Yes. Yeah. We'll do that. We all know that creatin is great for muscle building but were you aware of its benefits for brain health? Uh, I think it's pronounced creatine. No, it's definitely pronounced creatin. No, it's definitely creatine. I'm positive of it. Yeah, that's pretty much what I said. Creatin. Creatine. Well, regardless of what you want to call it, creatin plays an important role in brain health. Research demonstrates that your brain needs a significant amount of ATP to perform difficult tasks. Supplementing with creatin will improve phosphocreatin stores, helping your brain produce more ATP. So, if you're not on creatin now, give it a try. Check out true nutrition.com. Use our code think over there. They got all your basic health supplements like creatin, protein powder, everything else you can think of. Use our code think to help support our programming, get some additional savings, and get a great supplement. Yeah, it's definitely creatin. Um, and we do have a bunch of listener questions and we looks like we might have some questions in the the feed, too. Um, oh, wow. Okay, so Zionic says that uh Strom still needs to add support max Neurop PM to the US SA site. So that is that might be an FDA uh issue. Oh yeah. Yeah. I I know it's a long long time since I had this discussion with Rick about the states and and certain compounds, but there were issues that some of the ingredients that were available in the UK weren't passed in the US. Okay. I mean, the irony is there's stuff in the other way like you guys can get GABA, we can't, you know, it's it's stuff like that. So, yeah, it works both ways. But yeah, so it may be a case that things have to be slightly reformulated to satisfy the FDA. All right. Well, listen, let's run through a bunch of listener questions and uh we're behind because we we had a good show come out and then we we didn't record for a week. Uh you had something going on. I had something going on and now we're back. So, let's try to I actually didn't. I got it wrong. Oh, no. What happened? So, it was actually supposed to be yesterday. Oh, you're kidding me. But we got cancelled for red tape anyway. So, never happened at all. Yeah, they they were I get it with with charities and stuff, they they have to be super careful of association and things like that. And podcast, didn't they? No, but the only recognized testing arm that they have any association with is the NHS. Oh, okay. So they were like, "Oh, you know, we're not so keen and we don't want to do any exposure and we can't be linked to the company." And said, "Jamie just turned around and said, "Look, I'm not dragging them down here to do free testing all day." Yeah. Off their own backs if they're not getting some exposure off the back of it, cuz that's unfair. Yeah. Yeah. Um which I to be honest, I told Jeremy I wasn't bothered about, but he he was very insistent. Um and then uh I believe it absolutely hooned it down for the first half of the day yesterday. Oh, okay. That means rained, I assume. And that's okay. I spoke to him this morning and he was sat in the bath trying to free up his back. Oh, I bet, man. All right. Uh, you guys are welcome to leave questions for us as always. Plus, we love hearing from you. We love hearing what you think about the show, what you have to add, what did we get wrong. You guys like to tell us what we did wrong all the time, which is great, too. You know, we're all still learning. question here about trans ddermal application. I'm on androgel for TRT. Um, dosed at 50 milligrams daily and it is uh pharma as it is RX from my doctor. Just curious as to your thoughts. Thanks. Love the show and Dave's heavy breathing into the mic. You're never going to live that that episode, Darth Vader. I'm just I'm related. What can I say? Um, to be honest, if you're looking to replicate the natural flow of testosterone, gel is probably the closest you're going to get to it. Yeah. The issue is that it's not the greatest bioavailability and a lot of people just cannot get adequate levels out of their gel dosing or to do so they end up taking so freaking much of the stuff. Yeah. Um, so it will all depend on on where it's putting you. But if it's putting you in range, to be honest, I don't I personally would stick with it cuz it's going to be the closest to natural sort of eb and flow that you're going to get. Obviously, if it's not getting you high enough, you may have to convert to an injectable version. But other than that, there's nothing wrong with the only thing is, and I think I've told this story before. Um, probably I repeat myself a lot because I'm old. Um, that pissed me myself a lot as well. Um, the the Yeah. Um, you've got to be careful. You can pass it on to your loved one. Yeah. And there was a there was a guy that was slapping transdermal on because he was trying to use it for enhancement purpose and he'd got old of a load and he was thinking well it's farmer. Yeah. Better than buying new gel and he was cuddling with his misses and obviously it was going into her skin and she started growing a beard. Oh yeah, that could be a problem. Interesting conversation when they found out. You know what I've always not always uh but I've wondered this. So, one of the benefits of a a a topical transdermal is that um it tends not to have run the high levels of hematocrit that we see with injectable tests. So, man, for guys that are struggling with getting their hematocrit in range, I could almost see going to a topical for their cruise phase, you know, to get your numbers back down. Do you know why it's like that? As far as I know, it's because it doesn't build up. Yeah. It's not It's not a plateau. It's It's not. So when we inject, we end up with this this almost plateaued level. Yeah. So it's constantly fairly high. Whereas with the gels, you get you like I say, you after application, you get a peak like you would naturally in a morning. Yeah. And then and then it starts to drop off as the day goes on as you would naturally. Yeah. The only slight difference is naturally we get a resurge in an evening whereas you wouldn't get that from the gel. But but yeah, that that's why it's because it has this peak and trough action daily rather than this more sustained level that you'll get from injectables. Plus, obviously, everybody has this obsession. We're keeping everything stable, which talking to Adam Lamb, uh, who has a TRT clinic, friend of mine has a TRT clinic down in Texas. He explained to me too that um it it fluctuating levels like that are much more of a sign of youthful testosterone levels versus as we age it does become more of a flat line. So you're mimicking that of youthful man's test, you know. Yeah. Of that of a lower level as well. Um like you said, you know, when you when you're in your 20s, you'll be peing in the high 20s in the morning, then dropping off as the day goes on. When you get into your 40s and 50s, you're going to be sitting more 14, 15 all day long. You know, it's not going to go up in the morning as strong. Yeah. All right. Uh question. I was planning on a cycle of 300 test 300 DECA. I'm in the process of ADHD diagnosis and hopefully medication. Would it affect dopamine too much or would the meds overpower it? What are your thoughts? Um, another great show. has always loved listening to these while working out and doing something. Guys, what what sorry what sorry what the meds again. Um so he's getting so test 300 DECA 300 that's his cycle plan and he's in the process of being diagnosed with ADHD. So I have seen this as an issue for people. I didn't know it years ago and and we've talked about the interference of uh dopamine, right Dave? with DECA. What What's the deal with that? So, Deca lowers dopamine transport proteins. So, the dopamine's there, it just can't get across to the receptor. Yeah. Um, one of the reasons you take P5P is because it increases transport proteins. So, you end up with a high level of transport proteins going into the cycle. Uh, and then as a result, the even though the decol lowers it, it still keeps it within a reasonable operating level. Not in everybody, but in a lot of cases, it would depend on the medications that are going to be applied for ADHD because they can vary uh quite significantly and they don't always work around the dopamine access. Some of them will work around serotonian accesses and stuff like that as well. Oh, really? Yeah. So, there it's it's not something I know enough about to have a comprehensive conversation, unfortunately. Um, I found a lot of people that from personal experience with clients that have medication with radiation that they actually feel better on deca and test. Really? I Yeah, I found the opposite. Not not across the board, but I have I have heard people complain about it. That's how I first learned about this because I didn't know about the whole dopamine thing 10 plus years ago. We had a listener who was a Canadian professional wrestler back in the day and uh he was using another medication. I've mentioned it here before. Tanya Miller knew what the name of it was. Um but the medication wasn't working as well. He needed more while on an NPP cycle. Um and uh that's when I first learned about it. And then I've heard about it occasionally since. And I think do you think maybe that that has something to do with why people sometimes don't feel good on Deca? You know, without a doubt. Um there's it all depends with dopamine and Deca and dopamine and secondary drugs and dopamine. It all depends on where the drugs influence dopamine. Okay? If a drug influences the production of dopamine, then Deca is going to have a negative impact because doesn't matter if you're making more, it's still not getting carried across. You can have, you know, you can have a thousand people on the side of the road. If you only got two taxis, you're not getting a thousand people across the street. Yeah. If you can increase the taxis, which is what P5P does, then you have a chance even with Decalura in it of getting more across the street or the other thing which is what cable does, it puts everybody at the other side of the street. So it it basically stimulates the dopamine receptor itself. Okay. So it all depends on what axis the medication is using to increase dopamine. If it's a precursor to the receptor, then Deca is going to have a negative effect. Which is why though people may not have noticed this, if you like a bit of sniff um a Colombian marching powder and you go on Deca, you will notice that your reaction to your white powder is reduced while you're on Deca. Have you heard people say that? Oh, yeah. And and very often it's just down to this this gear is not very good. You know what I mean? As in the white stuff's not very good. Yeah. Um and there's been some interesting case studies where they've tracked use and found a a a uh basically a seessaw relationship where someone's using an andolone. They increase they in they they introduce the white powder that causes an increase in the white powder because they're not getting a standard response that then causes an increase in the nandrallone because of the psychological effect from the white powder and then you end up with this seesaw situation where they keep bouncing off each other and gradually the dose increases over a period of time. Yeah, it sounds like that tracks. That's our average users you know. Yeah. So it it's it's um it is quite interesting. Um on this subject just slightly left, but I'll throw it in there. Methylene Blue increases dopamine. Okay. I know it increases serotonin. Yeah. It also has an impact on dopamine as well. You can't use mephilene blue and cable together. Oh, really? Okay. Because you run the risk of dopamine overload. Huh. Just like you run the risk of serotonin syndrome if using an SSRI. H. All right, we got a bunch more of them. Is EQ as painful as primo? I told him no, but then he asked, "What about at 500 mg per milliliter?" Man, that sounds like some strong EQ. If do genuinely, I would expect that to be a bit nippy. Yeah, I mean EQ, I think we've talked about this before. the the raw material isn't a powder, it's a liquid, right? It it is. Yes. So, it would be easier to suspend at a higher dose. Yeah. There and there's less likelihood of any requirement from a solvent or or any heavy use of a solvent. So, um there may be some some solvent. I'm not that up on solvent ratios for EQ to be quite honest. Yeah. Okay. I'd just be careful with it. And personally, man, I feel like I don't know. You're probably taking something else, too, you know? So, I would assume that you might have like a half a mill in there with a mill test, right? You know, I'm very I'm very wary as well of anything dosed over 300 milligrams that that it actually is 300 milligrams of the compound they say it is. Good point. All right. How about this one? Question for the next show. Um, what would be a protocol for someone uh who used to be on prescription TRT moved on to self-medicated and is running cycles now looking to get back onto prescribed TRT? Um, how would you how would you pass the blood tests or pass the blood tests is what he meant uh to get uh re-qualified? I think it's stop using Yeah. Yeah. I don't think it's any more complex than that. Stop using four weeks down the line, feel like [\h__\h] do your blood, submit them to the TRT. Yeah. I wonder if you really were, you know, like I'm worried, man, I don't want to crash. I guess you you could take like a fast acting test, right? Switch to that. And then how long would you need to clear uh say say 300 mg of test probe? week and a half, week and a half. The thing is what I found, and this obviously is not going to be across the board, but in general, what I found is people can sit at low test for a week to two weeks before they really start to feel it. Mhm. So, I think you'll find that if you time it right, and it might mean that you need a couple of tests because, you know, you don't quite hit it right on the first one, but if you time it right, I mean, you're not looking at super low levels. You're only looking at qualifying levels. True. So, if you time it right, um, you can probably get the blood work you require. And also I'd say it's very you also need to clarify with the provider what their protocol is for testing. I.e. are they going to require a second test? Yeah. A lot of are they just going to work off one? If you've had TRT in the past I I don't know depending on where you're at. I feel like a lot of doctors would just be like, "Okay, yeah, you were in TRT. Here's your script." I don't know. That's Yeah. And well, I think you could you could also go to him and say, "Look, this was my pre-TRT result, right? I've been I was on TRT for a while. I came off u basically I had a bit of a you know, brain fart around it. This is my current level. I want to go back on." Uh and but yeah, I mean, just speak to what are the qualifying requirements? What is the process? Is it just as long as I provide a test that's low level, are you happy to prescribe or are you going to want a secondary test like 3, four weeks later to confirm that it's sustained? Yeah. No, I wouldn't want to mess around with all that, you know, just get down the business. It would just depend on what the clinic's policy is. And I think if he's going to a TRT clinic, they're going to be a little bit more free than if you're going to your family doctor, you know, for well, if they're prescribing 300 mega test and 200 mega deca. Yeah, I think they are. Exactly. All right. PCT. After using 19, I have seen many people claim the metabolites of DECA would suppress you longer term. Um would you need to cruise post 19-nor um for uh let's see could someone either run DECA NPP or Tren if they planned to PCP I don't feel that there's any long-term suppression beyond the drug's natural clearance rate. I've seen it. I've seen it. So I Yeah, this is where I think we disagree because we've talked about it before and we can still be friends. Uh, no. We can't. Um, we're not friends. We're not friends. Best friend, guys. Dave's my I'm Dave's best and Dave's only friend, guys. All right. Pudding's my only friend. How's pudding? Uh, he's all right. I need to find him an owner, though. Oh. And for me, I would question the authenticity of the piece. The thing is, this is where I have a problem with this is PCTs aren't a guarantee. PCTs don't always work. You have no idea of known where your ladic cell recovery rate is or how damaged they are etc etc. So how do you determine that the nandallerons have continued to suppress production when you do a PCT post cycle? Because I've had clients just on test do a PCT it's not worked to do a second one and they've recovered off the second one. Yeah. I've just personally and it was in my own experience the first time I saw it. Um, you know, ran a cycle, recovered, okay, ran a cycle, recovered, okay, ran a cycle, recovered, okay, ran a cycle with DECA and really struggled. Same type concept and then uh the next time ran a cycle and recovered. Okay. So, that was like my own experience. Yeah. Okay. That that's that's a fair assumption based on that evidence. Yeah. And and I um and I thought I read something in the past too about the metabolites still, you know, still being suppressive. I mean, but I don't know. I I just say, let me ask you this. In itself, I do feel like 19 are like real quick to suppress you in general. You know what I mean? Like shut you down hard while on, which could be part of the reason it's hard to restart. Very high binding affinity. So that's why they they are so effective at shutting you down so quickly. uh they bind with the receptor extremely strongly. So that could be it too. Maybe I was just shut down harder, you know. Well, I I don't think you can shut down harder. Uh because you've got an off switch and it's off. Once you're not producing FSH and LH, you're not producing FSH and LH. Yeah. But I think there's a reduction. Let's let's let's do a test. Let's take a guy and just give him let's just say 25 anavar per day for for four weeks. Oh, I think the speed of a recession will be much faster. Yeah. Yeah. Sorry. So, yeah, by harder I was thinking like, you know, you suppress no production or you'll suppress more than that where it's like there is no more than no production. Once you have no production, you're just not producing. I can agree with that. Yeah. But yeah, it's faster. It's definitely faster. Whereas particularly with someone who's not very experienced with antibodies high hasn't had a lot of exposure you can you can see suppression from even a dose of like 4 500 mig take 3 4 weeks. Yeah. Whereas with something like an andolone you'll be looking survive 10 15 days before you suppressed you know it will be a lot faster. All right let's see what else we have here. Like I said we have a freaking ton of questions. Um, let's see. Uh, I did an experiment with EQ to see the results as an AI. Uh, 2,00 milligrams of test with 350 EQ. My estrogen was 145 PMOL, top end of normal range. Um, so works well in my case. What was the test? What was the the what? Yeah, the testosterone level two. Oh, yeah. Well, he said that dose. You You caught the dose, right? 2,000 milligrams. So, no disrespect and he could very well be right. But before making assumptions, let's let's have a look and see where the testosterone is. And if the level of testosterone matches the dosing of 2,000 milligrams. That's a good point. This is where you got to be a little bit careful with this stuff. And no disrespect to the person who's made the comment. It's not meant that way. There are other variables to be considered before you can I mean definitely a EQ would appear to be having some sort of AI effect without doubt because even if that test was a half dose you're still going to be looking at a gram. Yeah. Uh, but I'd want to know where the test level were because then that would give me an indication of where the estrogen typically would be and then off based off that you can have a more conversation about how effective the suppression has been. And and I wonder what has his previous cycle experience been like with AIS and conversion. You know, I mean, I I know guys that can't handle much test at all before they end up with super high estrogen and other guys that like they hardly need AI no matter what they do, you know? Yeah. I know guys on TRT that have got low estrogen. Yeah. Oh, yeah. For sure, man. You know, it's like [\h__\h] are we getting that up? Yeah. Other than bloodletting, is there anything we can do about blood thickening? Cheers. Don't take anabolics. Um, no. That's not the answer anybody wants to hear, Dave. We don't like that. Try again. Try harder. Dave, uh, nattokinise and IP6. Nattokynise. How would you dose that? Now, I've always run really high doses, but you have run much lower doses. I've run 4,000 FU, which is too Yeah. I always get mixed up with the FU and the MGs because mine's all based on MG. Okay, that's two caps for me. Generally, I see then 1,00 to 2,000 milligram caps. And for me, that's two caps. Two 2,000 milligram caps. FU is obviously a much more accurate way of doing it. That's funner to say, too. I have Yes, I I have to admit. Yes. How is your FU, Scott? 4,000 FUS. 4,000 FUS to you, too. Oh, and then you said, so I'm sorry. IP6. IP6. Okay. And uh I need to order two grams on the IP6. Okay. Uh n canace um you could go as high as 10 milligrams, but I would um probably run it less. Having had discussion with you about the dosing around it. Okay. I um I thought we talked about P5P. I didn't think we were talked about nantokin. No, we did. Yeah. because I was I was on a per kilo rate and it was quite high compared to what you'd experience with your clients and do Oh, okay. Um, yeah, those two are good. And uh, you know, we did a podcast a while ago if you a lot of guys they take a lot of vitamin C. They think it's just like a completely innocuous substance. Um, you know, they're like, "Yeah, just, you know, run a bunch of C." So I've tried to watch when my blood gets thicker I try to watch my C intake um as it helps you to then better store iron which in turn triggers marrow to produce more red blood right there is there is that second reaction there as well the other thing is is is cardio um and people don't don't actually sort of cotton on that cardio lowers hemoglobin it's a problem with endurance runners because they tend to be anemic Yeah. So, that was the other part of it that Dante had suggested. Do as much cardio as you can, reduce vitamin C, and watch your red meat intake. He didn't say stop all red meat. No, but I agree. And I think I think we're a bit as a subculture, we're a bit overheavy on red meat. We could all do with including more varied protein sources and more fishies. Yeah, we have some really good steaks here, Dave. We got Do you guys have Pedmont beef over there? Never heard of it. We might have. I've never heard of it. It's good. It's a super lowfat meat. And it But it still tastes like really rich and delicious. Well, in Buffalo like that buffalo super low fat. Yeah. Yeah. This one it still tastes like beef though. It doesn't have that like buffalo flavor. Yeah. It's like beef on beef in it. Buffalo. It's like beefy beef. Yeah. Uh let's see what else we have here. Um just kangaroo is quite good as well, you know. I never ate No, I think I ate kangaroo jerky one time. You've eaten kangaroo, huh? Do you guys have much of it over there? Is that available? No, but we do have these food festivals where you can get all weird and wonderful [\h__\h] Yeah. What was the weirdest animal you ate? Uh kangaroo and crocodile or alligator? I can't remember which one it was. Yeah, I see a head so I don't know. Do you ever eat turtle? No, I ate turtle jerky. That was it. Um, it's not something that's that's No, I'm It's not doing it for me. How much water in milliliters or IU would you put in your BPC 1575 mgram? And how much in ml or IU would you take for a knee injury? Scott, is that you? Oh, crack on. Crack on. I'd put um 2.5 mls of water into that vial because you can usually fit about three ms. And if you do that, the math is easy. Every half mil is 1 milligram, right? Yeah. So, and I I would I mean, depends on the knee injury, but I would do between 5,000 micrograms to 1 milligram every day. And you could split that into two doses. And I would probably put it in that little teardrop if you got enough muscle there. Two seconds. Uh I stumbled across something today that I thought might be quite useful for people and I'm just going to try and find it now. Um and it was found it quite interesting. I do apologize for this usual lack of crap. Um, so there is all about peptides.com. Okay. And on there, now this was for retatride, but I presume they'll do it for other things. Yeah. There is a dosage calculator. Oh, those are great. I used to go to peptidealc.com and that one's down, but there are other ones you can download, too. Yeah. Select the strength of the vial. You select how much fluid you put in. You select how much you want to inject. And it tells you what volume of oil you water. Okay. Yeah. And it on this one, it actually shows you where to put it on the syringe. Yeah. Yeah. Those are pretty awesome, man. So, if we do 5 mg by 2 mil and I want 200, it will tell you that you need to take talking to Mike. You're a mil. It will tell you you need to take one/10enth of a mill. Yeah. That'd be 500 micrograms, right? Yeah. Yeah. So, um 250. So, um but yeah, so there are little things like that can make it a lot easier because God, that's got to be a question I get four or five times a week. Yeah. You know, how do I dilute it and what dose do I take? Um look at that. I gave him a fish. You taught him how to fish. How about that? I'm Jesus. Um let's see. Let's see if we have anything else here. Did I miss anything else? Uh, is EQ as painful as Primo? No, not at all. Not as slid. Why is it, Dave, that Primo is It's been so popular. People don't talk about how painful of a shot it is. Oh my god, man. Primo is a painful shot. Told you don't take strokes. That's Dave Stance. I think that's all we had for questions here. I mean, we we did have more. I'm absolutely certain. In fact, if I went to the show before and I hit the uh questions button. Yeah. Oh, yeah. There is so many more questions that we didn't get. Wondering if 100 to 200 EQ weekly uh instead of an equivalent dose of Deca would be better for collagen synthesis while on sports TRT. Number one, Dave loves sports TRT for sport. Dave, we got to use a little bit more TRT when we do sports. Dave, you knew that, right? Medical advice. TRT Plus. Yeah, DRT+ is a really good idea for all parties, right? Year round. Yeah, definitely. Yeah. Get your 300 MIG test and 200 deca from your doctor. That's TT, so you're fine. Yeah. Uh, is there any way to take HGH without growing my existing gyno? I mean, for a lot of people, you don't get gyno issues from GH. No. No. Some you do. All right. Well, we could keep going. We could do this all day, but uh I don't want to. No, we can only keep Dave on for so long, guys. He I've got a very sore back. Do you? So, you didn't go to the thing at all. You literally just didn't even go. No. Um, so what else has been going on? Anything else you can tell us about? How's your car? So, we we So, the truck still isn't back. We won't discuss that cuz I'll get upset. Um, the nolva has the new carb on, has the new fuel lines on. Um, that's it sounds. I didn't have the right size spanner to tighten up two of the nuts on those fuel lines. So, I've had to wait till the spanner turned on so tight the fuel nuts. But other than that, that that's ready to fire up and hopefully set. Um, apart from that, what do we do? We did Fitex Expo, which was a bit naff. Uh, we did PCA Universe, which was also a bit naff from a trade point of view. Um, what's naft mean? Not very good. Nafted. Naf. Naf. A bit naff. A bit naff. Yeah. Yeah, this show is a bit naff, Dave. A bit. Bloody hell, you're being generous. Um, then we did the MK event with Oh, MK. Yeah. So, that's Cooper and Meg. MK coaching. Okay. Yeah. Um, who did they have? They had um an Olympian over. Um, black guy. I want to say Terren, but I might be wrong. Oh, Terrence Terrence Ruff. Might be. Yes. Okay. Terrence Cold. So, we did that. That we did that on last Thursday. Okay. Um, you were there and then you went to that? Yes, I did go to that. Do you meet Terrence? Not as in meet me. No. Yeah. He's a nice guy. He's a nice guy. He seemed it seemed he used to listen to all the shows. I don't think he has the time anymore, you know, but yeah, he's ex squatty. grew up very poor from what he was saying. Um and uh yeah, he just seems a genuine nice blow. He he really does and and seems very appreciative of where he is in life. Yeah, he's a cool dude. I I like him as a person a lot and I like his physique a lot. I'm I'm really cheering for him this year. I I mean I I was I saw him at the Olympia when he he really bombed out early on and uh I remember at the time he doesn't remember saying this but before that Olympia he was like you know I'm not going to get my physique too big. I like keeping it you know tight and keeping my you know everything. I'm like I'm happy. I just want to refine which has been like that's what Bob Paris said. You know what I mean? Like that's a classic bodybuilding mentality. And then the Olympia didn't go too well for him years ago. 2018 maybe, I can't remember. Uh but then or yeah, 18, 17 or 18. Anyway, um he's come back and been so good that he took second to Chris Bumstead one year and uh and and then he went back to the drawing board and now he is his best ever. He's like he's actualized what I knew he was capable of. I think there's there's two routes with bodybuilding you can take. You can build the physique you want. Yeah. Or you can build the physique the competition wants. Yeah. And unfortunately, unless you're lucky, the two are rarely an exact match. Yeah. Um, and I think that's and and you've just got to accept that you're either happy with the way you look or you fit the criteria of the competition in order to do well in competition, but that might mean you're not developing the physique you like. Yeah. Like Chris Bumstead, for instance, had both, you know. Yeah. And I think that's where a lot of people go wrong. They they develop a physique that they want, i.e. which usually involves a body part being overdeveloped. um and then struggle to come to terms with the fact that they're not getting the placings and and competition rewards that they expect. Yeah. And it's like, well, that's because you're not building what they want. You're building what you want. And that comes at a cost. You built what you wanted. I did. Yeah. But I never competed cuz I knew it wasn't going to be a pretty pretty site. But you you did what you wanted and and I think it, you know, it paid off for you too in a way. People recognized you. Yeah. I I think I think that's actually a bit of a lesson in life as well, isn't it? If you want you can live your life how you want to, but you just have to take the consequences that come with that. True. And and I mean I think it's an age thing as well. And also helps that I mean I wouldn't say I'm rich by any standard, but you know I'm not worrying about paying me bills. Okay. And I think we're both in a very similar position there where we we can't relax financially, but we we don't have to worry either. Yeah. You know, you know, we're not worried about what that letter is coming through the letter box because we don't have the money to pay it. It's nice to be in that position finally. You know what I mean? Yeah. But at the same time, we can't go out and go, "Oh, [\h__\h] it. Let's go spend a load of money." Because we don't have that fluidity, right? Um, but I also think I've I've been at a position and I think we got to that with Eval and some other things that we've got going on that that where we could turn it into a very financially profitable business. Yeah. But it wouldn't be the business I wanted to build. Okay. Uh, and I was lucky enough to be able to financially not require it. um which is which has been a massive help in in that front. But I think that's very much part of life is you can live your life how you want, but you have to accept the restrictions that come with that. And if your desire is to be rich, you're probably going to be doing [\h__\h] that you don't really enjoy. Yeah. Yeah. Or at least for quite a while. How would you have done Eval different if it would have been the business to like make money versus uh versus do what you wanted? we would have been. Now, I don't know if I'm well known for this or not. I don't give discounts. Um I don't like giving discounts and I don't particularly like people that come to me and say, "Well, if I bring you 10, can I have a discount?" Um and it's no disrespect to them. It's the way the world is. It's the nature. But my argument is we're already one of the cheapest out there, particularly when you factor in the reporting and the fabist is involved in the pricing. Okay? And I feel we are very good quality as well. Um but uh we could have definitely been much more commercial. There's things we do that cost us money like events event. We take all the staff out for a meal that's regularly north of 1,500 which guys when I was out there Dave took me out for a meal. We went out and we had uh it was one of those fancy places where they cut the meat in front of you. Um Oh Zenda, wasn't it? Yeah, that was cool. That was a beautiful place, too. Like just drostanolone and where it was located. Like that place was pretty cool, man. But the there's things like we do two tubes for every test whether it requires it or not. And the reason we do that is so that if the customer decides they want to add on, we've got the sample to do it with. Ah, okay. But that's cost. Not a huge cost, but it's still cost. We're still having to buy extra tubes. It's still more weight in postage. You also know your customers, too, right? that I I have a feeling a lot of bodybuilders are like, you know what, let's run prolactin as well, you know. Yeah, we don't. It's not too bad, but it does happen. And it's just things like that. We don't run the business in in a in a bottomline business. We run a business more on trying to support people best we can. For argument sake, we did the prostate cancer month where we we did it all for three for the whole month. Yeah. Um, we were doing all profits. If we'd have gone with Jamie, we were going to do all profits were going to go to the charity. Instead, what we did was donate to the charity. Okay. Um, so, you know, these are none of these are profit driven sort of ideas. These are more quality of service and trying to do the right thing ideas. And I'm lucky that we're in a position where we can do that. That is cool. That is cool. And I and I did see that that you know and I I guess I see it more cuz guys Dave doesn't brag on himself. Uh but having been out there to visit you and see people that were coming to the booth, see people that knew you. Uh and I'm not saying this to make you feel good, but you've done a service to the bodybuilding community and a lot of people really appreciate you, including people like Kuba. You know, Kuba will say that right out the gate, man. He's like, "Oh, dude, I love Dave." you know, Dave, he really appreciates you and and I you have done a good service to the community. I try and it's very nice to hear that it has been positive because you never really know yourself. You're always like, "Well, I hope it's been good." Yeah. Um and as I've got older, the financial drive has has become less prominent. You know what I mean? It's like not really bothered for the super flash car anymore where 10 years ago, I'd have been I want a super car. I want this. I want that. Now you just want a truck that beats a supercar. Yeah, but now now it's more I get it. I'm I'm messing with you, you know. Yeah. No, I get it. You know, but it's it's I'm I'm less I think not everybody. There are genuinely people out there that appreciate the quality of a supercar. Yeah. But the vast majority of people buy supercars so they can drive around and say, "I can afford this." Yeah, you're right about that. And I'm I'm I'm just There was a time when I was there, but I'm not there anymore. Look at Tanya Miller's with us. She said he took us out for the same type of meal in the UK last year, meat festival. Yeah. How many more people in this live stream has Dave taken out to eat? Raise your hand. Yeah, we've um we we do it like every expo with the staff. In fact, we went to Vizender at Fitex. Um, but yeah, it's it's I think I'm really lucky in that sense that I've I've I've been in a position in life where where I can use eval for good rather than have to worry about whether it's making money or not. And for a long time a long time it didn't. Yeah. A long time it didn't. It just just scraped by and and even then it struggled. Well, I'm glad that it is, you know, it finally then turned into something. Um, it still it still owes me three grand. Rise 41. I am so jealous of Dave's voice and accent. Anything he says sounds authoritative. I once got told by a German sound engineer that I had a very good voice for voice over. I didn't believe him. I thought he was just blowing smoke up my ass. But it's Do you remember when we did the book on tape audition on the show? Yeah. That was good. Did you ever watch that? because I had like superimposed like like the Hobbit background and it was like a moving picture while your voice was going and I like you know really jazzed it up and edited the sound nicely for that. Yeah. No, I did I did watch it but I can't really remember it all if I'm Me either. I can't I just that's all the detail I have. All right. Well, I guess that doubles as uh some advice of the day, isn't it? It does. Yes, it does. All right. Well, we're glad I'm glad to be back. Uh I'm sure that everybody at home is too. We'll keep the show. Did you have a good trip? I did. We had fun. Uh Dave, Vancouver is so pretty. The mountains literally like snowcap mountains literally end in the ocean, you know? Uh ocean where like orca whales come up and like it's it's crazy, man. It's uh it's a beautiful wild uh world. Uh and it produced my wife. That's where she came from. So it all makes sense to me. Uh we had good though. We had a good time. I got to put on a suit and uh Victoria looked beautiful. We had a nice time at the wedding and I got to train with Ron. I went out to his gym for a day and we got a workout in and we got to go like walk in some mountains and stuff for a day so that was nice too. Yeah, it sounds like it was a really good trip. Then I got home and got sick. I'm still stuffed up right now if you can't tell. Yeah, there's a lot of that going on around here. I told uh VJ the other day, but so I I know everybody was getting sick. Victoria was sick on the trip and I'm not sick. I got home and I'm like, man, I'm still not sick. Normally, I feel like I would have caught this. And uh and then I started wondering. I was like, you know, I wonder if because of the SLU, I wonder, like it's a research drug, like we don't know yet. Could it have kept me from getting sick? And I like put a note in my phone, you know, SLU keeps you from getting sick, question mark, like keep an eye on this, you know? And then the ve then the very next day I got or like four hours later then I started getting a scratchy throat. So apparently you know good wishes but it wasn't the case. Dave wasn't listening. He was busy texting people. No I was listening. You're polite. I understand you're British and all that. No, you you you put on the suit. You love Vancouver. Your wife is beautiful. See this is exactly what I said. Guys, we appreciate you tuning in. You said you were wearing a suit. Your wife was beautiful. You really like Van Go. The SoCal Mau is going into the sea. You got to train with Dusty, I think it was. Yep. Yep. Yeah. Yeah. So, okay. I'm sorry. You I was wrong. You're the best listener I know. No, I'm not. I'm terrible. I'm very easily distracted. I know. I am, too. So, I I know it because I know it myself. I I see it. I know it when I see it because I know it myself. You know, I get in trouble all the time from the wife for it. All right. Well, let's get out of here so you can get back to work. I got to get back to work, too. Guys, we appreciate you tuning in. As always, leave us questions for the next show, comments, all that stuff. This is uh it's a blast. I love doing this. Dave won't admit it. He enjoys it, too. And we enjoy having you guys here. So, for another episode of the podcast with Dave Crosslin, reach out to Dave for coaching. He's still available. We got his contact, my contact down below, and we will see you soon. Thank you guys. Thank you, Dave. Take care, mate. Speak to you soon. Bye-bye.