Yeah, generally speaking, I I usually say, okay, people with higher uh amounts of body fat, higher body fat percentage and very very low training experience are like the optimal subjects that will, >> you know, experience the largest magnitude of recomposition. Um, if you also want to talk about dtrained statuses, so like if you have like somebody who was a great high school athlete, um, and then kind of just like threw everything away in their 20s or like didn't play in college and wasn't physically active and then they're trying to get physically active like in their 30s. So, they were like really fit from like 14 to 18 and then really unfit from like 19 to 30. those people can recmp tremendously, believe it or not, from what I've seen like working with clients because >> there is some sort of like even though it's 15 years ago, that muscle memory is still kind of there. So, >> yeah. >> What's up, guys? Welcome back to Muscle Minds with Scott Stevenson. I'm Scott McN, and all of our programming is brought to you by Scott's book, Be Your Own Bodybuilding Coach. You can go to bybcoach.com and uh pick up a copy today. Get the ebook there or I'll have links in the description for the hard cover. We are brought to you by true nutrition.com. Use our code think over there for all your basic bodybuilding supplements like protein, creatin, intraworkout, and get 10% off with that code think supplement.ca for our Canadians. They have great deals that change week to week. Thank you to everybody from Patreon. We'll be tackling Patreon questions on the next episode, but today we are joined by a special guest, Scott. We don't have special guests that often on this show, but I'm excited to have you back, Chris Bearcat. Thank you for joining us. >> Thank you for having me, guys. Scott, it's amazing to see you. And Scott McN, I haven't spoken to you in a while, so it's really cool to catch up. Uh, fortunately, I get to chat with Scott, who I call Dau, um, quite frequently. So, uh, yeah, I'm super happy to be here and thank you guys for having me on. >> Hell yeah. Well, I know we we we have a bunch of stuff we're going to try to cover. I have a feeling that we're not going to be able to get into all of that. Um, but, you know, it is great to have you back. It's been, I think, a few several years now since we had you on the show. Um, one thing I really wanted to personally dive into because I've seen this help so many people that I've worked with is the idea of growing into a show or growing while dieting, recmping, losing fat, growing muscle at the same time. I had seen it all through my own bodybuilding. I could swear I'd come out the other side of a contest prep and I would have been bigger. I work with a lot of people who are I'll call them like aging males that are not in good shape yet they come to me and they say, "Oh, I want to grow as much muscle as I can, yet they have a lot of body fat to lose." Um, being able to look at your study, body recomposition, can trained individuals build muscle and lose fat at the same time, I think has really helped to kind of like uh back me up, I guess, is is is the right word. You know what I'm saying, Scott? It's like when you know something is true, but then when you see it actually published >> um then it's like oh yeah it it's very reaffirming man. So >> I'm a good scientist. >> Yeah exactly >> for sure. So that's that that used to drive me crazy as well Scott. And that was one reason why I did want to write a narrative review on that particular topic because when I was just getting started in research as a grad student in the lab, we would see when we looked at group averages, we wouldn't necessarily see recmp in our studies that I was a part of. But I would always see certain individuals gain lean body mass and lose fat mass over just the 8 to 10 week duration of the study. And I found that fascinating. And one thing that was driving me crazy back then was a lot of evidence-based people or even who people who publish in the scientific literature, they would post like an infographic where it was like lose fat must be caloric deficit, build muscle must be caloric surplus. And I was like, this crappy black and white information is not only bad, it's it's not it's incorrect. Like there's actually so many ways that people can grow muscle whether you're in a deficit, at maintenance, or in a surplus. So, that used to drive me crazy. And then, um, yeah, I just decided to put out that narrative review after a whole it was like a long story. I'm I'm not going to go into the details of it, but I'm glad I put that out because I do think it does provide some validity to what people are observing with their eyes, right? Whether it's a personal trainer in the gym working with a Gen Pop client where it's like, "Yeah, we definitely recmped and this person didn't lose much weight on the scale, but she lost a couple inches off of her waist. She's looking more shapely and aesthetic in all the right places." So, it's like obviously we recmped even if they don't have the objective data via DEXA or InBody or whatever it may be. So, like we've all observed this for sure, but some people in the evidence-based space would say like, "No, it's not possible because you be in a deficit for fat loss and you need to be in a surplus for muscle building." And again, that was the thing that drove me crazy. Um, when it comes to recmping, I think just context is super important. So, like if you're talking about somebody with 10 years of experience versus somebody with two years experience or like no experience at all, um, what is their starting body fat percentage? um are they going to be natural or enhanced? Like all of that stuff or all these confounding variables that definitely impact um what to expect or the magnitude of remp that is probably reasonable. But um there's still a lot that we don't know like it's hard to predict like how well is somebody going to remp but yeah we see it all the time whether it's online coaching, people going through contest preps, um whatever it may be. So there's a lot of different avenues we can dive down. Let me know if there's like anything in particular you want to chat about, I guess. >> Yeah. Scott, what do you what are your thoughts here? And and and I'm curious to know what you would would like to throw in on this to >> I have I have so many thoughts on this. One of the things that and and cut me off if I start to ramble for too long because this is Chris's interview and not mine. But one of the things that I've I don't know when this occurred to me quite a few years back now is when you establish for instance caloric balance for someone in a study or you presume based on equations what that is and then you start into a resistance training protocol where you're going to have lots of my favorite term biological interindividuality. You're going to have varying P ratios. You're going to have varying epochs that are brought on by whatever the resistance training pro. So excess post exercise oxygen consumption which might change just like the repeated bout will change the amount of protein degradation and muscle soreness and muscle injury. So you got a situation where the energy demands brought on by that resistance training program vary by the individual. And let's just take someone who let's say let's take two individuals on paper. They're about the same body weight. Their diets are roughly the same. Let's say 3,000 calories. And one person is I was about to use a really bad pun. One person's going to grow really well. And the other person is doesn't. So, the other person is on route to putting on some tremendous amount of muscle, like five kilograms of muscle over the course of their um the 16week training program, right? And the other person isn't, then that energy intake becomes a deficit in a sense because now they're growing so well. They've got an energy demand from the muscle growth that's occurring. Whereas the other person is basically just matching their protein degradation and there they've got some energy demand but all the other factors are sort of colluding such that the energy costs of the adaptation is minimal. So then the one person goes into a deficit. The energy has to come from somewhere whereas the other person doesn't the one who's not growing very well. So the energy balance for those two individuals changes and one person could maybe they lose a little fat and they're like in a small energy deficit. You see that in the body composition whereas the other person could literally at that dietary intake if it's controlled be in a substantial deficit and that manifests in the fat loss. So whether you're in a surplus or or let's say you increase the calories by 500 and that person still loses the body fat. Well, they were in a deficit and that deficit was brought on by the changes in how they respond and adapt to the program. So, like that very notion of there being a caloric deficit or a surplus being a black and white phenomenon is is sort of a misnomer I guess in a in a certain way because that those that changes dynamically based on the individual, their adaptations, all those other factors that I mentioned. So Chris, when you wrote the the review, um how if you can summarize or maybe it was all over the place, how were the researchers looking at whether or not they were in a deficit or um or were they were they quantifying this? I saw one of the tables where they they had caloric they had dietary information. Some of them they didn't. Like how how crystal clear were they about about making sure that that was the case or not the case? Yeah, a lot of times it wasn't crystal clear at all and we kind of had two separate tables where I separated studies based off just exercise interventions only and then studies that had exercise plus nutrition interventions combined. So those had some sort of nutritional whether it was tracking or actual control. It depended on the study. Um but that isn't well controlled and it it is a moving target that's kind of fluctuating on a daily basis. I don't want to get too off topic, but I I do want to share now that we mentioned that like this year while I'm contest prepping, I didn't give myself a set caloric intake like I have in the past. So, let's just say like I need to hit 2600 calories every single day. These are my macronutrients. My calorie intake fluctuated every single day and is extremely autoregulated and and intuitive because I understood that like my expenditure is fluctuating every single day as well. Um, so that's kind of a whole other thing that we can dive down, but yeah, it's not super well controlled in the literature. And I've just again in some of the randomized control trials I've seen, I remember there was one individual who gained I think it was 18 or 21 pounds of lean body mass >> in 10 weeks. >> Yeah. Like a right. It's crazy. >> While losing like three pounds of fat mass. So again, like what's going on there from a from an intake versus expenditure standpoint? How much fuel did he need to consume to actually build that? How much of that came from endogenous fat sources? You know what I mean? >> Like how much >> you can calculate, you can roughly calculate that. Yeah. >> Yeah. But again, we weren't controlling their nutrition. We were allowing them to they were supposed to continue their normal dietary habits, whatever that means. Um, in that particular study, we did we did have them track their macronutrients for an entire week at week zero, week four, and week nine, as an example, like midpoint and post just to see if there were changes between the groups. But, uh, there's just so much more that needs to be controlled. I mean, as bodybuilders working with co working with clients, we h we have meticulous control over almost every variable. So even though it's like a n equals one type of case study, I feel like sometimes that data is even more valuable. So >> you know, there's lots of uh >> lots of ways to view the entire forest instead of like focusing in on one little tree. But yeah, >> like this is this this one when this top when you mentioned this topic earlier today goes Scott I want to talk about this and I thought to myself so there's I don't know this is maybe I don't know if this is in your review or not but just as a background piece of information of what's what it is we're capable of as as mammals. Um Alfred Goldberg's studies from the 60s7s with compensatory hypertrophy. Do you know these studies Chris? >> A little bit. Yeah. Um, yeah. So, the I've talked about this before like you cut the soius and watch and see how much the gastro grows. We talked this a million times, Scott, on the podcast >> and he's done those he's done those studies and it's the growth is tremendous. And actually interesting there's this one particular study where they did tendon transfer on humans who had lost their Achilles and they used the flexor digtorum longest muscle to replace the calf and there was a 103% increase in muscle size in that muscle from compensatory hypertrophy compared to the other size. That was the that was the highend amongst all those people. So this isn't like some crazy stuff that you know human muscle could never be capable of. Right. for sure. >> And in Goldberg's studies, um, they wanted to see, so what happen what are the factors that play a role here when with this muscle that's growing tremendously, how when the gastro compensates for the missing solius or vice versa, they've done it various ways >> and essentially they eliminated various things could be important. They eliminated insulin, had no effect. They eliminated basically the entire pituitary, the anterior pituitary. So there's no growth hormone, there's no testosterone, there's no thyroid hormone, no effect. The muscle grew just as well. This is on the short term. And they actually starved the animals. They're still walking around, right? And it had no effect on the muscle growth. They were eating nothing. Zippo. They had no caloric intake. So you can eliminate insulin growth hormone, testosterone, thyroid, all these great things that bodybuilders like to make use of at least. and but the muscle can potentially grow if the stimulus is strong enough and this is a really powerful stimulus. So just to kind of think okay that that those studies they're they're old but they're they're golden creates a totally different framework from what muscle can possibly do if you give it the right stimulus. >> It in itself has this internal ability to grow like crazy. So just that as sort of background information it's like 18 pounds like no way this guy was definitely on gear or what have you or but those sorts of things are possible with skeletal muscle. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. And what could he have possibly you know what was he doing before? Was this guy doing absolutely nothing before? I mean I'd be curious to know that in in the review you mentioned that some of the studies had accounted for nutrition some of them didn't. In the studies that did account for nutrition, do you know offhand like what the biggest deficit would have been? >> There's usually no more than 500 calories. >> Okay. >> The deficit. Yeah. Um while you >> changes, Chris, like if someone's putting on all that muscle, then their deficit autom that's that's my kind of point with this is like >> the person who grows there's a there's a paper by Slater, you know this, and it's like they estimate like 3,000 calories per pound of of muscle, something like that. So that person is put they have a deficit. It's totally different. So anyway, it's just it's AI love this topic. >> Yeah, me too. Me too. While you guys were chatting, I pulled up a an old PowerPoint presentation I I did just to get some numbers and all that, but again, we can talk about this forever. I don't know if I if you guys want me to like pull that up or or what. >> Yeah, go on the I'd love to hear a little bit. Yeah, I'd love to hear a little bit of it. Sure. >> All right. Let Let me give you Can I share the screen or No. >> Yeah, go for it. >> Yeah. Let me see how this works over here. So, >> oh, this is sweet. >> This cool. Let me click select. >> Yeah, this is cool. >> All right, cool. So, this was like the first study I was ever a part of in terms of a randomized control trial. Um, as you see, we had two groups. There was an autoregulated exercise selection group and a fixed exercise selection group. Uh, this is kind of just pointing out individuals that either did remp or did not and then like the magnitude of difference. So, for example, this person here gained 4 kilos um gained 4 kilos of lean body mass. This person here gained 4.28 while simultaneously losing 085 kilos of fat mass. So, this was the individual I was talking about before that made the most gains that I've ever seen in just the 8week training period. >> Um, yeah. >> But you'll also see some individuals actually lost lean body mass while doing the same exact training regimen. So going back to Scott's point, we all respond quite differently and when we're not able to control other variables like their sleep, their nutrition, and so many other things, it plays a really, really big role. Um, this person in this person in particular, he met the criteria of the study because he actually played collegiate basketball. He was familiar with barbell bench press, barbell back squat, and we had like certain strength criteria that he needed to do that he needed to meet, but he's never done like hypertrophy bodybuilding type training. He's only done strength and conditioning work for basketball. So, that context is really important and and that is one reason why he did grow so much. Um, he was also much much taller. So, that kind of goes to my next point >> that goes to my next point. One thing I don't like about how we do things. >> One thing, Chris, check out subject 11. >> Subject >> as a contrast to that person. Yeah, I we can't see what you're circling, but subject 11 lost 1.5 kilos and gained 2.4 kilos of fat. >> Exactly. >> Exactly. So again, like >> not good at all. Right. And we just report, you know, a lot of people just report means, group averages and stuff like that, and there's just so much that's missing when that's done. >> Um, yeah. One thing that I wanted to mention was the the ne literally the very next study I was a part of was in collegiate volleyball players and in this study the group averages actually demonstrated phenomenal recomp. So um one was a velocity based training group and one was like an optimal training load group. We're just looking at different training interventions, but as you'll see, both groups gained 5.9 lbs of lean mass while simultaneously losing four to six uh five to six pounds of fat mass, give or take, right? You kind of see that up there. >> The one point that I think is really important to make is when looking at collegiate volleyball players, their height kind of varied quite a bit. So, the shortest player was 1.63 m and the tallest was 1.9 m. So if you say like, oh well well this person who gained 1, sorry, this person gained 1.1 kilos of lean body mass, the person that was only 1.6 m tall and the other subject gained 1.9 kilos of lean body mass, you would say like, oh 1.9 is way better than 1.1, like that person gained more muscle. But when you relativize it based off of their height and if you looked at fat free mass changes, it would almost be identical. It's a 2.4% 4% increase versus a 2.8% increase. So I think >> there's a lot of things that are missing in regards to how we report things and how we kind of look at some of the data and uh I hope to improve upon that and some of the future studies that we do. Um and then this was another study another volume study. This was the aay at l study that's pretty popular. Um, all three groups demonstrated some sort of recmp uh when you looked at certain individuals. Um, but we didn't report whole body changes in the official paper cuz it was looking at low uh it was just training the legs in the lab. We weren't training their upper body. >> Okay. >> So, we only reported changes in fat-ree mass in their entire lower leg as well as muscle thickness muscle thickness changes via ultrasound. We didn't report the data that you guys are seeing here >> because we didn't train their upper body in the lab. But when when I looked at the data, I looked at the raw data myself, we actually did see recomposition on average. And the crazy thing is this was one of the strongest cohorts of individuals ever studied in the literature. Like their baseline squat was extremely high. I forget what their 1RM to body mass uh ratio was, but this is one of the strongest cohorts ever studied. And >> and even they demonstrated recmp on average. Uh that wasn't that wasn't mentioned in the study because again we just focused on lower bodies, but I thought Scott would probably find that pretty cool, too. >> Oh, yeah. I love looking through individual data points like that, looking at the the outliers and the variability. >> Yeah. So, >> we've spent hours on this show looking at the outliers with Scott. For sure. >> Yeah. I I just find that incredible though. And and I I guess it just gives me a lot of reassurance, especially when I'm talking to a guy who's like in his 40s. He's holding a lot of body fat. he's going on 500 700 milligrams of gear and you know that he's he's untrained that we can do an awful lot versus I think that it's it's just been especially for I think some of us older guys we've had it in our heads of like the old school '8s bulk that that's what you have to do in order to put muscle on. So, I I really appreciate that study that that that you had pulled together here and what you had kind of shown everybody cuz it's made a difference, I think, for a lot of the people that I've worked with being able to to see that. Hey, what's going on, guys? Just a quick shout out to True Nutrition. I figured I'd bring you to the home gym here. So, welcome. And I just wanted to show you my order. So, nothing big deal. I've got a few pounds of the cold filtered weight iso. I'm a big fan of the cookie butter flavor. I've been on this this year. This has like been my favorite, but they've got a bunch of different flavors. So, if you're interested in something else, just check them out. It's a It's a very light protein overall. It's not going to bloat your digestion down. It's not going to cause a bunch of water retention. This is the kind of protein that I suggest to people who are doing a contest prep. They've got all your basic bodybuilding supplements like creatin. They've got great intraworkout highly branch cyclic dextrin, which is the high-end, and then they've got the cheaper stuff like Carbo Load, like anybody can afford that. Um, and of course use our code think. It'll get you 10% off. They really kicked up. It used to only be 5%. Now you get 10% off if you use the code and it throws some money our way too. So it definitely helps the podcast out a ton. Might be a buck here and there, but you know, if you guys all use the code, it definitely adds up. And you have been using the code, so thank you for that. Um, let's get back to the podcast, but thank you for uh hanging out with me here in the home gym. >> I've got a quick question just just to wrap it up. Chris, how would you describe pick pick the subject or the client who is in the perfect place for a recmp to show us like what the major factors are in terms of trading status, their data? Sure. What would like that? Who's the person who's everything from their background like like that guy like the basketball? Was he did you was he in a coma in the hospital when you recruited him? Brought him to the study. Is that what happened? like how does it all work out? >> Yeah, generally speaking, I I usually say, okay, people with higher uh amounts of body fat, higher body fat percentage and very very low training experience are like the optimal subjects that will, >> you know, experience the largest magnitude of recomposition. Um, if you also want to talk about dtrained statuses, so like if you have like somebody who was a great high school athlete, um, and then kind of just like threw everything away in their 20s or like didn't play in college and wasn't physically active and then they're trying to get physically active like in their 30s. So, they were like really fit from like 14 to 18 and then really unfit from like 19 to 30. those people can recmp tremendously believe it or not from what I've seen like working with clients because >> there is some sort of like even though it's 15 years ago that muscle memory is still kind of there. So >> I've seen that happen um quite fascinatingly and um >> yeah I kind of talk about it as a sliding scale. So the less body fat you have and the closer you are to your genetic potential from a a lean body mass fat free mass perspective, you shouldn't really expect recmp where the magnitude is going to be extremely extremely small. On the other end of the spectrum, if you're really far away from your genetic potential from a total fat-free mass standpoint and you have a lot of body fat, you should expect that uh you should expect a recmp. Would you say that if you you've got someone who's like, "Oh, this person's just looking at a really good recmp that their protein demands should be higher and that you maybe if you come up with 3,000 calorie a day diet, like maybe that person you're going to give them more protein because they can actually incorporate that into skeletal muscle." >> Yeah, it's interesting. Um I I'm just a high protein advocate in general. Um, one point I did want to make from a a practical standpoint when Scott was talking about this, something I think that is important is that people's expectations or their goals are are pretty clear because a lot of people may come to an online coach and say like, "Hey, I want to lose 20 pounds. I want to lose 15 pounds or I want to lose 50 pounds." I automatically try to reframe that and I say, >> "Yeah, >> no. Let's just say you want to lose body fat. we're not sure exactly what that number is going to be. And you want to build muscle so you look more shapely and more aesthetic and you're more fit and you're stronger. And the reason I I think it's important to reframe that, especially for females, because they're like obsessed with the scale, >> um the opposite direction of males, >> we can talk that in a second, but like I'll have females come to me and let's just say it's a 155 pound female and she's like, "Oh, I really want to be 130," just as an example. Um, the first thing I do is I never put them in a caloric deficit right off the bat. I always put them around theoretical maintenance so we can focus on their dietary habits, improving what nutrient timing may look like, ensuring they're getting enough fruits and vegetables on a daily basis, like improving their overall dietary foundation while ensuring that their training is in a good spot and like having them focus on some sort of objective performance changes in the gym. And then usually what happens to me while we're just eating that theoretical maintenance and it's a higher protein diet that's keeping them more satiated. They report back to me, hey, it's so hard to get in all of this food. You know, all of this whole foods very voluous. I feel very full. Like I've never eaten this much before. And that's not necessarily true. They've probably eaten more calories in the past, but they ate more fats and carbs that were processed and very low volume, and they ate less protein. So, they're eating less calories than they used to, but they're eating more protein, slightly less carbs, slightly less fat, and they're focusing on whole foods. And just that theoretical maintenance with that progressive training stimulus, they start to see recmp because we're not just looking at the scale. We're taking away circumference measurements. We're taking progress photos. And that reframe goes a really, really long way. And then we can say, "All right, maybe 16 weeks down the road, all right, we want to get into like a a fat loss focused phase." that's like really focused on fat loss. Let's put you in a 300 calorie deficit for 6 to 8 weeks and let's really drop the hammer on some fat loss. And then the physique changes are even more obvious while they might be still building muscle simultaneously if there's progress in the gym. So from a practical standpoint, I just wanted to mention that uh reframing like what is the goal? Is it is it weight loss or is it fat loss? Right? Um, even for the even for the guys, is it I want to I want to be 200 lb. Like, let's say you have 175 pound male, like, oh, I want to hit 200 on the scale. Um, maybe it's just like, hey, I want to be stronger and I want to look bigger. But if that 175 pounder makes 200 lb the goal, they're probably just going to get fat. >> Yeah. >> Right. Like just gain gaining 25 pounds in four months, the majority of that is probably going to be a lot of fat gain. So, I think it's important that like we're a little bit more intentional and specific with like the goal that we set and then taking everything else into context, >> training level, uh, how long you've been doing this, natural or enhanced, so on and so forth. >> Yeah. I've even seen with guys that are very geared up that that it still takes genetics. You know, I do a podcast with Ron Partllo and Dusty Handshaw, and they're my examples of the extreme where we can take a guy that's 260 and bump him up to 300 lb and then rip him back down to 280, whereas you put on 40 lb for most people in in a, you know, an offseason, it is not going to be pretty trying to get them back down. And I guarantee you that they're not going to have gained, you know, nearly as much as a guy like Dusty would have. You know, for sure >> that approach with women that you that you detailed is absolutely beautiful because it runs so counter to the diet culture in the industry of >> you got to get on this diet and it's going to you got to you got to diet down and your calories will typically be low, etc., etc., etc. And those are all changes that are sustainable that they can that are really pretty simple. One of the things that over the years people come to me and say, "Hey, I want to look like you or like I want to blah blah blah." And I say, "Okay, let's just I do this. I've had this conversation literally hundreds of times. What are the five things that you can do that you're not doing or that you should be doing?" >> And it's like, "Okay, well, I, you know, I drink too much beer on the weekend. I eat too much this, you know, eat fatty foods, ice cream late at night. You know, I'm not working." Real basic stuff. And that will that will drop 10 15 pounds just by cleaning things up in a basic way. So someone like let's say that client she falls off the wagon something happens and then years later she's like oh gosh I want to get back in shape again. What did I do with Chris? It wasn't like we brought you into a protein sparing modified fast. >> Yeah. I just cleaned up my diet and it worked wonderfully and they have that first impression perhaps of getting in shape and losing fat with you which was healthful >> and that is just abs it's worth its weight pardon the pun and gold. >> Yeah. No, I appreciate that. And again, another very valuable um component to taking that approach where you're not just dive bombing into some sort of big deficit is the person starts to realize their motivation to train is higher because they're not underfed. Their performance in the gym is better. Their recovery is better. >> So their ability to actually build muscle is improved, optimized, enhanced, whatever you want to say. So, I think by just diving into that deficit, you're shooting yourself in the foot on so many different ways because now you have less calories coming in to perform well and progress in the gym. You have less calories to actually build muscle. Your sleep might take a hit. Your motivation to train is going to take a hit. It it all starts to feel like a chore. Whereas when you're when you're chilling out at this theoretical maintenance and you know that you have enough fuel coming in, you're just going to feel better in so many ways while still drastically improving your body composition. So I think that is really important for again I don't want to say just gen pop but it's a great approach for a lot of people to take like rather than bulking or cutting right away ask yourself like how can I improve all these other variables within my diet and lifestyle first before like picking a side of bulking or cutting like just improve everything. Hang out at maintenance. Really focus on your training in an objective way and then you can kind of choose down the road. All right, I I do want to bulk and I want to actually put on some body weight, then start tipping the scale that direction or hey, I want to shed down uh more body fat to a larger magnitude. Let me actually get into a true quote unquote deficit. But again, I'm not a fan of like super large deficits and that's also very context dependent. So if you're working with 120 lb female, I never put them in a 500 calorie deficit off the bat. It might be 250. Whereas if I'm working with a 190 lb male, I'll happily throw them in a 500 calorie deficit right off the bat. So that's another thing like going back to the the infographics I saw back in 2018 2017 before I wrote that paper of like surplus equals muscle gain, deficit equals fat loss. Like that black and white thinking just drives me crazy. And a lot of people like to use numbers and they try to be objective, but they're not relativizing it based on the individual and so many other inputs that are happening simultaneously. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. I think that part of it too is that that it's sexy to be able to put a number on it to have that concrete thing. If you as a coach come to somebody and you say, "Well, let's not focus on the scale." It's like, "Well, that's my means of knowing that I progressed." So yeah, I'm with you 100% on trying to reframe that and looking at other ways to track success versus just looking at the scale. >> For sure. >> That's a really devious way like in the in the metaverse where the evil Chris Bearcat does the same thing but takes advantages of people's psychological kinks in their armor. you like you you have the person pay attention to the scale and you drop their carbs so their weight drops really fast and they get hooked on this idea of having to suffer through hunger etc >> and like that sets up all sorts of behavioral difficulties I think so yeah you're doing so many things right Chris I I can't even count them up >> thanks my man appreciate it >> yeah yeah for sure for sure so >> all right are we good to get into some training talks Scott >> I can keep going on this one but maybe we'll do a part two. Um, let's Chris, did you recmp during your uh your prep? >> Uh, maybe the segue. >> I would I would say I did not recmp, but >> Okay. >> But as a natural athlete, I am 100% confidence I have retained every ounce of lean body mass. >> Um, that's something like so many people fear losing muscle while dieting, especially contest prepping. And there's some like valid reasons for that. Don't get me wrong, but I think talking about training, I think the number one reason why people lose muscle while dieting is because they're doing way too much training volume or their output is so so high and the magnitude of the deficit is too large. I think that's the number one reason why people lose muscle because I I feel like I do a great job with myself and with a lot of clients of maintaining lean mass while while contest prepping. And I I personally just try to make sure that the quality of the training stays super high rather than f over focusing on quantity of total work. And I also understand I just I have less energy to actually do more total work. And like >> that's just going to dig a deeper ditch than I can refill. Right. Always going back to I always heard uh John Meadows mentioned that first. I don't know if that came from John or someone else, but you don't want a bigger you don't want to dig a deeper ditch than than you can actually refill and recover from, right? So, I think that's where people go wrong is just doing too much. So, yeah, I'm happy to chat about training. Um, I did not recmp. I would not say I recmp, but again, I think I did an amazing job of retaining. I also broke my foot two weeks into the contest prep. So, I broke my foot 22 weeks ago and was in a boot. I was supposed to be in a boot for four weeks. I only wore it for two weeks, but it did it did drastically impact my training for a while. Um, and that was one reason why I also switched to fortitude training and it was a huge huge massive help and I think it played a role as to why I did retain my muscle while dieting down. So, yeah, last we can chat about. So, wherever you guys want to take it, >> checks in the mailing anymore. So, um, gosh, there's so many questions. We talked about this quite a bit. We probably had three or maybe four conversations when Chris was thinking about it, but, um, was with the broken, you had started for two training and then you broke your foot, or was it the other way around? >> No, the other way around. So, I started contest prep at 24 weeks out. Um, I was trying to run a fiveday training split that, you know, I made for myself. Um, let me see if I could even remember. It was probably like a upper lower off. Um, and then it was probably like a chest and back, legs, shoulders and arms, just as an example. >> Um, and what ended up happening week after week after week was I would get four out of my five training sessions in I would miss a session. I'm a father now, Scott, and like my wife is pregnant and I just have a lot of stuff going on in life. So, um, as much as bodybuilding does mean to me and it it is a priority, it's not the priority where it used to be the priority, right? Like >> 2021 contest prep, 2017 contest prep, >> I don't give a [\h__\h] what was going on. I'm [\h__\h] going to the gym. Like, it's happening. This year, that wasn't happening. Um, and I was just missing like one session a week. I was always getting four out of my five sessions in. And I don't know if you and I had a phone conversation or I just like looked at fortitude training online or whatever, but uh you know once I knew it was like four days a week, I was like, well, I'm only ending up getting four sessions in per week anyway. But more importantly, my frequency would go up. So rather than hitting everything twice a week like I was, I'd be touching everything three times a week. And with me with a broken foot, I'd rather like give my my leg some sort of stimulus more frequently rather than trashing it to a higher magnitude less frequently. And I was like, "All right, this is going to be a great tool to utilize." So, um, yeah, I started running 42 training probably when I was like 20 weeks out, so like four weeks into the cut. I think you said you you were looking for ways to work around your foot and you misread fortitude and thought it said footitude training and then you go perfect >> something. >> Yeah. Yeah. So yeah, that's where it kind of all started. And I love how the system allows you to like autoregulate a lot of things. Um I was telling Scott that I love for like the strength work or the loading sets. I can be objective, log book my numbers, stick to the same movements, and like actually care about the numbers. One thing I love about the pump work is like when the gym is busy and this machine is taken or that machine is taken, I'm like, I don't care. I'm just going to get a nasty pump. I might include some of the stretching and it allows me to just autoregulate. Like, what do I want to do? What feels good? am I in a different gym that has a cool piece of equipment that I just want to use for this one session, whatever it may be. So, I really really loved how the system kind of forces you to personalize it for yourself. Um, and yeah, it's just been fantastic. I don't see myself not running fortitude for quite a while. Like I I I'm just going to run this till the wheels fall off. Uh, no pun intended. Hopefully I don't break another foot. But, >> um, yeah. >> Yeah, it's been awesome. And you also trained at home and you had your smart gym. So you had you didn't do muscle rounds. I think you did another sort of cluster set that your smart gym allowed. So that's pretty cool. >> Yeah. Yeah. So um the way I do it right now like my my leg day, my full lower day, I do muscle rounds the way that the program describes. I also I I'll also mention sometimes instead of doing muscle rounds, I just do like a myor rep set. So, I kind of autoregulate that just depending on time, what machine I'm using, how I feel, but I do some sort of rest pause. >> Um, on day three, which is my upper body day, I don't go to the gym. I train at home in my garage. And unfortunately, this I love the smart gym I have. I have the tonal, but um doing rest pause sets on there isn't really super feasible. Um because like once you stop the set after 5 seconds, it just assumes you're going to the next exercise and it assumes >> ah >> it assumes like you're done with the set, >> right? >> However, I did share some video with Scott and I I put this on social media that smart system has like one of the coolest intensity technique features. It's called burnout mode. And essentially what it does is you can take a set to full concentric failure. So let's just say I'm doing incline dumbbell uh incline cable or electronic press um with 55 pounds, right? >> Okay. >> Once I'm concentrically pushing 55 and I just can no longer move that weight, >> it decreases the load automatically by one by one pound at a time. So it goes from 55 to 54 to 53 to 52 to 51 until I can move it. >> Oh wow. >> And then I come back down. So now it might be on 49. >> And you get the full But then do you get the full the full resistance on the on the negative? >> No. Or >> on the negative it stays 49. It'll stay there. Okay. >> Comes back down. >> And then again if I can't push the 49 it goes to 48 to 47 to 46 to >> It's insane. It's absolutely insane. You get to a point where like you did like four or five like forced reps or these really challenged reps and like even though it's like no longer moving and like it's so so hard, you also know like this is only like 12 lbs or something like let me just let me just call it here. Like this can't be super beneficial anymore. But it is a really cool feature. And um it does allow you to also do eccentric overload. So like a lot of times maybe I'll concentrically press 55 and then eccentrically it might be 63. >> Oh wow. I like that. >> It's it's really really cool. I've posted some videos on the eccentric overload and the the burnout mode and the drop set mode. It's cool man. So uh unfortunately I don't do like the typical muscle rounds on those days but I can still just do like one to two true working sets to failure and I'm just like oh that's plenty of stimulus. I'm on to the next movement. >> Okay. I I'm curious um you know, tell us a little bit about the you know, trying to determine like how much failure that you can handle, you know, especially in a deficit, especially being that you're not an enhanced guy. Like that's a it's got to be a fine line. And I know you mentioned earlier too, you're autoregulating your nutrition, too. So, I'm sure that all those pieces you've got like a lot of different levers that it sounds like you were pulling through this prep. >> Sure. Sorry. Sorry, Scott. You actually broke up for a minute. I don't know if it was the same for you, Scott. Seems >> Okay. I'm sorry that the >> Yeah. Yeah. >> Sorry about that, guys. Um, no. I just was saying that, um, I would be curious to hear how you determine how frequently you want to go to failure in your training. I It sounds like, uh, you know, well, number one, you being not enhanced. I'm sure that you have to watch that really close. But then number two, this sounds like this particular prep especially, you kind of had a lot of different levers you were playing with between you mentioned like autoregulating your nutrition, um, you know, using this training system where you do have failure sets versus pump sets. Like how did all those pieces fit together and and what are you looking at to determine like what you're actually capable of handling without doing too much? >> Sure. Sure. That's a great question. So, generally speaking, I will say on my my working sets for my loading sets as well as my muscle rounds or rest pause things, whether it was muscle round, my rep or the stuff at the I do on the tunnel with burnout mode. Honestly, I just take all of those to concentric failure. >> So, like my total volume is relatively low, >> but my intensity just remains high. And then on the pump work, it's more drive a lot of blood into the tissue. I don't really stress like, oh, that needs to be a ri or ri3. I just make sure I get a lot of blood into the tissue. One thing I will say too, for for my lower body training on fortitude, because of the broken foot, most of the pump work was actually blood flow restriction work >> just because especially early on, I I couldn't heavily load my foot. I couldn't do heavy hacks. I couldn't do heavy leg press. Um, but I could do light pin loaded leg press with BFR and still get the blood and the the muscle activation of the same tissues that I would even if it was heavier load. So, I did a lot of BFR for my pump work for uh lower body. Um, but with that said, yeah, basically all my working sets for loading sets or or muscle rounds. Um, I just take it to to concentric failure. Um, I also want to get Scott's input on this. I think there's there's so many different ways to define failure and there's so many different approaches like to training to failure. Um, I try to keep my form relatively tight and when I reach concentric failure, even on a compound, I think it's way less systemically fatiguing than when somebody isn't keeping their form relatively tight. So, for example, yesterday I trained with a client of mine who's here in town from Brazil and >> like he was doing chess press on various machines >> and he would use a lot of body English and I would see like a lot of protraction of the shoulders, a lot of stuff going on at the scalp and just other stuff moving besides the glenoumeral joint, besides the upper arm, >> right? So like when I reach failure, it's like, okay, my pec can no longer adduct this upper arm. >> Whereas some people when they reach failure, they're just like pushing everything and just like giving it their all. >> I respect the the the heck out of the effort and the intensity, but I think a it does nothing for the muscle we're training, and b I think that creates a lot more fatigue. So, I think training to failure, yes, it's more fatiguing, but if you're doing it with low volume, you you're not necessarily trashing yourself. Like, again, people are like scared to go to failure. They think like, oh, that's going to ruin my results or something. It's like, no, it's probably going to enhance your results if you do it the right way. But um I just wanted to mention that like >> when I see people using a lot of body English, I think that's way more fatiguing than when it's just like, okay, the target muscle is completely done. There's nothing else that target muscle can produce. Just call it there. >> So I don't know if Scott wants to chat about that for a quick like little aside, but I did want to say that. >> Yeah, there's a lot to that. I mean, you could you could break this down into like an internal and external focus. Mhm. >> So, are you are you trying to to tax the muscle with a good mind muscle connection >> and um then are you just trying to move the weight? >> It's an external f performance focus. And some sometimes like a thing it's it's not it's it's akin to a mechanical drop set. >> I'm going to just coin a term here because like a neurological drop set we'll call it. And I and people can try this at home. It's kind of just do it safely. um is you would do an exercise where um let's say a pull down. Pretty safe. If you know if you get to a bad spot, you can just let the weight go and hopefully you know you're in a system where you don't get don't break your foot or something. And you're doing perfect lat. You're driving your shoulder, your elbows towards your hips, your elbows are loose hinges, your hands are hooks, you got all the things going on. It's perfect by my muscle connection. And then you go to where you reach concentric failure. and then intentionally say, "Okay, I'm going to allow myself to do some cheat reps here." And and you can I can often times if I get 10 reps, I can oftenimes get five more reps if I allow myself that laxity. And just simply having that distinction between okay this is perfect form mind muscle connection the target muscle has now reached fatigue and I am focused on making sure that this last rep although it will be slower if I reach failure when I've got good form good mind muscle connection looks exactly like the first rep as if I'm filming this for an exercise instructional video and someone look how much he was swaying back and forth and they would call me on that and I would be the shame name of the internet if I had done so. So that's something people can kind of do is go with absolute perfect form as if it were you were showing someone and you wanted to you totally impress them with how perfectly you can execute the exercise and then reach that failure point and then give yourself some and then you can see how much you actually do that. >> You can get sort of a almost a third person perspective by breaking the setup into two ways. But but yeah, there's I the only thing there that you know I I mentioned this before is that depends on the person. Some people you've been training for a long time, Chris. Some people um uh there's something to say for putting forth a really really maximal effort. And I think this is maybe the pendulum is swung. We're getting a little off topic here now, but the pendulum has swung or at times it has recently towards reps and reserve and perfect execution and finding these, you know, perfect exercises to target a muscle. And there's something to say, I think, for just training an allout effort. Not that you want to get start doing squats where you're just doing basically good mornings and crazy stuff like that, >> but there's something to say for going a little bit into that gray zone where it's like, ah, that was a little bit sloppy. >> Yeah. >> But I pushed myself to failure and I was absolutely sure where that was and I got used to those high-end efforts. That's something that people can learn over time without if as long as they're somewhat reasonable about how sloppy they let things get. So, there's something to say for that. If someone just basically always is perfect with their form, they're not going to have the ability that you do to really really tax that muscle. So there's something to learn from just and that that comes from just doing compound exercises, bend over rows, like the heavy basic stuff that the old school guys say you need to do these because it teaches allout effort. There was last comment on this, there was this old school idea um and this has since been sort of um it's a whole other topic about uh whether increasing hormonal increases during exercise turn on hypertrophy thereafter. Steu Phillips and those guys have looked into this, but there was this idea that if you squatted, then your squat would bring everything else up, right? And maybe that that's because you elevate your testosterone. There's some evidence showing testosterone levels can rise over the course of months and years of training. But, um, I think something about doing those really hard exercises and really exerting yourself then carries over. So that you know if you're used to really doing a bent over row with a barbell and going to just crazy feel and it's like and you're literally in that spot where the barbell is not moving and you're you're holding it. You're not cheating. You're struggling struggling. If the muscle were in isolation, that's what you would see. It would contract contract contract contract. And if the electrical stimulation stayed on, it would hold there until eventually it would very very very slowly start to move back down. That's not what happens when people pull like, "Oh, I'm done." And they just put it down. >> Yeah. >> Struggle through sets like that and then you go and do a an iso bicep concentration curl. You can blast your bicep because it's so much easier neurologically. So yeah, I agree with you. Keeping form the same that you have to do that if you're log booking, which was my question, passing it back to you. Were you using the log book to guide your autoregulation of your training um with fortitude training during the prep? >> Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. Uh again, for my loading sets and my muscle rounds or any sort of rest pause, I was very very focused on the log book. For the pump stuff was the only stuff where I didn't really care too much. U and I still would log it, but again, week to week the exercises changed or the sequence changed, so I wasn't putting a lot of stock in those numbers. Um there's one other thing I want to say. Oh, and then yeah, besides even just training to like, you know, quote unquote concentric failure, I oftent time that's the only time I do like length and partials, right? So like I might reach full ROM failure and then I might get 75% of the concentric and then 50% of the concentric and then 25% of the concentric and then 10% and then I call it. So I do that a lot with like presses or pulls and in certain movements where it's safe to do so. Um, >> so yeah, that's that's just generally how I how I've been training. Um, >> did you the log book the weights in the log book stay stable throughout the >> Oh, sure. Um, so I did lose some strength on certain presses. Um, unfortunately, um, all of my pulls I was able to maintain very very well. >> Um, but yeah, like my my shoulder press went down, my decline barbell went down. Um, again, not too too drastically. And when I consider the 22ish pounds of total body mass that I've lost from a relative standpoint, it's probably the sameish. >> Um, I think one of the biggest reasons why I lose pressing strength is my range of motion increases as I get smaller, as my body mass goes down. So, like >> Yeah. >> Yeah. It's like I'm literally moving through more range because I'm smaller from front to back now and my leverages start to change. So, I think that's a pretty important component to it. Um, it is psychologically frustrating when >> you see like, hey, I used to do this load for 10 reps and now I'm like lucky if I get it for six. Um, so yeah, sometimes that can be psychologically difficult, but >> I also like never stress about like, oh, I'm losing muscle. I think right now my physique has a little bit less pop because I had two backtoback peak weeks where the training intensity was lower for a lot of those sessions. And again, I don't like worry about it. Like maybe if I were to do a DEXA or an InBbody, it might have said, "Oh, your lean body mass is slightly lower now than it was 2 weeks ago." But I'm also very confident that like after one to two weeks of normal training at normal intensities and and the heavy loads again, boom, I'm right back to it. So I don't let that stress me out too much. But the I think this was the first time I ever had backto-back peak weeks and it was a lot to manage and a lot going on psychologically, but um we live and we learn and I'm I'm grateful for the experience >> and and the travel too. So outline for us cuz you were you weren't just like in your backyard. These weren't like two shows in Tampa. This was these were you were moving around a little bit. What how did it all how it all come together? >> Oh man. So the first trip was to the UK. So, I live in Tampa, Florida. I had to drive, my family drove me to Orlando because better flights going international from Orlando. Went from Orlando to the UK. And I left Orlando Thursday the 11th, September 11th. And I got to the UK Friday morning at like 9:00 a.m. like their time. >> Heathro or where did you >> uh Gatwick, I think. >> Okay. >> Yeah. So, long story short, I probably slept three and a half, four hours on the plane at most. Like kind of like dozing in and out. Get there, it's 9:00 a.m. Boom. Like, you got to start the day. So, you'll get a kick out of this, Scott. This was day one of my car load. So, actually, sorry, day two of my car load. I carve loaded on Thursday as well and and Friday, and then I was supposed to pull back and flat load on Saturday, but that did not happen. And you'll >> for a Sunday show. >> Yeah, for a Sunday show. >> Okay. Okay. So day one in the UK, I get 18,000 steps with a 35 lb backpack and I ate 650 carbs or so and I just burned through all of it. >> So like my scale weight went up by 0.2 lbs. It was probably zero due to like glycogen and it was probably all just like stress, inflammation, and water. >> So I woke up super flat one day out Saturday and I was like, "All right, god. I just need like another 700 plus carbs today, right? So, um I expect I wasn't even going to do the UK show. I was going to just coach two clients there because I knew it would be so difficult for me to peak with the travel. Long story short, I'm so glad I did it because I ended up peing way better for the UK show than the Dubai show. I completely dropped the ball in the Dubai show. We could potentially talk about that, but um yeah, I I got in on Friday. I had to carload very very aggressively on Saturday and I ended up competing on Sunday. And interestingly, uh, prejudging, like they just run it straight through. So, I was on stage at 6:45 p.m. >> I did not have to step on stage at all in the morning. So, >> huh, >> that was a different thing for me to potentially manage, too, because >> usually first thing in the morning, I wake up a bit crisper and sharper. >> And yeah, I might be a touch flatter, but I like the crispiness and the drier kind of look. Um, >> so that was a new kind of thing, like, all right, well, I'm competing close to 700 p.m., so what am I going to do during the day? But, uh, it went really, really well. I'm super proud of my performance in the UK and I am truly embarrassed about my performance in Dubai. Like I don't want to look at photos. I don't want to >> ah >> yeah it was rough but uh I can chat about that. >> Yeah. If if if it won't be traumatizing. >> Yeah. >> Can you like can you Yeah. What happened or what was the >> So the UK went so well. Um I I guess there's not much more to say. All I'll say was it was an open bodybuilding class. So, >> there was no weight caps. Like, there's no weight classes. So, that's why I'm so proud of my performance because, you know, some of the people that that beat me have like 17 lbs on me, 20 plus pounds on me, 30 lbs on me. Um, and I just looking at photos and videos, like I truly feel like, all right, I finally feel like I belong in like the WNBF Pro League. Like, it feels good. >> Feels really good. And then the whole reason why I did the Dubai show was because I knew that they would have weight classes. They would have a lightweight and weight. >> And I was like, I'm going to be super competitive as a lightweight. Like, I'm going to I'm going to hit this out of the park and uh everything was perfectly on pace to do so. Um I got to Dubai on Tuesday morning. Um again, minimal sleep. I genuinely slept 3 and 1 half to four hours every single night for like 9 to 11 consecutive days. So, obviously, that's not great for our physiques. >> Yeah. So that was very problematic just between the time zone changes um trust stuff going on. Um one thing that happened so I was Scott I was peing perfectly. I depleted hard actually for 4 days. I got significantly leaner >> from the UK to the UAE. >> Okay. >> Like I could just feel it. I could see it. Everything was on point to be way better. Um, and then I'm two days out and I'm FaceTiming with my wife and she's pregnant right now and she goes to the restroom while she's on the phone with me and she tells me that she sees blood while she's on the phone. >> So then my parents have to pick her up. They rush her to the hospital on the other side of the world. I'm like, and and Scott McN, I don't know if you noticed, but my wife and I have had three miscarriages, and we we have one healthy boy now, but >> yeah, >> super like >> helpless, dude. There's nothing you can do, right? >> Nothing I could do. I'm like, all right, I'm looking at flights from Dubai to get back home. Like, just god forbid. Like, I don't know what's going on. So, all that's going down. Fortunately, like my wife's okay, baby is okay. She >> Oh, good, dude. Yeah, she had like a little bacterial infection and she was dehydrated and and stuff like that. She was having like legitimate contractions in the hospital. I'm on FaceTime with her. I'm looking at the monitor. I'm like, "Fuck, we're going into pre-term labor. I'm in [\h__\h] Dubai. Like, this is like the worst thing ever." >> Um, so all that was going down and then I'm still car bloating, car bloating, car bloating. Once she gets discharged from the hospital, I feel way better about things. Um, and yeah, literally Scott, so show day morning on Sunday, I woke up very very full and I never wake up full, but I I filled and spilled the night before. >> Uh, okay. >> It was like everything I kind of wanted. And then I I genuinely just had a lapse of judgment. Even though I was full, I didn't >> feel or see that I was like a little bit watery. Like I didn't see that spilt look yet. >> Yeah. And rather than pulling back on the carbs, I just ate a very typical breakfast and I ate a very typical lunch that they both had like 70 to 80 grams of carbs each meal. >> Uhhuh. >> And I was so cool, calm, and confident that I wasn't regularly assessing my physique. Like I took my foot off the gas. I was like kind of like psychologically not stressed and I was just like, I'm in a great spot. Like I'm just gonna I'm just going to do this. And then I started getting sensations while I was driving to the venue where the skin in my back started hurting in the sense of like you know when you get so so full that like the skin got really really tight. >> Yeah. >> I felt it across my midback. >> But like now looking back the the the feeling I had I now know that that was the spill. Like that was water. >> Oh yeah. >> That was just like an additional layer. And uh I completely missed my peak for it. Um the expediting was bad too. Like they said I would be on stage at 7:45 and then when I got to the venue they said it would be 6:45. So the meal I consumed at 5:15. I went from a parasympathetic state to like a very aroused sympathetic state cuz they're like you got to get tan. You got to start pumping. >> And the food just sat in my upper left quadrant of my stomach and it did not move. And then they were like, "Oh, no. You're going to be on stage 15 more minutes from now." So then I would stop pumping up. I would lay down. I would try to do some deep breathing to get the food to digest. And they'd be like, "All right, you're going to be on stage 15 minutes from now." So I'd get back up. I'd start pumping up. Long story short, they were off by an hour and 20 minutes. Uh 1 hour and 20 minutes from like predicted stage time. Oh, >> and this is the original time, but later >> and this is already an evening show, which you already said like this is not the normal territory for you, right? So, >> so I will say like the peak I I messed it up on my own. I was I think I was just too surprisingly I'm never confident. I I I did feel confident going into this one and I was just like very chill. I wasn't overanalyzing my physique, >> but I simply wasn't analyzing my physique enough >> or like objectively enough. So, like I would check myself out in the mirror, but like this is a note I made for myself moving forward is I'll always take photos moving forward and just compare a photo >> cuz when you look at yourself in the mirror like >> you're not going to remember exactly what you looked like 90 minutes before or three hours before. So, keeping photo like moving forward, it's just going to be the same way I do with my clients. Hey, send me photos. I'll compare the photos and then I'll know what what my move is going to be. >> But, it's really frustrating because I've had clients spilt over the morning of the show and then made all the right calls the day of the show and then they stepped on stage full, dry, hard, like the whole nine. So, I feel like I could have nailed it >> and I just simply did it. So I I shared that publicly like I feel like I had a wide openen three-point shot for the game winner and I just [\h__\h] air air this [\h__\h] >> Yeah. >> So you filled and spilled the night before and and you there was no you figured the water would just come off that night. >> I know. I figured the water would come off throughout the day >> and the day too 6:00 p.m. >> Um those regular meals. Sorry, I'm going to I'm going into my analyst. I'm just I'm really interested to see >> you said you had reg your regular meals. Were those meals that you got there or that you brought with you? Cuz >> obviously there can be variability in terms of the salt and the the foods themselves could be very different than what your regular would be. >> Yeah, I cooked everything myself. Like obvious shopping there, but like for example, meal one that day was uh boiled potatoes and hard-boiled eggs. Um, and actually like one Peter, one Peter bread. >> Um, meal two was rice with salmon and asparagus. >> And then >> I shouldn't have done meal three at all. >> Uh, I I mean, I shouldn't have done any of those meals. It literally should have just been hard-boiled eggs and some ground beef and a little bit of asparagus or it should have just been proteins and fats that day. >> Keep it light. Keep drying out. But hey, listen. I mean, I I think that those are the things we learn the most from like you will never forget this. You know, it's etched in your brain and unfortunately not a great way, right? But yeah, it's you're going to take that and you'll never do it again. >> I'll never do it again, man. I'll never do it again. Like I took fifth in the UK and I was thrilled with that >> and I took >> You guys looked incredible, too, dude. Everybody in that show, man, looked freaking peeled, dude. >> Thanks, man. Well, the the UK also does an amazing job with the stage lighting and production. So, it's very very rare that you get a pro- natural show that has lighting, photo, and video that is similar enough to something like an Arnold Classic or a Tampa Pro or like you usually just don't get good stage photos and video. Whereas for that show, like the photos and videos look great and and as they should, like you're supposed to be highlighting an athletes physique at the largest extent and and they did a beautiful job with that. So, I'm just grateful to have those those memories made and yeah, it was cool that it was an open class and I just feel like and that wasn't me at my best at all. like I still had good amount of fat to lose on my glutes and my hams and I know I'm going to be better and now I just have one more show left this year and it's a little unfortunate. It's not with the WNBF because of travel purposes. It's just a local NPC show that I'm really excited for um just to bring my own personal best, but it's not something I care about from the competitive standpoint where it's like whatever happens happens. But um yeah, it's just tough, man. I I wish I could do another WNBF show this year at my best, like fully fully shredded. But um this was potentially going to be my last season. Now it's definitely not because I'm like motivated. I have a little bit more self-belief for sure. Scott kind of knows. >> I struggle with that, man. I'll be honest. Like I struggle with self-belief a lot of times. And um >> you're kidding me, man. I mean, just let me share from my perspective, and this is not to blow smoke. I see you as just an incredibly intelligent person in, you know, the the the bodybuilding and fitness space. I see you as somebody who gets absolutely freaking peeled. I've watched you do this now for close to a maybe not a decade, but closer to a decade than to five years now, >> you know. Um, so yeah, you you need to fix that. You need to change that, man. >> Yeah. Yeah. I appreciate it. And again, I think that UK show was a a good step in the right direction. Um, but yeah, I love I love this game. I love this sport. I love both the natural and the enhanced side. I I follow the IFBB pretty closely. Um, I have a lot of great great friends on the enhanced side of bodybuilding and I love it, man. So, I'm grateful for it. I think it's uh one of the best like character building disciplines we can practice and uh yeah, I'm grateful for the both of you guys. So, I appreciate that. It was a good experience. >> I'll definitely never I'll never mess up like that again. So, we'll see. >> Well, I know we got to get out of here. Chris, you've gotten a appointment to get to with the wife this morning. Man, I appreciate you taking the time to hang out with us here. This was absolutely freaking incredible and I I'm excited to have gotten you two together. This is like nuclear fision basically getting the team together. Is is there anything that you're working on um that we should be looking out for? Anything you want to tell us about? >> Yeah, there's uh a few potential things. I mean, there's like research projects that are happening in the background. Uh Scott and I are on one of those at the moment, right, with the ISSN Scott. Yeah. So, like definitely cool research papers and stuff coming out. But, um, I might be doing a in-person seminar in Tampa, Florida here with one of my mentors, uh, Dr. Eduardo Desa. So, that might be coming uh, like our spring break. So, I think it's March of 2026. >> Okay. >> Stay tuned for that. There will be like 24 tickets available or seats because we're going to just fill up one classroom and it'll be like lecture-based and lab-based. So we're thinking to uh you know show people all right how are these assessments actually done in the research studies? How do you measure things like muscle thickness in the lab using the ultrasound? We'll do body composition assessments on all the the students that come in and everybody who wants to participate. Um and then I'll be lecturing primarily on like contest preparation stuff, training variables for contest prep and nutrition variables for contest prep. And then Dr. Edardo Doozo would be presenting on things related to um hypertrophy science, right? How do we measure things in the lab? What do we do in the research? And then what are some like practical takeaways that we have um from all the research that we've done over the years. So that would be cool. And then uh yeah, there may be more things in regards to online projects. Um Scott and I might do something down the road. Fingers crossed. We've spoke about something a long long time ago and >> it got put on pause. So, I won't I won't dive further into that now, but uh yeah, just stay tuned. I really really appreciate both of you having me on. Um I got the opportunity I'm so grateful for Dr. Scott Stevenson. We chat, you know, pretty regularly. I consider him a great friend and um the my ability to hop on a call with him about like personal life or bodybuilding stuff. I greatly appreciate it. So, thank you so much, guys. Scott, I look forward to chatting with you and connecting with you more frequently. like you said, it's been years. Um, so thank you for reaching out and getting me on and yeah, it was an awesome chat, a good start to my Thursday morning. I hope it was a good chat to to your Thursday morning and and thank you for moving the time around, too, to make it work. >> Oh, absolutely. Thank you guys, everybody, for tuning in. Follow Chris. I'll have everything below in the description. Of course, like, share, subscribe, comment, ring the bell, all of that jazz. We appreciate everybody tuning in. Check out uh Scott's book, uh, Fortitude Training. All right. 42traing.net. Muscle M is another episode of Muscle Minds. We'll see you soon. >> We got to get Chris out of here. See you guys. >> Hold on. >> He was He was He was lying. >> Oh, he was getting the book. >> 955. Oh, okay. I thought he's like, I'm gone. 955. I'm out of here. >> Getting the book, I think. Yeah. Yeah. I was thinking, too. >> Go get the There it is. Go to bybcoach.com, guys, for another episode of Muscle Minds. We'll see you soon.