 an starters, urdex, urdex, urdex, urdex, urdex, urdex, urdex, urdex, urdex, urdex, urdex, urdex, urdex, urdex, urdex, urdex, urdex, urdex, urdex, urdex, urdex, urdex, urdex, urdex, urdex, urdex, urdex, urdex, urdex, urdex, urdex, urdex, urdex, urdex, urdex, urdex, urdex, urdex, urdex, urdex, urdex, urdex, urdex, urdex, urdex, urdex, urdex, urdex, urdex, urdex, urdex, urdex, urdex, urdex, urde If you're on cycle, you should definitely check out their health stacks. We're brought to you by TrueNutrition.com. Use our code THINK for additional savings and get some good, high-quality protein powders, creatine, everything else you can think of that you need, all your basic stuff. And, of course, SupplementSource.ca for Canadians. Great deals that change week to week. Dave, we've got a topic proposed by one of our listeners. What are the best anabolics? We'll say, what's the best gear that you can get via prescription? And that's probably going to be different for you than it is for me, isn't it? Well, basically, over here, you're only looking at, really, testosterone. The only other anabolic that's, I wouldn't say commonly, but is also prescribed, is oxymethalon. Oh, you guys get oxys over there. We get oxys for anemia, yeah. You also, you have, and I know it's not, like, big growth factor, Proviron is available there, too, isn't it? Mm-hmm. We don't have that. Yeah. That's strange. I find that weird. Yeah. I don't think it was ever a prescription medication here. What is it Proviron prescribed for in the UK? It's usually around TRT and fertility. Fertility? Or, like, because I, okay, I'd heard of it as being, like, an ED med. Yeah, so that, sorry, falls under the sort of fertility bracket, in a sense. I gotcha. Increasing free testosterone levels, so, therefore, aiding in erectile function. And testosterone-stimulated sperm. Hey, good news. So, increasing ICT. Good news, all your gear is pretty much legal to own, not legal to sell, but legal to own. So, you guys kind of get a pass on everything. Here in the U.S., not so much. But, man, with these clinics nowadays, and really it's the compounding pharmacies that are really bringing this stuff in. I'm trying to think, man. I feel like, of course, test. We have test, right? We have DECA, right? Another common one. And from there, we don't have TRN, no TRN. So, test, DECA, no Equipoise. Obviously not. Well, we should, you know. No, you have Finager. We don't have that. You have TRN tablets, TRN for cow. We're talking about for prescription use. So, you find a farmer who has cows and you use his prescription for Finaget. And then you make up your TRN. Yeah, no, we don't do that, Dave. We don't do that anymore. We're talking about what can you go to your doctor and get a prescription for. Doc, I need you to write me a script for Winstrel, which is another one that, man. In some places, I see it's not available. Yeah, but a vet's a sort of doctor. Yeah. I mean, if you talk to a veterinarian and you said they weren't a doctor, if you were like, you're not a doctor, I think that would kind of be offensive. Do you know what I mean? Because it does take a lot of work to become a veterinarian. It's a animal doctor. Yeah. So, what do we got on our list then? Test, DECA, EQ, Master of... EQ! EQ! Oh, excuse me, not EQ. I meant to say Winstrel. Right. Anivar? Anivar. So, Anivar was supposed to be taken off the list. Oh, right, okay. I still see people getting scripts for it, so I don't know, man. But we'll put Anivar in there. I think that's fine. So, Masteron isn't? No, no mast. All right, so I just wondered if there had been a carryover from the early breast cancer treatment days that Masteron was still... It may not be readily done, but it was actually still potentially there. Yeah, not available. You know, nor is Primo. I don't think Primo's available. I've never seen anybody with a Primo prescription, so I'll say that. I mean, we're not really talking about a lot of compounds then, are we? I mean... I was wondering, though, it is... Now, because I think there's a potential of two things here. What's that? So, one is what you can actually get as a prescribed med, and one is what a doctor technically could still prescribe. Okay. And I'm wondering if there's... Like, Masteron's the one that's popped to mind, because Masteron was prescribed for females for breast cancer treatment. I'm wondering if it still sits in treatment that it is allowed, just they don't do it because you have tomoxablan now. Yeah, I'm not sure. I thought I saw it being on a list that said discontinued. So, I guess the question the guy was probably trying to get at was, like, okay, how can I get jacked on just things that I can get a prescription for? Do you think it was, how can I get jacked on my insurance? I like that idea. I don't know if they're going to write you at high doses, you know? You're not getting, like... I think that's the problem, isn't it? If you are going through a medical process, even with the compounding pharmacies where they interpret the rules rather loosely, there's always going to be that limitation on dose because of the fact that it is a medication. So, as a result of dosing, it's always going to be very much on the low end. You could potentially stockpile, but, I mean, if you're only getting prescribed 10 milligrams of anivar a day, that's a lot of stockpiling. Yeah. You know, so there is... So, the compounding pharmacies are usually working with the TRT clinics. The TRT clinics are usually out of pocket. So, you know, there is some, I'm sure, that work with insurance, but the majority of them, it's out of pocket. And so they have the freedom to write the dosing that they want, you know? Yeah, but surely there's some legislational control about limitations on dosing. I mean, I've seen guys get prescriptions of 300 tests, no problem, you know? So, I mean, I know that's not crazy talk. We're not talking to Graham. I've never seen a Graham prescribed, but I have seen 300 plus, you know, DECA on top of that, too. Yeah, which is cyclic, really, in its totality, isn't it? Yeah. The funny thing is, over here, you can get prescriptions for 100 milligrams of Oxy a day. Wow. Huh. How do you go about doing that? What do you need to... First, you need anemia. Okay. Okay. And it needs to be, like, anemia, anemia, not, you know, iron deficiency or B deficiency. It needs to be actual genetic anemia. Cut off steak, guys. Yeah, I know a guy that was on 100 milligram of Oxy for his anemia. Do you guys have any doctors over there that kind of bend the rules for people? Because it seems like across the board, they're pretty strict. Yeah, so TRT's a big boom industry over there, the same as it is in the state. It hasn't gone as far as you guys have. It's like, you know, GH prescriptions are very unheard of. Okay. The highest I've seen prescribed is 200 mg. Oh, okay. Now, what I've seen generally with the prescribing TRT clinics is not so much that they're abusive on the dosing. Most of them are quite reasonable there. That they are liberal on the qualification. Oh, okay. Okay. I mean, I know one TRT clinic has actually altered the ranges on their results. Mm-hmm. So that the medical low-end TRT, and I'm not saying that, you know, you're not going to get symptoms before this because you are, but the medical low-end range is 6.9. What this TRT clinic has done is made the medical low-end 12 on their results. Wow. So now there is without doubt argument and strong medical argument that if you've got a test level 11 or 12, you're going to benefit from TRT. Huh, okay. Even the NHS, when you get into the proper endocrinology departments in King's College and stuff like that, will say that even 15 and more would be considered as viable for TRT if the individual was symptomatic. Huh. So it's not pushing the scope from a, you know, clinical point of view. Yeah. But obviously it's incredibly misleading to the customer because if you've got a customer that isn't particularly symptomatic and they've only just looked at it, they're going to be under the impression, well, I need TRT if I'm below 12. Yeah. Now, they're non-symptomatic. You could argue, do you want to commit this? But I know anyone listening to this is most likely going to go, of course I want to go on gear. Of course. And I get that. But there are people out there that actually don't. And they'd rather avoid it. And if they're non-symptomatic, they would rather go, you know what, if I'm not suffering from it, I'll leave it alone. That seems very alien to us and seems very strange, but those people do actually exist. Yeah. So with the topic, though, the topic here at hand is cycle. We're putting together how can I grow off of only compounds. And here's my thought. I bet you that another potential perspective is, hey, I just don't want to break the law. You know, I want to know that all my stuff is legit. Maybe the guy travels a lot. He's like, I got to take this stuff on airplanes with me. I'm not bringing with me underground trend with a kangaroo on the label. You know what I mean? We don't really do kangaroos anymore. We don't have a lot of vet gear. That was 20 years ago. But you get the point, man. You used to have a kangaroo on your labels. Yeah, we had kangaroos and bulls and everything else. Yeah. And there was a lot of vet gear coming in from Mexico. I will have to dig out my show and tell box one day and go through all the old gear I've got in there. Oh, that would be fun, man. Yeah. It would be good. Remind me. We'll do it next week. We'll call it like show and tell with Dave. Yeah. Well, test, obviously, because it's really the only compound you can get in any decent quantity. Yeah. And even if you are prescribed on a lower end, it's easier to stockpile to a dose which would have some positive impact. Yeah. I think orals tend to be a little bit not really worth the hassle. I mean, I'm not saying they're not going to add something, but what's a common prescription? I would have thought, really, with Anovar, you're going to struggle to get over 10 or 15 milligram a day. So I worked with a guy that had a prescription that was each capsule compounded was 25 Anovar, 25 Winstrel, each cap. And he was like, hey, I got these. They're prescriptions. They're going to be real good. Can I use these for my prep? And I dieted the guy down and we used them. And normally I wouldn't be like, hey, you know, for the last six weeks, let's use a combo of these two things. I'd pick one. And usually I'd pick Winstrel if given the choice, because I do feel we get a harder, drier look for the stage with Winstrel. But yeah, we combined it and did 25, 25 each. And it was golden, man. It was good. Yeah. I mean, if you're getting it at that sort of doses, then all of a sudden it does become a viable addition. I thought we'd be stuck at around 10 with prescriptions. So if you'll get prescriptions for 50 mg, then yeah, that's what's happening. Crack on? Would you say crack on? Crack on. Definitely crack on. Thank you. All right. So what sort of doses have you seen Decorat? And this has got me really curious now. 200 to 300. Usually like that 200 on average, I think I've seen 250, you know? So you could quite literally build with the right, you could quite literally build a 300-300 split with A-50 mg oral cycle, which is decent. Yeah. Yeah. Or you could save the Anivar slash Winstrel for the contest season or, you know, the diet phase. You know, start out with your test in DECA, 12 weeks, whatever doses you're going to run. We'll even say, I mean, gosh, if you're a TRT guy, like you do nothing, and then you take your test to 300, that in itself is going to give you a boost. Add in 200 DECA per week, do that for 12 weeks. You are going to grow better than you would have on 150 tests alone, right? And if you've never cycled, like, you could make some gains on that. But ultimately, I think you and I both agree we'd probably go a little higher than that if given the choice. Yeah, but I'm still quite shocked at those dosages that are available or private scripts. I mean, have you actually seen anyone with that combination? I've seen 200 DECA and I've seen 300 tests. Together. I don't know if I've seen it together, but I have seen, I could, you know, I don't, like, keep track, but I'd say I've seen 250 tests with 200 DECA, not a problem. In fact, guys, I would love to hear you comment. You know, what's been, sometimes we have guys that don't even take it, but they're like, hey, I went to a clinic and they offered something to me, you know? Sometimes they're like, hey, I'll just take my prescription test and then I'll add whatever I want from my source, you know? Yeah, it's, well, I'm surprised. I'm surprised that you're looking at a total dosing of 500 milligram a week from a prescription. Yeah, yeah. I mean, I'm sure that that's not super common, but our listeners can tell us, you know? And I guess, does that cover it then, man? I mean, we didn't mention what would you do with growth hormone, but hey, if you've got a script for growth, then that's technically available through prescription as well. Yes, it is. Yeah, I mean, you know, low dose. insulin? Every evening. Now, you're not going to get an insulin script, though, without actually diabetes, are you? Come on. Yeah. Don't tell me you could plug that as well. Yeah, you're probably right about that. We do get T4 and T3. Hang on, though. Can't you buy insulin from Walmart? Yeah, so Novalin R or Humulin R, they're over the counter, regular. The R stands for regular. It's a regular speed insulin. And they do that so that if there was a diabetic emergency, you have access to insulin. Now, that said, I have seen people turned away. I'd say it's not a good idea to go in there in your stringer tank top right after you've got a pump and then tell them that you need a bunch of syringes and insulin. You know what I mean? Go in in a fat suit and tell them you're diabetic. Yeah, can I get the insulin? Give you all you need then. Yeah. But yeah, to get the long-acting Lantist or to get the fast-acting Fiasp or Humalog, you have to have a script for those things in the U.S. All right. But T3, T4, those are available. You can get those all day. And I'm seeing them pretty quick to write scripts for T4 and T3 as well. You know, they just, Dave, what they want to do is they take everything and just like optimize you. So your test levels are redlined. Your T3, T4 are boosted up. They'll get you on the growth hormone if that's, you know, something you can afford. And they'll give you an AI too. They'll give you a Remadex usually. You know what? It's actually quite amazing how much abuse a human body can withstand. Oh, yeah. When you look at what the optimal is for someone from a health point of view with diet and exercise and everything else, and then you look at how far we can go away from that and still actually survive quite well. Yeah. I mean, it's incredible how tolerant our bodies are. Oh, also metformin available and all the, you know, the now trisapatide and semaglutide. Retrutide has, yeah. You say retrutide is not past clinical trial yet, has it? But it's getting there. Yeah. It does look impressive though. And it does look to, I think it's about 15, 10, 15% more effective than the other two. Yeah. Yeah. I'm a big fan. I'm using it myself. I got on it back in a couple months ago now. I've been doing really well with low, low dose too. And I don't believe it's as bad for the sides, is it? Is there the same pancreatic concern with Retta as there is with Semma? So as far as that, like the appetite thing to start, um, raditrutide out of the three of them seems to have the least blunting effect, though it still does take the edge off even at a low dose. I'm sure the higher you go that the research is being done on a study with four milligrams, eight milligrams. And 12. Yeah. And most of the people I've been working with, we haven't been using more than two per week. I'm using two milligrams every eight days. So for every four days, excuse me, one every four day. Um, and I could definitely tell a difference. Uh, it doesn't have that control though. Like Semaglutide is still the strongest for appetite control and it still has the smallest window for side effects, you know, versus cause you look at it, man, it's like two and a half milligrams or so is the top end dose versus 12. You have a lot more room to play with Retta. I thought that, uh, Retta was milligram for milligram, the lowest side effects. Yeah. Yeah. I, I would think so. Yeah. And, but, uh, I, I actually wasn't aware that Semaglutide has stronger appetite for action than that. Oh yeah. Much more so. In fact, you can, if you take too much out the gate, man. I ain't drug, don't it? You what? Retta just seems to be the more refined drug at the end of the day, which I suppose in a way it is cause it's, it's almost like stage three, isn't it? I mean, you had Semaglutide, which was a GLP one. Then you had, uh, Monjaro or Tezipapide, which was GLP one GIP. And then you have Retta, which is GLP one GIP and glucagon. Yes. And I have noticed that my blood sugar does stay pretty balanced. Even when I am in a position where I'd feel like it'd probably be getting pretty low otherwise. So yeah, I'm happy with it. I'm happy with it. I know there was actually, there was some clinical significance with Semaglutide around pancreatitis, but it was owned. I think it was only about one or 2%. And obviously there's, there's a lot coming out now about people having problems with the drug, but the other issue is that, yeah, but how much were they taking? You know, were they within prescription guidelines or were they just hammering the shit out of it? And, and I think that's where it gets very, very muddy on, on these drugs is, you know, are they as risky, particularly Semaglutide because that's the one that's had the most popular widespread use. Yeah. Um, you know, is the risk there or is this more of an abuse issue rather than an actual compound issue? And I think too, one thing we have to consider in, this is kind of a, a note to, to any of our listeners that may not have been in the best shape before they started bodybuilding. Um, look at the population of people. Like, of course it's widespread use of Semaglutide, but there are a lot of people who already were like dealing with some, a lot of comorbidities, you know what I mean? Like a lot of health issues, maybe already somewhat diabetic, maybe already holding a lot of body fat longterm. You know what I'm saying? Who are the people? They aren't like the guys and gals that are eating a clean diet and going for walks every day and getting a lot of fresh air, you know? Yeah, there is that. But the other problem as well is that with that user group, so this is, I don't mean this to sound nastily, but they are generally uneducated around diet and healthy options. So what happens is they do reduce their intake, but they still reduce their intake of crap food. Yeah. So now the body's got even less nutrition to deal with and what nutrition it is getting is pretty garbage, where at least within this community, for the most part, the intake's healthy, even if it is reduced. Yeah. So I think we went sideways. Does that wrap us up? I mean, what was our final say on our prescription only cycle? Whoever's getting the test at 300 and the deck at 200, share your doctor's details, please. Everybody needs to know this. Yes. Yeah. We'll do that. We all know that creatine is great for muscle building, but were you aware of its benefits for brain health? Uh, I think it's pronounced creatine. No, it's definitely pronounced creatine. No, it's definitely creatine. I'm positive of it. That's pretty much what I said. Creatine. Creatine. Well, regardless of what you want to call it, creatine plays an important role in brain health. Research demonstrates that your brain needs a significant amount of ATP to perform difficult tasks. Supplementing with creatine will improve phosphocreatine stores, helping your brain produce more ATP. So if you're not on creatine now, give it a try. Check out truenutrition.com. Use our code think over there. They've got all your basic health supplements like creatine, protein powder, everything else you can think of. Use our code think to help support our programming, get some additional savings and get a great supplement. Yeah. Yeah. It's definitely creatine. Um, and we do have a bunch of listener questions and we, it looks like we might have some questions in the feed too. Um, oh wow. Okay. So Zionic says that, uh, Strom still needs to add support max neuro PM to the U S site. So that might be an FDA issue. Oh yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I know it's a long, long time since I had this discussion with Rick about the States and certain compounds, but there were issues that some of the ingredients that were available in the UK weren't passed in the U S. Okay. I mean, the irony is this stuff in the other way, like you guys can get GABA week out, you know, it's, it's stuff like that. So yeah, it works both ways, but yeah. So it may be a case that things have to be slightly reformulated to satisfy the FDA. All right. Well, listen, let's run through a bunch of listener questions and, uh, we're behind because we, we had a good show come out and then we, we didn't record for a week. Uh, you had something going on. I had something going on and now we're back. So let's try to. I actually didn't. I didn't. I got it wrong. Oh no. What happened? So it was actually supposed to be yesterday. Oh, you're kidding me. But we got canceled for red tape anyway. So it never happened at all. Yeah. They, they were, I get it with, with charities and stuff that they have to be super careful of association and things like that. And they saw the podcast, didn't they? No, but the only recognized testing arm that they have any association with, is the NHS. Oh, okay. So they were like, you know, we're not so keen and we don't want to do any exposure and we can't be linked to the company. And so Jamie just turned around and said, look, I'm not dragging them down here to do free testing all day. Yeah. Off their own backs. If they're not getting some exposure off the back of it, because that's unfair. Yeah. Yeah. Which I, to be honest, I told Jamie I wasn't bothered about, but he was very insistent. Um, and then, uh, I believe it absolutely hooned it down for the first half of the day. Yes. Oh, okay. That means rained. I assume. Yes. That's okay. I spoke to him this morning and he was sat in the bath trying to free up his back. Oh, I bet, man. All right. Uh, you guys are welcome to leave questions for us as always. Plus we love hearing from you. We love hearing what you think about the show, what you have to add. What did we get wrong? You guys like to tell us what we did wrong all the time, which is great too. You know, we're all still learning. Question here about transdermal application. I'm on androgel for TRT, um, dosed at 50 milligrams daily and it is, uh, pharma as it is RX from my doctor. Just curious as to your thoughts. Thanks. Love the show. And Dave's heavy breathing into the mic. Oh, you're never going to live that with that episode. I'm just, I'm related. What can I say? Um, to be honest, if you're looking to replicate the natural flow of testosterone, gel is probably the closest you're going to get to it. Yeah. The issue is that it's not the greatest bioavailability. And a lot of people just cannot get adequate levels out of the gel dosing or to do so, they end up taking so much of the stuff. Yeah. Um, so it will all depend on, on where it's putting you. But if it's putting you in range, to be honest, I don't, I personally would stick with it. Yeah. Because it's going to be the closest to the natural sort of ebb and flow that you're going to get. Obviously, if it's not getting you high enough, you may have to convert to an injectable version. But other than that, there's nothing wrong with it. The only thing is, and I think I've told this story before, um, probably I repeat myself a lot because I'm old. Um, that I'm pissed myself a lot as well. Um, the, the, yeah, um, you've got to be careful. You can pass it on to your loved one. Yeah. And there was a, there was a guy that was slapping Transdermal on because he was trying to use it for an enhancement purpose. And he'd got hold of a load and he was thinking, well, it's farmer. Yeah. Better than buying you gel. And he was calling with his missus and obviously he was going into her skin and she started growing a beard. Ooh. Yeah. That could be a problem. Interesting conversation when they found out. You know what? I've always, not always, uh, but I've wondered this. So one of the benefits of a topical Transdermal is that, um, it tends not to have run the high levels of hematocrit that we see with injectable tests. So man, for guys that are struggling with getting their hematocrit in range, I could almost see going to a topical for their cruise phase, you know, to get your numbers back down. Do you know why it's like that? As far as I know, it's because it doesn't build up. Yeah. It's not, it's not plateau. It's, it's not. So when we inject, we end up with this, this almost plateaued level. Yeah. So it's constantly fairly high. Whereas with the gels you get, you, like I said, you, after application, you get a peak like you would naturally in the morning. Yeah. And then, and then it starts to drop off as the day goes on as you would naturally. Yeah. The only slight difference is naturally we get a resurge in an evening, whereas you wouldn't get that from the gel. But, but yeah, that's, that's why it's because it has this peak and trough action daily rather than this more sustained level that you'll get from injectables. Plus, obviously everybody has this obsession. We keep it and everything stable. Which talking to Adam Lamb, who has a TRT clinic, friend of mine has a TRT clinic down in Texas. He explained to me too, that it fluctuating levels like that are much more of a sign of youthful testosterone levels versus as we age, it does become more of a flat line. So you're mimicking that of youthful man's test, you know? Yeah. Of that, of a lower level as well. Like you said, you know, when you, when you're in your twenties, you'll be peaking in the high twenties in the morning, then dropping off as the day goes on. When you get into your forties and fifties, you're going to be sitting more 14, 15 all day long. You know, it's not going to go up in the morning as strong. Yeah. All right. Question. I was planning on a cycle of 300 tests, 300 DECA. I'm in the process of ADHD diagnosis and hopefully medication. Would it affect dopamine too much or would the meds overpower it? What are your thoughts? Another great show is always love listening to these while working out in doing something, guys. What, what, sorry, what, sorry, what the meds again? So he's getting, so test 300 DECA 300, that's his cycle plan. And he's in the process of being diagnosed with ADHD. So I have seen this as an issue for people. I didn't know it years ago. And we've talked about the interference of dopamine, right, Dave, with DECA? What's the deal with that? So DECA lowers dopamine transport proteins. So the dopamine's there. You just can't get across to the receptor. Yeah. One of the reasons you take P5P is because it increases transport proteins. So you end up with a high level of transport proteins going into the cycle. And then as a result, even though the DECA still lowers it, it still keeps it within a reasonable operating level. Not in everybody, but in a lot of cases. It would depend on the medications that are going to be applied for ADHD because they can vary quite significantly. And they don't always work around the dopamine axis. Some of them will work around serotonin axis and stuff like that as well. Oh, really? Yeah. So it's not something I know enough about to have a comprehensive conversation, unfortunately. I found a lot of people that, from personal experience with clients that have medication with ADHD, that they actually feel better on DECA and test. Really? Yeah. I found the opposite. Not across the board, but I have heard people complain about it. That's how I first learned about this because I didn't know about the whole dopamine thing 10 plus years ago. We had a listener who was a Canadian professional wrestler back in the day. And he was using another medication. I've mentioned it here before. Tanya Miller knew what the name of it was. But the medication wasn't working as well. He needed more while on an NPP cycle. And that's when I first learned about it. And then I've heard about it occasionally since. And I think, do you think maybe that that has something to do with why people sometimes don't feel good on DECA? You know? Without a doubt. There's, it all depends with dopamine and DECA and dopamine and secondary drugs and dopamine. It all depends on where the drugs influence dopamine. Okay. If a drug influences the production of dopamine, then DECA is going to have a negative impact because it doesn't matter if you're making more, it's still not getting carried across. You can have, you know, you can have a thousand people on the side of the road. If you've only got two taxis, you're not getting a thousand people across the street. Yeah. If you can increase the taxis, which is what P5P does, then you have a chance, even with DECA lowering it, of getting more across the street. Or the other thing, which is what CABA does, it puts everybody at the other side of the street. So it basically stimulates the dopamine receptor itself. Okay. So it all depends on what axis the medication is using to increase dopamine. If it's a precursor to the receptor, then DECA is going to have a negative effect, which is why, though people may not have noticed this, if you like a bit of sniff, a Columbia marching powder, and you go on DECA, you will notice that your reaction to your white powder is reduced while you're on DECA. Have you heard people say that? Oh, yeah. And very often, it's just down to, oh, this gear's not very good. Do you know what I mean? As in, the white stuff's not very good. Yeah. And there's been some interesting case studies where they've tracked use and found a, basically a seesaw relationship where someone's using anandrolone, they introduce the white powder, that causes an increase in the white powder because they're not getting a standard response. That then causes an increase in the nandrolone because of the psychological effect from the white powder. And then you end up with this seesaw situation where they keep bouncing off each other and gradually the dose increases over a period of time. Yeah. It sounds like that tracks. It's our average users, you know? Yeah. So it is quite interesting. On this subject, just slightly left, but I'll throw it in there. Methylene blue increases dopamine. Okay. I know it increases serotonin. Yeah. It also has an impact on dopamine as well. Okay. You can't use methylene blue and CABA together. Oh, really? Okay. Because you run the risk of dopamine overload. Huh. Just like you run the risk of serotonin syndrome if using an SSRI. Mm-hmm. Hmm. All right. We've got a bunch more of them. Is EQ as painful as Primo? I told him no, but then he asked, what about it? 500 milligrams per milliliter. Man, that sounds like some strong EQ. If dose genuinely, I would expect that to be a bit nippy. Yeah. I mean, EQ, I think we've talked about this before, the raw material isn't a powder. It's a liquid, right? It is, yes. Hmm. So it would be easier to suspend at a higher dose. Yeah. And there's less likelihood of any requirement from a solvent or any heavy use of a solvent. So there may be some solvent. I'm not that up on solvent ratios for EQ, to be quite honest. Yeah. Okay. I'd just be careful with it. And personally, man, I feel like, I don't know. You're probably taking something else, too. You know? Yeah. So I would assume that you might have like a half a mil in there with a mil a test. Right? You know? I'm very wary as well of anything dosed over 300 milligrams that it actually is 300 milligrams of the compound they say is. Good point. All right. How about this one? A question for the next show. What would be a protocol for someone who used to be on prescription TRT, moved on to self-medicated and is running cycles, now looking to get back onto prescribed TRT? How would you pass the blood tests or pass the blood tests is what he meant to get re-qualified? I think it just... Stop using. Yeah. Yeah. I don't think it's any more complex than that. Stop using. Four weeks down the line. Feel like shit. Do your blood. Submit them to the TRT. Yeah. I wonder if you really were, you know, like, I'm worried, man, I don't want to crash. I guess you could take like a fast acting test, right? Switch to that. And then how long would you need to clear, say, 300 milligrams of test probe? A week and a half. A week and a half. Oh. The thing is, what I've found, and this obviously is not going to be across the board, but in general, what I've found is people can sit at low tests for a week to two weeks before they really start to feel it. Mm-hmm. So I think you'll find that if you time it right, and it might mean that you need a couple of tests because, you know, you don't quite hit it right on the first one, but if you time it right, I mean, you're not looking at super low levels. You're only looking at qualifying levels. So if you time it right, you can probably get the blood work you require. And also, I'd say it's very, you also need to clarify with the provider what their protocol is for testing, i.e., are they going to require a second test? Yeah. Or are they just going to work off one? If you've had TRT in the past, I don't know, depending on where you're at, I feel like a lot of doctors would just be like, okay, yeah, you were in TRT, there's a script. I don't know. Yeah. That's... Yeah. Well, I think you could also go to them and say, look, this was my pre-TRT result. Right. I've been on... I was on TRT for a while. I came off... Basically, I had a bit of a brain fart around it. This is my current level. I want to go back on. But yeah, I mean, just speak to them for them. What are the qualifying requirements? What is the process? Is it just... As long as I provide a test that's low level, are you happy to prescribe? Or are you going to want a secondary test like three, four weeks later to confirm that it's sustained? Yeah. No, I wouldn't want to mess around with all that. You know? Just get down to business. It would just depend on what the clinic's policy is. And I think if he's going to a TRT clinic, they're going to be a little bit more free than if you're going to your family doctor. You know? Well, if there is prescribing 300 megates and 200 megadeca, yeah, I think they are. Exactly. All right. PCT after using 19-nors. I have seen many people claim the metabolites of DECA would suppress you longer term. Would you need to cruise post-19-nor for... Let's see. Could someone either run DECA NPP or TREN if they planned to PCT? I don't feel that there's any long-term suppression beyond the drug's natural clearance rate. I've seen it. I've seen it. Have you? Yeah, this is where I think we disagree because we've talked about it before and we can still be friends. No, we can't. Best friends. We're not friends at the first place. Best friends, guys. I'm Dave's best friend. I'm Dave's only friend, guys. All right? Pudding's my only friend. How's Pudding doing? He's all right. I need to find him an owner, though. Oh. For me, I would question the authenticity of the piece. The thing is, this is where I have a problem with this, is PCTs aren't a guarantee. PCTs don't always work. You have no idea of knowing where your late Excel recovery rate is or how damaged they are, etc., etc. So how do you determine that the Nandrolons have continued to suppress production when you do a PCT post-cycle? Because I've had clients just on test do a PCT. It's not worked. Had to do a second one and they've recovered off the second one. Yeah. I've just personally, and it was in my own experience the first time I saw it, you know, ran a cycle, recovered okay. Ran a cycle, recovered okay. Ran a cycle, recovered okay. Ran a cycle with DECA and really struggled. Same type concept. And then the next time ran a cycle and recovered okay. So that was like my own experience. Yeah, okay. That's a fair assumption based on that evidence, yeah. And I thought I read something in the past, too, about the metabolites still, you know, still being suppressive. I mean, but I don't know. I just say, let me ask you this, in itself, I do feel like 19-nors are like real quick to suppress you in general. You know what I mean? Like shut you down hard while on, which could be part of the reason it's hard to restart. Very high binding affinity. So that's why they are so effective at shutting you down so quickly. They bind with the receptor extremely strongly. So that could be it, too. Maybe I was just shut down harder, you know? Well, I don't think you can shut down harder because you've got an off switch and it's off. Once you're not producing FSH and LH, you're not producing FSH and LH. Yeah, but I think there's a reduction. Let's do a test then. Let's take a guy and just give him, let's just say 25 anivar per day for four weeks. Oh, I think the speed of a recession will be much faster. That's what I, yeah. Yeah, yeah. Sorry. So, yeah, by harder, I was thinking like, you know, you suppress no production or you suppress more than that. Where it's like there is no more than no production. Once you've got no production, you're just not producing. I can agree with that, yeah. But, yeah, it's faster. It's definitely faster. Whereas, particularly with someone who's not very experienced with antibiotics, i.e. hasn't had a lot of exposure, you can see suppression from even a dose of like 400 or 500 MIG take three, four weeks. Yeah. Whereas with something like an androlone, you'll be lucky to survive 10, 15 days before you're suppressed. You know, it will be a lot faster. All right. Let's see what else we have here. Like I said, we have a freaking ton of questions. Let's see. I did an experiment with EQ to see the results as an AI. 2,000 milligrams a test with 350 EQ. My estrogen was 145 p-mol, top end of normal range. So, works well in my case. What was the test? What was the what? Yeah. The testosterone level. Oh, yeah. Well, he said the dose. You caught the dose, right? 2,000 milligrams. So, no disrespect, and he could very well be right, but before making assumptions, let's have a look and see where the testosterone is. And if the level of testosterone matches the dosing of 2,000 milligrams. That's a good point. This is where you've got to be a little bit careful with this stuff. And no disrespect to the person who's meant to comment. It's not meant that way, but there are other variables to be considered before you can. I mean, definitely, EQ would appear to be having some sort of AI effect without doubt. Because even if that test was half dose, you're still going to be looking at a gram. Yeah. But I'd want to know where the test level were, because then that would give me an indication of where the estrogen typically would be. And then based off that, you can have a more conversation about how effective the suppression has been. And I wonder what has his previous cycle experience been like with AIs and conversion? You know, I mean, I know guys that can't handle much test at all before they end up with super high estrogen, and other guys that, like, they hardly need AI no matter what they do, you know? Yeah, I know guys on TRT that have got low estrogen. Yeah. Oh, yeah, for sure, man. You know, it's like, how the fuck are we getting that out? Yeah. Other than bloodletting, is there anything we can do about blood thickening? Cheers. Yes. Don't take anabolics. Hmm. No, that's not the answer anybody wants to hear, Dave. We don't like that. Try again. Try harder, Dave. Uh, natokinase and IP6. Natokinase. How will you dose that? Hmm. Now, I've always run really high doses, but you have run much lower doses. I've run 4,000 FU, which is two caps. Yeah, and I always get mixed up with the FU and the MGs, because mine's all based on MG. Okay. That's two caps for me, generally. I see it in 1,000 to 2,000 milligram caps, and for me, that's two caps, two 2,000 milligram caps. FU is obviously a much more accurate way of dosing it. It's funner to say it to you. I have to admit. Yes, how is your FU, Scott? 4,000 FUs. 4,000 FUs to you, too. Oh, and then you said, so, I'm sorry. IP6. IP6. Okay. And I need to order some more. Two grams on the IP6. Okay. Natokinase. You could go as high as 10 milligrams, but I would probably run it less, having had discussion with you about the dosing around it. Okay. I thought we talked about P5P. I didn't think we talked about nanokinase. No, we did, yeah, because I was on a per kilo rate, and it was quite high compared to what you'd experienced with your clients and dosing. Oh, okay. Yeah, those two are good. And, you know, we did a podcast a while ago. If you, a lot of guys, they take a lot of vitamin C. They think it's just like a completely innocuous substance. You know, they're like, yeah, just, you know, run a bunch of C. So, I've tried to watch, when my blood gets thicker, I try to watch my C intake as it helps you to then better store iron, which in turn triggers marrow to produce more red blood, right? Yeah. There is that secondary action there as well. The other thing is cardio. Yeah. When people don't actually sort of cotton on, cardio lowers hemoglobin. It's a problem with endurance runners because they tend to be anemic. Yeah. So, that was the other part of it that Dante had suggested, do as much cardio as you can, reduce vitamin C, and watch your red meat intake. He didn't say stop all red meat. No, but I agree. And I think we're a bit, as a subculture, we're a bit over heavy on red meat. We could all do it, including more varied protein sources and more fishies. Yeah. We have some really good steaks here, Dave. We got, do you guys have Piedmontese beef over there? Never heard of it. We might. I've never heard of it. It's good. It's a super low fat meat, but it still tastes like really rich and delicious. Well, in buffalo like that. Buffalo is super low fat. Yeah. Yeah. This one, it still tastes like beef though. It doesn't have that like buffalo flavor. Yeah. It's like beef on beef in it, buffalo. It's like beefy beef. Yeah. Let's see what else we have here. Kangaroo's quite good as well, you know. I never ate, no, I think I ate kangaroo jerky one time. You've eaten kangaroo, huh? Do you guys have much of it over there? Is that available? No, but we do have these food festivals where you can get all weird and wonderful shit. Yeah. What was the weirdest animal you ate? Kangaroo and crocodile or alligator. I can't remember which one it was. Yeah, I ate one of those too. You can see the head, so I don't know. Do you ever eat turtle? No. I ate turtle jerky. How was it? It's not something that's, no, it's not doing it for me. How much water in milliliters or IU would you put in your BPC-157, five milligram? And how much in ML or IU would you take for a knee injury, Scott? That's you. Oh. Crack on. Crack on? I'd put 2.5 mils of water into that vial because you can usually fit about three mils. And if you do that, the math is easy. Every half mil is one milligram, right? Yeah. So, and I would, I mean, depends on the knee injury, but I would do between 5,000 micrograms to one milligram every day. And you could split that into two doses. And I would probably put it in that little teardrop if you've got enough muscle there. Two seconds. And I stumbled across something today that I thought might be quite useful for people. And I'm just going to try and find it now. And it was, I found it quite interesting. I do apologize for this usual lack of crap. So there is allaboutpeptides.com. Okay. And on there, now this was for retitreutide, but I presume they'll do it for other things. Yeah. There is a dosage calculator. Oh, those are great. I used to go to peptidecalc.com and that one's down, but there are other ones you can download too. Select the strength of the vial. You select how much fluid you put in. You select how much you want to inject. And it tells you what volume of oil you want to use. Okay. Yeah. And on this one, it actually shows you where to put it on the sminge. Yeah. Yeah. Those are pretty awesome, man. So if we do five milligrams by two mil, and I want 200, it will tell you that you need to take one mil. It will tell you you need to take one tenth of a mil. Yeah. That'd be 500 micrograms, right? Yeah. So 250. Okay. So, but yeah, so there are things like that could make it a lot easier because, God, that's got to be a question I get four or five times a week. Yeah. You know, how do I dilute it and what dose do I take? Look at that. I gave him a fish. You taught him how to fish. How about that? I'm Jesus. Let's see. Let's see if we have anything else here. Did I miss anything else? Is EQ as painful as Primo? No. Not at all. Not in slides. Why is it, Dave, that Primo is, it's been so popular. People don't talk about how painful of a shot it is. Oh, my God, man. Primo is a painful shot. But, told you don't take strokes. It's Dave Stantz. I think that's all we had for questions here. I mean, we did have more. I'm absolutely certain. In fact, if I went to the show before and I hit the questions button, oh, yeah. There is so many more questions that we didn't get. I'm wondering if 100 to 200 EQ weekly instead of an equivalent dose of DECA would be better for collagen synthesis while on sports TRT. Number one, Dave loves sports TRT. For sport, Dave. We got to use a little bit more TRT when we do sports, Dave. You knew that, right? Medical advice? TRT plus. Yeah. TRT plus is a really good idea for all parties. Right? Year round. Yeah, definitely. Yeah. Get your 300-meg test and 200-decker from your doctor. That's TRT, so you're fine. Yeah. Is there any way to take HGH without growing my existing gyno? I mean, for a lot of people, you don't get gyno issues from GH. No. No. Some you do. All right. Well, we could keep going. We could do this all day. But I don't want to. No. We can only keep Dave on for so long, guys. I've got a very sore back. Do you? Hmm. So you didn't go to the thing at all. You literally just didn't even go. No. Yeah. Yeah. Um, so what else has been going on? Anything else you can tell us about? How's your car? So we, we, we, so the truck still isn't back. We won't discuss that because I'll get upset. Um, the nolva has the new carb on, has the new fuel lines on. Um, that's what it sounds. I didn't have the right size spanner to tighten up two of the nuts on those fuel lines. So I've had to wait till the spanner turned on. Oh, God. So I've actually tightened the fuel nuts. Um, other than that, that, that's ready to fire up and hopefully set. Um, apart from that, what do we do? We did FitX Expo, which was a bit naff. Uh, we did PCA Universe, which was also a bit naff from a trade point of view. Um. What's naffed mean? Not very good. Naffed. Naff. Naff. A bit naff. A bit naff, yeah. Yeah, this show's a bit naff, Dave. A bit? Bloody hell, you're being generous. Um, then we did the MK event with, oh. MK? Yeah, so that's Coober and Meg. MK coaching. Oh, okay, yeah. Um, who did they have? They had, um, an Olympian over. Um, black guy. I want to say Terrence, but that might be wrong. Oh, Terrence. Terrence Ruffin? Might be Terrence. Yes. Okay. Terrence is a cool dude. So we did that. That, we did that on last Thursday. Okay. Um. You were there. And then. You went to that. Yes, I did go to that. Do you meet Terrence? Not as in meet-meat, no. Yeah. He's a nice guy. He's a nice guy. He seemed it. He used to listen to all the shows. I don't think he has the time anymore, you know. But yes. He's ex-squaddy, grew up very poor from what he was saying. Okay. And, uh, yeah, he just seems a genuine nice bloke. He really does. And seems very appreciative of where he is in life. Yeah, he's a cool dude. I like him as a person a lot. And I like his physique a lot. I'm, I'm really cheering for him this year. I, I mean, I, I was, I saw him at the Olympia when he, he really bombed out early on. And, uh, I remember at the time, he doesn't remember saying this, but before that Olympia, he was like, you know, I'm not going to get my physique too big. I like keeping it, you know, tight and keeping my, you know, everything. I'm like, I'm happy. I just want to refine, which has been like, that's what Bob Paris said. You know what I mean? Like that's a classic bodybuilding mentality. And then the Olympia didn't go too well for him years ago, 2018, maybe. I can't remember. Uh, but then, or yeah, 18, 17 or 18. Anyway, um, he's come back and been so good that he took second to Chris Bumstead one year. And, uh, and, and then he went back to the drawing board and now he is his best ever. He's like, he's actualized what I knew he was capable of. I think there's, there's two routes with bodybuilding. You can take, you can build the physique you want. Yeah. Or you can build the physique the competition once. Yeah. And unfortunately, unless you're lucky, the two are rarely an exact match. Yeah. Um, and I think that's, and you've just got to accept that you're either happy with the way you look or you fit the criteria of the competition in order to do well in competition. But that might mean you're not developing the physique you like. Yeah. Like Chris Bumstead, for instance, had both, you know? Yeah. And I think that's where a lot of people go wrong. They, they develop a physique that they want. I, which usually involves a body part being overdeveloped. Um, and then struggle to come to terms with the fact that they're not getting the placings and competition rewards that they expect. Yeah. And it's like, well, that's because you're not building what they want. You're building what you want. And that comes at a cost. You built what you wanted. I did. Yeah. But I never competed because I knew it wasn't going to be a pretty, pretty sight. But you, you did what you wanted. And, and I think it, you know, it paid off for you too, in a way. People recognize you. I think, I think that's actually a bit of a blessing in life as well, isn't it? If you want, you can live your life how you want to, but you just have to take the consequences that come with that. True. And, and, I mean, I think it's an age thing as well. And also helps that, I mean, I wouldn't say I'm rich by any standard, but, you know, I'm not worrying about paying me bills. Okay. And I think we're both in a very similar position there where we're, we can't relax financially. We, we don't have to worry either. Yeah. You know, you know, we're not worried about what that letter is coming from the letterbox because we don't have the money to pay it. It's nice to be in that position finally. You know what I mean? But at the same time, we can't go out and go, oh, fuck it. Let's go spend a lot of money because we don't have that fluidity. Right. But I also think I've, I've been at a position and I think we got to that with Eval and some other things that we've got going on that, that where we could turn it into a very financially profitable business. Yeah. But it wouldn't be the business I wanted to build. Okay. And I was lucky enough to be able to financially not require it, which is, which has been a massive help in that front. But I think that's very much part of life is you can live your life how you want, but you have to accept the restrictions that come with that. And if your desire is to be rich, you're probably going to be doing shit that you don't really enjoy. Yeah. Yeah. Or at least for quite a while. How would you have done Eval different if it would have been the business to like make money versus, versus do what you wanted? We would have been now, I don't know if I'm well known for this or not. I don't give discounts. I don't like giving discounts. And I don't particularly like people that come to me and say, well, if I bring you 10, can I have a discount? And it's no disrespect to them. It's the way the world is. It's the nature. But my argument is we're already one of the cheapest out there, particularly when you factor in the reporting and the football miss is involved in the pricing. Okay. And I feel we are very good quality as well. But we could have definitely been much more commercial. There's things we do that cost us money, like events. Oh. Event, we take all the stuff out for a meal. That's regularly north of 1,500. Which, guys, when I was out there, Dave took me out for a meal. We went out and we had, it was one of those fancy places where they cut the meat in front of you. Yeah. Oh, Fazenda, wasn't it? Yeah. That was cool. That was a beautiful place, too. Like, just drostanolone and where it was located. Like, that place was pretty cool, man. But there's things like we do two tubes for every test, whether it requires it or not. And the reason we do that is so that if the customer decides they want to add on, we've got the sample to do it with. Ah, okay. But that's cost. Not a huge cost, but it still costs. We're still having to buy extra tubes. It's still more weight in postage. You also know your customers, too, right? I have a feeling a lot of bodybuilders are like, you know what? Let's run prolactin as well, you know? Yeah, it's not too bad, but it does happen. It's just things like that. We don't run the business in a bottom line business. We run a business more on trying to support people best we can. For argument's sake, we did the prostate cancer month where we did it all for three for the whole month. Yeah. We were doing all profits. If we'd have gone with Jamie, we were going to do all profits. We're going to go to the charity. Instead, what we did was donate to the charity. Okay. So, you know, none of these are profit-driven sort of ideas. These are more quality of service and trying to do the right thing ideas. And I'm lucky that we're in a position where we can do that. That is cool. That is cool. And I did see that, that, you know, in, I guess I see it more because guys, Dave doesn't brag on himself. But having been out there to visit you and see people that were coming to the booth, see people that knew you. And I'm not saying this to make you feel good, but you've done a service to the bodybuilding community. And a lot of people really appreciate you, including people like Cuba. You know, Cuba will say that right out the gate, man. He's like, oh, dude, I love Dave. You know, Dave, he really appreciates you. And you have done a good service to the community. I try. And it's very nice to hear that it has been positive because you never really know yourself. You're always like, well, I hope it's been good. Yeah. And as I've got older, the financial drive has become less prominent. You know what I mean? It's like, I'm not really bothered for the super flash car anymore. Ten years ago, I'd have been, oh, I want a super car. I want this. I want that. Now you just want a truck that beats a super car. Yeah, but now it's more. I get it. I'm messing with you, you know. Yeah. No, I get it. You know, but it's, I'm less, I think, not everybody. There are genuinely people out there that appreciate the quality of a super car. Yeah. But the vast majority of people buy super cars so they can drive around and say, I can afford this. Yeah, you're right about that. And I'm, I'm, I'm just, there was a time when I was there, but I'm not there anymore. Look it, Tanya Miller's with us. She said, he took us out for the same type of meal in the UK last year. Meat festival. Yeah. How many more people in this live stream has Dave taken out to eat? Raise your hand. Yeah, we've, we do it, right, every expo with the staff. In fact, we went to Fazenda at FitX. But yeah, it's, it's, I think I'm really lucky in that sense that I've, I've been in a position in life where, where I can use eval for good rather than have to worry about whether it's making money or not. And for a long time, a long time, it didn't. Yeah. A long time, it didn't. It just, just scraped by. And even then it struggled. Well, I'm glad that it is, you know, it finally then turned into something. It still owes me three grand. Rise 41. I am so jealous of Dave's voice and accent. Anything he says sounds authoritative. Dave. I once got told by a German sound engineer that I had a very good voice for voiceover. I didn't believe him. I thought he was just blowing smoke up my ass. Do you remember when we did the book on tape audition on the show? Yeah. That was good. Did you ever watch that? Cause I had like superimposed, like, like the Hobbit background and it was like a moving picture while your voice was going. And I like, you know, really jazzed it up and edited the sound nicely for that. Yeah, no, I did. I did watch it, but I can't really remember it all if I'm on it. Me either. I can't. I just, that's all the detail I have. All right. Well, I guess that doubles as some advice of the day, isn't it? It does. Yes, it does. All right. Well, we're glad, I'm glad to be back. I'm sure that everybody at home is too. We'll keep the show going. Did you have a good trip? I did. We had fun. Dave, Vancouver is so pretty. The mountains literally, like snow-capped mountains literally end in the ocean, you know? Ocean where like orca whales come up and like, it's crazy, man. It's a beautiful, wild world. And it produced my wife. That's where she came from. So it all makes sense to me. We had good though. We had a good time. I got to put on a suit and Victoria looked beautiful. We had a nice time at the wedding and I got to train with Ron. I went out to his gym for a day and we got a workout in and we got to go like walk in some mountains and stuff for a day. So that was nice too. Yeah, it sounds like it was a really good trip. Then I got home and got sick. I'm still stuffed up right now, if you can't tell. Yeah, there's a lot of that going on around here. I told Vijay the other day, so I know everybody was getting sick. Victoria was sick on the trip and I'm not sick. I got home and I'm like, man, I'm still not sick. Normally I feel like I would have caught this. And then I started wondering, I was like, you know, I wonder if because of the SLU, I wonder like it's a research drug. We don't know yet. Could it have kept me from getting sick? And I like put a note in my phone, you know, SLU keeps you from getting sick? Question mark. Like keep an eye on this, you know? And then the very next day, or like four hours later, then I started getting a scratchy throat. So apparently, you know, good wishes, but it wasn't the case. Dave wasn't listening. He was busy texting people. No, I was listening. You're polite. I understand you're British and all that. No, you put on the suit. You love Vancouver. Your wife is beautiful. See? That's exactly what I said. Guys, we appreciate you tuning in. You said you were wearing a suit. Your wife is beautiful. You really like Van Gogh. There's so come out. It's going into the sea. You got to train with Dusty, I think it was. Yep. Yep. Yeah? Yeah. So? Okay. I'm sorry. You, I was wrong. You're the best listener I know. No, I'm not. I'm terrible. I'm very easily distracted. I know. I am too. So I know it because I know it myself. I see it. I know it when I see it because I know it myself, you know? I get in trouble all the time from the wife for it. All right. Well, let's get out of here so you can get back to work. I got to get back to work too. Guys, we appreciate you tuning in. As always, leave us questions for the next show, comments, all that stuff. This is, it's a blast. I love doing this. Dave won't admit it. He enjoys it too. And we enjoy having you guys here. So for another episode of the podcast with Dave Crosland, reach out to Dave for coaching. He's still available. We got his contact, my contact down below and we will see you soon. Thank you guys. Thank you, Dave. Take care, mate. Speak to you soon. Bye-bye.