What's up, guys? Welcome back to the podcast with Dave Crosslin. I'm Scott McN. All of our programming, it is brought to you by you, the people of Patreon. Thank you very much for your support. We've got a bunch of Patreon questions today. If you're part of Patreon, you'll get priority on your questions. We're also brought to you by supplements.ca for our Canadians. They have great deals that change week to week. True nutrition.com. Use our code thinkover there for additional savings. Stum Sports Nutrition. uh go to stumsports.com. In fact, Dave, I saw a banner on the Detroit Pro live stream this weekend saying that uh Stum Sports coming to the US soon. So, that'll be interesting. Yeah. And uh so that'll be cool. And of course, we are brought to you by evalysis.com. You can get your lab work done by Dave. If you're in the UK, go over to evalbloodanalysis.com. You can set it all up there. He'll give you an evaluation on all your labs after they're finished. So Dave, uh, Detroit Pro was this past weekend. It'll come out a little bit later. And I'll tell you, it was cool, man, because James Hollings Head was there. Cassan Herat was there. I got to see uh James W. literally like all of my favorite people, everybody that I care about from the UK, everybody that I care about from the UK was in Detroit with me. It was really nice. Yeah. They said they they saw you uh and they wish they hadn't. No, it was cool, man. It was Sass looked good. Sass looked really good. Yeah, it was it was close. Yeah, I was impressed, man. I'll tell you, Bonick brought such an incredible package. It And somebody recently compared his pictures to uh his I think it was the 2018 Arnold Classic when he won for the first time at the Arnold. And these pictures look better. He's like better than the old Bonnik. So that's pretty freaking incredible, man. You know, and and I think Ces was just like happy to be that at that point where he could be compared to, you know, like one of the all-time greats, you know. Yeah. I mean, he he definitely held his own from the front with him without a doubt, if not possibly beat him on a couple of shots because he does have a nice shape. Does SAS? I agree. And he was I'll be honest, man. I saw him a picture from behind. He wasn't like really hitting a pose and flexing, but I this is before the show posted on Instagram and I was like, "Oh man, I think he doesn't look as strong from behind." But then when he was actually on stage posing, I was surprised, man. He was better than I thought from the back. He's brought he's he he I think his back was one of the areas he was keen to bring up and he has brought it up. He's probably not quite where it needs to be, but as a package, he he's much completed front to back now than he was before. But yeah, I mean, he they you know, he looked good and I believe was it Bonak Sass and then James got third. Yeah. Yeah. James looked great, man. Yeah. James James and I've not spoke to James in a long while, but I saw a post where he was saying that he was a lot happier with where he was with it and he felt a lot happier in himself about what he put on stage. So, so that's good. He said he was that night he mentioned uh I as I was talking to him, the head judge came up and he was giving James feedback, which I don't it's not my place to share with you guys what he said, but uh James said that he was 12 pounds heavier for this show. And I will say the judges like they were like, "This is the James we want." Like you brought it, man. And I think they loved, you know, because they're fans of the sport, too, right? and and I think they loved seeing him that much fuller, you know. Yeah. I I've always I'm a fan of James' shape. I like the way his physique looks. Um I do think there's I don't know. I always feel bad saying stuff like this because end of day, you know, comparatively it's like they're light years ahead. Um but um I do think he seems to have never found, you know, he's either coming fuller and it's been a bit too much or he's coming leaner and he's lost size and coming a bit flat and and he never seems to have found the balance that he's comfortable with. But that seemed to be as close as he's been in recent years anyway. Yeah, I totally agree. And I know what you mean, man. It's like critiquing these guys. They're literally the best in the world. So, like who who are we to say what James Hollings head should do? But I agree, man. Like he has been like the Arnold, he just was he needed more. And I feel like they've had that chance now. And talking a little bit to his wife, it sounds like they used like a little bit more of not quite as clean foods. Like instead of using, hey, let's just load you up on potato, it's like, let's get a burger in there kind of thing. And that after those nights, he'd wake up the next morning like boom. She said like now he's popping. So, I think I think that that maybe have been part of the key is like, you know, I Yeah. But anyway anyway, we've got a bunch of stuff to do here. We've got uh all your listener questions. Like I said, we have Patreon questions. And if you guys want to take part in the next show, then definitely comment below. Comment all your comments on YouTube guy. Guys, they uh are a huge help to us to help other people find our content. And if you enjoy our stuff, then definitely please hit the like button if you haven't already. And if you're new here, let me encourage you to subscribe, guys. We have several bodybuilding shows that come out each week. All sorts of stuff, lots of great perspectives. Hit the bell for sure because the bell is the only way that YouTube will let you know when we put new content out. So, we got this topic. We thought this would be kind of I I I'm going to challenge Dave. So, the topic itself is the five best steroids for lowd dose cycles. Now, a preface question though. Is there five best like are there five steroids that are better off at low doses? You know what I'm saying? Like or are they all good? My surprisingly, and you'd probably be surprised at this, but my gut reaction is if you're losing losing the little if you're using very low doses, but you're wanting to maximize the response, then you're going to be looking at the heavy ears where, but generally speaking, people who use low dose are using low dose because they want to significantly reduce any negative impacts. Yeah. Yeah. So then would you go for those sort of drugs? So I'm conflicted here cuz yeah low do we'll say lowd do um primo versus lowd do trend. Exactly. Trend tren's blowing it out of the bloody water. I mean it's so if you were if you were looking for the most effective drugs from a point of view of progress you you're looking at stuff like tren men DHB you know all the bigans um decadas maybe to or MPP potentially whereas if you're looking at you know well I want a cycle that's really mild negatively then we're test mass primo possibly a little bit of EQ um I know there's some some yeah it's you know Is EQ going to be effective sub 200 meg? I'm not sure. Yeah. Um how much it's going to help at that point, but um you know, you you're going sort of down that road. But if if we're looking at what drug would you take to maximize the results off a low dose cycle, then I'm trying DHB men, those sort of kind of with you, man. I don't have any experience with lowd dose DHB. I can tell you personal experience of running. I've run higher dose trestalone uh and I've run or excuse me uh higher dose uh mint uh and lower dose mint. What was it? Was talone acetate I ran at got that was higher dose. It was I think 50 every other day. Not too high. But then uh Tristalloneth I ran at just 100 milligrams per week and I found I got a strong effect off of that. I found that I'll put I'll tell you what, man. I'm going to put trend I normally we work like backwards like five to one, but I think it's going to be a stretch to come with come up with five of these. I'm putting Tren as my number one lowd dose compound that is going to give you the best bang for your buck. And listen, part of that might even be financially. Let's say you don't have a lot of money to spend like if if you were to run a cycle with and as 150 milligrams of Tren ace per week. Let's say that. Okay. Or maybe even a 100 trenth per week. If you add that in, you could get 10 weeks of Tren out of one bottle of Treninth at 100 milligrams. That's going to be way more effective than say 100 milligrams of DECA for growing muscle, 100 milligrams of EQ. Yeah, I agree. Um, I know and I don't know why I saw this because it just I just happened to be scrolling and I noticed that Matt Tooffton had answered something on Evil Genius. Okay. Um, and he was he'd said he'd run DHB at 40 or 50 milligrams along with his TRT and he'd really been impressed with what it did for him. Huh. No kidding. So, yeah. So, you know, that that's quite funny that I saw that this week and then we're discussing lowdose compounds, but yeah. So DHB in that scenario seemed to be very he he was reporting it as being beneficial. I've never really done it. So in that way so I I couldn't couldn't comment. And then I would say I ran that at higher doses only like 400 to 600 the only times I had used it. I wouldn't mind getting back into it. I thought it was a great compound overall. I've heard people talk about uh seeing a lot of adulteration in their labs. I don't know how often you have people come in, clients, patients to eval that say, "Oh, I'm on a DHB cycle." How how frequent is that? Rare. It's not pop. It's not It's not commonly popular. Uh but the general from what we have seen and what I've seen with speaking to people as well is that it is quite inflammatory. It is quite harsh in that sense. Um but um yeah, I mean I think that and to be honest, I'm I'm probably going to say it's either that or or meant for the for number two. I'm just because of my personal experience, I'm going to go with men that and and part I had an issue. Anybody who's watched our shows longterm knows that when I ran men at 100 milligrams, I also had in 600 tests and no AI. my estrogen was high and as a result along with the nasty methyl estrogen similar to the the situation with debol where you get the the the stronger version the synthetic version which is obviously much more impacting so yes okay I I would go for second place with that then in my in my yeah I I meant second yeah all right then so we agree on DHB for third I'll go with it yeah I'll go with it fourth struggling there. I mean, looked at Oh, I was going to say we hadn't looked at orals. Halo and my old favorite oxies. I think they're definitely contenders at low doses. I've seen some pretty impressive stuff just with 25 meg, 20 mega oxyen. Yeah, I was going to ask you, what do we call low dose for anadrol? Yeah, I'd say 20 25 20 25. Yeah. Yeah. I I could I could see that. I mean, a lot of a lot of people are taking four times that amount, so per day. So, I I I could see that. I'd go with that for fourth place. Um and and and really, man, if you're doing 25, if it doesn't impact your So, dose is often tied to the side effects we get. So, the chances of it affecting your appetite might be a lot lower too, right? Yeah. No, it's uh and I mean these, you know, the the as we've said numerous times and we're going to sound like broken records, but you know, the more on point training, the more on point diet, the the the less you'll get away with from a drug point of view and still see some prog. It might not be super dramatic, but you're still going to see some progress with the lower doses. Um and sometimes it's quite surprising how well people will progress with lower doses. Yeah. Yeah. Especially like you said when training is on point, those things are going to become a lot more important. You won't have as much room to, you know, do whatever you want and you like you take a bunch of gear and like you do whatever you want and for the more or less it's going to still work. Uh on so you mentioned Halo. I made a mistake last week. I said that Halo was a a DHT derived steroid I believe and it was my mistake is it is testbased and you uh maybe you didn't pay attention to me saying that but I did say that. So we had a couple people that that uh mentioned it in the show. No, I did miss that completely. Yeah. Yeah. And I I don't know why I mentioned that. And I can kind of see I feel like there's I mean I I feel like it's going to do a lot of the same things that a DHT like a strong DHT compound like let's think about like Yeah. Well, I mean there's a few like that. It's like churinol. Churinol really when you look at its properties now it's work it'd be very easy to assume that it's it's DHC based but it's not. It's test based. Yeah. Um, but because it doesn't aromatize, and I think that's probably where the brain's gone. You've gone, "Right, this doesn't aromatize, so it must be DHT." Yeah. Because we automatically assume that testosterone based drugs are going to aromatize. Yeah. If there's two directions it can go, it's all going to the one side, you know? Yeah. So, no, I I I do stupid [\h__\h] like that as well. It's it I mean the thing is doesn't actually matter in in in the context because we're discussing the effects rather than the structure and the structure isn't really that relevant in that discussion. You know, it's it doesn't aromatize. It doesn't create estrogen. So, it's tht like in that sense. True. So, but you were wrong. Yes. Yeah. So it uh and somebody mentioned they're like uh it's not nearly as liver toxic as some people say. You know JFK had used it which I understand that JFK was on a prescription of but it was like super low dose. I I wrote back to that come which yeah there's a reason why medically it's dosed at 2.5 milligrams. You know what I mean? Yeah. I think he said he was on five but yeah I had heard it was very low. And I if you're doing something there are plenty of like hpattoxic medications which I mentioned to him that are prescribed regularly you know and people can use these medications long term but they aren't taking like seven times the dose while they're dehydrated and you know the other thing they're not they're not taking halo along with test and something else and something else as well you so there's a totality here as well but yeah I mean oxies are prescribed to children 1 milligram per kilo and and females as well and but again you know as a sole input and then there's also the other thing that I don't think people always consider sometimes the treatment isn't particularly safe but it's better than the condition. Yeah. And a real obvious example of this is cancer. you know what I mean? Cancer's a horrible disease and chemo is a horrible treatment, but it's a little bit better than the cancer. Um, and so, um, there's that element as well. You know, when things are used medically, there's a context in which they're used that you need to consider. You can't just say, well, it's used that medically, so we can we can liberalize that. You need to look at the bigger picture of why it's used and how it's used as to whether that is transferable information or not. True. What are you grinning about? We got the funniest comment. First of all, Toad, he said, uh, uh, will this live stream be taken down until uploaded? Yeah. So, guys, anything you catch on the live channel, it's just here while we're recording it and then from there it goes away and it'll come back out at the regular release every Monday for this podcast. But after that though, he said, referencing JFK on Halo, he said, "The man with the most stressful job in the world during one of the most stressful times in history is on Halo during the Cuban Missile Crisis." That's a good point, man. That's a Yeah, that could have got that could have gone two ways, could it? Yeah, right. All right, we still needed that number five. I don't know if I'm settled on Halo, man, cuz Halo is generally dosed low. Like Halo is I would say even 10 milligrams is a powerful dose. And if it's being prescribed at 2.5 to five, then is 10 milligrams, you know, like I don't I I I don't think that 2.5 milligrams of Halo is going to give us as much as 25. Pitch me then. What do you think? Number five. I'm gonna go with Deball. I think Debo, honestly, I I think that Let's take a cycle. Let's just say that you're you're you don't have the funds to run a bunch of gear, right? Let's say that you run and and so you're going to run this low. You're going to depend on your training. You found a sale on tuna fish. You have your entire cabinet just packed with all the protein you can. Vitamins Shop was throwing out some old tubs of protein. You've collected those over the last couple months and you got half up deals on the the ones in the store that were shortdated. Um and and now you're looking to put together your cycle. I So now you're spending the morning trying to chisel a piece of protein powder out of the tub because it's that old it's gone rock hard. Exactly. You're still going to chew it up. So here's the thing. 250 test. Here's a 10-week plan. One mil a test. 250 test one mil of uh tren anthate that's 100 milligrams of tren follow that up with like 50 it's usually two in it oh it is isn't it yeah you're right half a mill yeah half a mill yeah okay is 200 low dose trend still yeah I would have said it's sort of the limit I think 200 is what Most people would still regard as quite a low dose. Okay. Cuz I usually don't even use more than 200 trying ace with contest prep clients. I mean, if they're more advanced, we might go higher, but I could ride that all the way in with like especially like a a classic physique size, guys. Yeah, I'm I'm sort of 150 200 max. Okay. So, let's say that you're using 150 trend anthquer bottle is going to last you more than 10 weeks. and 15 20 debball for the first eight weeks. It's not a lot, but you're going to get the methylestrogen kicking up from that. You're going to get some preworkout effect. You know what I mean? I' I'd say that could be Dude, I feel like I want to I want to see somebody commit to that cycle and put on some freaking muscle. I'd say Debo. That would be my take for for number five. I I'm gonna say that I don't have an alternative. Right. So, on that grounds, I'm going to agree. Okay. All right. Fair enough. That's kind of the where I was at too, man. Because everything else it's like in order to get a decent effect, you're going to need to push it up just a there. there is a minimal effective dose of of compounds for creating like the the super physiological effect. You know, there is if you're taking your typical average weight trainer, bodybuilder, whatever. Yeah. I mean, if you've got someone that's super genetically gifted or super super great on training and diet, then it changes. But for the average Joe Blogs going into a gym, you know, not super competitive, just looking to develop a bit of physique, then yes, I would say there are there is a point when it's like this isn't going to do anything for you. Or somebody who's real new, zero experience, you know, take somebody who's never done anything, put them on the cycle I just mentioned, and like that would be that would be intense. So, you know, Yeah. But that's a day, isn't it? That that's what you're talking about. Taking a day. Taking a day. Yeah. So you're talking 250 mega test, 150 mega train a day. Yeah. Oh, a week. A week along with 15 debol per day. 15 tablets. Yeah. Yeah. No, no, no, no, no. All right. So anyway, guys, I hope we had some fun with that. Hope you guys enjoyed that. and let us know what has been your best lowd dose cycle like cuz I know a lot of our guys out there they are using lower doses now it's much more common and heck I think that's smarter you know especially for guys they're they're not looking to be the biggest guy in the world they just want to like make the the gains they can make then I say go for it man you know if you're a competitor maybe you eventually are going to need more but heck a lot of people could do a lot with a little um oh we got I I before we carry on, there's going to be a lot of yawning today before anyone starts bitching about it. I'm knackered. I didn't get a lot of sleep last night. So, sod off. Guys, let's talk about intraworkout carbs and saving money. So, like the past 10-15 years, intra workouts become super popular. It's a great way to support pre-workout insulin use. It's great for recovery and it's great for endurance in those long workouts. Here's the thing. It's really expensive. It's not only expensive for us, it's expensive for supplement companies. They really don't make a lot of money off of it. That's where True Nutrition comes in. So, True Nutrition, they're not only a retailer, they're also a manufacturer. They're actually making a lot of the products that you guys are already buying from other companies. So, just think about it. You're going to cut out the middleman. The only thing you're going to miss out on is the fancy labels and and the branding. Outside of that, you're getting the exact same highquality products, but you're getting it directly from the source. If you're going to pay for the price of highly branched cyclic dextrin, ensure that you're getting 25 grams per scoop, not of a mix of carbs, but just of highly branched cyclic dextrin, we can mix the other stuff in later. You know, use our code think, get some savings. Plus, it's like voting for us. It lets them know that you support what we're doing. Dave, we got this comment. Um, oh man, it was quite interesting from So, we we did the Halo profile, right? And he said, uh, get this. He said, "My son went to the Meatthead gym recently and an experienced gear user asked him what he's on. He told him creatin and whey isolate. The idiot decided to ask if my 15year-old son wanted to buy halo testin. My son is big. Oh, wait. Buy 15 tabs of halo testin. My son is big for 17 years old at 6' 205. I noticed he was getting a little too strong. um when he was lifting weights, uh one night he did a stupid teenage crap and he got his truck and his phone taken away. He had the biggest fit of anger and emotional breakdown I had ever seen. He yelled at his mom and dang near uh got a straight right from me. Uh once he saw he was in a lot of trouble, he went and got the few pills he had left with the bottle. He still refuses to tell me who sold it to him. If I can find out and uh if I can find out he catching hands or the police, uh I will give him the choice. Uh I can't use trend because of my temperament. Uh and apparently my son has inherited that. Wow. So his son who's 17 got a hold of some Halo tabs. It sounds like he had an absolutely terrible experience, which at 17, man, I feel like you might be better off if you would have like done really well. Everything was good. You're not emotionally stable, are you? I mean, Jesus Christ, at 17, I was about as emotionally mature as a two week old frog. How much better are you now? Uh, three and a half week old. Okay. Okay. But no, I mean men, whether we want to admit this or not, men do tend to mature emotionally a lot slower than our female counterparts. Yeah. Um and and yeah, I mean, no, it's does the guy selling him the gear know how old he is? There's there's loads of factors that could s pursue the lad or did the lad pursue the guy? You know, it's all of it in it. But um at the same time, it's still a bit of a shitty uh situation. And I don't know as a parent how I would feel if my kids said they were on gear. Yeah. I would be concerned number one, especially if like I mean you end up on Halo for your first cycle, you know what I mean? Yeah. Not really the ideal choice, but I think I'd be more pissed that they didn't feel they could come and talk to me about it rather than pissed that they'd actually done something. Yeah. Yeah. Considering situations, you know, we had a little bit of a back and forth. And he added, he said, "It was strange watching my 17-year-old doing 15 reps with the hundreds. He was doing the 85s just two weeks ago." Um, he said, "I hope he stays away, but in two weeks his body changed a lot. He already had a super small waist and wide lats genetically from his mom. Um, he went from 195 to 205, but his chest and shoulders popped and his abs were visible. So, woof. So, is is his is his dad now using the halo? He took off. What' you do with the rest of the halo, bud? Oh, sorry. I know it's not really a laughing matter, but hey, it's got to you got to do something with it, Dave. Got to dispose of it properly, right? Yes, I agree. All right. Now, I don't know much about this one. I thought you might have a better idea. Maybe you do, maybe you don't. Does Winstrol dramatically lower estrogen? I'm thinking about using it in my next cycle. 500 test e per week, 500 EQ per week, and 50 Winstrol every day. Uh I'm really just don't want to crush my estrogen like I have on my previous cycles. So the unknown in that is whether the EQ is going to drop his estrogen or not. But Winstrol is not going to have a dramatic impact on estrogen. It's going to it's going to affect progesterone, but it's not going to impact estrogen particularly significantly. Yeah. Okay. I haven't been able I wouldn't I wouldn't consider I wouldn't consider Winston as as an estrogen management option. Not like Primo or Mast, you know what I mean? I haven't been able to tell because it's usually only something that I've added in at the very end of a contest prep when estrogen is already on the lower end, you know. Uh simple question. Whatever happened to Deca? It was the backbone of every cycle for decades. Some of the best physiques in history were built with it. Now it it is relegated an ancillary at low doses for joint pain. Does anyone use it anymore as a secondary anabolic with test? Yeah, Dave does. Well, I don't personally because I don't use it all, but yes, I I have clients that use it. Um, Deca has got a lot of heat and hate. Um, some of it's justified, some of it's not. There's also this. It's just not in vogue, you know, it's not primo. It's just not the trend for usage at the moment. Obviously there's some study there are studies that have shown it to be cardiovascularly negative. Um but there is a context there with dose and duration as well that isn't always and it's like a lot of these things. Oh that study showed that that deca is harmful to the heart so nobody uses deca. Well there's a context to be looked at and like many things there's a balance to be had. I still rate as a compound. The one thing that I found strange and I don't know what this is an indication of in any way shape or form but go back 20 years test and deca backbone of every cycle like you said you know what I mean it was what you did it well it's usually sustained deca but it was what you did uh never had guys complaining of depression or emotional issues from deca yeah you'd get the erectile problems but never really heard anyone talking about mental health issues related around it now. Is that because they weren't open enough about it? Possibly. Whereas now, it seems to be a common theme that people struggling with depression and mental health offer. Now, the mechanisms are there. It's it's no secret what Deca can do within dopamine and all the rest of it. But I find it strange that it was never ever spoken about previously. And and I I don't know if that is just that era of men being men or or if there wasn't really that much of an issue. I mean, when I've spoke to guys that used to run it of sort of my era and before, none of them have ever said, "No, I had issues with it." Or they didn't. They've all said, "No, fine. I got on well with it." But now it seems to be that 50% of people struggle with it. I think part of it too just knowing the way culture was 20 years ago and even 10 15 years ago that uh we kind of bottled it up and ignored it. Yeah, I think there's a bit of that but I mean but like like think about like the side effects nowadays. People are like, "Oh, I'm getting acid reflux." You know, like I've talked about this with Ron Partllo. He's like, "Oh, I'm getting acid reflux." Well, you're eating 6,000 calories. like you're going to have, you know, oh, I feel bloated. Well, it's because you're eating 6,000 calories. You're going to feel bloated. He was like, I felt bloated for 10 years. I never thought about it. He was like, I don't really know if I had acid reflux. I just didn't pay attention to it. You know what I mean? And and nowadays is if we get a side effect, we're real quick to say like, oh, and which is good. You know, we can maybe manage these things. Is there a way to manage this, you know, get rid of that versus just shut up and, you know, deal? I don't know. Yeah. No, I I say I' not not really got an opinion on it, but even when I've spoke to the lads like properly spoke to them, you know, did you ever have problems with it? And it's like, no, not at all. Huh. So, I don't know. But then we were we were all running Pharmad as well. True. Okay. Thoughts on an during a mild cut? It's the only oral I have to take and just want the experience. So fine, crack on. It It's It's not particularly a drug I would look to. I mean, it's going to keep you nice and full. So I suppose you're not going to have to deal with the flatness that you would normally expect from a cup or not to the same extent. So there's going to be that side of it, which is probably mentally going to be quite boosting. Uh but I mean you know uh some if you want to try it and see what it does, try it and see what it does. As a coach from my perspective, my issue with it may be the interference with not only the scale but the physical look of being able to read your physique and actually see if we're making the progress we want. A lot of times if somebody wants to get with me and do e a cut or a bulk, I I would rather we started at TRT if possible or off whatever they do when they're not on cycle. At that point, start getting the progress for a couple of weeks consistently. See that we're moving in the direction so that we know that the diet's doing what we want it to do and then we can add the compounds in. You know, whereas but if you come to me and you're always 217, 220 and I just bloated from head to toe. Yeah, you we can and we can diet you still in that state. I would probably prefer to use it maybe intermittently like preworkout three days a week something like that and it might not interfere then as much you know. Well, the other thing is, I mean, he's not talking about a huge dose, but if you start the anidrol before you start the cut, then any changes are going to be, you know, you're going to have a stable level of what the anadrol is doing from day one. So, it's not like you've done three weeks of cut, then add the anadrol and right [\h__\h] I don't know what's baseline and what's not now because you've had that base because the anadrol was in before you started the cut. So your changes are going to be comparative where they wouldn't be if you added it in halfway through. But if you're holding So yeah, but he didn't say a dose either. So that would be a factor. He just said he wanted to run it flat out. Oh, I thought he said 25 milligrams. Sorry, I don't No, no, he just said thoughts on anadrol during a mild cut. So he's not cutting hard. So you're just holding fluid period. I can't read if that's, you know, and you're right though. You're right though. Ultimately, you know, you do have to kind of ride that through even if Yeah. But my point is, so don't take a drug that causes you to hold fluid and you'll see a very onetoone on what the diet's doing. Yes. Sure. But but if you take the drug that holds fluid before you start the C, then you're still going to see the effects of the C because the fluid level though there is going to be relatively stable. That was my point. Still see progress. My argument to it though is that it takes longer to see that and it can be more difficult to read because that fluid may be and I'm just picturing a torso just boom flat, you know, uh flattened out by like blown out by fluid. You can do it um but it might be harder and the scale is probably not going to be as likely to move too. But I I agree with you though. There comes a point like in any cycle that you do have to rely on, you know, the sometimes man as a coach too, you almost at times you have to rely on knowing this has been working historically for the last 3 months. Now we have this drug in and although I'm not seeing the progress, I know that the progress didn't stop because I've already seen it for the last, you know, 16 weeks, whatever. A bit of blind faith is sometimes necessary to keep pushing through. Yeah. Um, and what do you think a good dose would be? Low do lower dose for a cut if you were going to do that? Yeah. I mean, if if you're just looking for a bit of fullness and a bit of like not feeling flat, then I would be the 20 25 milligram as it happens. That's where I'd be sort of looking to sit it. Yeah, I think that sounds good, too. I take that. All right. What else do we have here? Uh, these are all Patreon questions, by the way. Oh, this one is not. The end of the world is in one month. What's going to be your effort stack? You know what? That's I mean, with your kidneys, you could do this, Dave. You could like do an F it stack and for you the end of the world might be in one month. You know what I mean? Quite literally had somebody in today whose end of the world is going to be very short and he is doing his effort stack. It's quite weird that these questions come up. You're kidding me, man. No, no, no. Wow. That's why I'm a bit like Right. Yeah. Bit close to home that one. Um Wow. I don't you know what I think I'd probably try all the things I'd not tried and just see what happened because [\h__\h] it. You know what I mean? So there there'd be all sorts of weird and wonderful [\h__\h] in there just to see. Let's let's explore every myth of drugs there ever was. Yeah. Yeah. And what if you figured it out? You're like, "Oh my god, I only knew this 20 years back, you know?" Yeah. Write it write it down quick. Um Yeah. But yeah, I I I think I think I would probably be quite carefree, but also it would depend on on why I'm shuffling off my mortal coil. Yeah, we'll just say it's the end of the world, period. Like the world if it's just the end of the world, then then yeah, bollocks to it. Let's just see what we could do with this, this, and this, and what happens when you do this, and I'd just have at it. You know what? My answer is going to be completely boring. I would find some Nido and I'd just take one shot of that and then I would stop. I would go out and do as much other things as I could. I am not going to spend my last days trying to get as big as I can. Fair fair comment actually. Yeah, when you when you put it on that but I I was being very narrow-minded because of course and that's what he wanted too, you know. That's what he wanted. Yeah, but if you if you're putting it on that front Yeah, you're right. Um I would be doing very different things. And also too, I'd be afraid of like trying too much because like I don't want to deal with like transomnia when there's only a couple weeks left to go. You know what I mean? I want to have good night sleep. Yeah, but you could then you could then not sleep much at all and get even more out of the time you have left. That's true. That's true. Yeah. All right. Uh oh. Hey guys, can we please have a guest appearance from Pudding, please? I will arrange it for next week. All right. All right. Sounds good. So, you could always put the picture up that I sent you have put in, couldn't you? No, I I can't put pictures on this. I could I can show it this way, which let's see here. If I go like this, this is a beautiful picture of Dave's dog. Yeah, you can't see. It's reflecting badly. You need to come closer. No. And then it won't focus. Uh, get a better camera. There we go. There you go. There, there, there, there, there. Yeah. Yeah. This is great. There's a good picture. Um, all right. What else do we have here? Oh, so he said, "Scott, you've got to be screwing with us. Creatin." So, have you ever not like because I know creatine people say creatine and then I also hear creatin. Don't do Have you heard both? Yeah. Yeah. And I I I unfortunately very often actually when I write it, I write creatinine because I write the medical marker rather than creatine itself. Yeah. We had another comment here that says, um, I like Dave. F the lot of you cuz people were talking crap about you, you know. What do you mean people were talking crap about me? They're because you yawned and stuff like that. Well, you're going to get loads of it today. So, okay. Uh, this is a question that we had somebody else chime in on and say, "Yeah, I want to know about this, too." Uh, "Hey, Scott. Okay, my sperm qual quantity has definitely decreased. I'm on 700 milligrams of test with a,000 HCG per week. Is this normal? And um, how shall I increase it?" Uh, I would appreciate it if you could touch base on this topic with Uncle Dave. Thanks for the education, your subscriber and big fan of the show. Thanks, Hector. Hector Law. Go on. Then he asked He said Dave Scott. No, I'm turning to you Dave on this one. This is a Dave question. So, the use of HCG, he said ask Uncle Dave. The the use of HCG will increase uh ITT or intertesticular testosterone. Um, and it will also help stimulate the lady cells in the absence of FSH because she's shut down because you're using anabolics. With this being a test only cycle, the test will also be having a direct impact on the serotoni cells to produce sperm as well. Other compounds that will support HMG, uh, 75 I've used every other day, but it's not cheap. So it will depend on budget on whether you can run it throughout or you specifically run it because you are trying to conceive elarnine at 500 to a,000 a day really which again yep which again is going to be a bit pricey but it it will help uh they would be the ones I would focus on um I don't personally feel provron is particularly beneficial or clomid is particularly beneficial when you're on a cycle. I think they become more beneficial when you're off a cycle. Um, so they wouldn't be something I would look at when you were on a cycle. Um, unfortunately though, you're not going to fix it 100%. And though you may you may improve total mass and and mobility, you're probably still going to have problems in in in morphology. And so just in case anyone doesn't understand, morphology is about the shape of the sperm. Now you've got the number of sperm, how many millions you have. You've got how well they swim, how well they move, and then you've got their shape. Now, the shape can affect in that they don't move very well. So quite often morphology and mobility will be interlin to some degree but also when they're misshapen they can also struggle to enter the egg. So it can affect their ability to penetrate the egg as well when their morphology is poor. The range of morphology does go down as low as something like 4% is the bottom end range and that means that 4% of your sperm are actually normal and the other 96% are mutated in some form or another. physically deformed. Yeah. Interesting you should say that about Clomid and you know not feeling that it's as beneficial on cycle. I have seen more and more TRT clinics prescribing it and saying like oh you should take a half a dose per day. It'll keep your natural production. It it it's almost like this kind of like people like they're almost promoting it as like this insurance policy where you know you can continue to use TRT without getting shut down as long as you take your Clomid with it kind of thing. It's interesting which is not technically correct anyway because you've got localized inhib within the testes that are going to shut signaling down. So you you can you can block receptors to allow for purity signaling or hypothal signaling, but it's it's not going to work within the testes because of the inhibits anyway. Yeah. So uh we had that guy who mentioned sealis and low estrogen. Remember that guy? He's doing some more testing. He so far he hasn't been able to figure it out. Um but he is looking into melatonin now. He says he's taking a hefty dose, 50 milligrams a night to sleep and uh he heard a study or recently found a study on melatonin lowering estrogen. I I personally have never noticed that. Uh and I have used higher doses to experiment with it as an antioxidant. I got up to about 30 uh but I don't recall any issues. I I didn't get tested specifically for estrogen at that time, you know what I mean? But uh I never noticed any kind of like, oh, I'm feeling low estrogen, you know. Has he done any repeat testing to see if his estrogen has remained low or has he um just taken it off the one reading? I think he has tested multiple times. Yeah, he's he's kind because it sounds like he's been kind of digging into this and trying little tweaks and and and then seeing what he gets. I mean, I'd just try stopping the seialis for a while and see what happens then because there are people that just don't aromatize a lot. You know what I mean? Could have nothing to do with that. Yeah. I mean, I was looking at a set of bloods today and his his estrogen was not low, but low comparative to his testosterone. Okay. Yeah. You know, and um and obviously the leaner you are, then then you're going to have a lower conversion as well. Mhm. I find that quite cruel that so higher estrogen promotes fat storage and fat and fat higher fat levels cause more aromatase so you get more estrogen. It's like come on, don't be a [\h__\h] If I'm fat already, why do you have to create scenario where I'm going to get fat? Yeah. Sorry, I just just little rant there. Little uh just a little side note there. All right. I thought this one was interesting. Um I because I I get asked this question a lot. When should I stop taking a rimmedex when going from a blast to a cruise? So he's coming off cycle. When would you discontinue or reduce the AI? I would probably continue for at least a week to 10 days and potentially do a reduced dose for a further seven days. It's about I should do that next week depending on the cycle. You know, I would say roughly about a two week window. you want to cover but it can be a declining dose over that two week window but a lot would factor into because if you were running say test and primo both finanthates then then obviously the primo is going to be active alongside the test as the two decay so in that scenario it's not so much of an issue same with mass but it all depends on the drug choices as well um and you know if you were running deca for argument sake it's going to it's going to be a little bit slower so you're probably going to have to run it a little bit longer. And the other thing is, are you going straight onto TRT? Are you giving it a break and a bridge and allowing things to drop before you start your TRT? So, there's lots of little factors like that that add in as well. This guy's name is trap barlifts. Have you ever done a Tedlift before? I don't know what a Tedlift is. I think he means like it's probably like him doing deadlifts with a trap bar. That's my guess. All right. He just had a comment. He said, "I noticed my last round of labs were better after adding in SLU. Very interesting compound. I'll be curious to to hear back from him." I asked him, I said, "Well, what did you get checked? Like, what was better?" You know, be curious to know. I'm interested to see what my cholesterol looks like. But Dave, I did start a cycle. I got to warn you. I got to tell you, Scott, I thought we'd agreed. Just say no. Well, there was this older guy at the gym and he asked me what I was taking and I told him creatin and I told him whey protein and he asked me if I wanted to buy some pills. Well, I told you about talking to strangers. It's good. It's good. You You opened a drawer and found something, didn't you? That's No, I didn't. Actually, I'm I'm pretty much out of b I'm pretty much out of the old supply. You know what I mean? you kind of eventually those things dwindle, man. I had the old uh the old shoe box, you know, of uh leftovers and that uh worked through them. Um yeah, I could have documented like I'm just going to do my shoe box leftover cycle. This week we're running, you know, test and injectable. This week we're on trend, but it was only going to last five days because there's a little bit drop at the bottom. So then we're going to go on EQ. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. See what kind of gains you can make. Man, I had someone send me their current cycle that actually was that really. So they they had a a base cycle, but they were putting really obscure dosage amounts in of other compounds. And I'm like, why is this like 67 MIG and like 83 MIG? And it was like because it's what I had left, so I've just averaged it out. That's funny, man. Fair enough. I'll tell you that years ago uh I was much more uh picky about what a cycle had to be and and with my clients too. I was like, you know, we need this and we need that and we need this Esther and you know this much and blah blah blah. Now my first question is like well what do you have right now? You know what I mean? And because I honestly feel like we can really do the same thing a lot of different ways. you know. Yeah. It just takes experience, I think, to get to that point and recognize that. Yeah. No, I agree. There's there's you can you can get away with other stuff if if the situation presents itself. Yeah. I don't know about like just for five days of EQ and then five days of trend, but Yeah. Yeah. So, do you have any uh Uncle Dave's wisdom for us about anything like making sure that you keep your battery charged or anything else like car maintenance or anything, you know? Yes. Don't install a th00and kows of solar panel on your vehicle with a direct line to charge your batteries because for some reason it will stop working and leave you with a flat battery. Um So that was a solar panel you had set up. That is fascinating. And it's supposed to keep the battery. So there's there's a kilowatt, which is a lot of solar or a decent amount of solar on the roof. Okay. That's supposed to I think it's 1.2. Um that's a direct feed into both sets of batteries. Okay. And both sets of batteries are goo. Though the chassis batteries absolutely gooed, whereas the leisure batteries have still got a little bit in them, but not a lot. So, I'm just hoping it that you guys don't get any sun. We have got sun at the moment. Do you? Is it a nice day out there? Yeah. Yeah, it's floppy. And last week was pretty decent as well. Nice. Um it's uh it was raining and cold here. Not cold cold. It actually kind of warmed up. So, it was just like still coat weather, but like overcast for most of the day. And um I mentioned something to to James and Sass and James' wife and they're like, "Oh no, we find this weather very pleasant. It's very similar to the UK, right?" I was like, "Oh yeah, you guys would." It was like overcast for the whole time they were here. Yesterday today it's been blue skies and sunshine. It's not getting It's 14 15 degrees, so it's not super warm, but it's been blue skies and sunshine. Okay. It's been lovely. Absolutely lovely. where I went up to Abedine at the weekend driving up on Friday. I drove through blue skies and sunshine. I drove through torrential rain. I drove through snow and then I drove through blue skies and sunshine again. It was blue skies and sunshine and 13° and then literally within five minutes it was two degrees and bloody snowing. Up there in Aberdine. Uh yeah, I don't some really interesting building. They call it the granite city because a lot of the buildings are built from granite. Oh, okay. Um, and there are some really interesting buildings. I didn't get to see a lot. Um, which is no one's fault. It's just how it worked out. But, uh, yeah. Yeah, it was all right. The show was rammed. It was a busy show. Okay. Um, anyway, advice, right? Um, I don't know if this is advice or not. Stress management. I personally always find that as long as I'm working towards a a a solution or a resolution to whatever is causing me distress, I find the stress so much more easier to deal with. Yeah. Because I'm actively doing something. Um not always possible because there are times when you're relying other people to do things and you're sort of sat waiting. But I find that even in those situations, you can be mentally productive or you can, you know, looking at organizing something else further down the line to do with that problem. But I always find that the more productive you are or the more active you are in trying to seek a solution to a problem, the less it feels like a problem. And it's when you stop and don't try and pursue a result is when it starts to feel overwhelming and you start to struggle with it and you feel like there's no answer. I could see that you don't you don't have the hope. If you see the solution, then you see the end, you know. Well, even if you don't see the solution, I mean, even if it's it's a complex problem and there's there's like several factors you at this point don't know an answer to, there'll be something that you can be productive about. Yeah. I guess that's what I mean. If you can see direction forward. Yeah. So, if you just take control of that one thing, it can very often make the whole problem much easier to handle. Yeah. Because you're fixing it. You're doing something about it, however small it may be. I like that. That's good advice. That's something we can apply today. I'm asking myself, how can I apply that today? You know, and I think it's in getting my taxes done because that's what I need to do right now. right now. Yeah, my fat return was late. I got bother. Oh, guys, we appreciate you tuning in. And uh Dave, do you have anything going on with uh Pillars of Strength? So, the Peds course, April one starts on Monday. Um and then the way it's looking now, I'm probably going to time it. So, I do one a month. Oh, nice. So, it will start the second Monday of every month effectively. That's what I'm going to try and aim for. Okay. I like that. And a new app launches on Monday. What's it called again? Better you. But it's B E T Ru. Okay. Online. So you can't get good web addresses anymore. No, you've got to get crappy ones, right? Guys, we appreciate you tuning in, like I said, and uh you know, we appreciate having you guys here. You guys are really what make this show. Um, if you enjoy our content, then definitely if you haven't hit the like button yet, please do because it really does help us. It It might not change anything for you. It doesn't mean it'll push us into your algorithm, but it will be one small thing you can do that will definitely help us and it doesn't cost you anything. Um, also are new to our content. Yeah. What? How's my Supercharger fund going? Oh, Dave, we got a we got a actually, let me find that. Hold on a second. Uh, I I'll have to put it up, I guess, post-prouction. We actually got money for your supercharger. Yes. How many thousands? Chris, shout out to Chris. He sent you $4.99. Actually, he sent it. He sent it to me. And that means that I have to give that to you. And I don't know if I wait to take the taxes out or what or do I help to also pay for your supercharger fund by giving that to you taxree and then paying the taxes myself on it. You give it to me taxree of course. Okay. I wasn't sure how that worked. We appreciate you tuning in guys. As I was saying and uh if you are new here then please hit the subscribe button, hit the bell because we do have a lot of good stuff uh you know on the channel. It comes out each week. The bell is so important. If you've already subscribed and you haven't hit the bell, give it a try. Try hit the bell for a week and see what you get. It's just going to let you know when we put out new stuff. You'll get a notification when you are in the app. Anyway, guys, check out uh true nutrition.com. Use our code think over there. Supplementource.ca for Canadians. Strongportsnutrition if you're in the UK and possibly soon if you're in the US. And of course, evalbloodanalysis.com. You can get your lab work done by Dave. What's up, Dave? How many people watch this? A few thousand. Right. Everyone donates $1 to the supercharger fund. We will reach our target. $1. You tight measly sods. All this free programming you get. $1. I need a dollar. That's all. I need Look at how Dave comes alive when he starts asking for money. Wow, that was impressive, guys. Guys, we appreciate you tuning in for another episode of Drugs and Stuff. We'll see you soon. Thanks, Dave. Bye.