 What anablous vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin vitamin leveraging testosterone at a higher dose. What's up, guys? Welcome back to Think Big Bodybuilding Media. I'm Scott McNally, and back again with me is Kuba Chilling. Guys, remember to like, share, subscribe, comment, ring the bell, all that stuff. Hit the hype button. Kuba, what's going on, man? Let's get it. Let's get it. Hit the hype button. I like it. I like it, Scott. Yes, sir. That intro is getting extremely sharp, man. I think you've done it a thousand times now, so it's very, very professional. I love it. Thank you. We're just trying to get in, get straight to the point, man. People don't want to tune in to hear us like BS and ramble for 30 minutes before we get on topic, right? Yeah, absolutely, man. Absolutely. Let's get it. Let's get it. I think we've got some juicy ones, quite literally juicy topics to cover, right? Yeah, that's a good way of putting it. Also, too, I'll pull them up a little bit later, but we did have a bunch of awesome feedback from the last episode, and we had some follow-up questions and stuff. But to start, I know Kuba is, sends me a bunch of topics. Basically, he's like, hey, all this big brain dump comes at me on WhatsApp. And what am I looking at here? We had basically cycles for pennies, basically how to put together a cycle, make good progress without breaking the bank. We've kind of talked about aspects of budget, bodybuilding before, but then also cycle design for max gains at the same time. And then you had a couple of side notes, too, like when your blood work may not reflect what's actually going on with estrogen. So I know you have a few things in there. I don't know exactly where you want to start with this one. I think cycle pennies, and I think that's something that Dante, I think, brought to the table many, many years ago, right? So I think sometimes it's nice to revisit, but it's nice to credit the people that have brought these ideas forward. And I think at the moment, there's a massive draw of DHTs. People are struggling to source gear. But one thing that you cannot struggle to source is, or most people want struggle sourcing, is testosterone, right? Good old-fashioned test. Right. So I think if we were to talk about a cycle for pennies, or let's say the least expensive cycle in the world, it's going to be testosterone, right? Absolutely. Now, if I was to say to you, Scott, right, Scott, you can only get tests that you know is legit. All of the other compounds that you have available, you are not sure of legitimacy of the compound. And you're sure you are either certain it's going to be underdosed, or it's not going to the compound that we desire. My take on this would be then, Scott, can you get testosterone? And can you get an AI? What is the answer? Yes? Yes. Yeah. There we go. There we go. So, what is wrong? And I'm going to ask you this question. What is wrong is just sticking to testosterone and AIs? I don't think there's anything wrong with it, man. I think that a lot of people have built a lot of muscle that way. You know, it's going to, here's the thing, it's going to take a little bit more nuance and education versus you could probably run a freaking gram of a DHT and not have to worry about the same level of sides as you may run into with 50% of that being just test or 75% of that just test dose, right? Absolutely. So, let's break it down. If it was to start just the testosterone cycle, my first pull-off call would always be trying to get the client or whoever I'm giving advice to, to try and daily dose your testosterone. I do think that makes a massive difference. And one mistake I have made in the past, I used to mix all of my gear in one at Deval, right? And I used to mix my testosterone. I used to actually mix my testosterone in with it. And one of you have noticed, when you do mix your oils together, it will never ever mix evenly. It's just, it's common sense, right? Like, so when you're drawing up, let's say you've got 20 mil vial, right? And you've put all your week's worth of gear inside, including testosterone. Some days you might be drawing up and you might get a very little amount of testosterone. Other days you might get more. So, making a small switch where I only mixed my other compounds in a vial and I actually daily dosed my testosterone, I noticed that I was actually able to use a much higher dose of testosterone with no adverse side effects. My estrogen wasn't elevating. I had no sensitivity around my nipples, no water retention, no bloating. I was very, very dry. It was like, hmm, something to it, right? So, daily dosing, in my opinion, is extremely important. But if you are daily dosing, make sure that you are daily dosing your testosterone without mixing other compounds in an empty vial. Because I know that's a practice a lot of people do. And it is common sense, right? But it's just a small variable most people might overlook. So, first part of call, daily dosing. Secondly, start low. You do not want to start any of your cycles, whether you're using testosterone only, or whether you are using a full array of compounds if you have them available to you. And, you know, you've got our blessing. Good luck. Well done. You've got to go. Get the needle in. Go time, right? But the last thing you want to do is start your cycle already at its peak. Now, numerous reasons. I do feel like if you're going hard out of the gate, there will be a lot more stress that is added onto your body. So, I have noticed in the past, if I was to start on the cycle, and let's just speak in hypotheticals, we are going to work up to two and a half grams total, right? Whether that's just testosterone only or a mixture of all compounds, it doesn't matter. I am going to build up my peak. My peak cycle is going to be 2.5 grams. So, 2,500 milligrams total, right? Okay. I would always aim to take at least six, seven weeks to build up to that, maybe even longer. Okay. One thing I've noticed, Scott, is side effects are much less. I do not see any spikes in my rested heart rate. I do not see any bloating. I do not see any regular signs of extra stress that will be placed on your body. And the analogy I can give for this, right, it's almost like you are trying to sculpt something, right? You sculpt in physique using a small little nail, right, to make it beautiful. You don't want to take a sledgehammer to it and just smash it all the way through. Guess what that's going to do? It's probably going to break it. The same principle applies when it comes to your gear escalations. And guess what? The same thing applies when it comes to your food. You want to start slow and build it back up. Back on the topic of testosterone. The reason why you essentially want to do that, and if you are just starting your journey with being enhanced in the advanced world, you want to find your tolerance of testosterone before you do need IIs. Now, this cycle is not going to have any other compounds. You are just going to be taking testosterone. Testosterone. So daily dosing, we start with 300 milligrams per week. We leave that for a week or two weeks at least, right? We know if we're using testosterone and amphate, testipinate, it's probably going to take three, four weeks for it to peak anyway. So you essentially want to build up. And the way I would like to titrate up when it comes to testosterone would be week number one, 300 milligrams. Week number two, again, 300 milligrams. Hold that base. Add in another 100 milligrams. Hold that for two weeks. Add in another 100 milligrams. Hold that for two weeks. Find your tolerance until you do notice that potentially your nipples are starting to get a little bit more sensitive. You notice a little bit more water retention. You notice bloating. Only use an II, aromatized inhibitor, if you notice you are getting any side effects that may actually lead to your estrogen being higher. I like that, man. Do not just throw it in from the start. You're going to be able to assess your tolerance as you go. So you're never going to just get caught off guard and all of a sudden you're just crushed with all sorts of estrogen because you'll sense it. It's like things are getting a little rough here. You know, now's the time to maybe look into it considering an AI. Would you get blood work done when you got that sensitivity or would you just take the AI? What would you do? I'll be honest, Scott. I am not a fan of utilizing blood work to gauge whether you need AI or not. And unless you are having estrogen sensitive tests, which most people in the UK have no access to. Okay. Your blood work, in my opinion, is not a great reflection of where your estrogen is truly sitting at. Okay. Are you saying because if you don't get an E2 sensitive test, you might be reading other forms of estrogen, like Estrone or, you know, what's the top? Okay. Yes. Yes. But also, let's say your estrogen comes back higher in your blood work, but you don't really feel like it's high. And I get this all the time. Estrogen will come back from the roof, but I'm not holding no water attention. I have no sensitivity on my nipples. I have no bloating. Why would I address that? Yeah. I'm with you on there. So another thing to understand is if you are taking a boatload of tests, do not expect your estrogen to be low. Now, even if, even if you are taking IIs or DHTs, you don't really want estrogen to be bottomed out. And I actually found this as well with, with quite a few clients is a lot of the side effects of high estrogen can be misconstrued as low estrogen as well. Absolutely. Yeah. So, and this, this, I think this is going to bring a lot of value to people. So guys, listen, listen to fuck up because that might be you. Sore joints, low mood, generally not feeling your best could be a sign of both low or high estrogen. Poor libido as well, right? Poor libido. Yes. So I have seen this so many times where I have guys coming over to me and they are telling me that their estrogen is high. They are taking aromatized inhibitors. Their testosterone dose is fairly low. They are taking mast and primo. Yeah. I'm like, dude, the estrogen isn't high. The estrogen is probably crushed. That is why you have no energy. Your joints are completely sore as shit. You have no drive. You have low moods. So look, there's definitely a lot more context that goes into it. And I prefer to go off how you feel when it comes to estrogen regions. I'm not really a fan of saying, right, your estrogen's at this range. You need to take an AI. I'm also not a fan of allowing the estrogen to run crazy high because I don't think that's productive. Yes, estrogen does have an array of benefits when it comes to potential neuroprotective benefits, potential benefits when it comes to actually growing muscle tissue, even fat loss to a degree, mood, better training performance. All of these wonderful benefits come alongside of a healthy level of estrogen. Not low, not high. So you want a middle ground. You essentially want to sit in a place where you've got good libido. Your joints are not fucking wrecked. You have no excessive water retention. Your blood pressure's in check. Your appetite's good. Your sleep is good. Sleep disturbances can come from low estrogen and high estrogen. If your estrogen is low, you may notice waking up super early. And you see that with guys on prep. When they've crushed estrogen too hard, they start waking up super early and then they're not able to actually have restful sleep. So I think there's a fine balance, right? But back on topic. You don't want to start with an aromatized inhibitor in any cycle straight away. And I see this with so many coaches saying that aromatized inhibitors somehow promote fat loss or improve fat loss. So you see some of the top coaches just run Nolvidex and aromatized inhibitors just because. And it's like, well, why are you running it? Does your client need it? Nine times out of ten, the guys they're using it with, they probably don't need it. So cycle for penis. If you are going to use the testosterone, hold off. Be patient. Do not just throw in an AI. AI's work incredibly fast, guys. If you notice that you are experiencing some of the actual sensitivity around your nipples and you start to feel off as you escalate that testosterone dose, that is when I would potentially consider an aromatized inhibitor like Ariminex. I would definitely try to avoid, sorry, like Aromacin. I would definitely try to avoid Ariminex. And the reason why I would try to avoid Ariminex is because I have definitely found that Ariminex is great if you want to really bring down your estrogen hard. Ariminex and letrozole. But I do believe that effect it can have is a little bit too harsh. Aromacin, I do believe, is much better when it comes to trying to control estrogen. And you do not get a rebound off the back of it as you do when it comes to utilizing ADEX, as you know that yourself. It's more forgiving, you know? Like if you were to take a little too much Aromacin, it's not going to crush you the same way that like a little bit too much Ariminex. It could happen fast, right, with Ariminex. Exactly. Yeah, I'm with you. Let's talk about hypothetical doses of IIs if you are going to use a test on this cycle. Okay. Let's say someone's up to 500 mg of test only and they are experiencing a little bit of sites. But I would not go in with 25 Aromacin every single day or even every other day. I would literally go in with 12.5 twice per week. Okay, yeah. This, in my opinion, would be enough to already regain some control. Now, there's other tools that you could use like Proviron, etc. But Proviron is going to be more expensive and it's not really going to be something that's going to be a part of cycle of pennies. That's more so if someone's going all out and they've got unlimited cash and they want that cleaner look or managed water retention a little bit better. Proviron can come into play in its own kind of specific way. But I definitely think that you want to almost take as little as you physically can to get the desired effect when it comes to IIs. More is definitely not better. And I think more, if anything, will lead to you actually making less progress because that's what it's all about. So as we keep that testosterone dose up, see what you can tolerate. You've got up to 500 mg. You're using 12.5 Aromacin twice per week. Let's see what 750 feels like. Okay. Let's see what 1,000 feels like. And then you can then increase your aromatized inhibitor dosing slightly based off how you feel as you go through the cycle escalations. Yeah. If you go in straight away with two grams of testosterone and an AI on top, you have so many moving parts you don't know where to go from. And it will be much harder to manage. Sure. If you start off low, both with your testosterone and both of your AI use, it's much easier for you to manage your cycle escalations. And it's much easier for you to understand how much more aromacin you might need to actually counteract some of the conversion to estrogen from your testosterone. Another consideration to make. More body fat you carry, guys, more estrogen you'll convert. Yeah. You do have androgen receptors both in your muscle tissue but also in your fat cells. So more body fat you carry, more estrogen you will unfortunately convert. So if you are on the heavier side, before you consider a testosterone-only cycle, I would always aim to try and get as lean as possible. And essentially, if you are going to the off-season phase and you are trying to grow, you should probably want to start leaner anyway. Yeah. Yeah. I'm with you on that, man. Let's say someone needs 2,000 milligram total or 2,500 milligram total of testosterone only. If someone's lean enough and they are doing daily injections, which at that dose probably doesn't really matter that much anyway, but it will help for sure. So I do believe that pulling might need maybe 12.5 or almost in daily or even 25 every other day. What's your take on that? Yeah. Yeah. I think it's individual. Absolutely. If you're working up to that level, I could see it developing to that point. No question, man. I think that for me, especially if I'm using Aromacin, I find that personally, if I use Aromacin, I am going to need to stay on top of it more. Versus if I use arimidex, then I'm more likely to keep it under control with infrequent dosing. But if I were up to, and I've never run two grams of just tests, but let's say I'm at two grams of tests, I bet you I would need it. I'd probably need a fair amount, 12.5 to 25 every day maybe with Aromacin. A hundred percent. And look, guys, some of you listen to this. I know some guys personally that can actually afford to take a lot of tests and they do not need any AIs. They have no sensitivity issues. It's crazy. It's crazy. Some people, man, do the opposite. 300 milligrams, they're a mess. Other guys are like 1,000 milligrams plus, and they're like, I don't use any AI. And then we actually look at their estrogen and it's not crazy. It's like in range or, you know, it's controllable. Now imagine this. Imagine if that guy, the same person also wants to throw in AI just because it's a thing to do. It'd mess him up, dude. It would limit his gains is what would happen. Exactly. Exactly. And look, we're not here to preach and say that AIs are unhealthy and you shouldn't use them. We are talking about what's going to give you the most progress. And sometimes just adding AIs for sake of adding them doesn't lead to more progress. It's less. Both when you're trying to gain muscle tissue and with back loss to a degree. So you've got to get the right balance. And if anything's on the cycle for pennies. After 20 years of bodybuilding experience, plus coaching countless athletes, I have tried all sorts of protein shakes from thin to thick to gritty to drywall paste consistency. So when I say that I trust True Nutrition, I mean it. In fact, True Nutrition is one of the few companies that I trust and trust in this industry. Well, it's about as common as a bodybuilder passing up the opportunity to talk about his prep. 60 grams of protein is kind of my sweet spot. Yeah, I see you out there. What makes True Nutrition different? You get to pick your base. I'm a big fan of the way ISO. You get to pick your flavor. I like the cookie butter lately. You can choose how thick you want it and you can add boosts. It's basically like the supplement version of Qdoba minus the chance of getting food poisoning. Oh my God, my insides are on fire. Plus, they're also a manufacturer creating a lot of the supplements that you guys are using from other companies. You can cut out the middleman and go straight to the source. No proprietary blend nonsense. They're third-party tested and in-house tested as well. There's no guessing game. It's literally just gains in a bag. If you want protein you can trust, go to truenutrition.com and use our code THINK. After 20 years of bodybuilding, coaching, and mixing some absolute nightmares of protein shakes, believe me when I say this is the good stuff. I've got a question for you. What do you think of this? Let's say you've got a guy who is in that situation where like, hey, test is going to be the cheapest option. He's going to want to push a higher dose cycle. Let's say that we've proposed 1.25 grams a test is going to be the dose that we work up to. What if he says, hey, you know what? I've got a bottle of DECA. It's 250 milligrams per milliliter. What do you think about, how would you work that in then with this cycle? And do you think that that 250 milligrams would be worthwhile and effective for a guy who's financially kind of strapped so he's mostly going to stick to test? Would like 250, 300 DECA or even 200 DECA as part of this mostly test cycle, would that be of any benefit? I definitely think so, yes. Yes, yes. And look, people can give scientific research and scientific explanations all day long. But in my opinion, from what I've seen myself and with thousands of clients, when you are utilizing testosterone as your main compound, adding almost any other compound does create some synergy and it does lead to better results. Yes. So let's say somebody comes to me and says, right, I've got this much DECA available, this much test available. One plus one equals three in that case, in my opinion, not two. I really do think that, especially when it comes to DECA, I mean, it's sort of a compound that not many people can tolerate. And I'm definitely not, I'm not against DECA, but just like Tremble, right? I do think that the use of 19 laws should be kept to a minimum, in my opinion. Okay. Because I do feel like DECA is the most potent out of them all when it comes to building tissue. It really is. But that potency also comes at a higher cost, in my opinion. I do believe that, yeah, I do believe that, for example, let's say someone's got a 20-week cycle planned. If they just started with the DECA straight away, I don't think they'd have 20 weeks in them. Okay. Let's say someone tells me they have DECA available. I would say, right, Scott, I don't want you to start DECA yet. I want you to run 10 weeks only first on testosterone, and then we can add the DECA in to finish off the cycle or to get the last eight weeks leveraged with DECA in place to try and maximize the progress as much as possible. Yeah. I definitely would be a fan of that. The only thing to watch out for is there may be some more issues when it comes to prolactin when it comes to DECA use. So, instead of using CABA, a high dose of vitamin B6 P5P can do the job here to manage prolactin pretty well, in my opinion. And I think as long as someone stays relatively lean, it should not be that much of an issue. The only times where I do see DECA become a lot more problematic is with guys that do tend to hold a lot more water, and with guys that do tend to store body fat easier. And I think we can talk about the difference between NPP and normal DECA as well. I do feel like, I'm not sure what you're taking on it, Scott, but I do feel like NPP, you will hold much less water with than you will a normal DECA. Sure. And less side effects just overall. Like if you do have, say, a sensitivity to 19-nors, I think that using NPP, side effects are going to be much lower as compared to long-acting DECA, even at the same dose, just my personal experience. I got something for you. Kind of what we're leaning into here, Kuba, this reminds me a lot of how cycle design took place 20 years ago, where we really did mainly rely on tests as the main mover, and you would get so much out of a small amount of an additional compound. So you take a guy who's on, say, 1,000 tests, he might only use, say, 300 of another compound, but you're already getting so much out of that test that by adding even 300 or 400 or something else, it's way ballpark different than if you were to do like A-50-50 of each of them. I completely agree. I have to agree. I think we've gone away from higher testosterone cycles because we have gone through a phase where it was all about safer use model. Yeah. And the safer use model, and this is probably going to sound very different to what people preach, but there is no such thing as safer use model when you work your way up anything above 500 milligrams vanabolics total. Yeah. 500, 600 milligrams total, I think, is pretty safe, right? Yeah, you could do that longer term on and off through your life. Yeah. Most people are going to do that. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah. But when it comes to utilizing 1,000, 2,000, 3,000 milligrams anabolics, which most high-level athletes are using, right? Yeah. There's no such thing as safer use model. Yeah. It literally, what makes more sense, Scott, is, right, what anabolics can I take to see the most progress with the least side effects? In my opinion, yes, it's going to be a mixture of testosterone and DHT, yes, but if you can leverage testosterone at a higher dose, especially when you're using growth hormone, I do believe that you get more from it. And I do believe that the synergy it creates is so much greater. And I'll give you an example, right? The most progress I have made in the quickest timeframe in the past three, four weeks has been leveraging testosterone at a higher dose. Okay. Really? Yeah. Higher than ever before. Okay. Okay. Okay. And is that the main thing you're leaning into then is the test? Yes. Yes. And look, trial and error, right? Yeah. I have a lot of clients that simply cannot run testosterone high. They just feel like shit. But what I have seen very common is the guys that have more muscle, the bigger you are, more testosterone you can handle. So it only makes sense when it comes to designing cycle is to try and work up your testosterone as high as possible. Don't start with grams and grams of DHT. Start with testosterone maybe being a little bit higher. And then guess what? If you feel great on your cycle, what's stopping you potentially lowering down DHTs and increasing testosterone to see what kind of response you see? And I've actually done that with a client just recently. He gave me some feedback. He was like, right, my training's flying, but, you know, my knees are feeling a little bit sore. You know, pumps are great in the gym. Energy's great. Energy's amazing. I had his blood work done. He's actually looking back in range. Okay. I was like, okay, let's do this. Let's lower the mastron down by 400 milligrams and let's up testosterone by 500 milligrams. Mate, three weeks. He's up probably three kilos. And that's like a decent shift in body weight. It's more than I would normally expect. Condition, the same. Fullness is crazy. Not holding any more water. Huh. Guess what? Guess what? Knees are not hurting anymore. There you go, man. So this is what I'm saying in regard to the blood work. On paper, most people look at our blood work and be like, we don't need to touch your cycle. Your estrogen is in range. Yeah. I know the sort of feedback he's giving me. That's not his estrogen in range. That's his estrogen lower than it should be. Yeah. So on paper, your blood work might reflect one thing, especially when it comes to estrogen. But in reality, you might need to make a decision to see, actually, it might be more beneficial to try and drive up the estrogen or even change the cycle stack design in order to accommodate for a little bit more testosterone, even potential for the estrogen to keep up a little bit higher. I also do believe once you get to a certain dose of your testosterone, I don't think more estrogen necessarily converts anyway, especially if you have Mastron and Primo in play. Because we both know Mastron, it does work more like a Sarm and Primo will actively lower your estrogen in most cases. So when you do have them both in play, you can afford to actually run your testosterone higher with, I wouldn't say without risk or without coming to issues with estrogen elevating, but I do think you are going to be safer to do so. So if there's anything that anyone can take away from this is you need to have an open mind when it comes to cycle design. And sometimes if you have a cycle planned, and a lot of people say they don't have cycle plans, but you will have an idea of what you're going to run. Sometimes it might actually be worth experimenting and seeing, well, what if a higher testosterone feels better? How will you perform? How will you grow with that? And from experience, if your blood pressure is not a problem, and you do not convert much estrogen, I think there's nothing wrong with trying a higher dose of test and keeping all your other anabolics a little bit lower. And I do think that NPP and Decker and even Tremblone at lower doses can be leveraged. The key to this though, Scott, and context is how long you are going to leverage for and at which stage of your offseason you are going to leverage it at as well. If you can save the tools like the 19 no's towards the back end of your offseason when you want to get that final push, I think that's where it's going to be most productive. So in a very long roundabout way to your question, what would I do with the client that came up to me and said, we've got the Decker, you know, can we utilize it? I wouldn't ever take it off the table. It would be a consideration, but there would be a tick list that I'd need to tick first. Does this client have any issues with overthinking? Does this client have any issues with anxiety? Does this client have any issues with extra blood pressure management, estrogen management, any erectile dysfunction issues, any sex drive issues? Because if any of these boxes get ticked, guess what? Nandrolone's probably not on the table for that guy. Yeah. Yeah. There's going to be those scenarios for sure. Yes. But if none of these boxes are ticked, then what we are going to say is, Scott, for 12 weeks, we are just going to run tests. The last eight weeks, we're going to add Decker or MPP. Whatever you have, whatever you have, we add. It doesn't matter. I think the difference between both is minimal anyway. But it can definitely make a bit of a difference with visuals. And then guess what? If we get to 20-week mark, we have your blood work done, Scott. You are still relatively lean. Your appetite's still good. Your lifts are progressing. Guess what? We continue moving forward. We don't just stop because it says on your timeline, 20 weeks is here and your cycle's over. Yeah. Well, why are you stopping? That's the question you're asking yourself. What is the reason for you to stop the cycle? Yeah. Yeah. If everything's still pushing along. If everything's still pushing along. Keep going. This is why, like, I do like to work off timelines, right? So myself, all my athletes, everyone, you will have a timeline set. But the first thing that made clear is that your timeline is just a vision that I created for your future. Sure. Guess what? That vision may change depending on the response that I see from you. If I am working with you and we get to 16 weeks of your cycle or 16 weeks of your off-season push-up phase, your blood work's fucked. You feel tired. You're not progressing anymore. Your body fat levels are a little bit higher than I would have liked. Guess what, Scott? We go into a maintenance phase. Yeah. On the other hand, we get to week 21. You're still good. We keep going. I mean, last off-season, I think I did 30 weeks altogether. And again, it wasn't 30 weeks where I started on a high dose. I started low and I tapered up. And guess what? I got to my week 24 and I was like, I still feel good. I'm progressing. My blood work's good. Again, Dave can vouch for that. He's got all my blood work. My blood work's good. Why would I stop now? We keep going, right? So keep an open mind to the timeframes you're planning for your cycles. Keep an open mind to your cycle design. And keep an open mind to an array of compounds that may be beneficial for you. But also, be mindful. Some compounds, unfortunately, may be off the table for you if you are prone already to having the side effects that these compounds may enhance even more. Because that's what it is, right? Any PED is going to enhance your performance. But any other issues that you have that are in there, it's going to enhance them even more. And you see that on prep with guys that are aggressive or guys that already have some issues that they need to work on mentally. Tremble, for example, it just makes them 10 times worse. So you've got to take all of these things into account. That was a very, very long-winded answer to a very simple question. We apologize, mate. You know, and another thing, a couple things is I think that two things. Number one, I think that with what you're saying, that I totally agree with you. That we have, you know, an idea set up. You've set up this idea. You're going to have me run this cycle for 20 weeks. But that could change based off of, you know, how things go. I think that, you know, you, the listener at home, you need to be real honest with yourself. I think that one of the traps that we fall into sometimes is that although I'm at 15 weeks, everything is kind of stalled out. I still want to stay on for that additional five weeks because I don't want to sacrifice potential to get those gains. I want to keep those levels up high. Whereas if you really have tapped out, you're going to be so much better off cutting it there, getting yourself back into order and then moving on to the next stage. So my thought is, is just don't just, we get trapped. We're like, well, I don't want to lower the hormones. I want to, they think like, well, I'm still growing, you know? And it's like, well, our, how is your health? Number one. But then how are you progressing in the gym? How are you doing with your food? Are you tapped out? Are you like actually able to keep up with all this? Are you still like driving forward, making progress? Is there momentum? You know, that's one thought. And then my other thought would be the, with that estrogen control, you know, we've talked before on the programs about the importance of liver health. And we, because one of my first thoughts, man, we get some people that come on the shows and they say, well, I'm a high aromatizer, you know? And no, no, it's your liver. It's your liver, my friends. Yeah. Yeah. So why don't you talk a little bit about that? Because we may have some people that are listening. They've completely written themselves off as that they are not somebody who could do a higher test only cycle. What are some of the situations here where, you know, maybe they aren't the high aromatizer they thought? Man, there's so many because it's something that I actually spoke to Dr. Dean about and he explained it really well is that on paper, he actually explained it referring to my estrogen. On paper, it actually looks like my estrogen is high. But we don't know, we don't know how much of that estrogen is just not being cleared by your liver. Yeah. So sometimes your estrogen readings may come back super high on paper in your blood work. But in reality, it's not actually that high. It's just that estrogen isn't being cleared because your liver might be under stress or there might be other reasons behind it. So liver health, I think it's very important, not just for digestion, for your appetite, but also cleaning estrogen. And there's a supplement that JP's Estrogen Control actually has. And that's calcium D gluconorate, which can actually help, can actually help with clearing the estrogen out of your liver. So if you are struggling with estrogen in general or management of estrogen, the first thing that I would probably address and fix is your nutrition, your supplementation, and potentially even looking at supplementation like the calcium D gluconorate as well. So it does work remarkably well. Oh, yeah. You can, I mean, maybe not on a two and a half gram cycle, but on TRT levels, I've seen people drop their estrogen too low with too much calcium D gluconorate. It's totally possible. It's great for people. It's great for females too. You know, they could use to clear some of that estrogen. But yeah, it's a great supplement overall. That and then stress, all the other pieces that you've talked about on this show all kind of come together. And you making sure that like you get your sleep in, make sure your hydration is right. All of those factors, I think, play a big role then in making sure that you're able to clear estrogen. Absolutely. So it always, you know what, I'm going to sound like a broken record, but we've both said this many, many times, right? The healthier you are, the more you will grow. Yeah. This is why, this is why you should not be afraid of pulling back when you need to, because if you get to a point where your progress stalls for whatever reason, or even if it's your health markers, your liver, it could be all these different things, your liver, your kidneys, whatever it is, doesn't matter. You've got to a point where progressions come to a stop. Yeah. Taking that step back to lower your anabolics, lower your stress, lower your training load, lower your food. Temporarily, you may be taking a step back to maintain your gains. And again, you're not really taking a step back. I promise you guys, you won't take a step back. But let's just look at it as a way of stepping back. For, you know, for audience sake, because most people will look at it that way anyway. So by taking that one step back, you will essentially make two steps forward because you are giving your body some breathing space to be able to get a little bit healthier or even, and I've done this, I'm not sure if you've ever come across this, but I got to a point with a couple of my guys. Where they got to a new level of size, new level of body weight, new level of strength. And it was all very, very new where they've never experienced it. So they found it really hard. When they got to that point, that is when I actually put them in a maintenance block. Lowered the training volume. Lowered the food a little bit. Lowered the drugs. Added a little bit of cardio. Guess what? They didn't lose any body weight. They didn't lose any strength. We held for four weeks. We allowed them to almost climatize to that new body weight, new size. Their body composition, the body composition was still good. So all we did then is crank things back up and get back to a growth phase. You're still using enough food then to hold size, you're saying. You're just not pushing it as hard or you're letting them actually diet back down. No, no, no. Definitely no dieting down. Okay. If you get to a new level of size and you transition straight into a diet, I do believe you will lose muscle. Thank you. Especially, especially, especially if you've got to a new level and I don't care what anybody says. If they try and claim that, they're just fucking morons. And I'll give an explanation. I'll give an explanation on that. A lot of people claim that you can diet on lower anabolics. That is right to a degree until you get to a certain level. Just hear me out on this one, Scott. Yeah. A lot of people are under the impression that they make a lot of progress when they've had like a break off or they've stopped training. It's like, well, you haven't really made that much progress. It's just that you've gotten smaller and you've regained some tissue that you've lost. The reality is, the reality is, if you've reached a new level of musculature, new level of strength, and it was done, unfortunately, unfortunately, it will be done with a new level of anabolics. You cannot expect to hold that size on less anabolics and less food. Sure. You need one input to maintain the size there. So the last thing you want to do is drop your food down in that instance. I didn't lower the food down significantly, Scott. It was, I think it was just under 6,000 calories, 5,900 calories on training day, 4,700 on rest day in one case scenario. In one case study that I'm talking about. Because that paints a very clear picture. Food is still high at that point. Yeah, it's still high. So the only thing I did, Scott, I dropped the calories by 500 on both days. That's it. Okay, yeah. You took the edge off, basically. But all that did, Scott, it literally put them at maintenance. It didn't drop them to their deficit. And then guess what? I saw within two weeks that appetite improved. They felt hungry. Their body weight started to trickle down a little bit. Guess what I did then, Scott? What's that? 50 grams of carbs added, both training day and rest day. That's 250 calories, roughly. Guess what? Felt better. Felt stronger. Appertight picked up. Yeah. Two more weeks. Blood work done. Blood work's great. Feel healthy. Feel ready. Back to work. I like that. So, 100%. And look, guys, there's no rules to it, right? You need to pivot with the plan. And this is very much when it comes to training, when it comes to your drugs, when it comes to your plans, when it comes to your prep. Do not just get caught up in the idea that you have to just do this one thing. Yeah. You've got to pivot, and you've got to be reactive to what your body tells you. This is why we ask you guys, and you should be telling yourself, all different biofeedback. And Scott's book actually has, like, a chart, and I actually use it myself, and I've used it for many, many years. Your perceived rate of recovery chart. And how you feel, you know? You should be asking yourself these questions. How do you feel today, and how have you felt this week? Because if you're getting consecutive weeks when you are feeling like shit, you're probably either taking too much, or you do need to take that step back. So, periodization is not just about training. Periodization very much is something that you need to consider when it comes to your drugs and food. Yeah. But the last thing you want to do, guys, is lowering the anabolics, lowering the food, and trying to achieve all of these things at once. It just doesn't happen. You need to pick one, stick to it, and then go again. I think a large portion of that is going to come down to patience, though, Scott, because patience is something not many people have. And patience, in my opinion, is what costs a lot of people progress, because they will get to that point where they've reached new levels of size, new levels of musculature, right? Using the cycle for pennies. And then they want to rush to get lean. They want to rush to get, you know, body fat levels back down. But it's like, what would have been more productive is you just taking your time and staying at that size, staying bigger, holding your lifts. And I think there's something to be said with getting strong, staying strong, getting big, and staying big for a large portion of time. Yeah. I personally believe that when this happens, you get much better results when it comes to fat loss, and the end looks just so much better. Yeah. Now, I'm with you on all this 100%, man. I hope that people take some value from it. And it is very different, I think, than the approaches that we hear a lot nowadays of people who are using everything else under the sun. And we've had a lot of, you know, part of it is probably there's been a lot of compounds available to us. But, you know, not everybody can afford everything, right? Not everybody can afford to run 10 units of growth and 700 primo. You know, they may only be able to run just testing. And I think that somebody in that situation can still do a really freaking good job, man. They did it 20 years ago. I will give you a tremendous example. I've got a client at the moment I'm working with. And he's financially in a position where he can only afford so much. And we have just done a pre-prep diet. 11 weeks. He's dropped 7 kilos in body weight, 14 pounds. But the transformation is like crazy. It's re-comped a lot. And all we did, we started on 300 tests alone, nothing else. And then we worked up to 500 tests, 300 EQ. That is it. No fat burners, no SLU, no nothing. I love it. And guess what? The look has just completely transformed. So guys, I know you have all of these things available. But try not to throw in the kitchen sink. Try to use as little as you can to get the desired response. And I promise you guys, when you start laying these compounds in, you will get so much more out of them. True. Prime example here. We've finished the diet. And he's like, I've got more funds available. Guess what? I can add GH now. I can actually add more compounds in now. Yeah. Guess what's going to happen now? A lot more progress will be had. Yeah. With just the additions. So much out of less, you know? Exactly. Not just got so much out of less, but we've gone through a few. Full period of him dieting, improving his training, improving his daily habits, improving his health markers, getting leaner. He's a better bodybuilder now. He's a better bodybuilder. He's leaner. He's healthier. So guess what? Anything we throw at him now, progress will just skyrocket. So patience sometimes and leaning onto the side of caution with leaving some tools available to you sometimes can definitely pay off. Yeah. I love it, man. Hey, while I got you here, would you be up for knocking out a few of our listener questions? We had, like I said, man, there was a ton of feedback on that last episode. People really enjoyed it. And you know what, man? I got to tell you, it makes me happy to see the people that are really grateful for the podcast. I've seen it, and I'm sure I know you read the comments too. There are people who are like, hey, I really need to hear this, or hey, this really makes sense to me. And I appreciate hearing everybody's feedback. So that said, guys, if you guys got something out of this, please comment. Let us know. And of course, comment with follow-up questions too, right, Kuba? If they want to ask us anything about this stuff, right? Anything you need. And I'm just going to apologize in advance. I think I've gone on a few tangents here, Scott. But I wanted to cover as much basis as possible with covering what we actually wanted to speak about. Because it's just not black and white, is it, when we speak about these things? No. So I think the more in-depth we can give someone an answer, the more educated decisions they can actually make off the back of it, can't they? Yeah, 100%, man. All right, let's see what we have here. I haven't even read these in advance, but it does say this is a question. He says, hey, Scott and Kuba, I've been watching these videos for months now. Great info. Nice dudes. Question, did my first cycle this year, off-season only, 500 tests and gained about 7 kilograms, while getting more conditioned and harder. I'm thinking about my next cycle, my second cycle being 500 tests. And 300 mast for a cut phase. What do you think? Is that too much? What should I consider on diet and drugs and anything that I should look into? I would consider dieting on just 500 tests. And then once he's dieted, that is when I would consider adding a secondary compounding in his next growth phase. Let me throw something at you. You tell me, what do you think of this, man? Yeah. So if he's bigger than he was, and he said he's in better condition than he was, if his ultimate goal is to get as big as possible, does he need to diet right now? It depends. It depends. There's only so much time you can spend in a calorie surplus. That's a good point. Even if you lean, you are just going to get to a point where the body just isn't as responsive. Yeah. So it's almost like a reset button, right? Yeah. Sometimes, every so often, your computer's going to freeze and you're going to need to press a reset button, right? It's the same when it comes to gaining phases. You can only gain for so long before you need that reset button. And listen, for some people, it might be 15 weeks. For some people, it might be 20. Some people might be 30. I've got some guys that have been at it 40 weeks now, but it's been very, very slow and controlled. So it just depends on where he's at. And sometimes, Scott, people need that change of direction mentally. Oh, yeah. So even if he's not really fat, even if he's still relatively lean, he might get a massive boost mentally just getting a little bit leaner, which is going to translate to being more motivated, more driven, and more committed. Guess what's going to happen off the back of that? More growth off the back of it. So in his case, what I would personally do, and I think that would lead to the most progress, keep 500 test-wise dieting, get as lean as you can over 6, 10, 12 weeks, whatever you need to get as lean as possible. Then consider not adding 300 mg of mass, but instead what I would do, if you tolerated 500 tests well, and you've gotten very, very lean on 500 tests as well, I would probably go up again with tests, 600 tests and 200 massed. Okay. I wouldn't... From what I can see already, he really gets on with tests very, very well. So I would definitely want to leverage more testosterone instead of leveraging more DHT in that case scenario. Okay. How about this one? So if you want to take a higher volume approach, how far away from failure would you take it? For example, would you do three sets of 10 and the final set of 10, the 10th rep should be like one rep in the tank? Or are you talking about just taking things to mechanical failure where you would get like three more if you were to rip it? See, that's the conversation that we used to have about training to failure or training past failure. I mean, if you're ripping it, are these reps providing you with any additional value? Yeah. How much risk are you getting out of these reps? So if you are going to consider a higher volume approach, you need to understand what true failure is. Because if you have no understanding of what true failure is, you won't really be able to gauge two, three reps in reserve. Okay. So let's say he does. Let's say he's got a really deep understanding. If you're going to do higher volume, I would probably stay around three reps away from failure for all of the sets. I think that's the only way someone could get away with high volume. Yeah. And please, if you are listening to this, watch Jay Cutler's training clips. Jay's last rep still moves relatively easy. That rep pace doesn't really slow down that much, does it, Scott? Yeah, he's pretty consistent with everything. He knew kind of where, he knew himself so well, I feel like he knew where to draw the line. Though he was pushing, you know, it's not as if he wasn't driving hard in those last reps. But those reps were still three, I would probably say three, four reps away from true failure. Yeah. I guess I'd have to watch it to agree or disagree with you, but I know exactly what you're talking about. He didn't get to that point where he was grinding slow ever. Now that, you know, when I really think about any of the sets, I could, you know, think back to. I only know because I've watched so many hours of Jay training, so I just. He's freaking awesome, man. I'm a Jay fan. I am. I am. It's just a, it's a great person, great human being. Okay. I'm not sure how you're going to want to handle this one, but he says, what chest exercises would you suggest for someone who is nursing a shoulder injury? I'm limited to barbells, dumbbells, and rack-mounted cable pulley system. Dumbbell work for sure. If you have a shoulder issue, I would stick to dumbbell work and I would definitely address your posture and exercise execution and settle. Yeah. To me, it sounds like his exercise setup needs fixing first. A lot of people, Scott, and you'll see this here, right? When they go into chest press, they'll do this. Yeah. Yeah. You see that all the time, man. Right. What happens when you do this? For the audio listeners, Cooper's pushing his neck forward. Yeah. So a lot of people that push their head forward, then they'll try to press. Look at my shoulders, right? Shoulders elevated. Ah. So head back, chest up, and shoulders depressed. So look at this. This is already pre-stretching my pecs. Right? That is the posture you want to take. Yep. 100%, man. Posture for pressing is extremely important, not just to get your pecs pre-stretched. So this is the posture you want to take. Head back, chest up, shoulders depressed, not retracted. If you retract your shoulders, there is no retraction without elevation. So a lot of people still cue shoulder retraction in chest work. If you retract your shoulders, Scott, guess this happens. Your shoulders elevated, again, this is going to put a lot more stress on your shoulder joint. So bulletproof way to do it. Chest up, shoulders down. Maintain that posture entire time. I would definitely start on dumbbell pressing. If you have stability issues or even mobility issues, I wouldn't want to pre-fatigue your chest before your compound work if you only have dumbbells and barbells available. The reason for that is if he was to do a lot of cable work before, you might feel your chest more. Yes. Sensation isn't everything, Scott. And for the benefit of you feeling your chest more, if you go into dumbbell work pre-fatigued, you will not have the same stability. If you don't have the same stability, less output and you are risking an injury as well. It's going to limit you. Yes, exactly that. If you had machines available, then I would probably be like, yeah, go ahead and do cable flies first. Machines are going to be safer and easier to maintain your posture. Dumbbell work, not the same. Yeah. Not even close. So in his instance, I would definitely, definitely work on posture, work on exit setup, stick to dumbbell work, avoid barbell work. So the way he would construct it could be a flat dumbbell press, a cable fly, and then he could even finish on a deficit press-up. Yeah. And hey, I'm going to throw this out to him. I did ask a follow-up saying, hey, what's exactly wrong with it? And in his response, he said that he's not sure. I'd say figure it out. You know, like figure out what's actually going on. Cuba, I had, dude, it was the absolute worst bicep tendonitis. And my front delt would just scream at me. It limited me for years. And one of the big problems was is that my pecs were really tight. So finally, when I figured this out, man, now if I start, I got it again like two weeks ago. My front delt was starting to scream. I had a client over. We trained shoulders. Like I probably hit it a little harder than I should have. And then the next couple days, I was like, oh, that shoulder is getting tight, man. It's my pecs. So if I can loosen my pecs up, which bodybuilders, our pecs get tight. I'm sitting at this computer all day. I'm getting like this. And those pecs get so tight, man, it's going to throw everything off. If I can just run the massage gun through the pec, get under the pec, get into pec minor, you know, like I can figure out how to loosen those up, get my posture proper. And then I'm less likely to have that same shoulder issue anymore. You know, because he said there's nothing like physically wrong from what he can see and from what his massage therapist can see. Like figure out what's the actual mechanism causing this and change that, you know? Yeah, 100%. The massage gun is a great tool. I love it. Because just giving yourself, and that's worth mentioning as well, on how it can help. A little bit of blood flow makes the muscle more pliable. Yeah. So if you add, if you have massage gun over your muscle, it will increase blood flow, but it will also increase the ability for that muscle fully lengthened and fully shortened. So you essentially have greater range of motion through your pecs if you do run the massage gun across them. So very, very smart move, Scott. Good man. All right. I think that's all we had here, man. But I do encourage everybody to comment with more questions. I'm sure they're going to have a bunch of them on this one, man, after all the gear talk, right? Yeah. Listen, it's a little bit different, but I think a lot of value has been covered in this one. I'd agree. Hey, real quick, where's your personal progress at? Like, what are you weighing now? All that stuff. 253 pounds this morning. Okay. Condition's still there. Condition's still pretty good. Can you see me still? Can you hear me? No, I lost you. You're off for a minute here. Are you grabbing pictures or something? Can you hear me, though? Yeah, can you hear me? I can hear you. Okay, wicked, wicked. As long as you can hear me, we're all good. Let me just try and get you a good picture, man. All right, all right. Let me get you a good shot. Right. Here we go, Scott. Let me get the checking pictures up. Just got to make sure I've got the ones with the pants on. Just so we don't get demonetized, right? Yeah, absolutely. That's the only reason why. Well, thank you for that and for sparing me. I appreciate it. Okay, wait, wait, wait. I mean, listen, I'm looking okay. I'm not fat yet, so I think that's the main thing. I do take a lot of pride in the execution. Yeah. That's 253 at the moment. I can still get them abs and five pretty well. I'll drop these in post-production. Yeah, dude, these are looking solid, dude. You got still, I can see lines in your quads from your back shot. Yeah. Oh, yeah, man. Yeah, that front most muscular, like the hands on hip shot is really nice on you. So I'm running on a lot of rage. On a lot of rage. Oh, yeah? I really am. Yeah, yeah. I'm running on a lot of rage because this year, it's been a hard year mentally for me, I'll be honest. Really? Okay. Yeah, yeah. Very, very hard year because the show that I was really aiming for to be my absolute best that was the France show and the British. Because obviously, I had a lot of clients competing with me at the other shows, so it wasn't really, I wasn't in a position where I could focus just on myself. Okay. And it's, it hurt a lot, especially with having the bicep injury. Oh, yeah. But it's just, it's just a big lesson moving forward where I've got to make sure that I give my all and give my everything, like right now. Because it's, we don't know how long we can do this for, right? And for all we know, right, next year could be our last year doing what we love. Yeah. And for me, knowing that, it's like, I'm just going to just give my absolute everything. And look, a lot of people preach having this fucking balanced lifestyle. And I do agree, you have to have some balance with where you, you take care of people around you, right? You don't let other people suffer in, just, just for the sake of your goals. Yeah. Right. But at the same time, if you want to be your absolute best at anything that you do, there is no room to be fucking balanced. Guess what? Do you think Derek Lunsford's fucking balanced? Do you think Hady's balanced? Do you think Hady overeats? Do you think Hady ever gets fat? Do you see Hady, do you think Hady fucking has cakes and muffins every fucking week? Guess what? No, they do not. Do you think Derek Lunsford does? No. These guys are professionals, they in, they fucking out. Yeah. If you, and look, I'm never going to be like Derek. I'm never going to be like Hady. I'm never going to be top three at the Olympia. But I am absolutely going to put the work in like I fucking am. Because for me, Scott, I never want to get to a certain age where I'm going to be finished competing and leave anything at the table. Because if I get there and I have any doubts in my mind that I haven't given me everything, I won't be able to just leave it there. And I think you see so many guys, you see so many guys retired and unretired when they're old. They still compete past a certain age. Yeah. I think it's because they just haven't left it all behind them. Yeah. So for me, the next eight years, I'm literally just all in and I'm going to do my absolute fucking best. And that means just giving my everything on a daily basis. And do you know what? Like the more sucked in I get into the process, the more disciplined I get, the more it sucks me in because I'm waking up every day. And the sense of purpose and the sense of meaning that I have, it's unbelievable, Scott. Like I go to bed every night thinking about my next training day, thinking about waking up, having my meals, doing my work. And luckily my job is also linked to bodybuilding where it's just a very different, but it still ticks like a different box, right? Yeah. So it's, I'm in a good place now. I'm in a good place. And it's a, it's a feeling that I cannot even describe and I only wish people could experience it. And I don't think many people experience it in their own life because that's the sense of purpose and that sense of meaning that I have at the moment. It's, it doesn't compare to anything. And the only, the only thing that scares me, Scott, is I know nothing will ever compare to this. So I only hope that I will be able to get to a certain place in my life where I'll be happy walking away one day because at the moment I cannot imagine my life doing anything else. You're right where you're supposed to be then. Right where I'm supposed to be. Yeah. You don't need to manage in that yet. But it's a beautiful, it's a beautiful place to be, man. You do have the mindfulness though to recognize, especially, I think you saw your own mortality, you know what I'm saying? Yeah. Through the injury. You recognize that how fast it can be taken away. Man, as hard of a lesson as it is, I think it's such a valuable lesson too. And it's probably made you even better at what you're doing today. It's not just made me more better, but it's not made me better, but it's definitely got me a lot more fired up or driven because the sense of urgency is higher, but also ability to execute and ability to do the work that's required and necessary is also much higher. So it's like, I've always taken a lot of pride in nailing my post-show, right? And we spoke about this on previous shows with how I approach post-show, but this year, this year it's been even, it's been even better, mate. It's been, it's been more disciplined. It's been executed better in every single way. And look, I'll always be the first one to hold my hand up and say, how I am isn't for everyone because if you're, if you do not have the same passion for bodybuilding that I do, you would not be like, you would not be able to do it because a lot of people, right? The bodybuilders, the IFBB pros, but they also have a different aspect where they enjoy a glass of wine on the weekend. They enjoy a burger. They enjoy, you know, having these cookies and having extra rest days. Like I could not think of anything fucking worse than doing that right now. Like that is not appealing in any way, shape or form to me. Yeah. And it's like, it's hard to explain. Luckily my wife understands it because if she didn't understand it and she was just like a normal person, she probably would not be with me. Oh, she wouldn't put up with any of that. No, you have to, you have to get it to get it. And she's definitely right there with you. She gets it. She does get it because it's almost like I will often force myself to do things that I don't want to do, but I have to do them for people around me. Right. Yeah. You get it. And I, I do find it very hard to be present because I don't really want to be there. Like I'm not, I'm not fucking enjoying it. It's, it's like Jamie Joel, right? Jamie the giant. A lot of you will know him as a gladiator. Yeah. He used to say to me, like, why don't you just book a holiday? Why don't you just go away for a week and enjoy yourself? I'm like, Jamie, you enjoy that. If I did it, I would just spend every single fucking day being there and wanting to come back home. Yeah. It's not enjoyable for me. Therefore, I don't want to do it. Guess what? I enjoy doing what I do on a daily basis. Yeah. I wake up every morning. I look forward to fucking making my coffee, having my shots. I look forward to doing my morning planks. I look forward to doing my daily walking. I look forward to every single training session. I look forward to doing my check-ins. I look forward to speaking to my clients. Like I don't need a holiday or break from something I fucking enjoy because I've worked all my life to create the life that I have and the life that I've created, although it's not for everyone and that's fine. It's life. I absolutely fucking love. So I will continue to live in my little box and continue to do what I love because that's what's given me purpose. I feel fulfilled doing what I do every single day. Yeah. It's the same shit, same meals every day. It's what I enjoy. And that's okay. That's, that's me. Right. I can, I can just say that. So we've got a lot of other stuff on your plate too. It's not as if that's the only thing that you're focusing on either. So you're doing a, you know, it's, it's, you're balancing a lot, man. It's, it's cool. It's incredible to see the progress you're making. You are, you're better than when we started this show, which wasn't that long ago, really in the scheme of things, you know? Yeah. Well, listen, I do have a lot of things, a lot of other things that I'm a plate, but these are not the things that I'm necessarily as passionate about. So I'm not really, I'm not going to mention them because these are the things that we are doing to more so set up our future. Yeah. Yeah. It's not, it's not necessarily something that I'm like fired up or passionate around. Like, it's just not. Well, it's allowing you to do what you do at the level you do it right now too. It's not just the future, you know, you're, you're, you're doing what you need to do to, to, to, to be at the level you're at. If you didn't have that, man. And you've talked about that with like, you know, somebody who was like, Hey, I can't afford all the, you know, a bunch of groves. And you're like, dude, if, if you didn't put the work in, you couldn't either. I'm just upset. You didn't fall off a truck. Nobody was like, Hey, Kuba, you look like a really nice guy. You want a bunch of growth? Yeah. You've got to put the fucking working guys and listen, it's all, it's all doable. It's all achievable. It's just, what are you willing to do with the hours that you have available to you? Right? Yeah. All right. Let's wrap this thing up, man. Anything else you want to tell everybody? Keep going guys. Keep getting after it. Make sure you like subscribe to the channel. Show us some love. Make sure that you jump on the page to support Scott as well. It will mean the world. And any questions you have, comment below. Happy to cover them. Sounds good, guys. For another episode here at Think Big Bodybuilding Media, Scott McDaley with Kuba Chilling. We'll see you soon. Thank you.