What's up, guys? Welcome back to Blood, Sweat, and Gear with coaches Skipp Hill, Andrew Barry, myself, Scott McN, and all of our programming is brought to you by you. Yeah, you, the people of Patreon. Thank you guys very much for your support. We are brought to you by true nutrition.com. Use our code think over there to get all your basic bodybuilding supplements like protein powder, creatin, intraworkout. As far as protein goes, you can get the team skip blend. Also, we are brought to you by uh supplement source.ca for Canadians. They have great deals that change week to week on shortdated and label change products, stuff like that. So, you might find a pre-workout for like 15 bucks. If you're strapped for cash or you just want to save money, check out supplements.ca. And uh that's it. Yeah, that's it. We're we're ready to get into this thing. Uh guys, we released like seriously I think it was the biggest episode on the channel ever this this Monday, which was we had uh Janoshik. I'm American, right? I pronounced it Janoshik. Everybody else pronounces it Janoshik, but I have been corrected. It's actually Yanoshik. All right. So, I heard him say it and I one of our listeners was like, "Hey, Scott." >> Like Jesus and Jesus. >> Okay. >> Haha. instead of >> Yeah. Yeah. >> J A J A J A Yeah. >> So, here's the deal. Uh basically, um he talked about how uh you know, US has been his number one customer for lab testing. Uh number two has been China from the raw suppliers. Last two months they have literally gotten zero samples. These guys are getting hundreds of samples per day of anabolic steroids and peptides. They haven't received anything from China. There's been some big crackdowns, some shutdowns over there. I guess it really has to do with uh the I'm using the word uh pentanol. It rhymes with a word that the word pentanol >> uh manufacturing and as a result Yeah, you think about it, Skip. You'll get it. You'll get it. >> I'm going to have to Google this. >> And uh >> what rhymes with pentanol? >> As a result, um you know, the the gear industry is is taking a hit. Will it completely shut down? No, you know, but we are seeing things change. This is besides the fact that Primo and Mast are basically scrubbed from the list uh at this point. So, I thought a really interesting topic that would be super timely would be, you know, moving forward, let's say that we don't have all the compounds that we want. You know, how are we going to be able to still reach our ultimate goals in bodybuilding and not let this hold us back? Um, I'm sure there's probably a like a catchier way to say that, Andrew. You know what I mean? Like a catchier YouTube way of phrasing that. >> Uh, but uh, you know, that's that's the main thing I think we're we're shooting for though. Uh, because at the end of the day, like, you know, we all preach that bodybuilding isn't just the gear. You know what I mean? It's so much more than that. That said, the gear does play a role in helping us achieve our goals. So, you know what? First of all, how how big of a limitation is it to not have all the compounds if we if we can't get all the compounds that we would want? You guys take it away. Tell me what you think. >> Well, let's start with saying that I feel like the DHTs have become more of a major component over the last three years, right? I mean, I feel like everything kind of goes in cycles and sometimes it's because YouTube creators have to make new content, right? And I'm not blaming us. I'm just saying that we cuz we kind of do follow the trends and we do speak about the trends, but it's not like 10 years ago Primo and Masteron were the basis of cycles, right? Like they are today in a in a big way. And I think the trend to stay tighter, leaner, look tighter, leaner, um you know, maybe avoid certain side effects, um stay a little drier. I I feel like that's kind of led the charge with people utilizing more primo, more master versus maybe your decas, your EQ, NPP, and a whole host of other compounds. So, let's just start by saying that it's been done before, it can be done again. I mean, if we go back in time to say Arnold's era or luurno, those guys got pretty big and pretty jacked using testosterone, nandrallone, dbol, etc. So, is this the end of people growing? Absolutely not. I think the harder thing the harder issue or the the bigger issue is getting into that contest look, not contest shape, but that contest look that we're used to when you're utilizing higher doses of Masteron in particular towards the end of a contest prep. I think that's going to be the challenge. >> It's it's really going to be incumbent on the coaches more so than the athletes, right? Because athletes are just doing what coaches prescribe or not prescribe but tell them to to take or recommend for them to take. And it's going to take, you know, I think experience is going to play out here. Meaning the coaches that have been doing this for 10, 12, 20, in skip cases, 40 plus years, >> 80 some. Yeah. >> I I feel like that's where um your coach is really going to shine and be able to elicit the similar type of look that we've been seeing with the DHTs. What do you think, Skip? >> I think there was a client who is a regular listener to the show, and I'm going to use him as an example. who veered off of the path of trend and was like, "You know what? I'm I want another compound. What compares to it?" And we talked, we spoke about it a couple times, discussed it. He goes with DHB where a lot of people would not trade trend for DHB. And then I I mean, show me show me someone else. Not physique-wise, like more muscle-wise, everything else, but just show me someone who is leaner than you see. I say suma. You see suma. Is that how you Okay, >> show me that. There. That's a that's a pretty good example of not wanting to use a compound that is so you put up on this pedestal and is just an absolute like can you even prep without it type thing. And he goes in the other direction >> and he kills it. So, I would even question, you know, you went back a little farther than I did, Andrew, with your reference to like, you know, the the 70s or 80s, but let's just go back to the 90s and the condition of the '9s. Was Masteron and Primo and and and I'm going to be honest with you, I've been in this game a long time, and I conflate the decades and the years because I just can't remember everything of what was done in the four decades plus that I've done. >> Did a lot of drugs over the years. So my question to you guys is I don't remember Masteron and Primobable and being the dominant substances in the 90s yet we still had that condition and we still had the fullness. I mean look at the access to growth hormone now versus then. So >> yeah, we're not even talking about >> I exactly exactly that one. >> Not only do we I mean Andrew nails it. It is going to come back to the coaching. more about the coaching and less about the compounds. And you know what? Maybe this will drive the point home. Oh my god, it really isn't as important. The compounds that I'm using versus the methods that I'm getting to get there and just getting lean as >> That was a good beep. >> Yeah, that was good. That was your mic went out for >> normally I decendo but that that one I just went out on. >> Yeah. You you were gonna add Andrew because you you were we kind of stole your other thunder. You were going to go into peptides too. You mentioned >> that's because that's another factor. I don't think that peptide production is being affected the same way that anabolics is. >> Yeah. I mean it's going to be 2026 in just a couple months, right? And the tools we have in the tool shed are vast they vastly outnumber the tools that we had even 10 years ago. You know if you want to talk about you know the different mitochondrial peptides whether it's Slooh Bam 15 um you know the uh five aminoqs like all the different there's too many to even name now right and they all kind of have like Star Wars character names in terms of like CP30 and stuff. So it's there's just too many we have a whole another arsenal in the tool shed. So, I think getting into condition is not going to be an issue when you have a competent coach. And like you said, Skip, if if you were to remove Tren, UC Suma got in great shape. I can I can speak I'm not going to say their names just cuz I don't know if they want me to, but >> sure, >> I can think of good 212 pros that I know >> did not use Trend in their preps. They just said, "You know what? I don't like how I feel on it." And they got blasting full, shredded, diced, all the superlatives. Um, actually John Meadows, he wouldn't mind me saying he did not use Tren towards the end of his his career as a prep. Uh, okay. So, I don't think anyone's ever accused him of being even slightly out of shape in any contest he's ever been. >> You know, I'll throw in too with uh Jussi Suma, like we added the DHB in at a point where he was already peeled. Like, we probably could have done it even without that. You know what I mean? So, >> it's like, is it all completely necessary? No. I I I hearken back to you hear the old school guys and they're like, "Well, what did we take back in prep?" We took what we could get our hands on. Yeah. >> You know, even if it comes back to that, uh I I think that people are still going to be okay. Um so so you know, that said, I mean, you you get enough test and like let's give them something that they can take home now, you know? >> Yeah. I got so because we we're kind of gearing that discussion towards prep, right? And I think Skip and I both agreed that the prep coach is going to be playing a bigger role on knowing how to elicit certain looks, right? >> I agree with that, too. >> Right. Yeah. I mean, but when it comes to the offseason, right, >> it's a little different because I mean, you got to understand what do peeds do? All all peed, all anabol aas increase muscle protein synthesis. Some compounds attach to the androen receptor with a little more affinity than others. Okay? And then from there, you got to look at the side effects. which comp and and if you're someone who's been doing this for five years, you've probably done a whole gamut of compounds where you know, okay, list A good, list B. >> Yeah, >> the B list has things that have side effects. You know, whether it's keeping you up at night, affecting your your mood and the way you treat people, uh maybe it's affecting your lipids a little differently. So, my point is is that it's not just DHTs that are like this wonder compound. you should have a list of compounds that maybe before the DHTs became very popular like okay I'm going to go back to my test eqmpp I'm going to go back to my test in deca and and maybe um some moderate doses of of um anadrol or whatever those compounds might be for the individual person >> so buy stock and deca right now you're saying >> you did make the compar in bringing up the peptides I do want to say this it just given my opinion here and I'm wondering if you guys back me up on this or uh I don't want to make even though the peptide field uh or millu if you will is so much better and so much more advanced than it was you know even just a few years ago let alone you know 5 years ago or whatever else to the point where honestly I used to be you guys know this I was not a big fan of peptides outside of you know wotan and the obvious you know the CJC CJC deck all that type of I was like man just take growth hormone come But it has advanced so much that there are like you said just a ton of of tools there and and it's growing what every month. But I don't want to compare those. I don't think that we can really expect people to take like just to switch and go well I can't get a so I'm going to make up that ground with peptides. That's really not going to It can help, but I mean, let's be fair. Even your worst, even if you just had testosterone versus all the peptides that you have out there, I'm going to take testosterone over all of these new peptides. That's just me. I mean, do you get the point that I'm trying to make? I don't I don't want to send the message, well, we got all these peptides here. Don't worry about the AES. You don't have to you could substitute them, right? It's not It's not like a complete replacement. I' I'd say that for sure. I mean, honestly, I think in a dieting phase, the number one main thing for gear is to retain muscle, right? Like if we can retain muscle while we're dieting, then we can stay big. And that's that's I think the main thing that we be we need to be able to do. >> What do you guys think would happen if you took a guy like Jussi Suma and let's say we we just dieted him on test only. We controlled the estrogen. We we used an amount of Okay, so I'm I'm answering my own question in my head as I'm saying it. You know what the limitation for that would be is you can only take so much test, you know, before you, as Andrew, you said, you start getting side effects. You know, for me personally, I can say that like >> my third or fourth cycle, I ran test in Deca. I got shut down really hard and at the time I PCTD and came off. Some people have heard me tell this story. So my following cycle I was like man I don't want to get shut down that hard. I'm just going to use test. So instead of 500 test 400 deca I was like I'll just take a thousand tests. This is about the same right? You know 100 milligrams more. Oh my god I got the worst backnec excuse me the worst backne from that cycle. Like it was night and day difference from the testa cycle. I couldn't handle all of that you know. So yeah I guess his his overall total milligrams would be limited. But at the same time, man, would that would that hold him back from you? Could we get all we could get I feel like we could get almost just as lean and then if we were able to find like some Winstro tabs, you know what I'm saying? Like we could get pretty damn close. I guess I'm saying like in in a worst case Mad Max scenario where we're still doing bodybuilding preps, you know? >> Yeah. Yeah, I would think you would want to have some orals for the last like 10 days at the very least. Um especially when you're lowering and pulling the testosterone um to really try to drive estrogen down. I do think you're going to want to have another androgen in there like a like a Windstrol in particular. Maybe even a a Winstrol and an Anavar together, you know. >> So outside of that though, like what I'm getting at is like do you really do we even like quote unquote need the other stuff? Because realistically to get that lean, it's not about the gear anyway, you know. >> Well, you heard it here first. Scott's gonna do his next prep and he's going to use just testosterone, a little bit of wind straw towards the end. We're all here to cheer him on. And >> if we hit that Mad Max level, you know, of gear world. Yeah. >> Yeah. I'm not missing out too much on the uh the inability to acquire Primoban because I don't like it anyway. And I'll be honest, that doesn't mean that none of my clients use it. I have clients who use it, but I'm not a big proponent. I'm not out there going, "Yeah, great stuff." I will miss out on the Masteron because I do like the Masteron, but I think when it comes back, I'm going to be the I might be the odd man out of the three of us in saying this. I understand and have said numerous times that testosterone, if you control the estrogen, yeah, you're you're good to go. But I but I'm going to be my views have changed a little bit over time. That being said, you have your estrogen under control. I will still say that it's not ideal. >> Yeah. >> I don't think it I I really don't. There's a different there's still a different look where there's something else going on besides just the estrogen because the estrogen can be controlled and there's still a different look. And when you add another comp, I mean, you could even just say adding in trend. Well, if that's the case, then why would we ever add tren? Why would we take anything else other than testosterone? There are there are differences in that look. >> I do think that the vast majority of people could take and I think we all do something similar. We start cut phases or preps with XYZ compounds and we may keep some, you know, X or XY, but we change out Z for F or whatever. where we kind of substitute and make those transitions, then add in orals. Um, I think that the vast majority of people could take that first opening cycle and they could make it through by simply adding orals. I just don't think when it comes down to it, it's not Yes, it's not ideal, but I think again coming back to what we were talking about earlier, it'll come down to again the coaching and making sure because if you're lean enough and draw is a good example and draw in the offseason, puffer fish and draw when you're lean sick look. No one is getting water logged off of and draw when they're ridiculously lean. So, at the end of the day, what does it come down to? comes down to before anything else, just getting absurdly lean. Here's the Well, here's one thing. Well, when it comes to coaching side of things, right? I feel like >> without the masteron, without primabolan to listenit that hard, grainy look, you're going to see coaches have to really really string people out and get them like like really hard like just right skin thin, you know, which will be awesome, right? Um, but now I'm wondering, does that cause an increase in a fatigued look? You know, does it cause does it change the look on stage? You know, cuz as I'm thinking about it more, cuz Skip, you brought up a great point. If these drug, why would we be using these drugs? If you know, you know what I'm saying? It's like we use them for a reason. They work. They elicit a certain look, you know, um in in the majority of people we use them with. So, >> I'm thinking I'm just trying to think about what the finished product looks like on stage. And I feel like it's either you're going to have guys that are just peeled and maybe a little bit on the flatter side and then you're going to have guys that don't get as peeled and they're going to look really out of shape because of it. So I think you're going to see a divide maybe in in competitors classes now. You know, maybe instead of classes being pretty consistent across the board in a lot of cases, you might see some halves and have nots more so now, >> you know. >> Yeah. Yeah, I could see that being possible. Let me also say that I don't think this will affect the professional level that much. At the at the at the top level, you're not going to see any Olympian that's off. I I don't think you're because of gear related issues. I think these guys are so well connected. >> They have people that have people that are finding stuff for them, right? >> Um >> and if we can get a lot of the stuff quasi legally now, you know what I mean? Like not everything, but a lot there a good amount of it we can. Yeah. You know, I'm hearing stuff where it's like, I didn't think that was legal in the US, but there's some research or some, you know, TRT place that's prescribing it. >> Yeah, we touched on this prior to pushing the button. I think that ultimately it's going to come down to not even the level of the physique, but who's connected and who isn't. And that kind of screws the people who are kind of new to competing and new to gear because they may not know or have the networking and the connections that people who've been around for a long time. Like as an I I'll be honest, I'll be the guy. I'll say it. I'm not too concerned about getting the gear that I need. I'm just not the least bit anxious or worked up about it. >> Yeah. Yeah. I think that's a good place to leave that. you know, we don't have any real specific answers, but it will be interesting to see how it unfolds. Now, I'm not sure um about this question from Gambon Law. I don't know where he's going with it, but uh >> I think I know where he's going with it. >> Okay. >> I think he's I do have AI do have kind of a followup to it, too, though. And what he said is, uh if these competitors used more barbell movements instead of machines, would they still have the same gut issues? I've noticed that almost none use barbells anymore. it is never brought up. So what what was your thought there, Andrew? >> I think what he's saying is are people not bracing their core enough because using barbell exercises, you know, you have to brace a lot more, right? When a machine is you got a chest pad that's protecting you or you got a back pad that's protecting you, you're not bracing as much as you were in a standalone exercise like a barbell row for instance, right? So, I think he what he's asking is because I think a lot of us think the opposite, like when you're doing more barbell exercises, you're forcing more inastic pressure and you're forcing some abdominal growth. And I think he's saying maybe after seeing some of the athletes at the Olympia this weekend or seeing some athletes on stage this year, the guts are kind of getting bigger in some in some people. And I think he's wondering, is it because everyone's using machines more so than doing the old bread and butter exercises? I I think that's where he's going. He can comment and say yes or no on that. Um, no, I don't think so. I I don't think that's the case. I because I what the point I alluded to is when you are using machines more, you're not causing as much intergastric pressure uh forcing outward, right? So, I don't think that using machines is causing more um more more abdominal growth, you know, and and honestly, we live in an era where everyone is doing vacuums and different, you know, TVA exercises and all sorts of stuff. So I think a lot of cases just comes down to the carb up. It comes down to um uh inflammation in the gut in general, you know, related possibly to excess use of like GH and other peptides of that nature. So I I think that would be the dominant issue. The guys that probably weren't doing 15 units of growth a day in the, you know, early 90s to mid 90s, we didn't see a lot of big guts back then. I I I do think GH is contributing to that to some extent, you know, with some internal some internal organ growth and um some intestinal inflammation. >> I'm going to be the broken record again and say the same thing that I've said for I don't even know 15 20 years. I still think that the force feeding trend of the '9s when we figured out oo we can literally force growth by forcing food has helped to cause not only the uh more distension issues because you see it in the old heads the guys who've been around for a long time and they've done a lot of that eating the up and down the high volume and then they cut the high volume of food and then they cut but you don't see it in the older demographic who hasn't hasn't been around and been eating big like that for, you know, years or decades. I stood on stage with a a handful of Mast's competitors in July and was blown away that that a few of these guys were even close to 50 years old based on their midsection and just just in general, just their look in general. And in talking with them, they haven't been competing in doing that force feeding like a lot of the old heads. So, I do and I'm not saying that the the insulin and the uh GH quite frankly, AAS AAS is going to feed those, you know, that gut growth, too. So, >> I think that and I want to make sure that I understand the question originally because I thought he was asking if the machines cut down on the distension. So, did I misunderstand that? >> If you read what he says, it says exactly, Andrew, barbells create a stronger core. If you stay above 10 reps, is the waist really going to thicken? I don't know if the repetition >> amount matters as much, but I think what he's trying to say is that >> you're creating a more a stronger core by having to brace more on without having the um outside force factor of of a chest pad or a back pad or whatnot. That's what he said. >> Okay. And it just to come back to that question and answer to give my opinion on it. I do think that there's a connection between keeping not everybody but keeping a smaller waistline without the distension when you're using machines and don't have to brace as much. I mean take a look at a power lifter and I understand that they typically are higher body fat too. So that is a variable. But if you look at their gut, their gut, their abdominal wall is not contracted. It's protruding and it's rounded out. So, you know, it it sensally it tells me that a lot of those heavy movements, deads, um, arguably bent over rows or heavy tea bars, but even squatting, that constant force and pressure like you were talking about, Andrew, forcing that that abdominal wall out. I I do think that it would be illogical that it didn't play a part over the years. That's but I have nothing to back that up on other than it just seems logical that that that could play into that. >> I also want to add one thing. I think especially in the open bodybuilding, >> they're big guys and I feel like >> yeah, >> a lot of them lack some of the showmanship of >> understanding that you're judged from all angles from the minute you hit that stage. You know, I think how often do you see a big guy walk out on a pro stage just like letting hang out just kind of like I'm the man and he goes and hits a pose versus you look at the guys back in the day like Flex Wheeler, right? Or um >> Shawn Ray, Lee Labrad, like >> any of those guys in that era, >> even Ronnie and Ronnie wasn't known for like pulling it in, but even then he still had some showmanship as he walked out. He kind of did the, you know, the whole cuz the crowd went wild, you know. But I think a lot of guys just take for granted, oh, I'm a big guy. I don't have to control my gut. Like, it's it's it comes with the territory. I'm a, you know, I'm a big guy. I got a lot of muscle and they they make an effort to pull it in when they're hitting the front double, you know, right right when they hit their side chest, not before. Right. Because something I'm always trying to coach people, especially like some of these bigger upper level super heavies and and pros, I'm like, pull your abs in when you're turned before you turn into the shot. Like, you can let it out a little bit when you're when you're facing away from the judges, right? when no one really sees it unless someone's got a side angle and they're trying to snap a gotcha pick. But >> right, >> and those are out there, man. Like there's some really bad ones that look really distorted. Like, dude, that's that's uh what's her name? Sigourney Weaver with like alien popping out, you know? >> Especially like in that rear lat spread, you get somebody from the wrong angle. Oh god, it's >> And I've worked with some some some heavy guys that I'm like, "Dude, pull that in. It's kind of embarrassing." Okay. Like you don't see it the way I see it because you're posing, right? But then you try to show them in the video and they're like, "Oh, it's not that bad." And it's like, >> "Dude, you like my mind's kind of blown right now." Like, isn't any bad angle bad? Like, if if we know we can control it, if we know it's as simple as pull it in when you walk out, pull it in when you're side transitioning, you know? Um, so yeah, I just think a lot of guys need to stop being so lazy with their posing. And I think it starts 15 weeks out. You need to pract when you're heavier and you got more food in your stomach, practice pulling it in then so that it's come game day, >> it's just second nature. >> Yeah. Yeah. I'll tell you what, I've been doing, you know, I've told you guys I've been doing planks and it has been a game changer for me. And so much of it was that I just let my stomach hang out with with breathing issues. It's just like and the stomach has just hung out for like four years. And let me tell you, it distended rapidly. I'm seeing so much change just by doing planks. And oh my god, it's kind of cool now because you start, you know, you I think in bodybuilding we kind of get addicted to progress, you know what I mean, with exercises. And now >> when I'm in the plank, so I pull up, you know, and then I continue breathing as I'm holding those abs in and I just like it's getting like this harder and hotter burn. It it really is all training and it's something that I had let go. I think it's something that's easy to let go, especially like if you're in an offseason, you're pushing a lot of food, insulin, you know, people talk like about insulin and growth hormone distending. I think a lot of that is like just water retention. When I'm feeling bloated, I am a lot less likely to hold that stomach in. My TVA then is going to do the exact same thing that it's done the last several years with my breathing. Once I relax it, I'm going to tell you, it it distended quickly. Like, I lost that strength rapidly, >> you know? And I think that that's for me in my opinion it's a it's a big factor. Let me ask you guys, this is a spin kind of a semif follow-up question and I've got a reason because I'm really curious. I'm personally curious to hear your opinions on it. Uh and and it's just the classic barbell versus free weights topic. But the reason I want to ask you is because I feel like I've had kind of a change in mindset. I've always been that like old school guy. I'm hearing my friend Dave Call echo in my head. got to do the meat and potatoes work, you know, bent over barbell rows, tea bar rows, and I listened to that for a long time, but I've gotten away from it more in the past couple years. And uh, you know, guy, I know guys like Kuba, Kuba's made some tremendous progress. He doesn't hardly any do any free weight work. Of course, he has an incredible gym at his disposal, right? But I I just don't know if if if it needs to be the way I thought it was. Kind of mindset behind free weights is that not only are you lifting the weight, but you're also stabilizing it too, recruiting more muscle. You know, that's kind of always been that old school mindset of free weights. Where do you guys stand on this one? >> Can I counter that a little bit? >> Yeah, >> because like you said, like Yeah, you're focusing on that target muscle 100%. Much more, right? When you're not having to worry about stabilizing. >> Yeah. But a lot of the younger physiques, they don't have some of the density that maybe you would have had if they were doing some of the bread and butter. And this is not a this is not a a disc or a anti-machine rant whatsoever because I do think >> the timeline of your bodybuilding career kind of has to go start out with the bread and butter almost exclusively. Like I think the worst thing for an 18 to 20-year-old kid to do is to fall in love with the new tech and the prime and all the new machines out there, right? I think they're doing their their physique a disservice. And and where I'm going with this is the the bread and butter exercises, the barbell stuff. The reason why I don't do a lot of them anymore is because they hurt. And they don't hurt my muscle. They hurt like my joints. You know what I'm saying? Like to try like trying to get into a squat rack or even like a um Smith squat, it torqus my shoulder so bad. And that's with doing tons of mobility work because of years of pounding on the weights and years of of accumulating muscle and accumulating injuries. So, I do think the timeline is start with the bread and butters because they're get I mean, it sounds like an antiquated old thing. It builds the foundation. It really does build the foundation. And let's not let's not fool ourselves. Getting underneath five plates on a heavy squat rack is is a lot freaking harder than getting into a cool, you know, squat pendulum machine that you don't have to hold your arms up here. You just hold on, right? It It's a whole different experience. It It is easier. It's easier. Yeah. Can you get on the targeted muscle a little bit easier, a little bit better? Yes. But building that foundation of doing the squats for years built the hips, the glutes, the abdominal strength, the lower back strength. You know what I'm saying? It's it's I I I do think there's a time and place for everything chronologically in your bodybuilding career. If I could still do bent over barbell rows and barbell squats and deadlifts, yeah, I would absolutely fit them into my programming. It's just I don't feel them in the targeted muscle anymore. I feel more pain in my lower back or my shoulders. It takes away from the exercise. You know, >> I want to expound on that a little bit because I want to define foundation as I I think people new to training or new to the sport will hear foundation and think, oh, the foundation for, you know, muscle. I look at it as foundation of strength. >> Yeah. Yes. >> Okay. And and the reason I use examples because there are times where I will see what I consider to just be kind of an a skinnier athletic look kid who's 2021. He's squatting 315 365. They might be great reps, >> but he doesn't the the weight on the bar and even with the form >> is not doesn't correlate with muscle size. So that it's not a it's not like you're building this foundation of muscle as much as you're building the foundation of strength based on like you said the strength of all the stabilizer muscles that type of thing and all the muscles working together synergistically versus moving then or starting to not necessarily phase out but kind of phase out the you know this slow transition of okay we're going to do a little bit less of this bread and butter. are going to start adding in the machines. And I think that that I think as an industry, we're kind of figuring that out. Once you start to make that transition with the the especially the I mean the machines and the equipment that we have access to now, you know, hammer strength has always been great, but let's be fair. I mean, there's been huge advances. >> So, you know, I look at someone like Keon, >> I even say Phil Heath. I mean, I I don't think I saw I trained alongside Phil for years at Armbron. I didn't see a lot of squatting or bed over rows there or deads. And when I say I didn't see a lot of, I saw very little if none unless there was a camera either a video camera or or photography happening or pictures for, you know, a magazine or anything else. So uh you know you you have to wonder the Steve Klo and the guys who have said they have come away from that training. Yes it was a good foundation to build that strength and then from there to advance into more of the targeted uh specific you know approach of like Arnold would say adding the clay so to speak and the foundation is not about adding clay to me. It's just about building that strength foundation and then being able to move and kind of not phase it out. But I I look at it this way. 9010 bread and butter to machines to start. And if you go through your phase of your bodybuilding career, it would probably end up exactly the opposite 10 versus 90. Now that's just an exa, you know, an example, arbitrary numbers, but makes sense. Let's even use an example of a dumbbell curl, >> right? >> Okay. >> Well, think about in my 20s, you know, I was curling as much as 70 lb dumbbells, you know, and now I wouldn't even think to pick up that dumbbell, but I can curl a 30 lb dumbbell with 100% more muscle recruitment. And my point is, did the 70s serve a purpose? Because I was if if anyone watched me, they wouldn't be like, "Oh, that's horrible form." But there was some body English involved. Was I getting a little bit of shoulder out of it? Was I getting a little terryries out of it? Was I getting some stabilizers out of it? Absolutely. Whereas now, I would say a 30 pound or even a 25 pound dumbbell, I'm using nothing but the biceps. So, I think we always talk about your training IQ and your training knowledge, how to recruit the right muscles that you're trying to work. I think that kind of falls in. If you haven't done the heavy barbell stuff and you haven't like not going to say worked your whole body, but you're getting more than just the intended target, then how can you start to go backwards? You know what I mean? How can you really target and hone in on that one muscle you're really trying to hit, which is what the machines are good for. So I I think a blend of both is good, but I think I I kind of like your example like 9010 skip. I think that's a great actually a great that's probably what I did back in the day when I was first starting it was 90% dumbbells and barbells >> and maybe 10% and and by 10% machines I mean leg extensions and a leg curl because you had to you can't really simulate you know you can do the dumbbell curls with the line dumbbell curls but you got to have a partner there to put them on your on your feet >> and it's not the same you know >> it's not and and those you're using a lot more stabilizers you're not hitting the you're not just hitting the hamstrings so yeah this was a good stabilizer work just getting the dumbbells from the rack. >> Yes. >> To the seated position when you're going to do dumbbell presses. >> So, that is so funny you bring that up, Skip, because I've recently started going back dumbbell presses like uh both doing decline and incline and uh and >> I'm strong on the push. The repetitions are fine. Like I could use way more dumbbell, heavier dumbbells. It's the getting them to my knees. Yeah. >> And then getting them back in position without my shoulders saying, "Uh-uh." So, you you are dead on about that. >> Yeah. I pull them off the bottom rack, set them on top of the dumbbells on the top rack. I mean, it's a very >> routine structured process. And I laugh because I'm like, >> I think that I am using more energy. >> Yes. >> Outside of the actual exercise, setting it up than I am doing the exercise itself. I've had people tell me, "I thought you were going to struggle with those because it's all this work getting them into place, then you're just like, >> you're so right about that. I spend more energy and I even go even step further. I take them and I put them on the the the on the um uh what do you call it? The rack or not the rack, the um the pad I'm going to sit on. Right. So they're literally I only got to grab them and then move like pivot three steps, get them on my knees. And again, it's the joints. It's like my shoulders hurt just getting it onto my knee. Once I kick them back and get to here, >> that's the butter. That's the easy. Yeah. Yeah. I I can't remember who it was that said something recently and it might have even been at a state level show I can't remember for the life of me but he had said a lot of these younger guys if you look around they none of them have forearms and honestly I think a lot of my forearm development was from doing the stuff you guys are talking about right now just picking up the 110s and you know getting them into position my forearms grew you know >> it's funny you say that because this year I've been looking at my forearms being like dude I don't even look like I lift weights like like I'm looking at my arms and I'm like this is kind of embarrassing. I used to have some decent you know they were never uh Frank McGrath forearms or anything but you know I look like a bodybuilder wearing a t-shirt. Now I'm like dude I look like a pencil pusher. What is going on? You know what I noticed is my the muscle in my hand isn't as big as it used to be. >> Yeah. The thumb pad. >> Yeah. I looked at that before and it was just like a mitten at one point. I didn't intend for it to be. It's not like I was training that. It's still there, you know, but the it's it's doesn't have the like the the size or the density that it did at one point. >> You have to roll your hand over and you got to put like a weight right here. Go. >> Yeah. >> And you don't forget this one. You got to do the >> Did you ever see the pictures of Trey Brewer when he was competing? >> I can't remember him, but Yeah. Yeah. >> He had like a hamstring drop on. Yes, dude. Like I got to find those and >> it should be judged. I mean, let's get rid of calves. Let's bring in the hand anterior posterior hand pose. >> He looked good. He just his hands didn't have as much size as the other guy though. >> Yeah. Suitcase carries for years and years of uh Brazilian jiujitsu in a ghee have gotten me very strong forearms. I bet. Man, >> that's what Ryan >> what I've said for years if because people will ask me. I used to have It's funny you say that, Andrew, because I've thought the same thing. Like, where did my forearms go? But I used as I used to have pretty pretty d to the point where I'm like, "Yeah, I should probably work on my arms a little bit more." >> Josh said, "Hey, go ahead." >> Oh, sorry. Go ahead. >> Oh, go ahead. I was just I was just adding when I when I was asked what I do for forearms. It was never wrist rolls or reverse curls or anything like that. I'll do a hammer curl every now and then. A little bit of breakout is cool. But I would just tell people quit relying on the straps. Use your grip strength as much as you can. And I think that as an industry, I think we've kind of come to that over the last, you know, six, eight years where before everything was strapped. >> I I haven't used straps since I started training again three or four weeks ago. And >> Okay. >> For that reason, you know, and I think it's helping my tendonitis. Like I haven't gotten it back like I normally do. So >> Oh, no kidding. >> I agree with you. Yeah. >> Let me add the only the the usually they dangle from my wrist when I do have to use them is remember I'm a left right guy. >> Yeah. I won't do the one side all at once. So, you're holding that weight or that bar or dumbbell twice as long. >> So, the grip tends to go especially when it's towards toward the end. >> There's that picture. >> See, that's not even a good one because >> Yeah, >> I just I just looked it up there. I remember seeing one when he was in contest shape. He was doing a photo shoot and the and the guy started taking pictures of his hands. For all those people out there on the the only hands websites, this guy would have rad it in. Can I add this? Um, I don't know if you can see me, but I have a friend client who introduced me 40 years of training, probably 43 of using gear. I was using gear before I started training. Two years maybe. I'm kidding. But he would inject his GH into the muscle. >> Yeah. >> So maybe Trey was like, "Boom, I'm hitting here, you know, I'm hitting here." But yeah, he would hit the muscle on the top of the uh >> I don't know why anybody would but he didn't have a reason. >> I tell you what it insulin it could have been insulin but the point is we >> I bet like why pretty simple cuz you don't >> you don't have clothing you just hit it boom you're done. >> Listen >> I know myself I get to the gym I have to go all the way down the hall in this big gym to go bathroom to get in. I'm lazy. I'm really lazy when it comes to injections. Like, dude, >> I'm not putting it. And not cuz I just don't see it just doesn't seem sensical. Like, >> no. >> Plus a nerve. What if you hit a nerve? Like, I feel like the nerves are much more superficial to the surface. Like, >> I don't know. I I was like, I didn't do it. >> I mean, I'm the guy I'll go through my shirt sleeve. >> I don't care. >> Are guys going to start putting their gear in there, too? >> Yeah, exactly. You never know. I'm just I keep looking at it going, "Huh, maybe I'll try that tonight." >> Hey, what's going on, guys? Just a quick shout out to True Nutrition. and I figured I'd bring you to the home gym here. So, welcome. And I just wanted to show you my order. So, nothing big deal. I've got a few pounds of the cold filtered whey iso. I'm a big fan of the cookie butter flavor. I've been on this this year. This has like been my favorite. But, they've got a bunch of different flavors. So, if you're interested in something else, just check them out. It's a it's a very light protein overall. It's not going to bloat your digestion down. It's not going to cause a bunch of water retention. This is the kind of protein that I suggest to people who are doing a contest prep. They've got all your basic bodybuilding supplements like creatin. They've got great intraworkout highly branch like dextrin which is the high-end and then they've got the cheaper stuff like carbo load like anybody can afford that. Um and of course use our code think. It'll get you 10% off. They really kicked up. It used to only be 5%. Now you get 10% off if you use the code and it throws some money our way too. So it definitely helps the podcast out a ton. might be a buck here and there, but you know, if you guys all use the code, it definitely adds up. And you have been using the code, so thank you for that. Um, let's get back to the podcast. But thank you for uh hanging out with me here in the home gym. Somebody Josh, he said, uh, "Hey Skip, just wanted to say thanks to you for the article you wrote ah elite FTS back in the day about getting rid of that middle-aged guy gut. Help me remember those things I neglected for years." >> Oh, probably the vacuum thing. Yeah. Ah, okay. >> Yeah. And Elite FTS is I got the note. >> You're fired. >> Not going to do Well, yeah, kind of. No, they're not going to um continue with the articles because >> AI has taken it taken over writing. >> You're I thought it would be longer than I was joking. >> Well, the other part is, let me make no mistake, that's not the only reason. We have just as a society >> come to the point where we want everything to be visual >> and we want to take it all in at once instead of like like reading apparently is this laborious task. I do know over the last few years I would only put my articles on Facebook because that demographic still enjoyed reading. Uh, >> yeah. I'm I'm watching the writer thing start to start to really fall off. And I knew it was going to be a problem when Facebook put the fix the grammar button. >> And you think more people would use it, but they still type like [\h__\h] >> Oh, dude. You can like change the whole you the whole like tone of your messages. You want it professional, you want it friendly, you want to make it funny. >> I'm sorry, man. I I was joking when I said that. You know, I didn't know. It's disappointing, but it's the progression of things. I, you know, I I understand that. I actually may take my articles. Remember, I've written, I mean, 13 years. I want to say there's there might be 400 without coach logs. There might be 300, 325 articles in it. I may just transition those to video, not necessarily reading them, but making them kind of like that that >> endless content, you know? >> Yep. >> I like that idea, man. But that was an institution, you know what I mean? and and and your articles were an institution. So, >> yeah, I just always enjoyed that. So, now I'm just going to have to write for GQ or Vogue or maybe Cosmo or something like that. So, >> yeah. >> Play girl. >> Play girl. Hey, >> it is I got to say it is kind of the end of an era with with what you're talking about, Skip, because I mean, and I know you guys were probably just as excited as me whenever you had free time when the internet really became a thing to jump on the forums or jump on a particular website and read the articles, training, gear, nutrition, whatever it could have been. All the stuff we see on YouTube and video now, that's the media was in print and we soaked it up and we we reprinted those articles off and kept them on our desk to like I want to I want to refer to that one later again. You know, it it was definitely a different time. Um, >> Well, you were an early adopter too though to this, you know what I mean? Like you've been podcasting since before I was podcasting, you know? That's that that makes you one of the OGs. Yeah, >> there weren't many people that were doing drugrelated, gear related content before me, but you were one of them, you know, and that was by several years. >> Yep. >> All right. So, we got called out, guys, on Spotify. We got called out two years ago. I just now saw the comment and I remember what it was. So, uh, let's see. He said, uh, Bernie Smoke, he said, "You guys are way out of touch regarding GH. Regular people can't afford six IU a day. L M F AO. And if you're 40 years old, you will feel two to three IU. I feel 10 years younger on two I use a generic GH. This was from the episode of Cycles for Bluecollar guys. You remember that? >> Mhm. >> And you guys were like, "Yeah, you run, you know, 750,000 tests." It wasn't a thousand, but it was like it was you guys both I was like, "Wow." You guys were like both suggesting like higher dose cycles. You're like, "Yeah, six units a day. GH, something like that. And I was more of the guy that was like 300 test, 300 primo, you know, something like that. Two IU GH. But yeah, so no, you guys got called out. I'll say it that way. >> Well, because also remember it was also I think the height of >> you guys are just keeping all the secrets to yourself. You guys aren't what you really do with clients. And it's like, well, actually, we've got clients of all different ages, demographics. Some of them have a comfortability and a risk assessment aversion to using a lot. Some of them don't. And you know, we have those discussions. That's what coaching is. You you feel your client out. You you get their input. And if a client comes to you and they're like, I don't I've never used less than 1,000 milligrams. And and and and there's no way I get I've done results. I've tried it, you know, with 600 milligrams. I just don't get any results. You're like, okay, you've given me some feedback to work with. Let's let's do it safely, but let's work within the confines of what you know has worked and hasn't worked in the past. So yeah, that was the height of us getting comments regularly of misinforming or or disinforming people, I guess. >> Yeah. And I don't think any of us have ever have ever said that two or three IU of growth doesn't work. >> Yeah. >> I just know speaking for myself. I'm not going to give advice on training, gear, nutrition, or anything else based on someone's assumed socioeconomic status. I I don't >> I you know, I I don't assume that people are loaded. I don't assume people are broke. It just >> I'm going to tell you what I think based on my experience and >> you know I I mean I'm on food forums where people complain that you know Burger King is $14 for a for a combo and I just look at it and I go you know maybe you should not be complaining on a form and you should actually be making more money. I don't know but and I don't want it to sound shitty and I'm not saying that this guy needs to make more money. I'm saying, is it really all that expensive? I mean, some people can afford it, some people will pay for it, some people won't. It's just, you know, I don't drive a Bugatti because I can't afford it, but I don't go on a forum and complain about it. So, >> is it that much different than you going to Starbucks every day, getting a Starbucks coffee, and getting a Bang energy drink every day? The the 8, nine bucks you're spending between those two things. You know what I'm saying? Like, >> yeah, there is. If you're buying in bulk, >> you're buying 500, 600, 800 units at a time, the discount is pretty steep, you know, at that point. >> Um, it all comes down to your life choices, like what's important to you, you know? >> 6 IU GH Burger King value meal. >> Yeah. I mean, and plus blunt force Tanya puts out a good point. Blueco collar guys generally make good money. >> Yeah. Okay. Yeah. I wasn't slamming. >> No, I know you weren't. No, I know you weren't. No, no, but but I think the guy maybe one of his points was like blueco collar cycles trying to insinuate that blue collar workers don't make it's like >> I think he was just saying too like hey two does great for me and I say more power to them you know >> that's great have your own podcast and talk about it I mean >> oh my god >> I'm sure you're going to get tons of >> listen coming out hard >> I mean when people like here's the thing I I enjoy good questions I really do and I I enjoy good challenging questions but I I think when people come at you with an attitude, I I like to point out and remind them like, well, hold on. You follow me, not the other way around, and you took the time to comment on my thing. So, like, if you're coming at me aggressively, I'm going to give it right back to you. But if you have like a real insightful question, like, hey, why do you do that or like like make me justify my position, that's what debate is. That's what debate is, right? Like that's the cornerstone of like our republic. And I'm not to go all, you know, constitution, you know, but it's like when you're coming at someone with an attitude about something, you're automatically getting them to put up a front of like, okay, okay, [\h__\h] You know, so >> kind of like when you feed a toddler and if the toddler were to go, I don't like that. I want that over. Why don't you give me that instead? I mean, I don't even want to thank you for feeding me. I just don't like what you're feeding me. I just It's sometimes it's just kind of funny that resentment. You have emotion involved. I think it was just more and of course we don't know. I don't think he was really trying to come at us hard on that. I'm just speaking in general. I I think he was just like, "Guys, like you what are you talking about? Like two." >> Well, then see that's also the problem with um there's lack of inflection. But but the other thing is like whenever like like I got into it, not got into it, I commented on someone's thing about >> I'm not gonna go into what I commented on, but I I got I'll tell you guys later, but I I just left a comment. I'm like serious question w without any emotion involved. I I started the the preamble with that like serious question cuz I wanted to ask him a question and then I asked the question and it was basically like why is your stance on this when for all human history something was like this but you're just so perturbed about this one issue and >> that I'll just leave it at that but but I but I put a preamble on it of this is a serious question. This isn't me trying to take a shot at you to try to do a back and forth and then a gotcha moment and then I block you and we and we you know part ways. It wasn't one of those types of things. So, I think how you preamble the thing is a big deal, especially when you're talking about social media. >> And please listeners, I'm asking you, I implore you to understand that sometimes I I was almost said we I'll say I speaking for myself. I do sometimes get defensive. M so please understand and it can be argued skip don't get defensive but understand that for years the responses that I get are well you taking 15 IU of Sarah stem and your physique sucks he got his ass kicked I mean that's the type of thing that we deal with all the time so sometimes depending on my mood I may read between the lines and misunderstand like you said Andrew your tone, um, you know, demeanor. We all do that. >> What you mean? So, it happens. I'm human. I I make that mistake sometimes. But try being, you know, attacked or criticized you more than you probably already are. And And that's kind of sometimes you can expect I I sometimes expect that that's the case when maybe it's not. >> Yeah. All right, let's get into a few listener questions here. super random one, but also ties into contest prep theme. Um, what have you guys found as the most accurate way to determine an accurate BMR outside of DEXA scans? And I guess follow-up question from Scott. Do you guys ever have you guys have your clients check their BMI? Because I never like ever sometimes like I'll have a client that tells me like, oh, I went and got a DEXA scan done cuz I just wanted to know. Outside of that, like I literally never know how what the actual body fat percentage is on a client. All I know is they're effing peeled if they're getting on stage. You know what I mean? >> These I say it's just it's the eyeball. I'll tell you where the Dexi comes in handy. >> H >> there's a couple variables. Number one, it's typically during a recount. >> It can come in handy then, but then there's caveats to that. >> You need to go to the same place to get the Dexadon. You need to use the same machine and you need to fit into the machine because if you are if you if your arm if you're one quarter of the way outside of that machine >> then the machine is guessing at the other 25% of your body fat or your body composition based on what the other three quarters are. So there do there does need to be constant variables. I have found that the DEXA, how do I label this? The DEXA clinics are not as accurate as if you go for a DEXA that's at a medical facility. >> Don't know why. I don't know if they're just better. >> Um, >> well, think about it. Medical spends >> $200,000 on a machine. Little company spends $50,000 on a machine. The calibration is a lot different, probably. And the little clinics want to upsell you everything. All these added testings again, BMR, things like that. And I've always said, it's just me. I'm not speaking for anybody else. I don't like formulas I never have. And it was backed up when I had a 340B NFL lineman that would have to eat less than sometimes a 120, 130 lb figure girl. Mhm. >> That right there just blew I can't think of a better example of blowing >> formulas out of the, you know, out of the water. You know, size just doesn't always dictate what the caloric intake is and what the basil metabolic rate is. Much like when you get on a treadmill and it tells you exactly how many calories you burn. Now, if you use that treadmill consistently, then you'll have a good idea of where you're trending. If you do more time, you you do you burn 25% more calories. Okay, it's like a weight scale that is three pounds off. You might not have your accurate weight, but you will know moving forward how to base that and what that progression is up or down from there. >> Yeah. I remember about six years ago or eight years ago, I was doing some guest lecturing for uh my alma mater in the sports nutrition classes and um one of the things the professor wanted me to do, she she asked me cuz she knew I was doing contest preps and stuff and she asked me to come in at the beginning of my prep and at the towards the end of my prep to do uh my BMR, right? And both times she was like, "This just doesn't make any sense. >> It does it." She goes, "This can't you sure you sure you reported your calories, right?" And I I'm like, "My diet's to a tea. I don't cheat." Like, you know, and I was like, I could have told you this beforehand, like like this is something that coaches know that science doesn't understand. And and as you pointed out, Skip, formulas don't mean anything. You know, when someone sends me a DEXA scan, I just I throw it right in the trash. Literally, >> I still like to take a look at them and I like to see if those variables are, you know, consistent. They can be helpful. But I again if you rely on a DEXA man that's not a good I've had clients come back and go oh man I lost you know four pounds of muscle and gained a pound of body fat and it's like yeah visually this is not what we're seeing here. So it is it can be tough. >> Think about hydration status. Sorry. I'll even look at their like the electric impedance tests. They do the inbody scans which are you want to talk about true garbage like those are the worst >> but they can somewhat be accurate to themselves >> tactic. >> They are a sales tactic but if you get one done at the say the beginning of the year and then you go into a fat loss phase and you do it 6 months later you will see some changes and I find that to be interesting. Maybe it says like this arm had 4.5 pounds of fat and now it has 3.2. I can't help but be, you know, intrigued by looking at the numbers. Does it change anything that I do? Not at all. Like, not it doesn't influence me in the slightest. >> If if they came to you for fat loss and 10 weeks later you show them the pictures of how they lost 20 pounds, like >> there it is right there. like, yeah, you take up less space in the world now. You know what I mean? Like, yeah, that's how I look at it. But >> yeah, remember I told you guys, I gave you the example >> of when I did the DEXA lying face up >> and then turned around and did it face down >> and the numbers were different. >> Mhm. >> All right. What about this one? >> Uh, I have a question for the next go around. Oh, and by the way, guys, we got a bunch of people in the live stream. I'm going to throw this out there. If you guys have a topic idea for the next podcast, let us know. You can comment in the stream. Maybe it'll be on the next show. >> Well, it will be because we don't have a topic. Let's just be transparent. >> I I I do have one, Skip, that I I can ask, but but we might find something better, too. >> Um, >> okay. What are your experience with athletes who have ADHD, particular during a bodybuilding prep? Uh, how do you handle stimulant use? for example, compounds like Clen, Tren, orals to some extent and athletes who are already prescribed med medications uh for ADHD uh given that their central nervous system is already functionally functioning different. Um have you worked with ADHD athletes who were using medications? >> Doesn't everyone have ADHD now? alongside uh compounds such as GLP1s or GLPs uh and other appetite suppressing agents. I'm curious about the how these might interact, especially since both can influence appetite and neurotransmitters in different ways. It's >> actually a good question. I'm an ADD guy, but I didn't know it until Oh, yeah. No kidding. Until my son was diagnosed and I remember going down the list going, I have all of these symptoms. Apparently, I'm too old to have been diagnosed. If I was his age, I probably would have be would be diagnosed. Anyway, that's my little story. Go ahead, Andrew. >> I think um I I I have to snicker a little bit because I feel like the fix is in. Pharma just keeps expanding symptoms. Oh, yeah. I don't want to work sometimes. Oh, I don't want to get out of bed. Oh, >> I'm distracted. >> Yeah. You know, let me sell you something that's going to help you out. Yeah. you know, um I don't change anything that I do. Um I treat them the same as anyone else and then >> I just wait for feedback. If there's side effects, then I'm going to alter what we're doing. Um but I'm not going to drastically change anything that I'm doing. You know, if I want to use Clen, we're going to use Clen. And then if I get the feedback that, you know, my heart rate's going 600 beats a minute, we're gonna probably pull back and go do something a little different. It'd be the same with anyone though that they weren't prescribed or using any other medications and they gave feedback and I would do the same thing. I would course correct from there. >> You know, I purposely, again, full disclosure, I purposely handed it off to you because I wanted to say that and when you said it, I've been laughing inside going because I thought maybe you were going to have something some type of system. Here's the one difference. If I come across variables like that and feedback from a client that they say, you know, okay, ADHD or whatever, something to that effect, I may put something like Clint in a little earlier >> to see what kind of reaction or if there's a different reaction than what I would anticipate. >> Okay? >> But when I say I'm I'm talking a couple weeks, few weeks or just to see if there's something there or not that I might have might need a little bit more time to tweak. But I'm right there. I'm right there with you. I'm not going to purposely go, "Oh, we need to dramatically alter this the the approach here. We're going to put it in. We're going to see and we're going to adjust based on how you respond." Got something I want to throw up here. So, we did a physique critique of this gentleman previously. This is Jake. And uh he just commented this week and said, "Thank you guys for the critique. I ended up doing the amateur at uh uh on this weekend, meaning the amateur Olympia. Came all the way out here to do it. Um and came second to the overall winner. He might do the Japan qualifier in 6 weeks time or might shut it down and try again next year. So, I wanted to share with our audience that this is what a legit classic dude looks like that is vying for a pro card at the national level, you know, and one of our listeners. >> Yeah, he won his class. second overall. >> Yeah. Just barely missed the pro card. Yeah. >> Yep. >> I mean, I guess I would ask him, how long have you been on this thing? This this this this roller coaster of prep. And 6 weeks to me, and it's just me and I'm not the one prepping right now. Doesn't seem like a lot of time. And if he thinks he can bring a better look, go get it done. He's got a beautiful physique. >> Yeah. >> Look at that, man. >> Yeah. He didn't even ask me to bring the pictures up. I just dug back. He commented. And then I actually met him this weekend, this past weekend too at the uh the booth >> and really nice guy. And uh yeah, I figured I'd just pull his pictures back up to just kind of celebrate. You know what I'm saying? These aren't the pictures from the Olympia. These are his previous pictures. You know what I mean? >> So he competed again. We did a critique for him. That's a nice rear double seeing this again. >> That's a really beautiful shot on him. >> For you guys. Oh, go ahead. Well, I was going to say the reason why I say keep going is because if a group of a panel of judges multiple times now have found you like really really good >> and it and it's just another six weeks. >> People will be like oh you're pulling six weeks off when you could be growing. It's like well >> no I mean he's trying to get a pro card and he's six he's possibly six weeks away from it. What's six weeks of >> going into his offse? What's the difference of six weeks from going into his offseason? Um you know pushing it back a little bit and you got to look at the shows for next year, right? like, okay, maybe his plan is to do shows starting July, August, September next year, what's six weeks difference. You know, I say if your body still feels fresh, your mind is fresh, go get it done, man. You got an excellent physique. >> Uh, do you guys find because I'm I'm old school in the sense that >> not only myself, but my clients, if it's prejudging, you're wearing black. >> Yeah. >> Has that So, has that changed without me knowing it? Not that I would change it anyway. Yes. >> But Okay. I I figured that it probably did. >> Well, classic is always black, though. >> Okay. But I mean, even in bodybuilding. Sorry, I should have been more specific, but >> No, like it's it's it's been a thing for a while. >> Right. >> No, it's been a thing for a while. >> Okay. And I have seen colors in pre and I and I'm thinking to myself, >> like what are they? And can I just add this is not a shot at the guy in the end, >> but those trunks, right? >> The diaper. >> Am I the only one? >> The diaper pan. >> Yeah. There was a time not that long ago that that would have been pretty damn normal. You know what I mean? >> Yeah. >> They used to come down to his thigh. The the mid uh like briefs. >> They were like bike shorts. >> But let's all agree that not now. >> So what I'm saying is that would something do you know and understand I haven't sat on a judging panel for a long time. >> Excuse me. Um is that you know is that playing into him being out there? I mean, I can, you know, I can see based on the lineup that he's he's probably in the, you know, in the right placing, at least from the couple shots that I've seen. >> He's got a nice physique. You know, he's he's not not a not like a a scrub looking dude. He's >> I was going to say shape. >> I was going to say he's not a scrub. >> Yeah. Were you going to say that exact word? >> I was literally going to say that word. Yeah. We're from the same era. You know what I mean? >> But I will say this to anybody listening. If you're going to go in and compete and you haven't competed before, please pay attention to the what you might think are small things from the tan to the amount of oil that you have on. Just you don't want to do all that work and step on stage with, you know, as an example with trunks that aren't flattering >> uh or or something minor that you can control that can really downplay your physique. >> Well, and let's change that. >> Look at that. So, it it makes him look more boxy. Look at the other guys. It makes their quad sweep look bigger. It It just adds more contour. And that's what And honestly, it's really important in the female divisions, okay? Like when we talk about like suit cuts for pro bikini or or top amateur bikinis on their glutes, like exactly how high on the hips they are. Like we're talking >> millimeter differences is something that we look at to make to make changes. Um >> from the front, too. We've actually been told with Andrea that they wanted it to be a little bit higher. like she was hers was cut just a and we're talking like not even a quarter inch difference you know >> it's a big deal >> and I even think the color I mean like I said I'm not putting the guy you know I don't want to put him on the chopping block here but because I pointed that out I also noticed that I think his color is off compared to everybody else's is >> yeah know it is it is >> a little bit let me ask you said you never wore anything other than black trunks at prejudging for your whole career >> I think so yeah >> I've never worn black trunks at pre prejudging ever in my career Oh, is that right? >> Really? Okay. Very >> I've always heard it was the favored thing, but you should maybe wear like at least something muted. So, I might have done like a navy blue or something like that. Dark dark. I literally thought even as a judge, like I said, I I mean, I judged in three different states for for quite quite a while years ago. >> Um I thought it was literally thought that it was accepted that it was mandatory that it had to be black. I think at some point it did. No, you're probably right. But they just have to be a solid color for prejudging. You can't be doing the polka dots or the flag or Yeah. >> Yeah. You can do that at night show if you want to. I think only for your routine for some like some >> because I think you're not supposed to have patterns, are you? For >> NBC, >> they let you get away with it for your routines sometimes. But like now I mean I've never worn black trunks. It's always been blue. I did green one year and then I did started doing a maroon color, a velvet maroon. >> Maroon did not work good for me, man. and it was the same color as my skin. I looked >> Okay, so that that's where I'm going into because especially in the female divisions where your suit color, skin tone, the makeup you're wearing, how you're styling your hair, the color of your hair, all these things come like like I tell Rachel she should start a business consulting with girls for their stage looks because we are constantly commenting and giving our girls feedback non-stop about nah that that's who color is not going to work for you. >> What do you think, Andrew? Um and and of course this is not going to be for our demographic, our listeners. I always hear this from bikini girls that uh oh, they're into Bernetts this year. You know, they're the Bernetts are doing well this year or everybody's got blue suits. Gotta have a blue suit this year. What do you think of that? You know what I'm talking about. You hear it too, I'm sure. >> Uh I don't know if I'm at liberty to say something, but so I'll tell you guys off air. But >> Okay. >> But yes, um brunettes have been in for the last three years. Okay. >> Yeah. But you you hear that. You know what I mean? That's that's >> I don't hear it. I see it. >> Yeah. Well, yeah. I see it pro. >> You hear it from people too. Like that is a consideration that girls are having >> when when the judges the the people that are going to be judging you and they fly you up to the compound for, you know, Olympia week or whatever they meet meet the pros, you know, >> they tell a lot of these girls how they want their looks to look, >> what suit color they should go with, how they should style their hair, what color their hair should be. >> Oh, yeah. >> All those details. Or they might say, "I really liked your hair at the last show." >> Okay. Well, what do you think that means? Like if you got third place and you had a physique that was probably good enough to win, >> make sure you get the hair back to that that previous style. >> Fix all those variables. Keep all the variables, but change the one. You know, >> I'd say at least they're mentioning it mentioning it. I that to me is more fair because I'm going to be honest with you and I might be the outlier here. But >> I don't think that the color of the suit should ever impact a placing like in a negative way. At the end of the day, this is physique. I know. I know. >> Let me give you an example. >> A girl with not as dark of a tan who wears an orang-ish >> suit. It all and has orangish. It just all blends together. >> You might not get the same pop. You don't get you can get you look at the next girl, she's got pop with because I've seen it where like her hair matches her tan and the suit just doesn't jump out. Like it does make a difference. And I think that that >> the total package I'm not I I this is going to be hard to convey what I'm thinking. I just don't think at the end of the day that it that it should be a preference like as a well I just had you know we have those biases as judges. They're just things that are going to stand out that we not we don't even process consciously. I get that unless it's just egregiously like so obvious that it doesn't fit that. I get but the well, you know, I I >> listen, but I had this happen or I didn't wear a bracelet or I had blonde hair instead of brown. I don't think those things should matter. >> Well, I'll tell you why they do. >> I'll tell you why they do. I'll tell you why they do. Because if let's say you have let's say you have two twins even, okay? Because actually this has happened at I think USA's a couple years ago. But let's say you have two twins, physique's exactly the same, same condition. One of them is wearing the suit that just complements her physique. To use the word Scott, her physique pops out of it. And like you just can't take your eyes off of her. >> The other girl has the same exact physique, but she's wearing a suit that does not complement that pop. And her hairstyle is wacky. We'll just say >> you you go with what your eyes want. You know, as a judge, >> sure, >> the one you can't take your eyes off of, they're going to win. They could be literally twins and one is styled better, one has better um suit, one has better heels, one is wearing the right amount of bling, it just looks better. >> But that if it impacts how their physique looks or presents, cool. But if it's just a matter of red or blue or I just wish it maybe a better way to put it is I wish it didn't. I guess that's what I'm total package clearly. I mean it's like men's physique. I always laugh and say, you know, you could have a B, you could have a men's physique from the neck down, but if you're unattractive, you're just gonna want to stay out of that. So, I get that. I mean, it's a total package thing. That's why all the ugly guys go into bodybuilding and why I could never make that transition >> or why the ugly girls get second in women's physique Olympia. >> Oh, sorry. >> Oh, he said it. He said it. >> Hopefully, the second place winner is not listening to the show right now. Did you guys see that post? >> You [\h__\h] [\h__\h] >> That's all I got to say. >> Well, and I said, >> "I never liked her. I don't like her face. I don't like her physique." >> Dude, same thing. And it's because of comments like that. There's always just this I'm better than everyone attitude. And when you come out and you say something and it reminded me like all the times that, you know, Jay Cutler when he lost, he just, you know, he slammed Ronnie afterwards. >> He didn't do that once. He got back to the the drawing board and said, "What do I got to do to beat this guy? Do I need bigger quads? Do I need to get my back bigger?" Like what is it? I got to my conditioning. >> And if the girl who beat you is second rate, what does that say about you? >> Yeah, exactly. That's a good point. That's a good point. But yeah, I thought that was a really distasteful comment. Um, >> did you see that, Skip? >> No. >> So, >> she said she the post was >> that chick, former Miss Olympia. >> Yeah, former Miss Olympia. She got second this year to Natalya Qualo, who looked phenomenal. I I always she she's feminine. She moves so well and she's not that this matters on the physique, but she's such a good ambassador. >> Yes, she is. >> She comments on like my clients doing their first show is like, "Wow, like looking excellent. I've seen you improving." Or like just random [\h__\h] >> She be in the stream right now, dude. She's always like coming out all of our stuff. You know, >> the person you want representing the women's physique division. Okay. >> Yeah. >> And this the the second place girl said like, "I I I don't count it as a loss to lose to someone at the Oil Olympia or or the Oil Olympia champion. O I L saying that she had her her delts were jimmied up, her quads are jimmied up. Um then she actually espoused on it a little bit more in the comments and it's just so distasteful especially in a sport where >> Yeah, >> everyone uses oil technically. >> Mhm. Yeah, >> everybody uses oil technically. >> She did take it down, Skip, but not >> it's up. She made a she she she she said that her profile was taken down because or she had to take it down because she got so much bot hate from the bots. >> Oh, I thought that she regardless I there was I thought a recanting but it's too late because it was screen capped by everybody in the world. >> Hold on, hold on, hold on. Because I actually did made a we made a point of talking about this yesterday. >> All right, >> so let me just pull it up real quick and I can just tell you. >> Nope, it's still there. >> Is it really? So she's still >> Oh, she did change it. So she did change. She did change the caption one that she had about the oil Olympia. Oh, >> okay. >> Talk about way to get people to not root for you. Your face looks like a horse. That's all I have to say. >> Dude, >> I'm not going to comment on someone's facial looks. Okay, >> I'm going to say it. I'm going to say it right now. >> That's something I would say. I'm like, damn. >> Yeah. I I I mean it's but because it's the physiques and then after that to me it's the personality and I think her personality just sucks. You know she flies to the pl the the the shows and private jets and makes a big show of it and then she she she gives money to the other women's physique show uh uh she I don't know if she has a show or she which I don't even know how that works. If you're a current competing pro, you can have your own pro show, but she gives a lot of some money to another winner, right? But I feel like it's just stinks of like, "Oh, I'm just so great for the sport." And and and it's it's like if you do good deeds, you just do them. You don't post about it. >> Hadenism. >> Yes. Yes. >> Is that a is that a word of the day, Skip? >> Oh, well, I mean, it could be. And I always say the metaphor is this. You're standing on the side of a cruise ship and someone falls over and the only reason that you jump into action is because everybody's watching and you have the opportunity to look >> essentially feain altruism >> like a hero >> and you're doing it in a henistic, you know, >> way because you're going to benefit from it. That's it's another good one is uh social media where you film going up and giving all these things to homeless people at their expense to make yourself look good. It's it's altruistic. It's >> ugly. >> Mhm. >> Hey Ryan, thanks for your service, man. He said some mentioned something about the VA earlier and he's been following a lot of our live streams. I just figured I'd throw that out there to him. >> Absolutely. Guys, we appreciate you tuning in and uh check out uh truenutrition.com. Use our code thinkover there supplements.ca for Canadians. Thank you to everybody from Patreon. In fact, I need to put up a new thread for Patreon questions. We'll gather up a bunch of those for the next couple shows down the road here. And of course, go to bodybry.com to reach out to Andrew for coaching. Go to teamskip.com to reach out to Skip. And uh you can hit me up mcnal@gmail.com for another episode of Bloodwide Gear. We will see you soon. >> Go Brewers. the comment. She's not even Glenn Close handsome. That's great. >> Oh man, >> Ryan, that's a banger, dude. That's good. >> There's there's one awesome thing about the internet. When you get on a viral video or in the comment section, a viral video or a post, picture, anything. The >> the wit. Oh, sometimes it's just pure gold. >> You know who does that to a tea? is Rachel's brother should be a comedian. I mean, he says these things and you're just like, "Haha." And then you're like, you think about it for two seconds, you're like >> like you spit your [\h__\h] out. It's like that funny. >> Like he's that witty. >> The We had this uh Jay Cutler reel that went viral. It's been out for a year and all of a sudden like you know you see it across like this that when you look at the you know the the stats and it's just like and it's uh I can't remember how many thousands of views but like 40 50 something like that now. And uh and that's like it didn't start picking up until like 350 days of having been posted. So >> wow. And it was Jay Cutler reveals uh his gear use or something like that from his prime. And uh Jay was like, "Yeah, you know, we just took what we could get. You know, it I don't even remember the doses to be honest with you. I mean, it was a it was a long time ago and it was really the food, you know. It was the food that really drove it and the people in the comments >> literally because Oh my Because at first is like our listeners, right? Yeah, >> but now 350 days later it is people like, "Yeah, you didn't remember." You know, they're like, you know, just some of them were so funny. >> You remember what you had for meal 3 at before the 2009 Olympia. >> Somebody said [\h__\h] like that. Somebody said >> you don't remember what peeds you were taking in your prime. Like, bro, >> yeah. Just we took what we could get, you know? >> The thing is is like he's such a credible person. Like, why do you got to turn it down a notch like that? Like, why, you know, like you're great ambassador. You've done a lot of great things in the sport. one of the one of the uh the greats of all time just say like I don't want to talk about that. >> Well, didn't Arnold just do that in his documentary that was out only a month or two ago and talking about his drug use and downplaying it dramatically. >> Did he? >> See, I would believe Arnold a little bit by like cuz honestly they didn't have the kind of access that Jay Cutler did, >> Yeah. But I think he's just as bad when it comes to that. He >> he just downplays it >> so badly. It's just it's it's just almost a giant >> giant eye. Well, >> it's like I don't want to side with the trolls, but >> Well, it's like when um Phil Heath was like on that video talking about like insulin like oh never even never heard of insulin until, you know, later in my career. Growth hormone, you know? It's like >> what are you talking about, dude? Everyone was talking about that [\h__\h] then. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. I saw that same podcast with the giant eye roll. >> Guys taking trend like Yeah. So these guys were taking trend, you know, competing against me. I heard about it, but we didn't even get involved in it. I can't remember what he said. It was something about lowd dose primo and something. And he was low dose when I knew him. I don't know after that. You know, I I always say, you know, I we had our run in and and we were not friends after that. We were not going to be doing lunch anytime. >> Anytime soon. >> So, I I saw um Phil on my plane home. Andrew, >> that's what you said. >> Oh, Viz or Heath? >> Oh, Heath. >> Oh. >> And Dexter Jackson sat right next to him. >> Really? on the like the redeye to Detroit on Sunday at like 10:10 p.m. Man, >> I did wonder what was Phil going to Detroit for. I know he's not living down here anymore. >> I don't want to put it out there cuz I know more just from being around here. I so I won't say. >> Okay. >> But I could tell you later. But uh you know, it's just I don't want to even though he's like still a public figure, it's not my business to share, you know. >> Um but I he I've never actually talked to him ever, you know. And I have a feeling it's one of two things because I'll see him, he'll make eye contact and it's either I know that guy's in the fitness industry and I don't know him so I don't want to talk to him so he looks away and won't look at me again or he's like he's a guy who records that podcast with Skip. It's one of the two. >> But we've never talked because of that, you know. >> Yeah, cuz we had Jimmy on about that, right? About the >> dude and I thought about it, man. We recorded that literally that like 2 days or the day after the Olympia. I was still at the in Vegas. I recorded that podcast in Vegas the year he lost. >> Okay. >> And that went viral. Man, >> Phil had a hotel room right next to Scott and you could hear through the walls. >> Oh, really? >> I think out of all the Olympia champs, he'd be like the last one I'd want to talk to, honestly. >> I'm not just from everything I've seen. You know, I watch I did watch the that documentary they made and I'm like I am just having a hard time making you out to be the victim when you won seven Sando trophies. Like like how it's just a it's such a case for our times, right? Like I'm the victim here. I had all these emotions and [\h__\h] but I I was the winning one of the second winningest, you know, bodybuilder of all time. What? Like I don't have any sympathy for you. You had genetics on on Moss that I'll never even know about. Yeah, >> there's a, you know, there's a huge backstory that is incredibly ironic to talk about feelings based on some of the things. And listen, >> his life because he's, you know, a celebrity is put I wouldn't want my life put out there and my decisionsized either, don't get me wrong, >> but when they're egregious and they're they're just they're bad. Not all of them. I don't know that he's not a great person now. Maybe he's a great person. Maybe he has matured and >> I've been through some [\h__\h] you know, like I if people knew everything I did, they probably, you know what I mean? >> I completely agree. I would not just defend the the celebrity status because everything is scrutinized. There's no question. >> Uh it's the lack of accountability when another friend is involved and you know, you you end up rectifying the situation literally because you're forced to. And I have to be careful with what I say because they're not NDAs, but they're things. Yeah. >> Yeah.