Bodybuilding nerds unite. You are listening to Bodybuilding Nerds Radio. Just a couple of nerds who love all things bodybuilding related. This show is brought to you by Think Big Patreon, the best fans on the planet and multiverse of bodybuilding. Supplements.csca for our listeners up north. True nutrition.com. Use code sink. Save yourself a pretty penny on some delicious concoctions of your own creation. Parabolic come home. I am your host VJ Pury. Along with me as always is Scott McN. Scott, how you doing? Hey y I'm doing good, man. I'm excited about this. We We have We have a special show for everybody. It's been a long time since any one of us nerds have done something like this on the show. That's for damn sure. Yeah. Yeah. We We're going to review VJ's competition. V jumped into a contest. It was literally man when did you even when did you remind me when did you decide that you were gonna compete? So the last but on the last BNR I we just still didn't I didn't know at the times and that was only a month ago right? Yeah. So that was four weeks ago. Yeah. So it would have been like right around after we did it. I probably just decided at that point you know like my nephew Logan was getting ready and I was just like well [\h__\h] I'm getting lean really quick too. Why not just jump in see what happens. Yeah it was I you got to answer the call man. They came calling. So you did, you know, it's funny, man, because like all through all the original B&R episodes, I was like, Vich, when are you going to get back on stage? And you're like, oh, never, man. I'm done with this. I'm never competing again. And and and I, you know, eventually accepted like, oh, V just is just done with it. He doesn't care to and why would I want somebody to do something that they didn't want to do. You know what I mean? So I just accepted like V just done with that part. I thought so too. It just, you know, once that fire leaves, you don't know that it's going to come back ever again, you know, and then but once once it does come back a little bit, you got to answer that call, you know. Yeah. Hey. Hey, how Oh, and we do have some other stuff. I know we're going to do I've got a supplement review. Yes. We've got what else? Shout outs. We've got shoutouts. We've got supplement review. We've got uh you know, just our general bodybuilding nerds radio banter. But first thing is first, Scott, how's training? Oh man. So, okay. So, for those of you who maybe are tuning in for the first time, this is what we do. We get together, we talk about like what's going on with our training right now. And then we usually do all the other stuff that we mentioned. And uh it'll be a little bit more of a bridge show, a bridged show today. We don't have any kind of reviews or anything like that that we're going to do later. A lot of times we do like what the kids call reactions. But hey, training is all better if that if that's a good word. So, I was in a good groove before my week in Vancouver, right? Yeah. And then I assumed like, okay, I'm going to Vancouver. I've been pretty depleted for, you know, the last whatever months. I'm going to like just cut back in the diet a little bit, not not worry about it as much. Eat some good food. Eat some samosas. Get some fish and chips, you know, get all the things that I wanted while I was in Vancouver, including some Nimo bars. And uh lo and behold uh great time man. It was awesome. We had I could only imagine beautiful weather. It was sunny the whole the landscape on its own in Vancouver is just like all inspiring. It's just you know just mindblowing. Oh man, what a place. The air is clean and and fresh, you know. Yeah. It's got ocean ocean current to smell, you know. Yeah. And we, you know, we had a lot of family stuff to do. We were there for a wedding, but we did get away a little bit. We went out to the mountains one day in North Vancouver, the ocean another day and and like walked out in the low tide which was fun. So nice. And uh and I got to go train at Ron's gym too which was cool man. So shout out Ron Partllo. It was fun. We had a good time. Uh I had a great time. And here's the thing is that everybody got sick like one by one. Victoria was the first and for I think it's allergies. And I was like, "Yeah." And I just, she's like, "And then I have a sore throat." And then three days in, she's like, "I'm sick." And then other people started getting sick. And oh man. Um I got through without getting sick, right? The whole trip, right? And then when I got home the next day, then my throat started getting sore and I dealt with it. So it kind of, you know, I didn't do a lot of training while I was away. I just trained the one day at Ron's gym. We got a lot of walking in and I tried to make sure that like we walked every day through the neighborhoods and stuff. Um, but now then I plan to get back and get back into it, but now I'm like dealing with like all sorts of congestion and all that. And uh, anyway, so training's better because when I first got back it kind of sucked and I felt beat down. Uh, but I'm getting back into it and I'm here's the thing, man. Having not been in as much of a depletion because I kind of filled out for the week and ate cake and everything else, I would say. So, yeah, I am getting crazy pumps. All right, that's crazy, man. That's the best part about taking a break, you know? You come back to the gym, you're like, "God, I miss this feeling. Oh shit." Yeah. My face is fuller. My biceps are fuller. Yeah. I was going to say, you look thicker all over. Look good. Like in a good way, though. Not like, you know, in a bloated gross. Yeah. No, you hit that window. The water retention is too much. You know, you hit that window where it's like it still looks good. Do it for another week, then it would all look like that again. You know what I mean? Still overgrowth. You got that samosa pump going on. I like it. Yeah. So, now I'm I'm pulling back a little bit, you know? But, uh, I was still doing the one body part per day split, like the bro split. Yeah, man. Dude, it's great for me, man. Like, I did arms today, you know, and ended up getting about eight sets in for buys, eight sets in for tries. And I'm I'm you know what I'm exercis I'm really getting back into man is the close grip bench for tries. Oh love it. I love it. Yeah. It's a real compoundy movement. You know what I mean? Yeah. You find you you you don't really have to get too heavy with that either. It's just like once you unrackck the weight, it's like everything just goes right through the triceps and like the upper pack area and you're like, "Oh, this is going to be fun." Yeah. You know, just takes hardly no weight at all. It's I love that. That's my That's my favorite one. I I do I do arms on Thursdays. Okay. And and so um I I I don't end up doing close grip bench press um like really consistently on that day. I'd like to be able to. Yeah. Because it's my favorite thing. I'm just I should find a way to include it because then on Friday is like pushpull day and I don't want to like, you know, make my triceps all completely fried. I can't push nothing, right? You know, so I save any kind of that flat pressing for that day instead. So, I'm gonna have to rearrange something along along the ways because I do miss doing those. You now you got my the engines are turning. I'm like, man, I miss those. They're cool, man. Yeah, because it is it's kind of like more that compound feel. And it's like a good like bang for your buck exercise. If you're not doing a lot, then make sure you know the exercise like the opposite of that I would think would be like a a tricep dumbbell extension. You know what I mean? It's like, yeah, you're not really It's okay. or or like kickbacks or something. You're like, that's what I meant. Sorry. That's what I meant. Like, yeah, dumbbell kickback, you know. Yeah. Yeah. It looks It looks cool when girls do it, you know, at the gym, you know, right? In their little outfits. I'm like, "Hey, that must work pretty good." Yeah. You try it and you're like, "This is awful. What am I doing?" Yeah. You can't really like stabilize it much and all of that. Like, I don't look half as sexy doing it this unless these girls do. What the hell? Yeah. So, I'm just trying to get the diet, you know, plugged back in now. But like not being well. I also don't feel like cutting the food way back is a great idea. You know what I mean? So yeah. Yeah. You got to find a nice balance of of enough calories so that you're not like, you know, get potentially make yourself more sick. You know, you got to have enough once you get what do they say? You got to feed a cold and starve of a flu. You know what I mean? Is that what they say? I don't know if any of it's true, but Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And I took a break from the rea too for the week. So Okay. Because you didn't take it with you. Yeah. I didn't take it with me. And realistically, if I took a shot before I left, it's not like it wasn't in my system, but doing it twice a week, splitting into do two doses, uh I I got like a little behind and then I waited a couple days after I got back and I just took it again, you know. So, yeah, back on the rea. and my supplement reviews. It's all going to be today about like um things to bounce you back after you've had like a little bit of a dip, be it getting sick or having to travel or maybe just had like a layoff for a couple weeks because you got busy at work. So that you know when we get to that today, that's kind of where my focus is. So I'll be that that's funny that you say that because my review is something similar too. It's like once once you once you've been so depleted in that contest state just a few little things to just help you bounce back a little bit. Some of the important stuff maybe nobody really thinks about like day the you know like the Thursday, Friday, Saturday of the show and even even on the Sunday morning, you know. Yeah. Well, I look forward to that. But tell me about your training. What's going on, man? Because I mean you had to like what did you do different going into the show? And I know you had to travel cuz you competed. You're in uh Tennessee and you drove to Iowa, right? That's right. I drove out to Deuke, Iowa. It's about 9 and a half hour drive. Is that how you pronounce it? Yeah, Debuke. I didn't know if it was like Debbuck or You never know. You never know with Ians. You know, you could be saying it completely wrong and they're like, "What the hell wrong with this guy? Go back to Tennessee." Uh training is good, man. I mean, uh, once you get down in that final like week and a half, is training really ever good, you look good. No matter what your training is like, you look good in the mirror that, you know, for 10 minutes after you're done. Yeah. Yeah. No, that's true. Once the pump sets in, training is fun, but it but it's it's like the visual. The visual is fun, you know? It's like once you get lean enough and you get uh that pump and all the striations are going and the veins are out, that looks cool. But when you're trying to bench 225 and you're used to getting, you know, 25 30 reps with it and you're barely ekking out 12, 13 reps, you're like, "God, training sucks. What is wrong with me?" You know? Yeah. No kidding, man. Yeah. I I I have to jump in real quick because I just looked at the live stream. We were not We were ignoring everybody. Oh my god. What the hell? Ron Partllo is with us. Get out of here. Let's talk Marshall amps. And then he said those close grip bench for try. So he's he's been following along. And then from there, him and NGS are just talking and he said it's like we don't even exist. Are they going to ignore his fans like this? Oh my god. Listen, Ron. Marshall amps. That's a different channel. I'm sorry. Oh, but you got your amps in the background. So you guys could probably do a whole podcast on that, right? Man, Ron, these Marshall amps, they would blow your mind. That first one up there with the little guy on it, you know, you see that little hand there? That that's just a Marshall Origin amp, but it's been modded to sound like a A-50 W plexi. Oo, I don't even know what that is, but I like that. It doesn't If you know the sound of rock and roll from the 70s and early 80s, that's it. That's it right there. That one. Yeah. And the one be be below it is a vintage modern one. It's also a modded plexi basically is what it is. So, so these things aren't like out of the box is what you're telling me. Yeah. You know, this this one here, that middle one, that one is basically modded from the shop, but the one on top, that one, somebody somebody went mod crazy on it, and I was like, I I have to have it. Oh, it's And it's probably one of my best ones I have. It's a monster. Yeah, that is cool, man. Ron, if you Ron, if Ron ever came here, boy, we would blow this house up with some Marshall tones. Nice. I'm so sorry to interrupt you, but I saw I had to let Ron know that you you know we saw his message. Yeah, I'm looking now, too. Hey, everybody. Hey, what's up? What's up, fellas? What's up? What's happening over here? We got with us. Yep. Yeah. Right on. Yep. All right. I got AI got Plexi Sexy. That's right. That's what I'm talking about. Yeah. Yeah. So, you were telling me though, so training, you know, wasn't the greatest going into the show. Yeah. I mean, you just I just, you know, I just get weak. we very much so weak, you know, and it's just like the weights that you're used to handling, forget about it, you know. And I I changed the training around so it's more focused on like good quality reps and not not anything at all to do with with the weight that I was handling eight weeks ago or whatever, you know? Um I know some people can do that. I don't know how they do that, man. But [\h__\h] when I'm you're on, 1300 calories a day. And I, you know, I think that's part of it, man, is that if you were to diet like this now and go through this phase and then get to the conditioning you want and then be able to add more food back in, bring the cardio down, you know, that's where I think then the strength comes back. Yeah. and you can hold that and and I think that's where we you know that's one of the things I never used to do years and years back like 2010 the whole game plan was to get absolutely peeled so that you were at your absolute leanest like one week out from the show and then you cut all the you know then you you cut all the training out and and you added in a bunch of food and and cut the water and hoped that you were full enough versus I feel like nowadays man is to get somebody ready you know five weeks out. Yeah. And and feed them up, man, and relax and feel good and train hard and all, you know, all of that. So, yeah. Yeah. I didn't have enough time to go into all of that. I mean, if I had any more time. I mean, I got I I did get to the point where, you know, I hit that magic pocket right around the 8week mark, which is I only had basically one week left before the show, you know. So it was like I had one week to just kind of just [\h__\h] off a little bit in the gym and eat a little McDonald's here and there, you know, really try to fill out and but I, you know, the workouts that final week is just like a lot of pump stuff, you know, just pump pump work, moving food through a lot of like supersets if you can do that, you know, if you've got the energy for all that. And um volumizing, just volumizing the muscle bellies really is all I can, you know, compare it to. You know, it's it's not it's not training, but they are pretty good workouts. You don't want to like draw a bunch of inflammation into the muscle, a bunch of water and all that. And the worst thing that can happen is like [\h__\h] like a tear, god forbid, or something, right? Walking wood. God. Yeah. So, so can't mess around can't mess around with uh, you know, dehydrated muscle bellies, you know, trying to trying to press a 140 dumbbells or something. It's just not a good idea. Ask Jean Pierre Fuks about that, right? It looks like it sounds like you've gone robotic. Uhoh. Did you pause? Did you fall out? I've got uh trying to reconnect to make sure you have a stable connection. Oh no. Do you hear me? Are we Are we here still? Am I here still? I There you go. I'm back. Holy [\h__\h] All right. All right. Yeah, it happens sometimes, man. Yeah. Um so what's going on with training moving forward now? Like what what are your goals? What are you going to do next? Um just about I mean it it kind of just kind of remains the same at this point. Like I go back to whatever I was doing eight weeks ago, you know what I mean? And just grind away until I can't do it no more kind of thing. Okay. Yeah. So I sh I just I still training seven seven days a week, you know? Um I might take I might take Sunday off which is because usually the Lord's day, right? It's usually a active rest active rest day for me, you you know, I just go in the gym and just different machines I would never usually use and just like three sets of eight to 10, you know, just to just to get food moving through. But as we get closer to that show day, man, those Sundays are real nice just to lay around, do nothing, you know. Yeah. Just get your cardio in and that's all you can do. But, uh, so you're are you one and done? Just the one show and and like you're going to hang it up or what's going on now? We're going to go we're going to go to Tennessee State here in eight weeks. So, I knew that answer. I was just trying to, you know, be like a good segue. Good segue. Yeah. So, I got to keep going, keep grinding away and, you know, get hardened up and you, you know, traditionally I'm used to doing like 16 20 week, you know, preps. Yeah. You know, I wouldn't just jump into a show traditionally after eight and a half weeks of dieting, you know, but I was to a point where I was like, this is just going to be fun. This I haven't done this in 17 years. I need to get my feet wet. And what better place to do this amongst friends, family, you know, like people I know, people that care. It It was awesome. It was awesome time, man. So, uh, but this next one is, you know, the full prep, right? Okay. Full 16 full 16 weeks. And, um, I plan to be very sharp, all all things considering, and as long as things go great, I plan to be as sharp as I can possibly be because I'm going to need to be. All right. This is the Tennessee State show. This is the big one here. So, yeah. So now is that 16 weeks from now or or what did you since the start of when I started dieting all together? Okay, I got you. So you have like another eight weeks then or what are we talking? Where are we at? What how many how long do you have left now? So eight weeks. Eight weeks altogether at Yeah. Uh yeah, right. Eight weeks. Yeah. You could do a lot in eight weeks, man. Oh yeah. Yeah. I plan to. I mean realistically I feel like you weren't you know you you weren't that far out of shape. It's not like you were trying to push for size and you know what I mean like bloat it up when you started dieting. So it's kind of cool man that you were able to just like decide hey I'm going to jump in a show and it might not have been your best look your best condition you know but it was freaking great you know like and you you were able to hang you know so I I think that that's pretty cool. Hey, I I listen, I was I was going into it with, you know, win, lose, or draw. I don't care. This is just, you know, I want to do this is fun and just bring the do the best I can within the eight and a half weeks I had time to do it, you know, cuz I was just getting ready for like a photo shoot with my wife. That's the whole reason why I started dieting anyways, right? That's right. Yeah. So, but it started coming off real quick and then I started hitting more poses and stuff and I was like, [\h__\h] I think I can do this, you know? So, yeah. Yeah. I was like, what the hell? Let's go for it. Timing couldn't have been better, you know? So, so training is what it is, man. Just uh right now with a little bit more food in me now, just a little bit. It's not that much more. Um I can get a pump. That's pretty cool. I got I did legs today. Wipe me the [\h__\h] out, man. Batman. Yeah. Just, you know, I did uh start off with extensions and curls, you know, just to warm it up, just get blood in there. 30 reps. 30 reps. 30 reps. Yeah. like four or five rounds of that, you know, and then I go straight to the leg press because the gym the gym there at Carbon Performance has two leg presses. One of them's um they're both Arsenal. Y so, and those they're they're great. There's some of the best leg press I've ever tried cuz I'm not traditionally a leg presser. I don't know. I can't fit those things, you know? I'm just not good at leg pressing. I they feel terrible to me all the time, no matter the machine. But these ones are really effective. I'm I'm really surprised. So, the one that the uh they've got two right beside each other. One's your traditional, you sled, whatever it is. Uh, and then the other one beside it, it's basically a carbon copy. And it's a sled, but it's split down the middle. Oh, yeah. So, so you can get like, you know, one leg at a time kind of thing. Or you can lock it out and it can be just like the other ones, you know. So, yeah. Um, but they're they're like the perfect angle, you know, the perfect back support and like butt support. And, uh, we were watching that video with Terrence roughing training his legs. Remember that? that he was doing leg presses and he had this and he had this foam block under his butt. Yeah. And I tried that. I tried that and it works like a charm. It's like a booster seat for little guys. Nice. You're not that little, you know. You know, but I know what you mean. I know what you mean. And it helps you to stabilize your low back that way, too. I think better. Yeah. Yeah. And like it it for whatever reason, it shifts the foot placement just perfectly to where I need them to be. And it just becomes like quads and hamstring dominant rather than just quad dominant for me. I like that. I like that. All right. So, training. You fall off again, huh? Oh, no. We lose you. Scott McN, we are live. We are live. Well, I apologize, guys. That's okay. There you are. Yeah. I apologize, guys. I don't know why my internet's doing weird stuff. Hey, we got I just looked at the uh I just looked at the chat and uh Nag says, "Uh, I'm going to have to train in my OG BNR shirt today and reminisce about better time." A better times. These are the best times, Nags. We got right now back on stage, you know, right now. These are the best times. That's right. They are. They are. It doesn't get better than this. You know, technology at bodybuilding is better. The gear is better and more available. Uh food is better and there's more uh availability of like sugar-free options and protein powders are flavored better than they've ever been. So, God, you we're living in the best time ever of bodybuilding right now. I had a conversation with a young man the other day at the gym and and um he was like, "So, how long you been training?" I was like, "I've been training for 31 years straight." you know, I've had one week off in all that time. And he's like, and he was just like, you know, he's a young young guy. He's like, you know, mid20s. And he was just like, geez, I can only imagine the stuff that you've seen in three decades of training when it comes to like magazines and supplements and, you know, all the different trends and stuff that were going on from year to year and decade to decade. Oh, yeah. And and I was like, dude, listen. When I first started training, the protein powders were awful. Yeah. Yeah, they mix like flour. They tasted a little just slightly better than flour. You needed a blender and then you there's no shaking, no nothing up. You needed a blender. You needed to fill the whole thing up with water cuz it would not mix this concrete, you know? And like the only way you could make it taste good is by throwing in a bunch of honey and milk and all this other [\h__\h] that you know just makes it like a high basically a mass gainer shake, you know. And I was like, well, you don't know how good you have it today where you can just throw two scoops of delicious chocolatey whey isolate into a cup with just a little bit of water. Shake it up and down it goes. Just dissolves. Yeah, exactly. Man, you don't know how good you have it because the stuff we had to put up with wasn't easy, you know. No. No. Yeah. N was kind of there. He's been around for a while. He's been around since like the middle ages of our life of our lifeline in in bodybuilding, you know. Yeah. Yeah. I'm sure. All right. What else? What else we got? We Well, let's jump into our supplement review because you were about to segue into that, you know. Uh, let's just go ahead and do it then. All right. Yeah. So, okay. This is not my traditional supplement review. A lot of times we'll have like one thing like a new protein brownie or something that we're going to try. Do you remember the time I did a review of Cricut protein? Oh god, I do. I do. Mortifying. It was mortifying. The worst, man. It was I felt so bad for you. I It was fun though. Like I took a bite and chewed it up and it was so gross and I forced myself to take another bite, you know, for the for the show. You were a trooper. Yeah, it was weird. I think I got like a leg stuck in my teeth at one. It just, you know what I mean? It was gross. Yeah. Um, but so here's my thought. You know, after you've had some sort of downtime, be it like me getting a cold and having traveled, right? Or maybe you have like two weeks back toback where your boss is like, "We got to keep you seven days a week, 12 hours a day. you know, sleep sucks, whatever. Things come up and we kind of get thrown off our square and sometimes it's like you get back in and you're not feeling your best. So, I'm amping up all my basic health supplements. Number one, vitamin D3 is at 40,000 units. That's with uh 400 micrograms of vitamin K. And uh what else do we have? I I'm taking C. I usually don't take C. So vitamin C um one of the the the negatives for us in bodybuilding can be that if your hematocrit gets high easily it will help you to better store iron and that helps you to trigger more hematocrit triggers you you know high feritin yeah will help you make more blood so I you know vitamin C is a great supplement but I don't overdo it because of that uh I don't supplement with a ton of it but I'm taking a couple grams of vitamin C a day and you know all that other stuff ubiquininal 400 milligrams which is like high dose of ubiquininal. But I'm telling you, man, it it it makes a big difference cognitively. And then the fun stuff. So, the funny thing is, man, and actually I'm due for my dose of SLU at about 3 p.m., so I'm going to take that right now. Um, the funny thing is is that all through that trip, I'm not getting sick, right? And I'm thinking to myself, I wonder if it's the SLU V. I wonder if it's doing something to my mitochondria. Yeah. Yeah. Boosting them, you know, super powers. Yeah, I'm just I'm immune, you know, and and I'm I'm finally we get home and it's like a day later and I'm like, "Yeah, I actually made a note in my phone. I'm like, mitochondria keep from getting sick." And then like 3 hours later, my throat starts hurting, but I was ready. I was so ready to talk about how I didn't get sick and maybe. So, it turns out SLU doesn't make you impervious, but it does delay [\h__\h] Maybe. I mean, that is possible, right? That's right. So definitely a possibility. The SLU has given me such a tremendous boost both cognitively um breathing, my cardio endurance, all that has been fantastic. Energy levels increased, but like coming back from being sick, I still had dealt with like feeling kind of rough, right? So as of today, I added in Matt C at 1 milligram per day. Now I've heard about this. What What is this? So it's just it's another mitochond excuse me, mitochondrial enhancer. I I can't like go into the deep science. I'm sure if you like search Matt C vigorous Steve, you can find a whole video on that. You know what I mean? I'm sure I can. Yeah. Right. But what I can tell you is I've seen various dosing and in some cases it's like 5 milligrams three times a week or something like that. Um I've also heard people say, "Oh, well it breaks down almost instantly after you mix it. Um you can't store it." So I'm going to tell you this. I have used it intermittently just on specific workouts and I'll only use it at like one milligram per day. I took two today actually and I'm going to try a little bit higher dose right now. I'm going to do two milligrams every day. Um I can tell a difference in my energy levels when I use it and and that includes like improving my my workouts and stuff. Um but I'll have a vial just kind of float around the fridge mixed longer term. It'll be mixed for, you know, a month and I use it on and off. every time I use it, I do notice something from it. So, I'm gonna throw that out there just for anybody who is questioning, you know, those those things. Also, um uh methylene blue. So, I found that I can't use methylene blue long term. I start getting real spacey from it. No kidding. Yeah. And I think it's like my serotonin starts building up too high. But inter intermittently, I it's a great supplement for me. Helps my breathing, helps my endurance, and it helps just like cognitively overall. I can tell the difference. So, I'm adding that methylene blue in at 10 milligrams right now. Um, and that's that's the main stuff really. That's the main stuff. Um, I mean, I'm still using like a half a scoop of pre-workout, the Mind FK from uh from Mutant, which that stuff is absolutely it's it's the best. I will tell you guys that you can use Code Ron or Dusty for that and get on the gear. All the gear. All the gear. So, yeah, that's my my uh review. And then one more. I'm boosting up my creatine and uh I'm I'm trying to get up above 10 grams per day. I've got this little Yeah. So it's be that's like the old Celtech days, man. It was 10 grams. Right. Right. So here's the deal. Um it gets into muscle a lot more easily than it does uh help you with your brain. But creatine is fantastic for uh cognitive function. Yeah, I've read a lot about that. It's beneficial to stave off Alzheimer's, possibly even. Um, I saw one research study where they took people that were sleepdeprived and a 30 gram dose of creatine showed an immediate benefit like that day. So, I'm trying to keep the creatine dose a little bit higher. A lot of times I'll do five grams somewhere in there, but I'm trying to get at least 10 grams per day. And I'm mixing it in my oatmeal because it's flavorless, right? Yeah. little crunchy, you know, it's going to be a little crunch. I have micronized and uh it's it's like a fine powder from True Nutrition, by the way. So, it it dissolves kind of in your Yeah. Yeah. There's no there's no crunch to it at all. Wow. Yeah. It's interesting, man. That's that's that's pretty smart, actually. Yeah. It's the Crea Pure Creatin is the one that I use. It's like $5 more than the regular. And it's still a monohydrate. You don't need to get any of the fancy creatines or creatin. Have you heard people pronounce it creatin? You know, I think it depends where you go. You know, I think it differs from state to state. Yeah. I I generally say creatin. Uh I feel like like Canadians say it different, too. Do they? I think they're more of a creatine. I think most people are creatine. Yeah. Yeah. Victoria told me she hadn't heard anybody pronounce it creatin like since the 90s. Well, she was just a baby in the 90s, so that Yeah. But yeah. Anyway, uh I get a lot of crap about that on the show cuz I remember creatin creatin, guys. creative. Maybe it's just a Michigan thing. Maybe y'all are from Michigan. I think it's the way I just saw it in the magazine or something. You know what I mean? Yeah. Yeah. But anyway, that's my supplement review. And I'm just like I took all these different little things that I found to work for me and now I'm stacking them all together hard and pushing through my uh my day. Good for cognitive focus at work, good for training, good for hanging with you and being lively on the podcast. There you go. And for fighting off, you know, any remainder cold sticking around. Yeah, it's always going to help that, you know. Yeah, every bit. You know, one thing I didn't do this time, which I've done in every prep before, is uh I didn't use any creatine the last two weeks. No creatine at all. Okay. Yeah. You had kept it in previously, right? Yeah. I I just, you know, I forgot eventually. I just forgot because I was, you know, doing it in first thing in the morning along with uh along with like an electrolyte drink and I stopped I stopped doing the electrolyte drink because I feel like it was giving me like stomach acid problems and [\h__\h] And so I stopped doing it and as a result I stopped doing the creatine too. It just, you know, I just didn't even think about it. Yeah. And then um once I got to like the final week and I was like typically I would start creatine loading that final week, right? Um but um I was just like, you know what? I've never competed on gear before. There's um you know, and so why don't I just give it a shot without any creatine and see how it goes? Cuz as a natty, creatine was your gear. Yeah. If I had to pick one, gear or creatine, I would definitely pick the gear every time. Yeah, pick the anadrol. Yeah, go for that stuff. So, I wanted to give it a roll without any creatine this time. Just see how it goes. And um I can't really tell a difference, but you know, deca or creatine, you know, what are you gonna choose? Can't tell the difference. So, but this next time around, I think I want to I want to throw some creatine around that last two weeks for sure. Okay. Yeah. Then 10 grams sounds good. I like that. Like just like the old Celtech. 10 grams. Good. 70 grams of sugar and 10 grams of creatine. Yeah. You know. Yeah. Lemon lime flavor. It's the best. Uh, I want to give you a little bit of an update too with the urea. Oh, yeah. Because as the weeks progress, I don't know if I just get more like um resistant to the to the to the medication or the peptide itself or or I don't know. I don't know what it is. You get used to the GLPS. I noticed that. So, I've really had to really like increase to like keep it keep it moving. Like I'm I'm up to in that final week of prep, I was up to like six milligrams a week. Okay, let's go back because and I was doing dividing it into two shots, morning and then right before bed. Yeah. And so, um, I found that that's that's where I'm at right now, too. Right around six milligrams, like 5.6 to 6 milligrams a week. You know, it's like8 milligram shots um here and here and there. But I um I hope the trend doesn't continue because it's it's expensive, right? So, um but if it works, it works. And so far, it's been working. I don't have any complaints, but I will say that you for me personally, I've really had to ramp ramp it up as the calories were getting more and more restricted and um in order to like harness harness a lot more body fat for energy expenditure and that sort of thing. Uh oh, did I lose you again, Scott McN? God damn it, these goddamn live things. So, I'm on here by myself right now. I'll just keep talking. I'll just keep What? How's everybody doing in the chat? Huh? Let's see. Let's see what's happening. I wonder if Ron's still here. Yeah, you got to do you got to do the uh the Smith machine is great for close grip close grip bench press. I'm a big fan, especially now and especially as like uh you know contest time rolls around where you don't want to be uh putting yourself in any kind of danger. you know, uh, bench press can be can be a little bit, uh, scary sometimes. Got a text message here from Scott. H, he I think he's coming back here. There you are, man. I'm back. Detroit's having Detroit's having some some issues with their Wi-Fi up in there, huh? I guess so. I'm sorry about that, man. I'm gonna have to call my internet provider and let them know what's going on here. So, I was just giving you the update on the on the rea. Have you found that that people can be a little get get a little more resistant to it as the weeks go by? So, I wanted to back you up just a minute because I think that your dosing that you initially said you were using on the last podcast, you said it differently, a little bit differently than what you actually were doing. So, what were you doing initially? Cuz we had some people it was like high. I started off a little higher. I did start off higher and then I and then, you know, one one day I got I felt nauseated. I was like, "Fuck, I got to bring this back down." And it was the day after I carbloated. Oh, yeah. You know, so and I wasn't ready for that and I was like, "Uh-uh. This ain't happening again." So, I was using 0.6 milligrams uh four times a week. That's not bad. Yeah. When I first started off, you know, and yeah, I get caught some crap and for doing that. And then and then I dropped it down to.35ish. Okay. Daily. Daily. And that seemed to help right away. 35 milligrams. Yes. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And then um did that for a couple weeks and then I I realized I started upping it upping it upping it because um like some of that hunger was like coming back and I was like oh [\h__\h] I better I better up this a little bit more. And it got to a point where where I was doing you know point4 in the morning 4 at night which is8 altogether then that brings you up to about 5.6 six milligrams a week, you know, and sometimes I would even take an extra shot just because I was really hungry. Yeah. Oh god. Yeah. Yeah. But but man, I can tell you like it is definitely definitely a game changer as far as like harnessing body fat and getting getting [\h__\h] done quickly. Yeah. Yeah. So, um I've noticed that since the like semiglutide came out that you you initially have a stronger effect from a like even a low dose and then over time you get used to it and you can build that dose up but then even like people who are peaked out like just gen pop people that are going to these clinics I hear them like maxing out on the semiglutide and then six eight months later they're like ah you know what it's not giving me the same effect as it used to and you know and so I I have seen that you do get used to a given dose and I think your digestion starts speeding back up. I noticed it constipates the heck out of me no matter what I do with water intake, no matter what I do with enzymes um and even HCL. I I have to really watch that and uh use a lot of magnesium citrate to That's that's interesting. Yeah. To keep up with it. But you know what I noticed though my digestion does tend to slow when I'm dieting anyway. And I think a lot of it has to do with like how limited my carbs end up. I found I found it's actually helped my guts, man. Yeah. Like my number TWs have been so smooth and very consistent. I haven't had to use I haven't had to use any fiber. I haven't used a fiber drink in what in weeks. Wow. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. We all have such unique responses to everything. Ron says, "I like hearing about the wacky new subs I haven't tried. Experimental chemicals." Yes. Chemical warfare, Ron. That's what this is. It is chemical. That's all it is. It's all it is. Dieting is just a bunch of reddish routine and and T3. Throw a bunch at it and see where we go. Hey, Dadam. Dadam, good evening. Evening from UK. How about that? Nice. It's getting pretty late there. He should be thinking about his uh sleep hygiene as the kids say. You know what I mean? Start wrapping it up there. Datam. Looks like Nags was on my team here. He says, "Maybe two leg presses that I've ever used that felt decent." That's exactly my my experience in 31 years of bodybuilding, man. Yeah. You know, I've only found two that have been any worth a [\h__\h] I remember that because when we used to So, I did uh I think it was 2013 Central States and after that we we had been talking and you know training together in the gym some and uh you came out to that show. You came out and and Carrie Cameron came out and we all went to um Cracker Barrel after the show. I have a picture of that somewhere and that was the first time I ate at Cracker Barrel in my life. That was fun. I'm glad I introduced you to that place, man. I can't believe it. I don't know if I would have gone otherwise, you know? Oh my god. Oh my god. I remember like, what about this place? And you're like, "Oh, it's real good. They have pecan pancakes." And I was like, "Okay, let's go." Yeah. Yeah. So anyway, um we started training legs after that. I was like, "Okay, my next goal grow my legs." And you helped me uh improve my squat technique. like it change you that was the I would say V that was a pivotal moment for my training because you you showed me how to squat in my quads more versus previously my squat was more like a powerlifters. That's right. Yeah. Like a ass squat, you know. Yeah. Yeah. Although it didn't grow my glutes like it just it just went to the hips I guess, you know. Hips and hips and adductors. Some people just goes right there, you know. But we did that and uh we even moved to like the reverse banded squats. You remember that? Oh man, I remember that. And we would like overload it like crazy. And it was heavy as hell in the hole. You know what I mean? We went we went crazy with those bands, man. We were we were doing reverse bands. We were doing, you know, you know, restrictive bands, all kinds of different bands. It looked like a damn gym like a gymnastics some setup of some kind in the gym and we were squatting. Guys, V got the Mountain Dog band pack and like I couldn't afford them at the time, but V bought them. It was like $72 or something. $108. And we put bands. We're like every single thing. Let's figure out how we could band this or reverse band it. Yeah. I would wrap one around my head. I like this is the light one. And then the other one would go around my hands. I grabbed dumbbells with it. I was like, "Oh, I can really feel these dumbbells and these rubber rubber bands." That didn't really happen, guys. He's exaggerating. But it was one step away from that. I could see it happening. I could Yeah, we were one day away. We were getting carried away. That's for sure. Yeah. But uh Yeah. So, but I remember that though. And occasionally I'd be like, "Well, why don't we do some leg press?" Cuz I love leg press. And you're like, I'm not doing leg press, so I do that by myself. Yeah, that's right. Yeah. Yeah. Just the way it goes, man. JV says, uh, JJ V JJ OV JJ, I think it's Yav Yav. I figured that out. He comments a lot with us. Yeah, he's a good dude. Two silent Jay's. I like that. That's good. He says, "Hey, try try taking larger single doses a little less often so maybe the weekly dose won't get out of hand." Yeah, it now there is something to be said about you get that sharper peak and I do think there is an element of it being stronger when you take it less often. So you could experiment, you know, and see if there's a difference, try it for a week and if you don't like it, go back, you know. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, now would be the best time to do it, you know, because I'm like eight weeks away from from the Tennessee State and I can just uh experiment a little bit more with that right now. I might might give that a shot. Why not, you know? Yeah. Not a bad idea. Yeah. Yeah. I what I see the only reason why I went with a micro doing anyways was because I didn't want to suffer any of those the side effects. Yeah. I don't I don't I don't want to get constipated. I don't want to get nauseated. That [\h__\h] is the worst, you know. And I just wanted to avoid that all together. And I remember, you know, Skip talking about using those micro doses going to be um lessen the chances of that sort of thing happening while still, you know, through the week still hitting that that dose that you want. So um I give it a shot now. I feel like I'm pretty resistant at this point. Yeah. And and I can get away with like a three milligram shot, you know, a couple days. Oh god. Just do it again. Yeah. Yeah. That's pretty healthy. I'll try it. That's pretty. I'm crazy. I'm crazy like that. This is This is chemical warfare, man. You know what I mean? I'm up at still the same. So, I went back to my normal dosing, which is uh just a little It's right around one milligram every Well, it's every eight days. One millig, excuse me, every four days. One milligram every four days. So, two milligrams every eight days, you know. Okay. Wow. And that's enough for me, man. Really? That's what I wish that were was enough for me. Everything I do, I got it's got to be a lot more. I'm like AI just my body just destroys any kind of medication wants to go in my body. Like, oh, just use a little bit and destroy the rest over here. Go on, put some more in. See what happens. Yeah. All right. So, what else do we have here? We got You know what? Let's do shout outs real quick and then we'll jump into uh we'll jump into the uh contest review, right? This will be the Scott McN bodybuilding coaching uh critique. It'll be fun of uh of the nerd's performance at the at the Debuke uh NPC Mighty Muscle on the Mississippi. So, we got VJ's video and some pictures and stuff. So, this will be fun. Yeah. So, hopefully uh hopefully the the listeners and the viewers enjoy this because this is a rare opportunity, right? And we don't always get to do something like this. Yeah. Uh especially not on this show. All right, let's go. Shout outs. Ready? Cue that music and go. All right. Shout out to the Lolly. Oh, yeah. And shout out to Lindsay's 8849. She dropped a nice little comment for us in the last show. Shout out to the Mentionator, my old buddy from the Quad Cities. He just had a show, too. He just competed, too. And Allan Mch gets shredded lean. So, I'd like to see I'd like to know how you do. Let us know how you did, Allan. Just put it in the comments. Just let us know. Uh, shout out to Steve B477. Shout out to Sal Datarino 8909. He's He's one of those guys who's like, "You know what? For the algorithm." Shout out. Good for him. Absolutely. Absolutely. We like that. You know what? Shout out to my nephew, Logan Beaver, who competed with me at the show in this past weekend. He did great. He won the True Novice. Yep. In men's physique. And then he uh I thought he was going to win the uh the the uh the open class that he was in too. Yeah. Really? Because they were they were comparing him heavy. They moved him to the center. Okay. You know, and they compared them real heavy and uh I the bigger guy won. He still played second and it was a deep lineup. There was like 14 guys. Okay. Wow. Yeah. He did really good. It was a big class. Vince physique and he was a he's a taller guy, right? Yeah. Yeah. All these guys I don't know where they these giants are coming from. Everyone's like everyone's like 63 men's physique. Jeez. And and it was his first show. How did he like it? He had a wonderful time. All right. Yeah. All right. Yeah. Know. Yeah. And and and you know what? This is one for the memory banks. You know, he can always be like, "My first show I did with my uncle." Yeah. How about that? You know, I had him oil me up. He's a great oil boy, by the way. Yeah. Yeah. He He gets He gets in there and all the crevices. He's like, "No, this this area here needs more shine. Hold on. Hold on. Stay still." I was like, "Man, I like you. This is great. I wish I had you, you know, 20 years ago. Yeah. So, shout out to And shout out to my uh longtime client, Aubrey Johnson. She is She looked stunning, beautiful. She's a figure gal. She She uh won her 50s plus class. She's 50 years old. Yeah. She doesn't look I don't know if I'm allowed to say I saw the picture you sent me of you standing with her. She looked young. She looked great, too. So, yeah. Yeah. I met one of her daughters and I was like, "Oh, what what high school do you go to?" And she's like, "I'm 30." I was like, so it's the genetics. It's the runs in the family. Yeah. So, shout out to everybody. If you want a shout out on the show, just just say so. Just drop a drop a comment in the uh in the uh comment section and and we we're happy to oblige. We're always we're always trying to encourage that shout outs for the next show. Yes. And the loi who commented, that's a client of mine. We big dude. Big dude. And and taller, like 61, 6'2, something like that. So So he's a giant, too. Oh yeah. Yeah. and we he we pushed him up to like I think pounds something like that and now he's uh off everything and he's holding at like well he was like one like high 170s maybe I mean 270s uh 280 and and now we've dieted him down without anything at this point and he's at like I think 271 today and just coming down nice and slow. He's at abs abs at that at that weight. So, he's going to probably be like I'm going to guess 250s lean, you know, somewhere in there. And then when we add the the GH in, he's just uh he's one of those guys that all the GH goes to the places you want it to. Right in the muscle belly. Yeah. Yeah. And so, we're going to add a little more of that in. Boom. He'll fill back out. He'll be probably 2 275 again, you know. He'll be 290 290 in two weeks. Yeah. And really, man, he I I'll show you his pictures at some point. The dude could be a pro. Like, considering me some p text me over some pics. I'm interested. He sounds like a Sounds like a goddamn Samson Data 6 foot 300 lb. He's only been training super hard for a few years, two three years now. And I mean he went from like 200 lb to this. So I He's got a a hard work ethic. Like he's nothing will stop him. Plus he's got a busy job, family, all that. So it's, you know, he's he's doing all the things that he needs to do. If anything, Vch, he's one of those guys that I need to like tether him back a little bit. You know what I mean? Like, hey, you don't need to focus that much on bodybuilding right now. Like, you know, relax. Just relax a little bit. Eat a cheeseburger. You know what I mean? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's great. Yeah. Yeah. Wow. Sounds like a stud to me. Yes. All right. So, we going to do this thing. V. What do we got? Let's do it. Okay. Critique away. Scott McN, bodybuilding coach. Just go ahead and tear me a new [\h__\h] if you would. All right. Hopefully, we don't lose signal again. Here I am going to share. So, this is you dieting for not that long, really. And and you've been retired for years now. So, you've been 17 years. 17 years. Bodybuilding for fun. And, uh, you know, you decided, hey, I'm going to jump into a contest. And let's see. Yeah. Really, it was about eight weeks. You know, I don't count the last week as a any kind of a you know, fat loss thing. So, all right. So, let's see what we got here. I have we can't put the sound on, but I will say that my my posing music was a section of Still the Night from Whit Snake song. Great choice there. I like that pose. Let's just freeze frame that right there to start. That's a Thanks, man. That's a Bob Paris classic right there. It is. You know who else does that? Frank Day. Terren Ruffin. Terren Ruffin. He got it from Yeah, he got it from Paris. He did. I believe that. Yep. You don't see that one too often. No, I got that one from Ron Love. That one's love. Yep. Yep. I like that. Now, listen. I'm going to tell you one. Here's my first critique right now. We need to get the uh straps of your trunks need to be higher. You got to Yeah, I realize that, too. You want them to uh what did what did Andrea call that? Your [\h__\h] gutters. We need to uh you need to uh get them to follow that line. And for everybody at home, what that does is it elongates the leg. And it and what ends up happening is is that if your trunks are straight across, it kind of cuts you in half. And you see a lot of clask guys do that cuz it's more of a boxy fit. At least the old trunks were. You know, the new ones do have more angle to them, but you want it to fit like a V. So for that neck show, that's an easy fix. And if they don't stay there, it's it's an improper fitting trunk, but you can always use a little bit of suit glue to hold it in place. Ah, yeah. That's your ego. Yeah. Yeah. That's one thing I I definitely overlooked. Well, it was a lot. And that's a good pose right there. I like that. They look at those packs, guys. That uh V, you are all packs in arms right here. All right. Packs really do look strong here. It's a And you've been a strong presser historically, haven't you? It's taken a while, but you know, it got it got there. It's definitely a stronger body part for me. Yeah. Yeah. And this is and this is from a stage left, so it's not really dead on center. Oh, that's a great shot right there. That is a Larry Scott special right there. I like that one. You helped me hit that pose before. I I was trying to think of some new poses to do at a show and and you had suggested this one to me. So, I messed around with it. Doesn't look as good on me as it does on you. Uh I didn't have enough lats at the time, I think, was the problem. But, uh but you were shredded and once you shredded, you know, everything looks good. Yeah. So lower back is there's nothing there. There's literally you have nothing left on your low back. So your lower back is in shape. I would wonder about flexing the glutes. That would be, you know, my thought would be hit the glutes. Um and a lot of times what I tell people is after you've set your legs up and you kick your hamstrings back, then I suggest you push the hips forward. And when you do that, that'll activate the glutes. And obviously glutes aren't completely peeled, but you know, you're not going to get that with eight weeks of dieting even, you know what I mean? It's and especially the first four, you weren't even thinking of doing a show. At least you were just planning to look better and be your best for a photo shoot. So, and and in my in my defense, my my glutes are like there's a lot of loose skin there. Okay. It's like a lot of like old man ass that you know fat that's just been there for a long long time. Hasn't been used as storage, you know, like for fuel or anything. Yeah. Oh, that's a nice one on you. Let me go back a little bit because you hit a bunch of a bunch of them. And I also I don't want to overlook your back there cuz you you know it's from the side so we don't see an an ideal angle but you're you do have good Vshape and I can tell from here. Nice Vshape, nice bicep peaks. Everything up top, you know, looks really good. Very, you know, very mature, you know. Oh, I appreciate that. Yeah, Bill liked that shot. I sent that shot to him. It looked good. What about that lat spread? Can you push that out a little bit more? You think? You know how like cuz there's where you stop. What if you I bet you if you push that spine, you know what I'm saying? Push the spine out just a little bit more, you'll blow that up because I think you have more like roll it like roll the chest up a little bit. Is that what you mean? like from like push your spine toward the audience. Oh, towards the audience. So, round out the back. Yeah. Yeah. Round out the back more. And I think that would open you up even more cuz you see how you're seeing that the detail of the lats. And I think it was Ron and Dusty said it recently. It's not a detailed pose, right? It's a you got I think you have your back looks good and it looks big here, but I think you have even more back to give to the audience. That would be my critique there. Cool. Okay. Cool. All right. And then I like you start hitting stuff fast here. Like that looks cool. And then you go into side try. That looks good. Nice waist. You know that waist that waist really is what makes these shots here. Yeah, you got to have a tapered waist otherwise half of them don't work. And that right there is a great shot on you. That's that's possibly one of your best poses. Front double I think is really good. And I think that's a really nice pose on you, too. Really nice uh just overall shape from top to bottom. Thanks, man. That one's a fun one to hit. Boom. And that's a fun one to hit, too. Yeah, that's from the side. That's the Levrone one. But look how I'm skinny. You know what I mean? So, what this one that one's better. This one is better. It's more more straight on. Get the traps in there, too. Your traps look jacked, man. A lot of traps. Thanks. Yeah, I like the There was an Arnold special right there. Yeah, that's an Arnold special, dude. You got the biceps to make it work, too, don't you? You have to You got to have some bicep peak for that one. Yeah, but that I think is uh right there is a great shot on you, man. Overall, are you kind of standing a little bit twisted, a little bit offc center on that cuz I can't tell on that one a little bit. And then I hit it one more time where I'm more exaggerated like you'll see it right here. I'm more a lot more twisted. Oh yeah, that's good. And the bow. That's nice, man. That was good. I appreciate that, man. Yeah. So, we got, you know, I got to obviously I eight more weeks glutes and hamstrings will be a lot more dug out. Yeah, that's and that's and that's the goal that and and and uh you know, it's like u I've done this before to where like I've I've really tried to like get my glutes really really hard. It's I don't have striations. I just don't as lean as I could get them when I was I don't know 22 23. They're just they just don't ex I don't know if I just genetically just don't have them. I've gotten them hard before where there's no more jiggle. Yeah. And uh and um I had to sacrifice so much of my upper body mass to do that. That it it just didn't help things like the poses did not look good. I looked really stringy and almost everything. Yeah. You know, it's like so I sacrifice all how much do I sacrifice in order to get really really hard glutes and dug out hamstrings, but then you don't you got no more back left. You got no more pec left. You know what I mean? So, I gota I gota I gota uh straddle the line a little bit here. I think too because I you know we've we've talked about clients like this too. Uh Nick Vakolo had uh really struggled with glutes for a long time. Obviously Nick worked on it for years to you know before he got his IFPB pro card and um you know like we did a lot of like lower body focus, a lot of hamstring focus and uh for him in back in those days we did have to we did have to draw the line because we had pushed it too far, you know, and then yeah, you start losing everything up top. I think that one of the benefits or one of the one of the ways to get around it is pushing hard, having enough time to be able to do all do all that, you may lose everything else, but you don't push so far that you can't bring it all back. You know what I mean? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I know what you mean. But yeah, you might be in one of those situations where like no matter what you do, they're just not going to be peeled. And I think that's okay. You know, it's okay as long as they're hard and the fat is off of them. it it's not called a back double glute and hamstring pose. It's called a back double bicep pose after all. You know what I mean? And back latspread pose. So, they need to look cohesive and they don't look need to look like they're out of place. You know what I mean? Everything needs to be the same level of leanness or somewhat, you know, and you can get by. You can get by in all the poses. You got to play your genetic potential, you know? You know what I mean? So, if you got these bells and whistles on you, you work your best to keep those bells and whistles because that's what's going to take you far. Now, I don't know who is still with us. I don't know who watched through this far into the show. Yeah, I don't know. But I do have You might have a lot of drop off something I'd like to bring up and I am going to implore our audience to uh to vote with me. Uh I want V to do classic at the uh Tennessee State Championship. Now, he had said cuz we talked about it. You've got your reasons. you were like, I'm just a true and true, you know, through and through bodybuilder. Uh, I would argue that classic is classic bodybuilding. So, I I think it would be great. Also, too, the glute thing, man, you can cover those mothers up. You That's right. I could wear like those those black diaper the diaper shorts, right? Yeah. Well, they are getting shorter and shorter in classic every year. You're gonna see I've seen some that go straight up your butt and I'm like, I don't think so, man. Yeah, they really do. There's a major variety in how much coverage you get. But there is that and and I have used that to our advantage where guys might not have the best glutes. If we get a little like even just 20% more coverage, you can still see the lines. You know what I'm saying? If they have feathering and they still look hard, but you don't you aren't showcasing, you aren't bringing it to their attention. You know, you have just like little bit more coverage than a thong, you know. Okay. Oh. Well, we'll leave it up to the listening audience and the and the the and the and the viewers if if if we take a poll and they suggest that you know that that they want me to do it, I'll jump on in, man. I'll do it. And I'll tell you what, if you don't want V to do classic, then just say do bodybuilding only. But if he does do classic, he could do both, which gives you more time on stage, too. So that's There you go. Yeah. Then I have two posing routines. Is that right? You would get to hit your favorite classic pose. That's true. What would you do? No more musculars. You can't hit any most musculars, though, in in classic. could in the for your classic pose if you wanted to. You like you uh you're allowed if that was your favorite. Probably in your probably in your posing routine, you could probably do it, huh? Yeah. Absolutely. Yeah. I see guys do that and hit their lat spreads and everything, but yeah, guys do it all the time. I mean, Wesley Visser hits it all the time. Although that is the IFBB is not the NPC. Yeah. You know, so what would be your favorite classic pose? I I don't know, man. I never thought about it. Um I don't know. probably like a single single arm bicep like that like a little like that Larry Scott shot you know or you know or an Arnold type shot or something. I see a lot of guys, it's all, you know, what whatever works to my advantage as far as how my physique looks, you know. Yeah. I'm not going to try to do some like, you know, I'm not going to try to do no victory pose or something, you know. Oh, yeah. Please don't. Nobody can do that one. No, there's only two people who can do that and you're done. All right. So, we we Let's see what we have here. Ethan says, "Check it out, huh? I'd love to see him in classic." I agree though with Fege that uh when I eventually compete, I only want to do bodybuilding. So, yeah, more power to him. I can I can get that, you know, you know, and it just never really even crossed my mind to be honest with you. I'm just through and through bodybuilder. I mean, I you know, competed for 13 years between the ages of 18 and and 31 and there was no classic. Classic didn't come out until I was like 37 years old. You know what I mean? Yeah. It was just a new thing and all we had was bodybuilding. That's all that we had. So that's it's never I just never just never crossed my mind, you know. So Stefan's with us. He's a good bodybuilder, too. and he said, "At my uh last show two weeks ago, the judges talked about rule changes coming to Classic Trunks." Oh, wow. Wonder what they're going to do. I bet you they're going to kind of outlaw the thong cuz they are there's so much variation, dude. Some of those are literally like a thong nowadays, you know? Dude, yes. Yes. I've seen um God, what's his name? Jose uh Yosema Emanuel Yse. Dude has I mean, he's ripped to shreds and why not showcase it? But that's a straightup thong, you know? Yeah. Yo says, "Uh, yes, Classic." And, uh, Payton, who's with us, he's in Tennessee. He said, "Classic. I'll come watch since it's only an hour away." That's right. That's right. He's right there in Chattanooga. Yeah. Payton, the show is in Murphy'sboro um on the July 26th. Oh, that would be I would love to see you. I would love to see you. That'd be great. That'd be cool. Maybe we can Maybe we can go about for some Habachi afterwards, huh? Yeah. He owes you. We all owe you. As a matter of fact, you got a bunch of dinners coming your way. You know what I mean? I got a free lunch. Yeah. And Stefan's right. He said, "Uh, well, Sergio can hit the myth pose and uh so can Leap Priest. Those two guys." Uh, you know who else can do is uh Aake. Aim can hit. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. He's got the arms on him, huh? He's got the arms, the taper, the lats, you know, from the front. Sergio Oliva Jr. Uh, he does it, but it's it's an homage to his dad. That's the only reason he can do it, you He that's that's I mean look if his waist was two inches from either side like more more narrow it would be a knockout shot for him but I mean if he only had like a half more from his mom you know or from his dad you know yeah too too much mama's chromosomes that's what's happening. Yeah. So yeah that's good. That's good. Anybody else we had in the comments here? You can put up some of the stealth stealth. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. One of those. Please hold on a second. We got and I then we can do then you can do like a hardcore critique too, you know, just take a look at take a look shot by shot. Well, I got to see you I think. Okay, hold on just a second. Oops. Not presentation. We'll go to window and I'm going to go to these. So, here's the shots I have. We don't have any of the NPC shots yet. Um, I think the majority of my critique I've already set. Oh, drop off again. Ah, no. We'll we'll have this all fixed up. Hey, Payton. How you doing, man? I'm looking at the uh at the chat here. I'm still here. I'm still here, guys. Still here. Still here. Hey, Ethan. Ethan, how you doing? I'm still here, guys. I don't know if you can see me. There you go. Payton just said, "Hey, I'll buy your dinner." Oh, and Eva's going to bring some sourdough bread. Oh my god. Lucky. You're lucky. Oh my god. Can you see the pictures here, V? I got to bring my appetite. I I only see you and I on screen at the moment. It looks like it's something's trying to load. Is that right? Okay. Maybe we're having issues. Then I'm gonna stop sharing and try it again. Can you hear me? All right, though. Yeah, I can hear you. Sometimes I don't know cuz I'll be talking and and like oh my you feel like you're a ghost. You know what I mean? Yeah. It is an odd feeling like all of a sudden it's like something in your like I'm talking to myself right now. I can feel it right now. So I'm just talking by myself. Yeah. How about that? Did that work? Yeah. We're on. We're on. All right. Good. So, that's that was uh the awards ceremony. I got my uh first place first place victory there. It's a great shot, too. I like that. And uh here's that most muscular trap over. I think that's a good one. Yeah. Crab. The crab. Yeah, that's a nice one for sure. I like I like that one. Your Arnold pose. Yes, sir. That's a nice shot, too. I'll look forward to seeing how uh how the NPC pictures turn out here. Yeah, because they're more Like I said, they'll be more straight on rather than at an angle. Yeah. like this one. Seeing that straight on will be a lot better, you know. Mhm. That'll be good. All of them. This will be really nice, too, cuz it's really going to show, I think, a little bit more your your density and shape. You know, you you've got I think shape is going to be a key factor in in looking at this pose. Um, you know, I think that's what you really have like one of your strengths is is your shape. So, it does throw it off a little bit to from seeing it from the side. But, yeah, man. My, like I said, my simple critiques are just continue getting in shape, which you were already gonna do, and then just get the trunks higher, you know, and my other critique is do classic. That's my official coaching stance. Do Okay, man. Do classic. It'll be fun. I You know what? I'm I'm going to get on their website and I'm going to I'm going to enroll. I'm going to register. All right. Okay. All right. We get more 80. The people have spoken more. Yeah. It's 105, I think, is what is that for a crossover? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, uh, but you know what? In the comments for for when we release the show, um, we'll we'll get more, uh, more people hopefully more people chime in. There's like, uh, no bodybuilding. No more class, no classic. You never know. Then then you won't have to. You'll get out of it. Yeah. Get out of it. 105 bucks. You know what I mean? I wonder now for the master's class there. You had one other guy, right? Yeah. In the master's 40 plus. All right. I'm going to scroll back. I'm going to see if I can open that video up. Um. Oh, the prejudging. Yeah. at prejudging. So, the prejudging uh the video it was shot from far away. It's tough to tell anything, but you can get an overall like like shape presentation and um and a presentation of the quarter turns, you know, cuz those are important. That's the very first thing judges see, quarter turns. Yeah. Here, if you don't master your quarter turns, you know, you're in trouble. Yeah. Let's see how this looks. Oh, yeah. So, it's kind of fuzzy, but we can still play it. We can still watch it here. Turn the volume down. There we go. Yeah. Quarter quarter turn to the right. I'm sure there's a nice guy that you uh competed against. You get a talk chance to talk to him backstage at all? Oh, yeah. He He's He's super super nice guy. Yeah. I lent him my my my uh Muscle Juice uh posing on cuz he didn't have any. Yeah. I was like, "Man, you I was, Dude, you can't go on stage like that. Go to my bag, grab that muscle juice, and put something on." He was like, "I didn't I didn't put any on for prejuding." I was like, "Come on. You spend all this time getting ready for the show and you're not going to put just a little bit of, you know, grease on in the end. Come on. Yeah. He's he was a good dude though. And shout out to the Dolphs. Dolphs were there. Yeah, the Delves were there. Ryan competed and uh Haley was one of the facilitators of the show, you know. So, yeah. And Hale Haley's sister um Caitlyn, she was handing out awards. Oh, no kidding. And yeah, and I didn't recognize her at all because the last time I seen her, she looked way different. She cleans up so good. You clean up nice. I I didn't recognize her till like 10 minutes before like the show was over all together. I was like, "Oh my god, Caitlyn, I'm so sorry. I totally a man. I'm sorry. You know, I should have should have been nicer to you." I was like, "Get away from me, lady. Give him a medal already." Well, even though you only had the one other guy in this class, man, it I doesn't matter. It's still it's not about the the the actual contest itself anyway, right? It was about Yeah, man. This was me me against me, you know what I mean? Just like this. This is about getting my feet wet and getting back into it and getting the ropes get the ropes down again. I'm so glad you can look at it that way, too. You know, cuz sometimes people are like, "This is this is my signature and my I'm not happy with it." Because you're you know, if you're not at your absolute best, but you were like, "Hey, I've been dieting for eight weeks. I'm in pretty good shape. I'm going to do this. Why not do it, you know? Yeah. Yeah. No, no, no, no, no. I never once thought, you know, like I said, it was win, loser, or draw. I don't give a [\h__\h] I just wanted to do it. Be there for my for my nephew for his first show. Have It was basically a family affair, man. All my family was there taking pictures and stuff, you know? That's freaking cool, man. Yeah. Who Who gets to say that, you know, in their competitive feray? Yeah. You know. Yeah. It's it's it's a once in a-lifetime opportunity. So, I had to go for it. I had to go for it. I love it. And especially too that your perspective is probably different now versus, you know, you when you're when you're really serious about bodybuilding, it's not vying for a pro card, you know? I was like, everything's about that pro card. You got to, you know, take top three. It's always top three or no good, you know. Yeah. Yeah. So, it's a lot more pressure. It's harder to It's still fun, but it's a different fun, you know, than Yeah. Exactly. than what you can have. Perspective is everything. Perspective is everything. It's completely different perspective this time. when you get old and you start doing the master stuff, you get a completely different perspective, especially when you've already been through it and you've lived your life as a bodybuilder, you know what I mean? It's like, yeah, yeah, yeah. You're coming back coming back out of retirement and um just putting your best foot forward, you know? It's nothing more than another examination, you know? I think it was cool, man. And it was a a pleasant surprise. Um, yeah. Stefan says, "Uh, we gotta call into Scott's internet service provider and give them hell." Yeah, I need you guys to like give them crap. We just had the guy out here to fix it, too. So, I don't even know, but I might have to actually change companies. So, you know, this is uh we've been doing good. I've been doing good up until today. So, yeah. By the way, I wore my John Meadow shirt today. Do you remember this? I noticed that. I've got one I've got one just like it. Yeah. This is one of my favorites. I didn't fit into it for a long time, and now I can wear 1X's again. So, break it back out. Pancakes are my protocol. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. God bless them. God bless them. Hell yeah. Well, what do you say we wrap it up then, Scott? What do you say? Huh? Sounds good to me. Yeah. Quick Bodybuilding Nerds Radio for everybody listening audience. I'm glad you could tune in and but comment below. Let let us know what you think. You know, leave us questions, too. We'd love to do a couple questions on the next episode. That would be fun. Also, get a little more interactive with our listening audience. Yeah. anything that you guys want to talk about in a future show besides that? Like what about like reactions? You know, any videos that you want us to watch and especially like cool old school bodybuilding videos. We'd love to watch those and, you know, do do some reactions to those with you guys, too. Yeah, we'd watch that in our spare time anyway. Why not watch it with Why not watch it with y'all? I would watch it and comment to V on text. He would comment back to me on text. We can do it right here. Just cut out the text. You know what I'm saying? That's right. We can do it live, too. You know, we went live again today and but we meant to. So, it worked out. Yeah. I was holding my tongue the whole time. I was like, just don't say anything stupid for God's sake. And it worked out, right? It did work out. Yeah, worked out. Yeah. Yeah. Minus the internet interruptions, but hey, we do the best we can. You know what I mean? Yeah, we'll patch that. Well, [\h__\h] Scott McN, thank you for the critiques, you know. Yeah. Listen, there's only three people in the world, four people in the world that I that I, you know, your your opinion means the world to me. You know what I mean? And it's Scott McN, it's Bill Tokco, Shelby Starns, and my buddy Jason from from Louisiana. And if I can get a compliment from any one of those guys, I'm doing something right. You know what I mean? Because anyone else can say anything and it's fine. I take it with a grain of salt, you know, when it comes to critiquing the bodybuilding performance or just, you know, how how it look on stage. But these guys, if you look like [\h__\h] they'll let you know. They always will. And I respect the [\h__\h] out of them. And I couldn't have a better group of friends when it comes to like that tight-knit bodybuilding, you know, bodybuilding uh community that we have, you know? It's like you always you always only get honesty out of them. So, I appreciate you. I appreciate you, you know, going over my my stuff for me. Dude, I'm It's my pleasure, man. I I'm honored that you would uh that you would even feel that way, number one. And number two, it's absolutely my pleasure. I love talking this stuff and Well, I know you would. I'm excited to see what you do next. You know, you've got room to change a couple things and there's no question. New trunks, right? New trunks. Yeah, you could do new trunks or classic trunks or or you could glue the trunks you have and make those work if you wanted to go that route. But I I bet you could find something a little better fitting. Um, you know, but but regardless, just getting them up higher, I think it's going to do a world difference for your shape. And then do the thing you were going to keep doing anyway. Just keep dieting, you know. That's it. Just keep suffering. Keep suffering. All right. All right, man. Well, on that note, for Bodybuilding Nerds Radio and Scott McN, we bid you a duke. See you guys. And hey, thank you to everybody in the live stream. You guys are freaking awesome. Thanks for everyone sticking around even though we have so many goddamn problems with the uh internet providing. Yep. And Stefan does say he's like, "But you got he said uh uh new Trump group hug. Good [\h__\h] everybody. All right, see you guys. That's great. Bye, guys.