ēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēēē for Canadians. They have great deals that change week to week on short dated and label change products, stuff like that. So you might find a pre-workout for like $15. If you're strapped for cash or you just want to save money, check out supplementsource.ca. And that's it? Yeah, that's it. We're ready to get into this thing. Guys, we released seriously, I think it was the biggest episode on the channel ever this Monday, which was we had Genoshek. I'm American, right? I pronounce it Genoshek. Everybody else pronounces it Genoshek, but I have been corrected. It's actually Genoshek. Alright? So I heard him say it and one of our listeners was like, hey Scott. Kind of like Jesus and Jesus. Right? Okay. Or ha ha ha instead of J-A-J-A-J-A. Yeah. So here's the deal. Basically he talked about how US has been his number one customer for lab testing. Number two has been China from the raw suppliers. Last two months they have literally gotten zero samples. These guys are getting hundreds of samples per day of anabolic steroids and peptides. They haven't received anything from China. There's been some big crackdowns, some shutdowns over there. I guess it really has to do with the, I'm using the word pentanol. It rhymes with a word that's the word pentanol manufacturing. And as a result, yeah, you think about it Skip, you'll get it. You'll get it. You're going to have to Google this. What rhymes with pentanol? As a result, you know, the gear industry is taking a hit. Will it completely shut down? No. You know, but we are seeing things change. This is besides the fact that Primo and Mast are basically scrubbed from the list at this point. So, I thought a really interesting topic that would be super timely would be, you know, moving forward, let's say that we don't have all the compounds that we want. You know, how are we going to be able to still reach our ultimate goals in bodybuilding and not let this hold us back? I'm sure there's probably like a catchier way to say that, Andrew. You know what I mean? Like a catchier YouTube way of phrasing that. Yeah. But, you know, that's the main thing I think we're shooting for, though. Because at the end of the day, like, you know, we all preach that bodybuilding isn't just the gear. You know what I mean? It's so much more than that. That said, the gear does play a role in helping us achieve our goals. So, you know, first of all, how big of a limitation is it to not have all the compounds if we can't get all the compounds that we would want? You guys take it away. Tell me what you think. Well, let's start with saying that I feel like the DHTs have become more of a major component over the last three years. Right? Oh, yeah. I feel like everything kind of goes in cycles and sometimes it's because YouTube creators have to make new content. Right? Yeah. And I'm not blaming us. I'm just saying that because we kind of do follow the trends and we do speak about the trends, but it's not like 10 years ago, Primo and Masteron were the basis of cycles. Right? Like they are today in a big way. And I think the trend to stay tighter, leaner, look tighter, leaner, you know, maybe avoid certain side effects, stay a little drier. I feel like that's kind of led the charge with people utilizing more Primo and more Masteron versus maybe your DECAs, your EQ, NPP, and a whole host of other compounds. So, let's just start by saying that it's been done before, it can be done again. I mean, if we go back in time to say Arnold's era or Lou Ferrigno, those guys got pretty big and pretty jacked using testosterone, Nandrolone, D-ball, etc. So, is this the end of people growing? Absolutely not. I think the harder thing, the harder issue or the bigger issue is getting into that contest look, not contest shape, but that contest look that we're used to when you're utilizing higher doses of Masteron in particular towards the end of a contest prep. I think that's going to be the challenge. It's really going to be incumbent on the coaches more so than the athletes, right? Because athletes are just doing what coaches prescribe or not prescribe, but tell them to take or recommend for them to take. And it's going to take, you know, I think experience is going to play out here, meaning the coaches that have been doing this for 10, 12, 20, and skip cases, 40 plus years. 80 some, yeah. Yeah. I feel like that's where your coach is really going to shine and be able to elicit the similar type of look that we've been seeing with the DHTs. What do you think, Skip? I think there was a client who is a regular listener to the show, and I'm going to use him as an example, who veered off of the path of trend. It was like, you know what, I want another compound. What compares to it? And we talked, we spoke about it a couple times, discussed it. he goes with DHB, where a lot of people would not trade trend for DHB, and then, I mean, show me, show me someone else. Not physique-wise, like more muscle-wise, everything else, but just show me someone who is leaner than UC, I say suma, UC suma. Is that how you, okay, show me that. that's a pretty good example of not wanting to use a compound that is so, you know, put up on this pedestal and is just an absolute, like, can you even prep without it? Yeah. And he goes in the other direction and he kills it. So, I would even question, you know, you went back a little farther than I did, Andrew, with your reference to like, you know, the 70s or 80s. Let's just go back to the 90s and the condition of the 90s. Was Masteron and Primo, and I'm going to be honest with you, I've been in this game a long time and I conflate the decades and the years because I just can't remember everything of what was done in the four decades plus that I've done. Been a lot of drugs over the years. So, my question to you guys is I don't remember Masteron and Primo and being the dominant substances in the 90s yet we still had that condition and we still had the fullness. I mean, look at the access to growth hormone now versus then. Yeah, we're not even talking about that yet. I agree with you. Exactly. I was saving that one. not only do we, I mean, Andrew nails it. It is going to come back to the coaching, more about the coaching and less about the compounds and you know what? Maybe this will drive the point home, oh my God, it really isn't it really isn't as important the compounds that I'm using versus the methods that I'm getting to get there and just getting lean as That was a good beep. Yeah, that was good. That was a good one. Mike went out for it. Can I leave now? Normally, I decrescendo but that one I just went out on. Yeah, you were going to add, Andrew, because we kind of stole your other thunder. You were going to go into peptides too, you mentioned. Because that's another factor. I don't think that peptide production is being affected the same way that anabolics is. Yeah, I mean, it's going to be 2026 in just a couple months, right? And the tools we have in the tool shed are vast, they vastly outnumber the tools that we had even 10 years ago. You know, if you want to talk about, you know, the different mitochondrial peptides, whether it's SLU, BAM15, you know, the 5-amino-1MQs, like all the different, there's too many to even name now, right? And they all kind of have like Star Wars character names in terms of like CP3O and stuff. So it's, there's just too many. We have a whole another arsenal in the tool shed. So I think getting into condition is not going to be an issue when you have a competent coach and like you said, Skip, if you were to remove Tren, UC Summa got in great shape. I can speak, I'm not going to say their names just because I don't know if they want me to, but I can think of good 212 pros that I know did not use Tren in their preps. They just said, you know what? I don't like how I feel on it. And they got blasting full, shredded, diced, all the superlatives. Actually, John Meadows, he wouldn't mind me saying, he did not use Tren towards the end of his career as a prep. Okay. So I don't think anyone's ever accused him of being even slightly out of shape in any contest he's ever got. You know, I'll throw in too with UC Summa, like we added the DHB in at a point where he was already peeled. Like we probably could have done it even without that. You know what I mean? So it's like, is it all completely necessary? No. I, I, I hearken back to, you hear the old school guys and they're like, well, what did we take back in prep? We took what we could get our hands on. Yeah. You know, even if it comes back to that, I think that people are still going to be okay. So, so, you know, that said, I mean, you get enough test and like, let's give them something that they can take home now, you know? Yeah. I got, so we're kind of gearing that discussion towards prep, right? Right. And I think Skip and I both agreed that the prep coach is going to be playing a bigger role on knowing how to elicit certain looks. Right. I agree with that too. Right. Yeah. I mean, but when it comes to the offseason, right, it's a little different because, I mean, you got to understand what do PEDs do? All PEDs, all anabolical AAS increase muscle protein synthesis. Some compounds attach to the androgen receptor with a little more affinity than others. Okay. And then from there, you got to look at the side effects. Which comp, and if you're someone who's been doing this for five years, you've probably done a whole gamut of compounds where, you know, okay, list A, good, list B, bad. Yeah. The B list has things that have side effects, you know, whether it's keeping you up at night, affecting you, your mood and the way you treat people. Maybe it's affecting your lipids a little differently. So my point is, is that it's not just DHTs that are like this wonder compound. You should have a list of compounds that maybe before the DHTs became very popular, like, okay, I'm going to go back to my test EQMPP. I'm going to go back to my test in DECA and maybe some moderate doses of Anadrol or whatever those compounds might be for the individual person. So buy stock in DECA right now. You did make the comparison, I mean, bringing up the peptides, I do want to say this, just given my opinion here, and I'm wondering if you guys back me up on this or not. I don't want to make, even though the peptide yield or milieu, if you will, is so much better and so much more advanced than it was, you know, even just a few years ago, let alone, you know, five years ago or whatever else, to the point where, honestly, I used to be, you guys know this, I was not a big fan of peptides outside of, you know, linotan and the obvious, you know, the CJC deck, all that type of, I was like, man, just take growth hormone, come on, but it has advanced so much that there are, like you said, just a ton of tools and it's growing, what, every month? But I don't want to compare those. I don't think that we can really expect people to take, like just to switch and go, well, I can't get AAS so I'm going to make up that ground with peptides. That's really not going to, it can help, but I mean, let's be fair, even your worst, even if you just had testosterone versus all the peptides that you have out there, I'm going to take testosterone over all of these new peptides. That's just me. I mean, you get the point that I'm trying to make. I don't want to send the message, well, we've got all these peptides here, don't worry about the AAS, you don't have to, you can replace them and substitute them. It's not like a complete replacement, I'd say that for sure. I mean, honestly, I think in a dieting phase, the number one main thing for gear is to retain muscle, right? Like, if we can retain muscle while we're dieting, then we can stay big and that's, I think, the main thing that we need to be able to do. What do you guys think would happen if you took a guy like UC Suma and let's say we just dieted him on test only, we controlled the estrogen, we used an amount of, okay, so I'm answering my own question in my head as I'm saying it. You know what the limitation for that would be is you can only take so much test before you, as Andrew, you said, you start getting side effects. You know, for me personally, I can say that like my third or fourth cycle, I ran test in DECA, I got shut down really hard and at the time I PCT'd and came off. Some people have heard me tell this story. So my following cycle, I was like, man, I don't want to get shut down that hard. I'm just going to use test. So instead of 500 test, 400 DECA, I was like, oh, I'll just take a thousand tests. It's about the same, right? You know, 100 milligrams more. Oh my God, I got the worst bacne, excuse me, the worst bacne from that cycle. Like it was night and day difference from the test DECA cycle. I couldn't handle all of that, you know? So yeah, I guess his, his overall total milligrams would be limited, but at the same time, man, would that, would that hold him back from, you could, we get all, we could get, I feel like we could get almost just as lean. And then if we were able to find like some Winstrel tabs, you know what I'm saying? Like we could get pretty damn close, I guess. I'm saying like in a worst case, Mad Max scenario where we're still doing bodybuilding preps, you know? Yeah. I would think you would want to have some orals for the last like 10 days at the very least. Okay. Yeah. When you're lowering and pulling the testosterone to really try to drive estrogen down. I do think you're going to want to have another androgen in there, like a, like a Winstrel in particular, maybe even a Winstrel and an Anivar together. So outside of that though, like what I'm getting at is like, do you really, do we even like quote unquote need the other stuff? Cause realistically to get that lean, it's not about the gear anyway, you know? Well, you heard it here first. Scott's going to do his next prep and he's going to use just testosterone and a little bit of Winstrel towards the end. We're all here to cheer him on. If we hit that Mad Max level, you know, of gear world. Yeah. Yeah. I'm not missing out too much on the, the inability to acquire Prima Bowling because I don't like it anyway. And I'll be honest, that doesn't mean that none of my clients use it. I have clients who use it, but I'm not a big proponent. I'm not out there going, yeah, Prima Bowling, great stuff. I will miss out on the masteron cause I do like the masteron, but I think when it comes back, I'm going to be the, I might be the odd man out of the three of us in saying this. I understand and have said numerous times that testosterone, if you control the estrogen, yeah, you're, you're good to go. But I, but I'm going to be, my views have changed a little bit over time. That being said, you have your estrogen under control. I will still say that it's not ideal. Yeah. I don't think I really don't. There's a different, there's still a different look where there's something else going on besides just the estrogen because the estrogen can be controlled and there's still a different look. And when you add another cup, I mean, you could even just say adding in trend. Well, if that's the case, then why would we ever add trend? Why would we take anything else other than testosterone? There are, there are differences in that look. I do think that the vast majority of people could take, and I think we all do something similar. We start cut phases or preps with X, Y, Z compounds that we may keep some, you know, X or X, Y, but we change out Z for F or, or whatever. We kind of substitute and make those transitions and then add in orals. Um, I think that the vast majority of people could take that first opening cycle and they could make it through by simply adding orals. I just don't think when it comes down to it, it's not, yes, it's not ideal, but I think again, coming back to what we were talking about earlier, it'll come down to, again, the coaching and making sure, because if you're lean enough, anadraw is a good example. Anadraw in the offseason, puffer fish. Anadraw when you're lean, sick look. No one is getting waterlogged off of anadraw when they're ridiculously lean. So, at the end of the day, what does it come down to? It comes down to, before anything else, just getting absurdly lean. Here's the, well, here's one thing. Well, when it comes to coaching side of things, right? I feel like, yeah, without the masteron, without Prima Bolan, to elicit that hard grainy look, you're going to see coaches have to really, really string people out and get them like, like really hard, like just right. Skin thin, you know, which will be awesome. Right. But now I'm wondering, does that cause an increase in a fatigued look? You know, does it cause, does it change the look on stage? You know, because as I'm thinking about it more, because Skip, you brought up a great point. If these drugs, why would we be using these drugs? You know what I'm saying? It's like, we use them for a reason. They work. Yeah. They elicit a certain look, you know, and the majority of people we use them with. So I'm thinking, I'm just trying to think about what the finished product looks like on stage. And I feel like it's either, you're going to have guys that are just peeled and maybe a little bit on the flatter side. And then you're going to have guys that don't get as peeled and they're going to look really out of shape because of it. So I think you're going to see a divide maybe in, in competitors classes now, you know, maybe instead of classes being pretty consistent across the board in a lot of cases, you might see some haves and have nots more so now, you know? Yeah. Yeah. I can see that being possible. Let me also say that. I don't think this will affect the professional level that much at the, at the, at the top level, you're not going to see any Olympian that's off. I don't think you're because of gear related issues. I think these guys are so well connected. They have people that have people that are finding stuff for them. Right. Um, and if we can get a lot of the stuff quasi legally now, you know what I mean? Like not everything, but a lot, there are a good amount of it. We can, you know, I'm hearing stuff where it's like, I didn't think that was legal in the U S but there's some research or some, you know, TRT place that's prescribing it. Yeah. We touched on this prior to pushing the button. I think that ultimately it's going to come down to not even the level of the physique, but who's connected and who isn't. And that kind of screws the people who are kind of new to competing and new to gear because they may not know or have the networking and the connections that people who've been around for a long time. Like, as I'll be honest, I'll be the guy. I'll say it. I'm not too concerned about getting the gear that I need. I'm just not the least bit anxious or worked up about it. Yeah. Yeah. I think that's a good place to leave that. You know, we don't have any real specific answers, but it will be interesting to see how it unfolds. And now I'm not sure, um, about this question from Gamboni law. I don't know where he's going with it, but, uh, I don't know where he's going with it. Okay. I think he's probably, I do have a, I do have kind of a followup to it too, though. And what he said is, uh, if these competitors used more barbell movements instead of machines, would they still have the same gut issues? I've noticed that almost none use barbells anymore. It is never brought up. So what, what was your thought there, Andrew? I think what he's saying is, are people not bracing their core enough because using barbell exercises, you know, you have to brace a lot more, right? When a machine is, you got a chest pad that's protecting you, or you got a back pad that's protecting you. You're not bracing as much as you were in a standalone exercise, like a barbell row, for instance. Right. So I think he, what he's asking is, cause I think a lot of us think the opposite. Like when you're doing more barbell exercises, you're forcing more intergrastic pressure and you're forcing some abdominal growth. And I think he's saying maybe after seeing some of the athletes at the Olympia this weekend, or seeing some athletes on stage this year, the guts are kind of getting bigger in some, in some people. And I think he's wondering, is it because everyone's using machines more so than doing the old bread and butter exercises? I think that's where he's going. He can comment and say yes or no on that. No, I don't think so. I don't think that's the case. I, because I, what the point I alluded to is when you are using machines more, you're not causing as much intergrastic pressure, forcing outward. Right. So I don't think using machines is causing more, more, more abdominal growth, you know, and honestly, we live in an era where everyone is doing vacuums and different, you know, TVA exercises and all sorts of stuff. So I think a lot of cases just comes down to the carb up. It comes down to inflammation in the gut in general, you know, related possibly to excess use of like GH and other peptides of that nature. So I think that would be the dominant issue. The guys that probably weren't doing 15 units of growth a day in the, you know, early nineties to mid nineties, we didn't see a lot of big guts back then. I do think GH is contributing to that to some extent, you know, with some internal, some internal organ growth and some intestinal inflammation. I'm going to be the broken record again and say the same thing that I've said for, I don't even know, 15, 20 years. I still think that the force feeding trend of the nineties, when we figured out, Ooh, we can literally force growth by forcing food has helped to cause not only the, uh, more distension issues because you see it in the old heads. The guys have been around for a long time and they've done a lot of that eating, the up and down, the high volume. And then they cut the high volume of food. And then they cut, but you don't see it in the older demographic who hasn't, hasn't been around and been eating big like that for, you know, years or decades. I stood on stage with a handful of masters competitors in July and was blown away that, that a few of these guys were even close to 50 years old based on their midsection. And just, just in general, just their look in general. And in talking with them, they haven't been competing and doing that force feeding. Like a lot of the old heads. So I do. And I'm not saying that the, the insulin and the, uh, GH, quite frankly, AAS, AAS is going to feed those, you know, that gut growth too. So I think that, and I want to make sure that I understand the question originally, because I thought he was asking if the machines cut down on the distension. So did I misunderstand that? If you read what he says, it says exactly. Andrew barbells create a stronger core. If you stay above 10 reps, is the waist really going to thicken? I don't know if the repetition. Oh, matters as much, but I think what he's trying to say is that you're creating a more, a stronger core by having to brace more on without having the, um, outside for a factor of, of a chest pad or a back pad or whatnot. That's what he's saying. Okay. And just to come back to that question and answer to give my opinion on it, I do think that there's a connection between keeping, not everybody, but keeping a smaller waistline without the distension when you're using machines and don't have to brace as much. I mean, take a look at a power lifter and I understand that they typically are higher body fat too. So that is a variable, but if you look at their gut, their gut, their abdominal wall is not contracted. It's protruding and it's rounded out. so, you know, it, it sensically, it tells me that a lot of those heavy movements, deads, um, arguably bent over rows or heavy T bars, but even squatting that constant force and pressure, like you were talking about, Andrew forcing that's that abdominal wall out. I, I do think that it would be illogical that it didn't play a part over the years. That's, but I have nothing to back that up on. Other than it just seems logical that that, that could play into that. I also want to add one thing. I think, especially in the open bodybuilding, they're big guys. And I feel like, yeah, a lot of them lack some of the showmanship of understanding that you're judged from all angles from the minute you hit that stage. You know, I think how often do you see a big guy walk out on a pro stage, just like letting hang out, just kind of like, I'm the man. And he goes and hits a pose versus you look at the guys back in the day, like flex Wheeler, right. Or, um, Sean Ray, Lee Labrata, like any of those guys, any of that era, even Ronnie and Ronnie wasn't known for like pulling it in, but even then he still had some showmanship as he walked out. He kind of did the, you know, the whole, yeah. Cause the crowd went wild, you know, but I think a lot of guys just take for granted. Oh, I'm a big guy. I don't have to control my gut. Like it's, it comes with the territory. I'm a, you know, I'm a big guy. I got a lot of muscle and they, they make an effort to pull it in when they're in the front double, you know, right, right. When they hit their side chest, not before, right. Because something I'm always trying to coach people, especially like some of these bigger upper level, super heavies and pros. I'm like, pull your abs in when you're turned before you turn into the shot. Like you can let it out a little bit when you're, when you're facing away from the judges, right. When no one really sees it, unless someone's got a side angle and they're trying to snap a gotcha pick, but right. And those are out there, man. Like there's some really bad ones that look really distorted. Like, dude, that's, that's, what's her name? Sigourney Weaver with like alien popping out, you know, especially looking at that rear lat spread. You get somebody from the wrong angle. Oh God. And I've worked with some, some, some heavy guys that I'm like, dude, pull that in. It's kind of embarrassing. Okay. Like you don't see it the way I see it because you're posing. Right. Right. And then you try to show them the video and they're like, Oh, it's not that bad. And it's like, dude, like my mind's kind of blown right now. Like, isn't any bad angle bad? Like if, if we know we can control it, if we know it's as simple as pull it in when you walk out, pull it in when you're side transitioning, you know? So yeah, I just think a lot of guys need to stop being so lazy with their posing. And I think it starts 15 weeks out. You need to practice when you're heavier and you got more food in your stomach, practice pulling it in then so that it's come game day. It's just second nature. Yeah. Yeah. I'll tell you what I've been doing, you know, I've told you guys I've been doing planks and it is been a game changer for me. And so much of it was that I just let my stomach hang out with, with breathing issues. It's just like, and the stomach has just hung out for like four years. And let me tell you, it distended rapidly. I'm seeing so much change just by doing planks and Oh my God, it's kind of cool now because you start, you know, you, I think in bodybuilding, we kind of get addicted to progress. You know what I mean? With exercises. And now when I'm in the plank, so I pull up, you know, and then I continue breathing as I'm holding those abs in. And I just like, that's getting like this harder and hotter burn. It really is all training. And it's something that I had let go. I think it's something that's easy to let go, especially like if you're in an offseason, you're pushing a lot of food, insulin, you know, people talk like about insulin and growth hormone distending. I think a lot of that is like just water retention. When I'm feeling bloated, I am a lot less likely to hold that stomach in my TVA. Then is going to do the exact same thing that it's done the last several years with my breathing. Once I relax it, I'm going to tell you it, it distended quickly. Like I lost that strength rapidly, you know? And I think that that's for me, in my opinion, it's a, it's a big factor. Let me ask you guys, this is a spin kind of a semi follow-up question. And I've got a reason. Cause I'm really curious. I'm personally curious to hear your opinions on it. And it's just the classic barbell versus free weights topic. But the reason I want to ask you is because I feel like I've had kind of a change in mindset. I've always been that like old school guy. I'm hearing my friend, Dave Kallick echo in my head. You got to do the meat and potatoes work, you know, bent over barbell rows, T bar rows. And I listened to that for a long time, but I've gotten away from it more in the past couple of years. And you know, guy, I know guys like Cuba, Cuba's made some tremendous progress. He doesn't hardly any, do any free weight work. Of course he has an incredible gym at his disposal. Right. But I just don't know if, if, if it needs to be the way I thought it was kind of mindset behind free weights is that not only are you lifting the weight, but you're also stabilizing it to recruiting more muscle, you know, that's kind of always been that old school mindset of free weights. Where do you guys stand on this one? Can I counter that a little bit? Yeah. Because like you said, like, yeah, you're focusing on that target muscle a hundred percent, much more, right. When you're not having to worry about stabilizing. Yeah. But a lot of the younger physiques, they don't have some of the density that maybe you would have had if they were doing some of the bread and butter. And this is not a, this is not a, a diss or a anti-machine rant whatsoever, because I do think the timeline of your bodybuilding career kind of has to go start out with the bread and butter almost exclusively. Like I think the worst thing for an 18 to 20 year old kid to do is to fall in love with the new tech and the prime and all the new machines out there. Right. I think they're doing their, their physique a disservice. And, and where I'm going with this is the, the bread and butter exercises, the barbell stuff. The reason why I don't do a lot of them anymore is because they hurt and they don't hurt my muscle. They hurt like my joints. You know what I'm saying? Like to try, like trying to get into a squat rack or even like a, um, Smith squat, it torques my shoulder so bad. And that's what doing tons of mobility work because of years of pounding on the weights and years of, of accumulating muscle and accumulating injuries. So I do think the timeline is start with the bread and butters because they're good. I mean, it sounds like an antiquated old thing. It builds the foundation. It really does build the foundation and let's not, let's not fool ourselves. Getting underneath five plates on a heavy squat rack is, is a lot frigging harder than getting into a cool, you know, squat pendulum machine that you don't have to hold your arms up here. You just hold on. Right. It's a whole different experience. It is easier. It's easier. Yeah. Can you get on the targeted muscle a little bit easier, a little bit better? Yes. But building that foundation of doing the squats for years, built the hips, the glutes, the abdominal strength, the lower back strength. You know what I'm saying? It's, I do think there's a time and place for everything chronologically in your bodybuilding career. If I could still do bent over barbell rows and barbell squats and deadlifts, yeah, I would absolutely fit them into my programming. It's just, I don't feel them in the targeted muscle anymore. I feel more pain in my lower back or my shoulders. It takes away from the exercise, you know, I want to expound on that a little bit because I want to define foundation as I think people new to training or new to the sport will hear foundation. They think, Oh, the foundation for, you know, muscle. I look at it as foundation of strength. Yeah. Yes. Okay. And the reason I use examples, because there are times where I will see what I consider to just be kind of an, a skinnier athletic look kid who's 2021. He's squatting three 15, three 65. They might be great reps, but he doesn't, the, the weight on the bar. And even with the form is not, doesn't correlate with muscle size. So it's not a, it's not like you're building this foundation of muscle as much as you're building the foundation of strength based on, like you said, the strength of all the stabilizer muscles, that type of thing. And all the muscles working together synergistically versus moving then, or starting to not necessarily phase out, but kind of phase out the, you know, the slow transition of, okay, we're going to do a little bit less of this bread and butter. We're going to start adding in the machines. And I think that that, I think as an industry, we're kind of figuring that out. Once you start to make that transition with the, the, especially the, I mean, machines and the equipment that we have access to now, you know, hammer strength has always been great, but let's be fair. I mean, there's been huge advances. So, you know, I look at someone like Keone, I'd even say Phil Heath. I mean, I don't think I saw, I trained alongside Phil for years at Armbrus and didn't see a lot of squatting or bed over roads there or dead. And when I say I didn't see a lot of, I saw very little, if none, unless there was a camera, either a video camera or, or photography happening or pictures for, you know, magazine or anything else. So, you know, you, you have to want to, the Steve Kuklos and the guys who have said they have come away from that training. Yes. It was a good foundation to build that strength. And then from there to advance into more of the targeted, specific, you know, approach of like Arnold would say, adding the clay, so to speak. And the foundation is not about adding clay to me. It's just about building that strength foundation and then being able to move and kind of not phase it out, but I, I look at it this way, 90, 10 bread and butter to machines to start. And if you go through your phase of your bodybuilding career, it would probably end up exactly the opposite. 10 versus 90. Now that's just an, you know, an example, arbitrary numbers, but makes sense. Let's even use an example of a dumbbell curl, right? Okay. Well, think about in my twenties, you know, I was curling as much as 70 pound dumbbells, you know, and now I wouldn't even think to pick up that dumbbell, but I can curl a 30 pound dumbbell with a hundred percent more muscle recruitment. And my point is, did the seventies serve a purpose? Because I was, if anyone watched me, they wouldn't be like, Oh, that's horrible form. But there was some body English involved. Was I getting a little bit of shoulder out of it? Was I getting little Terry's out of it? Was I getting some stabilizers out of it? Absolutely. Whereas now I would say a 30 pound or even a 25 pound dumbbell, I'm using nothing but the biceps. So I think we always talk about your training IQ and your training knowledge, how to recruit the right muscles that you're trying to work. I think that kind of falls in. If you haven't done the heavy barbell stuff and you haven't like, I'm not going to say worked your whole body, but you're getting more than just the intended target, then how can you start to go backwards? You know what I mean? How can you really target and hone in on that one muscle you're really trying to hit, which is what the machines are good for. So I think a blend of both is good, but I think I kind of liked your example, like 90, 10 skip. I think that's a great, actually a great, that's probably what I did back in the day when I was first starting, it was 90% dumbbells and barbells and maybe 10%. And by 10% machines, I mean, leg extensions and a leg curl because you had to, you had to, you can't really simulate, you know, you can do the dumbbell curls with the line dumbbell curls, but you got to have a partner there to put them on your, on your feet. And it's not the same, you know, not in your, in those, you're using a lot more stabilizers. You're not, you're not just hitting the hamstring. So yeah, this was a good topic. Stabilizer work, just getting the dumbbells from the rack. Yes. To the seated position when you're going to do dumbbell presses. So that is so funny. You bring that up, Skip, because I've recently started going back dumbbell presses, like both doing a decline and incline. And, uh, and I'm strong on the push. The repetitions are fine. Like I could use way more dumbbell, heavier dumbbells. It's the getting them to my knees and then getting them back in position without my shoulders saying, uh, so you are dead on about that. Yeah. I pull them off the bottom rack, set them on top of the dumbbells on the top. Right. I mean, it's a very, it's a process structured process. And I laugh because I'm like, I think that I am using more energy. Yes. Outside of the actual exercise, setting it up. Then I am doing the exercise itself. I had people tell me, Oh, I thought you were going to struggle with those because it's all this work getting them into place. Then you're just like, you're so right about that. I spend more energy. You know, I even go even a step further. I take them and I put them on the, the, the, on the, um, uh, what do you call it? The rack or not the rack, the, um, the pad I'm going to sit on. Right. So they're little, I only got to grab them and then move like pivot three steps, get them on my knees. And again, it's the joints. It's like my shoulders hurt. Just getting it onto my knee. Once I kick it back and get to here. That's the butter. That's the easy. Yeah. Yeah. I can't remember who it was. It said something recently. And it might've even been at a state level show. I can't remember for the life of me, but he had said a lot of these younger guys, if you look around, they, none of them have forearms. And honestly, I think a lot of my forearm development was from doing the stuff you guys are talking about right now, just picking up the one tens and, you know, getting them into position. My forearms grew, you know, it's funny you say that because this year I've been looking at my forearm being like, dude, I don't even look like I look with weights. Like, like I'm looking at my arms and I'm like, this is kind of embarrassing. I used to have some decent, you know, they were never a Frank McGrath forearms or anything. Oh God. You know, I look like a bodybuilder wearing a t-shirt. Now I'm like, dude, I look like a pencil pusher. What is going on? You know what I noticed is my, the muscle in my hand isn't as big as it used to be. Yeah. The thumb pad. Yeah. I looked at that before and it was just like a mitten at one point. I didn't intend for it to be. It's not like I was training that I'd still there, you know, but the it's, it's doesn't have the, like the, the size or the density that it did. You have to roll your hand over and you got to put like a weight right here. Oh yeah. Don't forget this one. You got to do the, did you ever see the pictures of Trey brewer when he was competing? I can't remember him, but yeah. Yeah. He had like a hamstring drop. Did he? Yes, dude. Like I got to find those. And it should be judged. I mean, let's bring in the anterior posterior hand. He looked good. He just, his hands didn't have as much size as the other guy though. Yeah. Suitcase carries for years and years of a Brazilian jujitsu. Uh, in a key, they've gotten me very strong forearms. I bet, man. That's what Ryan said. What I've said for years, if, cause people will ask me, I used to have, it's funny you say that, Andrew, cause I thought the same thing. I'm like, where did my forearms go? But I used to, cause I used to have pretty, pretty, to the point where I'm like, yeah, I should probably work on my arms a little bit more. Josh said, Hey, skip ahead. Oh, sorry. Go ahead. Go ahead. I was just, I was just adding when I, when I was asked what I do for forearms, it was never wrist rolls or reverse curls or anything like that. I'll do a hammer curl every now and then a little bit of break. It was cool. But I would just tell people quit relying on the straps, use your grip strength as much as you can. And I think that as an industry, I think we've kind of come to that over the last, you know, six, eight years where before everything was strapped. I haven't used straps since I started training again, three or four weeks ago. And for that reason, you know, and I think it's helping my tendonitis. Like I haven't gotten it back like I normally do. So, Oh, no kidding. I agree with you. Yeah. Let me add the only, the, the, usually they need dangle from my wrist when I do have to use them is remember I'm a left, right guy. Yeah. I won't do the one side. All at once. So you're holding that weight or that bar or dumbbell twice as long. So the grip tends to go, especially when it's towards, toward the end. There's that picture. That's not even a good one because I just, I just looked it up there. I remember seeing one when he was in contest shape, he was doing a photo shoot and the, and the guy started taking pictures of his hands for all those people out there on the only hands websites. This guy would have raked it in. Can I add this? Um, I don't know if you can see me, but I have a friend client who introduced me 40 years of training, probably 43 of using gear. I was using gear before I started training two years. Maybe I'm kidding, but he would inject his GH into the muscle. Oh, yeah. Well, maybe Trey was like, boom, I'm hitting here. You know, I'm hitting here, but yeah, he would hit the muscle on the top of the, uh, I don't know why anybody would have a reason. I'll tell you what it insulin. It could have been insulin, but the point is we, like why anything? Why anything? Yeah. Cause you don't, you don't have clothing. You just hit it. Boom. You're done. Listen, I know myself. I get to the gym. I have to go all the way down the hall in this big gym to go to the bathroom to get in. Yeah. I'm lazy. I'm really lazy when it comes to injections, but like, I'm not putting it in, not because I just don't see it. This doesn't seem sensical. Like, no. Plus a nerve. What if you had a nerve? Like, I feel like the nerves are much more superficial to the surface. Like, I was like, I didn't do it. I mean, I'm the guy I'll go through my shirt sleeve. I don't care. Are guys going to start putting their gear in there too? Yeah, exactly. You never know. I'm just, I keep looking at it going, maybe I'll try that. Hey, what's going on guys? Just a quick shout out to true nutrition. I figured I'd bring you to the home gym here. So welcome. And I just wanted to show you my order. So nothing big deal. I've got a few pounds of the cold filtered weight ISO. I'm a big fan of the cookie butter flavor. I've been on this this year. This has like been my favorite, but they've got a bunch of different flavors. So if you're interested in something else, just check them out. It's a, it's a very light protein overall. It's not going to blow your digestion down. It's not going to cause a bunch of water retention. This is the kind of protein that I suggest to people who are doing a contest. Prep. They've got all your basic bodybuilding supplements like creatine. They've got great intro workout, highly branched cyclic dextrin, which is the high end. And then they've got the cheaper stuff like Carbo load. Like anybody can afford that. And of course, use our code. Think it'll get you 10% off. They really kicked up. It used to only be 5%. Now you get 10% off. If you use the code and it throws some money our way too. So it definitely helps the podcast out of time. Might be a buck here and there, but you know, if you guys all use the code, it definitely adds up and you have been using the code. So thank you for that. Let's get back to the podcast, but thank you for hanging out with me here in the home gym. Somebody, Josh, he said, Hey, Skip, just wanted to say thanks to you for the article you wrote on elite FTS back in the day about getting rid of that middle aged guy gut. Help me remember those things. I neglected for years. Oh, probably the vacuum thing. Yeah. Ah, okay. Yeah. And elite FTS is, I got the note. You're fired. Not going to do well. Yeah. No, they're not going to, um, continue with the articles because AI is taking a, taking over writing. You're, I did. I thought it would be longer than I was joking. Well, the other part is let me make no mistake. That's not the only reason we have just as a society, come to the point where we want everything to be visual and we want to take it all in at once instead of like, like reading apparently is this laborious task. I do know over the last few years, I would only put my articles on Facebook because that demographic still enjoyed reading. Oh man. I'm watching the writer thing start to start to really fall off. And I knew it was going to be a problem when Facebook put the fix the grammar button. Oh, and you think more people would use it, but they still type like shit. Oh dude, you can like change the whole, you know, the, the whole like tone of your messages. Well, you want a professional, you want it friendly, you want to make it funny. Oh, I'm sorry, man. I was joking when I said that, you know, I didn't know. It's disappointing, but it's the progression of things. I, you know, I, I understand that. I actually may take my articles. Remember I've written, I mean, 13 years. I want to say there's, there might be 400 without coach logs. There might be 300, 325 articles. And I may just transition those to video, not necessarily reading them, but making them kind of like that, that endless content, you know? Yep. I like that idea, man. But that was an institution, you know what I mean? And, and your articles were an institution. So yeah, I just always enjoyed that. So now I'm just going to have to write for GQ or Vogue or maybe Cosmo or something like that. So yeah. Yeah. Play girl. Play girl. Oh, it is. I got to say it is kind of the end of an era with, with what you're talking about, Skip, because I mean, man, I don't know. You guys were probably just as excited as me. Whenever you had free time, when the internet really became a thing to jump on the forums or jump on a particular website and read the articles, training, gear, nutrition, whatever it could have been, all the stuff we see on YouTube and video. Now that's the media was in print and we soaked it up and we, we printed those articles off and kept them on our desk to like, I want to, I want to refer to that one later again. You know, it was definitely a different time. Um, yeah. Well, you were an early adopter too, though, to this, you know what I mean? Like you've been podcasting since before I was podcasting, you know, that's, that, that makes you one of the OOGs. There weren't many people that were doing drug related gear related content before me, but you were one of them, you know, and that was by several years. All right. So we got called out guys on Spotify. We got called out two years ago. I just now saw the comment and I remember what it was. So, uh, let's see. He said, uh, Bernie smoke. He said, you guys are way out of touch regarding GH. Regular people can't afford six IU a day. L M F a O. And if you're 40 years old, you will feel two to three IU. I feel 10 years younger on two. I use a generic GH. This was from the episode of cycles for blue collar guys. You remember that? And you guys were like, yeah, you run, you know, seven 50,000 tests. It wasn't a thousand, but it was like, it was like, you guys both. I was like, wow, you guys are like, both suggesting like higher dose cycles. You're like, yeah, six units a day, GH, something like that. And I was more of the guy that was like 300 tests, 300. I remember that primo, you know, something like that to I U G H. But yeah. So, no, you guys got called out. I'll say it that way. Well, because also remember it was also, I think the height of you guys are just keeping all the secrets to yourself. Yeah. What you really do with clients. And it's like, well, actually we've got clients of all different ages, demographics. Some of them have a comfortability and a risk assessment aversion to using a lot. Some of them don't. And, you know, we have those discussions. That's what coaching is. You, you feel your client out, you, you get their input. And if a client comes to you and they're like, I don't, I've never used less than a thousand milligrams. And, and, and, and there's no way I get, I've done results. I've tried it, you know, with 600 milligrams. I just don't get any results. You're like, okay, you've given me some feedback to work with. Let's, let's do it safely, but let's work within the confines of what, you know, has worked and hasn't worked in the past. So yeah, that was the height of us getting comments regularly of disinforming or, or disinforming people, I guess. Yeah. And I don't think any of us have ever, have ever said that two or three IU of growth doesn't work. Yeah. I just know, speaking for myself, I'm not going to give advice on training, gear, nutrition, or anything else based on someone's assumed socioeconomic status. I, I, you know, I don't assume that people are loaded. I don't assume people are broke. It just, I'm going to tell you what I think based on my experience. And, you know, I, I mean, I'm on food forums where people complain that, you know, Burger King is $14 for a, for a compliment. And I just look at it and I go, you know, maybe you should not be complaining on a forum and you should actually be making more money. I don't know, but, and I don't want it to sound shitty. And I'm not saying that this guy needs to make more money. I'm saying, is it really all that expensive? I mean, some people can afford it. Some people will pay for it. Some people won't. It's just, you know, I don't drive a Bugatti because I can't afford it, but I don't go on a forum and complain about it. So, is it that much different than you go into Starbucks every day, getting a Starbucks coffee and getting a bang energy drink every day, the eight, nine bucks you're spending between those two things. You know what I'm saying? Like, yeah, there's that. If you're buying in bulk and you're buying 500, 600, 800 units at a time, the discount is pretty steep, you know, at that point. It all comes down to your life choices. Like what's important to you, you know? Six I U G H Burger King value meal. Yeah. I mean, and plus blunt force, Tanya puts out a good point. Blue collar guys generally make good money. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. I wasn't slamming. No, I know you weren't. No, I know you weren't. No, no, but I, but I think the guy, maybe one of his points was like blue collar cycles, trying to insinuate that blue collar workers don't make, it's like, I think he was just saying too, like, Hey, two, you does great for me. And I say more power to them. You know, that's great. Have your own podcast and talk about it. I mean, I'm sure you're going to get tons of listeners coming out hard. I mean, when people like, here's the thing, I enjoy good questions. I really do. And I enjoy good challenging questions, but I think when people come at you with an attitude, I like to point out and remind them like, well, hold on. You follow me, not the other way around. And you took the time to comment on my thing. So like, if you're coming at me aggressively, I'm going to give it right back to you. But if you have like a real insightful question, you're like, Hey, why do you do that? Or like, they make me justify my position. That's what the base. That's what debate is. Right? Like that's the cornerstone of like our Republic. And I'm not to go all, you know, constitution, you know, but it's like when you're coming at someone with an attitude about something, you're automatically getting them to put up a front of like, okay, okay, asshole, you know? So I don't like when you feed a toddler and the, if the toddler were to go, I don't like that. I want that. Why don't you give me that instead? I mean, I don't even want to thank you for feeding me. I just don't like what you're feeding me. It's just, it's sometimes it's just kind of funny that resentment. You have emotion involved. I think it was just more of a thing. And of course we don't know. I don't think he was really trying to come at us hard on that. I'm just speaking in general. I think he was just like, guys, like, what are you talking about? Like, who are you? Okay. Well, that's also the problem with inflection. There's lack of inflection. But the other thing is like, whenever, like, like I got into it, not got into it. I commented on someone's thing about, I'm not going to go into what I commented on, but I'll tell you guys later. But I just love a comment. I'm like serious question without any emotion involved. I started the preamble with that, like serious question. Cause I want to ask them a question. And I asked the question and it was basically like, why is your stance on this? When for all human history, something was like this, but you're just so perturbed about this one issue. And I'll just leave it at that. But, but I, but I put a preamble on it of, this is a serious question. This isn't me trying to take a shot at you to try to do it back and forth. And then I gotcha moment. And then I block you. And then we, you know, part ways. It wasn't one of those types of things. So I think how you preamble the thing is a big deal, especially when you're talking about social media. And please listeners, I'm asking you, I implore you to understand that sometimes I was almost said, we, I'll say, I speaking for myself, I do sometimes get defensive. So please understand. And it can be argued, skip, don't get defensive, but understand that for years, the responses that I get are, well, you're taking 15 IU of Sarah stem and your physique sucks. Oh, he got his ass kicked. I mean, that's the type of thing that we deal with all the time. So sometimes depending on my mood, I may read between the lines and misunderstand. Like you said, Andrew tone, you know, demeanor. We all can do that. You know what you mean? So it happens. I'm human. I make that mistake sometimes, but try being, you know, attacked or criticized. More than you probably already are. And that's kind of, sometimes you can expect, I sometimes expect that that's the case when maybe it's not. Yeah. All right. Let's get into a few listener questions here. Super random one, but also ties into contest prep theme. What have you guys found as the most accurate way to determine an accurate BMR outside of DEXA scans? And I guess follow-up question from Scott. Do you guys ever have you guys have your clients check their BMI? Cause I never like ever. Sometimes like I'll have a client that tells me like, Oh, I went and got a DEXA scan done. Cause I just wanted to know outside of that. Like I literally never know how, what the actual body fat percentage is on a client. All I know is they're effing peeled if they're getting on stage. You know what I mean? These. I say it's just, it's the eyeball. I tell you where the DEXA comes in handy. And there's a couple of variables. Number one, it's typically during a recon. It can come in handy then, but then there's caveats to that. Okay. You need to go to the same place to get the DEXA done. You need to use the same machine and you need to fit into the machine. Because if you are, if you, if your arm, if you're one quarter of the way outside of that machine, then the machine is guessing at the other 25% of your body fat or your body composition based on what the other three quarters are. So there do, there does need to be constant variables. I have found that the DEXA, how do I label this? The DEXA clinics are not as accurate as if you go for a DEXA that's at a medical facility. Don't know why. I don't know if they're just better. Well, think about it. Medical spends $200,000 on a machine. Little company spends $50,000 on a machine. The calibration is a lot different probably. And the little clinics want to upsell you everything. All these added testings, again, BMR, things like that. And I've always said, it's just me. I'm not speaking for anybody else. I don't like formulas. I never have. And it was backed up when I had a 340 pound NFL lineman that would have to eat less than sometimes a 120, 130 pound figure girl. That right there just blew. I can't think of a better example of blowing formulas out of the, you know, out of the water. Size just doesn't always dictate what the caloric intake is and what the basal metabolic rate is. Much like when you get on a treadmill and it tells you exactly how many calories you burn. Now, if you use that treadmill consistently, then you'll have a good idea of where you're trending. If you do more time, you burn 25% more calories. Okay. So it's like a weight scale that is three pounds off. You might not have your accurate weight, but you will know moving forward how to base that and what that progression is up or down from there. Yeah. Yeah. I remember about six years ago or eight years ago, I was doing some guest lecturing for my alma mater in the sports nutrition classes. And one of the things the professor wanted me to do, she asked me, because she knew I was doing contest preps and stuff. And she asked me to come in at the beginning of my prep and towards the end of my prep to do my BMR. Right. And both times she was like, this just doesn't make any sense. It doesn't, she goes, this can't, you sure you reported your calories right? And I'm like, my diet's to a T. I don't cheat. Look at me. Like, yeah. You know what I mean? And I was like, I could have told you this beforehand. Like, like this is something that coaches know that science doesn't understand. And as you pointed out, skip formulas don't mean anything. You know, when someone sends me a DEXA scan, I just, I throw it right in the trash. Literally. I still like to take a look at them. And I like to see if those variables are, you know, consistent, they can be helpful. But I, again, if you rely on a DEXA, man, that's not a good guy. I've had clients come back and go, Oh man, I lost, you know, four pounds of muscle and gained a pound of body. Fat. And it's like, yeah, visually, this is not what we're seeing here. So it is, it can be tough. Think about hydration status. Sorry. I'll even look at their, like the electric impedance tests. They do the in body scans, which are, you want to talk about true garbage. Like those are the worst, but they can somewhat be accurate to themselves. They are a sales tactic. But if you get one done at the, say the beginning of the year, and then you go into a fat loss phase and you do it six months later, you will see some changes. And I find that to be interesting. Maybe it says like this arm had 4.5 pounds of fat and now it has 3.2. I can't help, but be, you know, intrigued by looking at the numbers. Does it change anything that I do? Not at all. Like not, it doesn't influence me in the slightest. If, if they came to you for fat loss and 10 weeks later, you show them the pictures of how they lost 20 pounds. Like there it is right there. Like, yeah, you take up less space in the world now. You know what I mean? Like, yeah, that's how I look at it. But yeah, remember I told you guys, I gave you the example of when I did the Dexa lying face up and then turned around and did it face down and the numbers were different. Hmm. All right. What about this one? I have a question for the next go around. Oh, and by the way, guys, we got a bunch of people in the live stream. I'm going to throw this out there. If you guys have a topic idea for the next podcast, let us know. You can comment in the stream. Maybe it'll be on the next show. It will be because we don't have a topic. Let's just be transparent. I do have one skip that I can ask. But we might find something better too. Okay. What are your experience with athletes who have ADHD particular during a bodybuilding prep? How do you handle stimulant use? For example, compounds like clean trend orals to some extent, and athletes who are already prescribed medicine medications for ADHD, given that their central nervous system is already functionally functioning different. different. Have you worked with ADHD athletes who are using medications? Doesn't everyone have ADHD now? Alongside compounds such as GLP ones or GLPs and other appetite suppressing agents. I'm curious about the, how these might interact, especially since both can influence appetite and neurotransmitters in different ways. That's actually a good question. I'm an ADD guy, but I didn't know it. You? Until, oh yeah, no kidding. Until my son was diagnosed. And I remember going down the list going, hmm, I have all of these symptoms. Apparently, I'm too old to have been diagnosed. If I was his age, I probably would have been, would be diagnosed. Anyway, that's my little story. Go ahead. I think, um, I, I have to snicker a little bit because I feel like the fix is in. Pharma just keeps expanding symptoms. Oh yeah. Oh yeah. I don't want to work sometimes. Oh, I don't want to get out of bed. Oh yeah. Distracted. Yeah. You know, let me sell you something that's going to help you out. Yeah. You know, um, I don't change anything that I do. Um, I treat them the same as anyone else. And then I just wait for feedback. If there's side effects, then I'm going to alter what we're doing. Um, but I'm not going to drastically change anything that I'm doing. You know, if I want to use Glenn, we're going to use Glenn. And then if I get the feedback that, Ooh, you know, my heart rate's going 600 beats a minute, we're going to probably pull back and go do something a little different. It'd be the same with anyone though, that they weren't prescribed or using any other medications and they gave feedback and I would do the same thing. I would course correct from there. You know, I purposely, again, full disclosure, I purposely handed it off to you because I wanted to say that. And when you said it, I've been laughing inside going, cause I thought maybe you were going to have something, some type of system. Here's the one difference. If I come across variables like that and feedback from a client that they say, you know, okay, ADHD or whatever, something to that effect. I may put something like Glenn in a little earlier to see what kind of reaction or if there's a different reaction than what I would anticipate. Okay. But when I say I'm, I'm talking a couple of weeks, few weeks or just to see if there's something there or not that I might have, might need a little bit more time to tweak, but I'm right there. I'm right there with you. I'm not going to purposely go, Oh, we need to dramatically alter this, the approach here. We're going to put it in. We're going to see, and we're going to adjust based on it. Got something I want to throw up here. So we did a physique critique of this gentleman previously. This is Jake. And, uh, he just commented this week and said, thank you guys for the critique. I ended up doing the amateur at, uh, uh, on this weekend, meaning the amateur Olympia came all the way out here to do it. Um, and came second to the overall winner. He might do the Japan qualifier in six weeks time, or might shut it down and try again next year. So I wanted to share with our audience that this is what a legit classic dude looks like that is vying for a pro card at the national level, you know, and he won his listeners. Yeah. He won his class. He just missed overall. Yeah. Just barely missed the pro card. Yeah. Yep. I mean, I guess I would ask him how long have you been on this thing? This, this, this, this roller coaster of prep and six weeks to me. And it's just me. And I'm not the one prepping right now. It doesn't seem like a lot of time. And if he thinks he can bring a better look, go get it done. He's got a beautiful physique. Yeah. Look at that, man. Yeah. He didn't even ask me to bring the pictures up. I just dug back. He commented. And then, then I actually met him this weekend, this past weekend too, at the booth and really nice guy. And yeah, I figured I'd just pull his pictures back up to just kind of celebrate. You know what I'm saying? These aren't the pictures from the Olympia. These are his previous pictures. You know what I mean? So he competed again. We did a critique from, that's a nice rear double seeing this again. That's a really beautiful shot on him. Quick question for you guys. Oh, go ahead. Well, I was going to say the reason why I say keep going is because if a group of, a panel of judges multiple times now found you, like really, really good. Love that. And it's just another six weeks. People will be like, Oh, you're pulling six weeks off when you could be growing. It's like, well, no, no. I mean, he's trying to get a pro card and he's six, he's possibly six weeks away from it. What's six weeks of going into his office. What's the difference of six weeks from going into his offseason? Um, you know, pushing it back a little bit and you got to look at the shows for next year, right? Like, okay, maybe his plan is to do shows starting July, August, September next year. What's six weeks difference. You know, I say if it was, if your body still feels fresh, your mind is fresh, go get it done, man. You got an excellent physique. Yeah. Do you guys find, cause I'm, I'm old school in the sense that not only myself, but my clients, if it's prejudging, you're wearing black. Yeah. Has that, so has that changed without me knowing it? Yes. Not that I would change it anyway. Yes. But okay. I figured that it probably did. Well, classic is always black though. Okay. But I mean, even in bodybuilding, sorry, I should have been more specific, but no, like it's, it's, it's been a thing for a while, right? No, it's been a thing for a while. Okay. And I have seen colors in pre-judice and I, and I'm talking to myself, like, what are they, and can I just add, this is not a shot at the guy in the end, but those trunks, right? The diaper. Am I the only one? The diaper fan. Yeah. There was a time not that long ago that that would have been pretty damn normal. You know what I mean? Yeah. They used to come down to his thigh. Yeah. The mid, like briefs. They were like bike shorts. Yeah. But let's all agree that not now. So what I'm saying is that would something, you know, and understand I haven't sat on a judging panel for a long time. Excuse me. Is that, you know, is that playing into him being out there? I mean, I can, you know, I can see based on the lineup that he's, he's probably in the, you know, in the right placing, at least from the couple of shots that I've seen. He's got a nice physique. You know, he's not, not a, not like a scrub looking dude. I was going to say shape. I was going to say, he's not a scrub. Yeah. Were you going to say that exact word? I was literally going to say that word. We're from the same era. You know what I mean? I'm going to try to say that. But I will say this to anybody listening, if you're going to go in and compete and you haven't competed before, please pay attention to the, what you might think are small things from the tan to the amount of oil that you have on. Just, you don't want to do all that work and step on stage with, you know, as an example, with trunks that aren't flattering. Yeah. Or something minor that you can control that can really downplay your physique. Well, and you can change that. So it makes him look more boxy. Look at the other guys. It makes their quad sweep look bigger. It just adds more contour. And that's what, and honestly, it's really important in the female divisions. Okay. Like when we talk about like suit cuts for pro bikini or top amateur bikinis on their glutes, like exactly how high on the hips they are. Like we're talking millimeter differences is something that we look at to make, to make changes from the front too. We've actually been told with Andrea that they wanted it to be a little, bit higher. Like she was, hers was cut just to, and we're talking like not even a quarter inch difference, you know, it's a big deal. And I even think the color, I mean, like I said, I'm not putting the guy, you know, I don't want to put him on the chopping block here, but because I pointed that out, I also noticed that I think his color is off compared to everybody else's. Yeah, no, it is. It is a little bit. No, let me ask you, let's get, you said you never wore anything other than black trunks at prejudging for your whole career. I think so. I've never worn black trunks at prejudging ever. in my career. Oh, really? Is that right? Really? Okay. Ever. No, I've always heard it was the favored thing, but you should maybe wear like at least something muted. So I might've done like a Navy blue or something like that. Dark, dark tones. Wouldn't even do that. I literally thought even as a judge, like I said, I mean, I judged in three different States for quite a while years ago. Um, I thought it was literally thought that it was accepted, that it was mandatory that it had to be black. I think at some point it did. They have to be, no, you're probably right, but they just have to be a solid color for prejudging. You can't be doing the polka dots or the, yeah, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You can do that at night show if you want to, I think only for your routine for some, like some, cause I think you're not supposed to have patterns. Are you for NBC? They let you get away with it for your routines sometimes, but like now, I mean, I've never worn black trunks. It's always been blue. I did green one year and then I did, started doing a maroon color, a velvet maroon. Maroon did not work good for me, man. It was the same color as my skin. I look, okay. So that's where I'm going into because especially in the female divisions where your suit color, skin tone, the makeup you're wearing, how you're styling your hair, the color of your hair, all these things come like, like I tell Rachel, she should start a business consulting with girls for their stage looks because we are constantly commenting on and giving our girls feedback nonstop about now that that suit color is not going to work for you. What do you think Andrew? And, and of course this is not going to be for our demographic or listeners. I always hear this from bikini girls that, oh, they're into burnouts this year. You know, they're the burnouts are doing well this year or everybody's got blue suits. Got to have a blue suit this year. What do you think of that? You know what I'm talking about? You hear it too. I'm sure. I don't know if I'm at liberty to say something, but I'll tell you guys off here, but okay, but yes, um, burnettes have been in for the last three years. Okay. Yeah. But you, you hear that, you know what I mean? That's, that's, I don't hear it. I see it. Yeah. Oh, well, yeah, I see it, but you also, you hear it from people too. Like that is a consideration that girls are having. When the judges, the people that are going to be judging you and they fly you up to the compound for, you know, Olympia week or whatever they go meet, meet the pros, you know, they tell a lot of these girls how they want their looks to look. Oh yeah. Who color they should go with, how they should style their hair, what color their hair should be. Oh yeah. All those details. Or they, or they might say, I really liked your hair at the last show. Okay. Well, what do you think that means? Like if you got third place and you had a physique that was probably good enough to win, make sure you get the hair back to that, that previous fix, all those variables, keep all the variables, but change the one, you know, I'd say at least they're mentioning it, mentioning it. I, that to me is more fair because I'm going to be honest with you and I might be the outlier here, but I don't think that the color of the suit should ever impact a placing like in a negative way. At the end of the day, this is physique. I know, I know. Well, let me give you an example. A girl with not as dark of a tan who wears an orangish suit, it all, and it has orangish, it just all blends together. You might not get the same pop. You don't get the pop. You can get it. You look at the next girl. She's got pop with, because I've seen it where like her hair matches her tan and the suit just doesn't jump out. Yes. Like it does make a difference. And I think that that, that's something. The total package. I'm not, I, this is going to be hard to convey what I'm thinking. I just don't think at the end of the day that it, that it should be a preference. Like as a, well, I just had, you know, we have those biases as judges. They're just things that are going to stand out that we not, we don't even process consciously. I get that. Unless it's just egregiously, like so obvious that it doesn't fit that I get, but the, well, you know, I, I, I, listen, if you have two athletes, but I had this happen or I didn't wear a bracelet or I had blonde hair instead of brown. I don't think those things should matter. We'll tell you why they do it. I'll tell you why they do it. I'll tell you why they do it. Because let's say you have, let's say you have two twins even. Okay. Cause actually this has happened at, I think USA is a couple of years ago, but let's say you have two twins physiques, exactly the same, same condition. One of them is wearing the suit that just compliments her physique to use the word Scott, her physique pops out of it. And like, you just can't take your eyes off of her. The other girl has the same exact physique, but she's wearing a suit that does not compliment that pop. And her hairstyle is wacky. We'll just say you're, you go with what your eyes want, you know, as a judge, sure. The one you can't take your eyes off of, they're going to win. They could be literally twins. And one is styled better. One has better suit. One has better heels. One is wearing the right amount of bling. It just looks better. But that, if it impacts how their physique looks or presents cool. But if it's just a matter of red or blue or it's, I just wish it maybe a better way to put it is. I wish it didn't, I guess that's what I'm total package. Clearly. I mean, it's like men's physique. I always laugh and say, you know, you could have a bot. You can have a men's physique from the neck down, but if you're unattractive, you're just going to want to stay out of that. So I get that. I mean, it's a total package thing. That's why all the ugly guys go into bodybuilding. And why I could never make that transition. Or why the ugly girls get second in women's physique Olympia. Oh, sorry. Oh, he said it. He said it. Hopefully the second place winner is not listening to the show right now. Did you guys see that post? You fucking bitch. That's all I got to say. I've never liked her. I don't like her face. I don't like her physique. Dude, same thing. And it's because of comments like that. There's always just this, I'm better than everyone attitude. And when you come out and you say something and it reminded me like all the times that, you know, Jay Cutler, when he lost, he just, you know, he slammed Ronnie afterwards. He didn't do that once. He got back to the drawing board and said, what do I got to do to beat this guy? Do I need bigger quads? Do I need to get my back bigger? Like, what is it? I got it in my conditioning. And if the girl who beat you is second rate, what does that say about you? Yeah, exactly. That's a good point. That's a good point. But yeah, I thought that was a really distasteful comment. Did you see that, Skip? No. She said, the post was, that Sarah Chick, former Miss Olympia. Yeah, former Miss Olympia. She got second this year to Natalia Coelho, who looked phenomenal. I always, always, she's feminine. She moves so well. And she's not that this matters on the physique, but she's such a good ambassador. Yes, she is. She comments on like, my clients doing their first show is like, wow, like, I've seen you improving or like just random shit. She's waiting to be in the stream right now, dude. She's always coming on our, all of her stuff, you know, the person you want representing the women's physique division. Okay. Yeah. And this, the second place girl said, like, I, I don't count it as, a loss to lose to someone at the oil Olympia or, or the oil Olympia champion. Oh, I L saying that she had her, her delts were jimmied up or quads or jimmied up. Um, then she actually espoused on it a little bit more in the comments. And it's just so dishasteful, especially in a sport where everyone uses oil technically. Yeah. Everybody uses oil. She did take it down, Skip, but not, no, she didn't. It's up. It's up. She made a, she, she, she, she, she said that her profile was taken down because, or she had to take it down because she got so much bot hate from the bots. Oh, I thought that she, regardless, there was, I thought a recanting, but you know, it's too late because it was screen capped by everybody in the world. Hold on. Hold on. Hold on. Cause I actually made a, we made a point of talking about this yesterday. All right. Let me just pull it up real quick. And I can just tell you. Nope. It's still there. Is it? So she's still, Oh, she did change it. So she did change it. She did change the caption one that she had about the oil Olympia. Okay. Talk about way to get people to not root for you. Yeah. Your face looks like a horse. That's all I have to say. I'm not going to comment on someone's facial looks. I'm going to say it. I'm going to say it right now. That's something I would say. I'm like, damn. Yeah. I mean, it's because it's the physiques. And then after that, to me, it's the personality. And I think her personality just sucks. You know, she flies to the point of the, the, the, the shows and private jets and makes a big show of it. And then she, she, she gives money to the other women's physique show. Uh, uh, she, I don't know if she has a show or she, which I don't even know how that works. If you're a current competing pro, you can have your own pro show, but she gives a lot of, it's just some money to another winner. Right. But I feel like it's just stinks of like, Oh, I'm just so great for the sport. And, and it's, it's like, if you do good deeds, you just do them. You don't post about it. Hadenism. Yes. Yes. Is that a, is that a word of the day? Skip? Oh, well, I mean, it could be. And I always say the metaphor is this. You're standing on the side of a cruise ship and someone falls over. And the only reason that you jump into action is because everybody's watching and you have the opportunity to look, essentially feign altruism. Like a hero. And you're doing it in a hedonistic, you know, way because you're going to benefit from it. That's to a T. It's, another good one is social media where you film going up and giving all these things to homeless people at their expense to make yourself look at it. It's, it's altruistic. It's ugly. Hey, Ryan, thanks for your service, man. He said, some mentioned something about the VA earlier and he's been following a lot of our live streams. Thanks, Ryan. I just forgot to throw that out there to him. Absolutely. Guys, we appreciate you tuning in and check out true nutrition.com. Use our code. Think over there. Supplement source. C a for Canadians. Thank you to everybody from Patreon. In fact, I need to put up a new thread for Patreon questions. We'll gather up a bunch of those for the next couple shows down the road. Here. And of course, go to bodyberry.com to reach out to Andrew for coaching. Go to team skip.com to reach out to skip. And you can hit me up. McNally diets at gmail.com for another episode of blood's white gear. We will see you soon. The comment. She's not even Glenn Close. Handsome. That's great. Oh, man. Ryan, that's a banger, dude. That's good. There's, there's one awesome thing about the internet. When you get on a viral video or in the comment section of viral video or a post picture, anything, the, the wit. Yeah. Oh yeah. Oh, sometimes it's just pure gold. You know, who does that to a T is Rachel's brother should be a comedian. I mean, he says these things and you're just like, ha ha. And then you're like, you think about it for two seconds. You're like, like you spit your shit out. Right. It's like that funny. Like he's that witty. The, we had this, uh, Jay Cutler reel that went viral. It's been out for a year and all of a sudden, like, you know, you see it across like this, that when you look at the, you know, the, the stats and it's just like, and it's, uh, I can't remember how many thousands of views, but like 40, 50, something like that now. And, uh, and, and that's like, it didn't start picking up until like 350 days of having been posted. So, and it was Jay Cutler reveals, uh, his gear use or something like that from his prime. And, uh, Jay was like, yeah, you know, we just took what we could get, you know, it, I don't even remember the doses to be honest with you. I mean, it was, it was a long time ago and it was really the food, you know, it was the food that really drove it. And the people in the comments, because you all, because at first is like our listeners, right? Yeah. But now 350 days later, it is people like, yeah, you didn't remember, you know, they're like, you know, what they just, some of them were so fun. You remember what you had for meal three at, before the 2009 Olympia. Somebody said shit like that. Somebody said shit like that. You remember what PEDs you're taking in your prime? Like, bro. Yeah. I just, we took what we could get, you know? The thing is, is like, he's such a credible person. Like, why do you got to turn it down a notch like that? Like, well, you know, like you're a great ambassador. You've done a lot of great things in the sport. One of the, one of the, uh, the greats of all time. Just say like, man, I don't want to talk about that. Well, didn't Arnold just do that in his documentary that was out only a month or two ago? I'm talking about his drug use and downplaying it dramatically. Did he? See, I would believe Arnold a little bit by like, cause honestly they didn't have the kind of access that Jay Cutler did. Yeah. But I think he's just as bad when it comes to that. He, he just downplays it so badly. It's just, it's, it's just almost a giant, giant. Well, it's like, uh, I don't want to side with the trolls, but it's like when, um, Phil Heath was like on that video talking about like insulin, like, Oh, never even, never, never heard of insulin until, you know, later in my career growth hormone. You know, it's like, what are you talking about? Dude, everyone was talking about that shit then. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I saw that same podcast with a giant eye roll. Guys taking trend. Like, yeah, so these guys were taking trend, you know, competing against me. I heard about it, but we didn't even get involved in it. I can't remember what he said. It was something about low dose primo and something. And he was low dose when I knew him. I don't know after that, you know, I, I always say, you know, I, we had our run in and, and we were not friends after that. We were not going to be doing lunch anytime. Yeah. Anytime soon. Yeah. So I, I saw, um, Phil on my plane home, Andrew. That's what you said. Oh, biz. No. Oh, and Dr. Jackson sat right next to him. Really? On the, like the red eye to Detroit on Sunday at like 10, 10 PM, man. I did wonder what was Phil going to Detroit or I know he's not living down. I don't want to put it out there. Cause I know more just from being around here. I, so I won't say, okay, but I could tell you later, but, uh, you know, it's just, I don't want to, even though he's like still a public figure, it's not my business to share, you know? Sure. Yeah. Um, but I, he, I've never actually talked to him ever, you know? And I have a feeling it's one of two things. Cause I'll see him, he'll make eye contact. And it's either, I know that guy's in the fitness industry and I don't know. And I, so I don't want to talk to him. So he looks away and won't look at me again. Or he's like, he's a guy who records that podcast with skip. It's one of the two, but we've never talked because of that, you know? No. Cause we had Jimmy on about that. Right. About the dude. And I thought about it, man. We recorded that literally that like two days or the day after the Olympia, I was still at the, in Vegas. I recorded that podcast in Vegas the year he lost. And that went viral, man. Phil had a hotel room right next to Scott and he could hear through the walls. Oh really? I think out of all the Olympia champs, he'd be like the last one I'd want to talk to you. Honestly, just from everything I've seen. Plus, you know, I watch, I did watch the, that documentary they made and I'm like, I am just having a hard time making you out to be the victim. When you won seven Sando trophies, like it's just a, it's such a case for our times, right? Like I'm the victim here. I had all these emotions and shit, but I was the winning, one of the second winning this, you know, bodybuilder of all time. What? Like, I don't have any sympathy for you. You had genetics on, on Moss that I'll never even know about. Yeah. There's a, you know, there's a huge backstory that is incredibly ironic to talk about feelings. Based on some of the things. And listen, his life, because he's, you know, a celebrity is put, I wouldn't want my life put out there in my decisions. Sure. Nice. Either. Don't get me wrong. But when they're egregious and they're, they're just, they're bad. Not all of them. I don't know that he's not a great person now. Maybe he's a great person. Maybe he is matured. And I've been through some shit, you know, like I, if people knew everything I did, they probably, you know what I mean? I completely agree. I would not, and I'm not just defending it. The celebrity status. Yeah. Everything is scrutinized. There's no question. It's the lack of accountability when another friend is involved in, you know, you, you end up rectifying the situation literally because you're forced to. And I have to be careful with what I say, because they're not NDAs, but there are things. Legal. Legal. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.