Since it's contest season, tell us each of your most drastic peak week experiences and were they the most successful? Just for what I actually did would have been the 99 Albertas. We changed our water and we changed all of our food. Just the volume of food would just do the craziest things. And I remember my coach told me to drink, you know, like frozen juice mix, the concentrate. He's like, "Okay, just throw a can out and drink the whole can." Wow. And I remember getting like blood sugar like my gut was just I was so sick. But I looked great. And I went on stage, won the show. Everyone was like, "Oh my god, you nailed it. That was unbelievable." And I was like, "This is crazy. I don't know how I looked good." I got a picture taken of me at weigh-ins. And I mean, I'm still paste white, stomach distended, just looked like hell. Immediately went everywhere that I didn't hold my conditioning. I knew Chris had it. He had me drinking a ton of water. About midday that day, he's like, "All right, pull the water back." I took a half a dioside, took another half that night and went to bed and I was up all night kissing. So finally at like my sixth time I just was like I got to know. So I flipped the light on and turned and just hit the class most muscular. I went oh [\h__\h] Okay. The next morning I immediately forward that to Dante and I said put this on the internet and tell him I brought the condition just fine. My coach for my first show he had me switch to distilled water. Oh, I remember that. He had me drink three gallons on Sunday and then we started tapering it down and then Friday was like a half a gallon and cut it off. Once we cut it off, we started with the daz eye. I think it was four half tabs that day and then he was like, "All right, I need you to stay up tonight. We're going to take another half tab at 12. Wake up in the morning and send pictures and then take another half tab." It was brutal, man. I felt terrible. I didn't enjoy it. I didn't feel good on stage. I didn't feel good trying to pump up. I didn't feel good for like a week and a half. put it that way. But I did look better.