once they you take that barrier away from the fact that you think you can't be that big. And I remember I used to have a friend who owned a bodybuilding clothing store. And I would go in there, he's like, he goes, "You got to be 300 lb." I'm like, "I can't 300 lb. I I can't beat you. You got to get the 300 lb." And I was like 260 at this point. He's like, and I was already, you know, one of the bigger, you know, I was pretty big at 260. Yeah. He's like 300 300. And and you know, and the fact that Dorian was like 300. I'm like, you know what? Maybe I can do this. Because I was still growing. Like once I started taking anabolics and added GH in, it was just a matter of how much food I can get down my throat and I was growing, you know, I was growing like at like a weed and it was it wasn't any magical drug combinations, you know, I was doing what I needed to and I was using real gear obviously, but it wasn't excessive amounts, you know. I was using a thousand tests a week. I was doing like, you know, 4 500 milligrams of anabolics with it. I was taking three four IUs of GH, you know. I I was I was experimenting with some insulin, you know, some like Humulan R and stuff like that. But and and you know what it I I just with the food and with the with the training and I was I was getting really I I'm not strong by nature in terms of like I'm not like Yeah. I I see these guys like 160 pounds. They go in they could bench press like 405. Yeah. That's not me. But as I got bigger, I got stronger. So when I hit like 300, I was, you know, I was inclining, you know, 405 for reps. I was lifting impressive weights, you know, because I was just so big and I used really good form. So, I was just growing like a weed and and you know, once you believe you can do it, you could achieve it. Hey everybody, welcome to It's Just Bodybuilding. I'm Big Ron Partllo. Of course, I'm here with Dusty Handshaw and the producer, Scott McN. Remember to like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. Yes, remember immutant.com. Go to immutant.com. Get your ISO surge. Get your all in. And everyone should get on the gear. All the gear. Okay. All the gear every single day. And today we are extraordinarily happy to have with us bodybuilding legend Dave Jumbo Palumbo, the original mass monster, RX Muscle Mastermind, the guy behind Species, probably I would say bodybuilding's number one journalist of all time and uh the original podcaster. How's that, Dave? Is that a good intro? It's AI'll take that intro. That's a very good. And uh I would say Dave, you're responsible for more 300 pound bodybuilders than anyone in the history of bodybuilding. And uh I have to say I'm I'm one of them. You you influenced the [\h__\h] out of me. I remember when I when I was bodybuilding and coming up in the early 90s and you were the biggest dude around and there was every time there's a picture in the magazines, I'd stop and go, "God, this guy from New York is just out of control." And uh it was it was it was quite the time to be alive and it was uh nothing nothing but fond memories. So uh we're excited to have you, you know. So where you're on Long Island, right? Am I correct? No, I'm I've been living in Florida. Oh, yeah. Right. Florida. Sorry. Yeah. Yeah. I knew that. I I uh Yeah, I gave up on New York. Yeah. Everyone escaped. Everyone escaped. Well played. Yeah. Like the movie escaped from New York, you know. Yeah. Yeah. Did you leave like a before the hurricane or after? Which hurricane? Oh, yeah. I You want to hear something very depressing? I'll tell you something depressing. So, in 2012, we had a hurricane Sandy in in New York. And I had two houses on the water. So, they both got flooded. I actually did very well on the insurance when it was all done. So, I I can't really complain. And that's thanks to Chris Aceto, believe it or not, because Chris Aceto has this like insane like insurance guy. He drove down from Maine, this guy, and he's like, "I'll I'm gonna get you a ton of money." And, you know, he he bought the insurance companies and he and they did really well. But so when I sold that was 12, I sold my house at in 16 to move down to Florida. The housing market was still kind of low from the hurricanes because people were like, you know, gunshy for some reason about hurricanes. And, you know, I had two houses on the water. I mean, they're they're worth money, you know. Um, I still made a few bucks on them. I didn't make as much as I probably should have. I looked the other day, yesterday, matter of fact. I looked on Zillow at the house that I used to live in. Yeah, I sold it for so I bought it for four like 3.90 or something like that. This was in like 2002. I sold it in 16 for like almost 500 like 490. Yeah, it's a million. Over a million now. Yep. A million. Now the taxes were going up at $2,000 every year. So the the property taxes are ridiculous. they're over 20 grand. But the the point is that, you know, it's everything's timing, right? It's it's and it goes that way in bodybuilding, too, right? If you if you show up at the right show on the right day at the right time, you you might win, but you if you show you could be your best and show up at at a show that has a lot of great guys in it, you might come in, you know, eighth place, you know. Right. Right. You know, life is about timing. It's funny. We had a list of stuff to ask you about and and and one of the topics was just ask him about Chris Aceto and in like the first 20 seconds you dropped Chris Aceto knowledge. So yeah. So I mean we've we talk about Chris all the time on the show. He is one of the smartest guys that you could have in your rolodex. Is it like is he not a valuable source for almost anything? Yeah. Kristen. Chris for real estate stuff. He's he's phenomenal because the guy like he's you know how like I I'm like into animals and stuff like that. Like I have like you know I I breed reptiles and I have birds and I have you know cats and you know he's like that with real estate like like like if I'm like chilling out. I'm looking at Instagram like animal pages. He's like looking at real estate you know like you know I I'll show him a picture like like from I took from like the '9s in in Florida. He'll be like, "I know that condo that's behind you." He's not even looking at the picture of me. He's looking at the condo behind me. And he's like, "I know that's so and so Collins Avenue in South Beach." I'm like, "How the heck how the heck do you know that?" He goes, "I I have AI was going to buy a condo in that building, you know. I made 200 grand on a unit in that one." Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He He knows every Venice. I'll show a picture from Venice. I'm like, I I used to live down the block from there. That's so And so street. Those houses are worth a million now. like he knows, bro. Every every time he messages me, he's like, "How's property in Vancouver? Is it still just is it still bubbling? Is it still bubbling?" You know? Exactly. So, yeah, he's awesome. Um, so yeah, let's let's start. We got to start get the uh we got to get the OG stuff out of the way, Dave. Yes. I got to I we got to touch on on these early days. What what started the you to to the drive to be a mass monster before the term was even used, right? Like you weren't saying I'm going to be a mass monster. You were just trying to get as big as possible. When did that when did that all really start happening for you? You know, um I as most people know, I was a long-distance runner in college and and the the the philosophy behind long-distance running is is the opposite of bodybuilding. It's get as small as possible. you know, run as overtrain as much as possible and and you know, the lighter you are, the faster you run. I mean, so when I kind but I always I had worked out in high school and I kind of like the way it looks. So when I kind of finished my college running career, I was like, you know, I I I want to look better, you know, at this point because I'm like, I'm never going to get I'm never going to get a date, you know, that kind of thing. I always I make that joke, but you know, so I started working out and I and I and you know, if when you're a runner, you have a little bit of an eating disorder. Every runner does. Okay, you you don't want to carry fat. You know, you you want to be fat. And it's funny because running, long-distance running, isn't really conducive to being super crazy lean because you kind of like you're always on the verge of of not eating enough and you're like kctic a little bit looking. You almost look like a little over depleted, right? So, you always think you're fat, but what it is is just like loose skin type of thing. So, when I started bodybuilding and eating a little bit more, I was like, "Oh, I look good. My skin tightened up. You know, I'm carved up. I'm not walking around depleted all the time. And I'm like and I started eating more and obviously I start reading the magazines and I'm like start eat you know saying realizing protein is very important. So I'm eating more frequently during the day and I'm growing like like a weed naturally. I I don't even know even know what a steroid is at this point and mostly because I'm putting back the weight that I probably had run off of my body, you know, for all those years of running. So I'm growing growing grow. So at this point I got to a point where I was like you know what I don't know if I can get fat. I said, "Why don't I try to get fat by eating even more food?" Because it seemed like every time I eat more food, I get bigger. And then if I get fat, I can always cut back. So, I I it got to a point where I, you know, I was eating like six, seven times a day, which a lot was a lot for me because I was eating like twice a day before that, you know, as a runner. And I'm like, you know who's calling me? Guess who? You're kidding. His ears must be ringing. So, I got to a point where I I I you know, literally it didn't matter what I ate, I didn't get fat. And I realized, holy mackerel, I have the only limitations I have to getting bigger is how much can I eat now. I wish it would have continued like that naturally, but but it went on for about two years like that where I was growing, growing, growing, and then I kind of hit a plateau around 215 or so. I couldn't get above that. Now remember, I was 150 pounds as a runner. So now I'm like I'm like 65 pounds, you know, bigger than I was. So people are like, "What the, you know, everyone thought I was taking steroids." I didn't even know what I still didn't know what steroids at this point I started getting into Bill Phillips if you remember he had been writing those anabolic reference guides and then he made you know then book yeah but there was before the black book it was like it was like pamphlets that he would like like it was off a copy machine they would send you and I I subscribed to it every month he would send you this new thing and that's where they find they first introduced metrics uh you know shakes and Scott Connelly and I you know I was I was completely consumed with this information I was like holy mackerel this is the greatest information of all. And of course, once you start reading Bill Phillips and he was talking about anabolic steroids, now I start reading about them, right? Because, you know, at first in your in my mind, I thought they were like poison, you know, because that's how the the press, you know, portrays them. And now I'm learning the real science of it. You know, I'm a science guy. I'm premed. I'm going to I'm getting ready to go to medical school at this point. I'm like, so I'm completely, you know, holy mackerel. discuss. It's like going down the rabbit hole, you know, you know, like get on like Instagram or or Facebook or or or YouTube and you go down a rabbit hole of some whatever topic you you're looking into. It was like that except there was no, you know, computers back then. There was no internet. I was going down this rabbit hole of this of this of this magazine that he was printing up in these books he was writing. I was buying everything and reading it like 600 times, you know, to the point where I probably knew his anabolic reference guy better than he did and he wrote it, you know, and so I knew more about steroids before I even took a steroid. And then I met a doctor in Westchester when I was up in medical school there who was who actually ironically had graduated from the same medical school I did 20 years earlier and he was a bodybuilder and he he got this guy Dr. Mike. He was he was a crazy creative genius, you know, but he was, you know, he was he had the mentality of like an emotional development of like a 12-year-old. So, but it was cool hanging out with him because we would run ideas by each other. And he's like I asked him, I said, "What do you think about taking steroids?" He's like, "Well, I'd rather my kids take steroids than drink alcohol." He goes, "Because from a from a toxicity standpoint, it's there there's way less toxicities." So, he kind of got me into it. I did my first cycle and the rest is history, you know, as you know. So, I I you know, if people don't realize if you have well-trained muscle and you're eating really well and you kind of know what you're doing training wise, when you take steroids, they work a lot better, you know, than the guys today who are, you know, 18 or 16 years old, god forbid, but let's say they're 18 and they say, "I'm going to start taking Tren. I haven't done anything. I worked out for two weeks. I'm going to start taking Trend because I want to get big." It doesn't it they don't steroids don't work well on people like that because they don't have well-trained muscle. They don't know how to eat right and they don't really know how to train well. They just want to get big. So, they do put muscle on it at an accelerated rate, but they kind of burn out their receptors, you know? So, the best bodybuilders were always the guys that trained naturally for the longest. Sean Rhoden, Kai Green, Ronnie Coleman. Think about all these guys that were natural for so long and then they started taking gear, you know, and then they just exploded with growth, you know. So, hey, before you go on, Dave, I got to ask. So, I I've listened to, you know, all your stuff over the years. I don't think I've ever heard you say what was that first cycle. Yeah, I've kind of said it but because I don't know if people believe it but it was it was it was prim. It's a good story. I had a friend who was this was in remember 1990 was when Biden who was not president then he was a senator pushed through the steroid control act. You never forgave him. Yeah. Yeah. It's funny because the the the DEA didn't want to do it. They said this is not a this is not a drug that should be controlled because it's not addictive. But they pushed it through anyway because of the Olympics and they had the Barcelona Olympics coming up. So there was no there was no there was nothing around because everything that was people used to go into the pharmacy here in the United States and and with a regular prescription and and fill a prescription for Anavar Deco test whatever they wanted and everyone was getting real stuff. So now all of a sudden there was nothing. So, I had a crazy friend who went to Barcelona and because you can over the counter get like anything there and he would he bought all this stuff and he brought it back and uh you know and so you know I was looking to do a cycle and and and I was talking to him in the gym and he's like oh I got all this stuff from Barcelona. So he had priobone and Wenstrol and I figured you know what my doctor friend said these don't have any side effects they don't really suppress your natural production very much. This is you're not going to get water retention. You're not going to get acne from this. I said all right fine. So I did I did 50 milligrams of Winstrol three times a week and I did like I think it was like 200 literally 200 milligrams of Primabone a week. Were they those Zambons? Zambon Winstrol. Yeah. And they and the Priabones were the sharing ones that were in the box. I think he paid like a$150 for for Were they the 50s or the hundreds? They were the hundreds cuz Spain had the hundreds. Only Mexico made the 50s. Yeah. Us early 90s guys know the the European. Yeah. Because people don't realize there was no underground gear. everything came from a pharmacy or or what started happening at this time in in in in bodybuilding was people were making counterfeits. So what they would do is they would try to mimic the they would take the sharing primabone and they would try to copy it and if you were like a good uh sleuth or a good like Sherlock Holmes investigator you could you could figure out what they did wrong with it to see if it was fake or not. Scrape them with your nail. Yeah. There was there was that the the giveaway was always the pamphlet that came with it because they couldn't get the people who faked they couldn't get the tissue paper pamphlets so they were using like like regular copy paper and it would be too thick and so you would know that was the you know or or they would you know usually they stamp the expiration date on and they would print it on with the label with the same print so you could you had to try to lick it off it didn't if it didn't smudge then you knew it was fake. So there was all these different things that you know that you could figure out. But so I did winch and prayabone for about I think it was like 10 or 12 weeks and uh I put on like 15 pounds of muscle like from this stuff and you know zero water. Zero water and you know you know how lean I am already. My veins were like popping out like crazy. People thought I gained like like 50 pounds, you know, but I it was really only 50 pounds. But it looked good on me because I had no body fat and you know and it was pure muscle gain, you know, and so and and you're pump more pumped obviously when you take anabolics. And so I was like whoa. But, you know, then you get scared. I'm like, "Oh, I got to go off cycle now." And and and the funny thing is I I I really didn't lose anything off cycle because, you know, you get a little deflated. But, you know, when you don't have body fat, you don't really notice that much. And then I did another I think the next cycle I did was like some deca and some um I think I did some deca and I might have done more more primabone. Um, and and I I was using all the stuff that was coming from like, you know, from Barcelona at that time, from Spain. And I I didn't do my I remember it took about another year before I did like my first testosterone shot. And the first shot of sust told the story before, first shot of sust had the tissue there already and they blew up. I lost my mind. I my friend from the gym, the guy who went to Barcelona, he knew a doctor in White Plains because I was living in Westchester and that's when I met Dr. Blau, the guy I was who I've been advocating uh who's been who's done more gynecomastia surgery for for more top bodys than anyone else in our industry. He's done like thousands and thousands of them. I sent them everyone and it was all because of that one, you know, that one encounter there that I that's the worst gyno from one sustenon. One sustenon. I was so traumat I didn't want to take my shirt off. That's how traumatized I was. I took like a million bottles of sustenon. I never got any kind of so weird because there there, you know, but I always say there are women that have big boobs and there's women that have small boobs. Well, the men we have the same genetics. It's just a matter of we don't know it because unless you take something that's going to stimulate those glands to grow, you would never know if you're if you know what kind of boobage you have, you know. So, you would have made a hot chick. That would have been a big boob. Yeah, definitely. For sure. Absolutely. Oh, man. So, when did when did um when did you when did you start thinking like I I'm going to be 300 lb. I'm going to be a 300 lb like I'm going to push this. I who before I tell you mine like when you guys were coming up like what like there had to be someone in like Hollywood that you said I want to look like, right? Oh, yeah. As a kid. Yeah. I mean, I started with Arnold and pro wrestling like Ultimate Warrior and Arnold movies, right? I mean, I was an 80s kid. Yeah. Yeah. What What about you? Mine mine were more uh cuz I I loved all the uh so I had like Van in my eyes Vanam was huge. Bolo Young from those like those guys were assass. It wasn't until later that you realized like, oh, there's another level above that. Yeah. What about you, Scott? I'd say Arnold. I saw I saw Pumping Iron as a kid and I was like, oh man. And then after that it was Lee Haney. Like Lee Haney was around when I was a little kid and everybody told me like, "Oh yeah, he's the man. Wait till he turns around. Look at his back." I was like, "Yeah, one day I want to get that." Never reached it. Never came close. That that's I I I'm actually That's pretty admirable that you that you admit because I I I think because everything with me is can I achieve it? So I thought that those guys were too big. So I can always say I don't want to look like that. Those guys are too big. I want to look like Stallone in Rambo, you know? Yeah, I used to wear the headbands around my head, you know, and like I'd go I'd go do the we my friends and I would go play paintball, you know, and I thought I was huge, you know, because I had I had a couple veins going through my arm, you know, and uh you know, I thought I was Rambo. But then, you know, then when you when you achieve the Rambo size, you're like, hm, I'd like to get a little bigger than this, you know, maybe uh you know, who's the next up, you know, and then you you think about who the next guy is. Then you start thinking about like, you know, the wrestlers and stuff like that. But then it became like Arnold and then, you know, uh and then and then it got when I realized I actually had I was actually putting on muscle and I had pretty big legs, you know, just genetically. I said, you know, I want to do this bodybuilding thing. I did a natural show. Some bantamweight beat me in the overall. And I and I was like and I was natural really for the show and and I was like, you know what? This is [\h__\h] I'm just gonna I I I'm not gonna I can't play in these small playgrounds. I'm just I might as well just if I'm going to do it, let's just do it, you know? Yeah. I uh I did my first show like I think I was like 198 or no the first show I did was like 168 but I only been training eight weeks, eight months. The second show I did which was the last natural show I did I was like about 198 200 lb and so then when I finally started taking drugs and I said all right I'm going to do it the right way. I waited two years and I competed and I was 228. So I gained another 28 pounds of muscle. Nice. Um so Oh no no no. I was I think I was 215 first then I then after that but I was gaining about 10 to 12 pounds a year you know at this point and with the anabolics and then the biggest year I had was the jump from 95 to from 94 to 95 I gained 30 pounds of muscle or 28 pounds of muscle in one year but but so what so to get back to your question Dorian I saw Dorian in ' 92 at the Atlantic States guest posing this or it was 92 93 93 before he did that Olympia where he was Insane. Yeah. Right. That was his best ever. There's a picture on on the wall of Bevs. He was 290. He walked out. I'd never no one had seen a human being who ever looked like this before. It was like, oh my god. Holy background. I said, you know what? If he can get that big, cuz I didn't think he was like a genetic freak. Like I didn't think like I, you know, you look at like Haney or like Flex Wheel or you know, you can't look like that, right? But I see Dorian and I say, you know what, he's a white guy. you know, he's not he doesn't have anything really. He's just big, you know. I'm like, I could do that, you know, and he gave once they you take that barrier away from the fact that you think you can't be that big. And I remember I used to have a friend who owned a bodybuilding clothing store and I would go in there. He's like he goes, you got to be 300 lb. I'm like, I 300 lb. I I can't be you. You got to get the 300 lb. And I was like 260 at this point. He's like, and I was already, you know, one of the bigger, you know, I was pretty big at 260. Yeah. He's like, 300 300. and and you know and the fact that Dorian was like 300 I'm like you know what maybe I can do this because I was still growing like once I started taking anabolics and added GH in it was just a matter of how much food I can get down my throat and I was growing you know I was growing like at like a weed and it was it wasn't any magical drug combinations you know I was doing what I needed to do and I was using real gear obviously but it wasn't excessive amounts you know I was using a thousand tests a week I was doing like you know 4 500 milligrams of anabolics with it I was taking three four IUs of GH you know, I I was I was experimenting with some insulin, you know, some like Humulan R and stuff like that, but 10 IU post-workout. Yeah. Yeah. Like something like that. And then in the morning, I would do 10 IUs and and you know what it I I just with the food and with the with the training and I was I was getting really I I'm not strong by nature in terms of like I'm not like Yeah, I I see these guys like 160 pounds. They go in, they could bench press like 405. Yeah. That's not me. But as I got bigger, I got stronger. So when I hit like 300, I was, you know, I was inclining, you know, 405 for reps. I was lifting impressive weights, you know, because I was just so big and I used really good form. So I was just growing like a weed. And and you know, once you believe you can do it, you could achieve it. Now, obviously, there could have been a million variables that could have stopped me. I could have got hurt. Luckily, I never got hurt. Seriously. Um, I set my life up so that it was basically based around bodybuilding. My job was bodybuilding. At this point, I was making money from it. I was writing for some magazines and writing for a couple of these early websites. I was doing guest, you know, appearances. I got I got lucky. Metrics gave me a contract cuz Scott Connelly liked me. I was making 50 grand a year from them, you know, for sever. Yeah, that was a lot of money back in the 90s, you know. Yeah. You were doing better than almost all the pros. Yeah. I mean, I Ronnie Ronnie and I worked for metrics. That's how I met Ronnie. Ronnie was making 35,000 a year and I was making 50. Wow. that that and Ronnie went and was complaining about it too that he told me he was going to go complain and Connelly said, "You got a full-time job as a cop." He goes, you know, you know, which is which is really a a complete slap in the face for Ronnie Coleman, right? But they thought I was more marketable for them, you know, they they were making more money off of the, you know, Jumbo Palumbo, you know. So, uh, but you know, it it was it was it was like I said, it was the right place at the right time and it's all about timing and I and I just lived the passion that I had and and I you know, I didn't think about anything else. I said, "Look, that's all I care about. I'm going to give 100% to this. There was no excuses. I didn't miss meals. I didn't miss workouts. I didn't miss sleep at night. Uh, you know, I I sacrificed everything to try to be the best that I could be." And, you know, and I think at the end of the day, I think I took it as far as I can go with it. And that's why I I people always say, "Oh, you ever want to make a comeback?" I'm like, "No, I because I really have no regrets. I really didn't really, you know, leave anything on the table. I kind of went as far as I can go with it." Yeah. I I have to tell you, I know I've told the story before because we've talked about you many times, Dave, but but uh I I have to just tell you this my memory of meeting you for the first time. And um I know you've met tens of thousands of bodybuilders like like I was, but it was a 2002 Olympia and um you were one of the guys like I was on the message boards and you were huge 285 that whole era, you know? You were the king you were the king of the message boards. Like if Dave said so, then that's that was Oh, okay. That's how it is, right? And I was like, I got to go meet Dave Palumbo. And uh so I messaged you and you were like, well, I'll be at the booth. I don't remember what booth you were at. Was it Metrics 2002? I don't know. It would have been uh like muscle I don't know M I don't remember MD was No, it wasn't MD. It wasn't MD yet. Probably some company paid me to hang out. Yeah. Yeah. You were at the booth and and you you you told me where to meet you. So I it was at the Mandalay Bay, right? So I go down there and I go to the expo and I walk in and you're standing at the booth in a stringer and shorts and you are at your like you are just exploding ridiculous covered in vascularity just complete absolute monster. And I was a big kid, like I was probably like 290 or something, right? Offse and and uh so I come in maybe 275 or something. I don't know. But I come up to you and I'm like, "Oh, I'm rep 300 from the board." And we, you know, chatted and you were eating McDonald's at the booth. Imagine. Imagine that. Yeah. And there was like an empty McDonald's bag and there was like a few fries left and you were like putting the fries in your mouth and we were chatting and then and then we chatted for a while and you go, "Hey man, I'm going to take a break. Do you want to go eat? And I said, "Sure." So we we walked out into the food court at the Mandalay Bay and we went to McDonald's. Then I got more McDonald's. Yeah. Yeah. And so I like got McDonald's and you got McDonald's and we sat down and ate and we talked about like, you know, blah blah blah this bodybuilding and stuff. And I was just like I just thought it was the craziest thing. I was like, man, he McDonald's twice in a row cuz I always had that I was I was like I got a rule, you know, fast food once a day maybe, right? I was like, Dave's doing burning too many calories standing at that booth all day. Yeah. I'm like, Dave's doing back to backers. Back to backers. I'm like, this is how you get huge. And you were talking about the arachidonic acid in the beef, right? Did we Did we Hold on. Was that the McDonald's that was like across the street from the Mandalay Bay? No, it was like in the man. It was I'm sure we was in the Luxar. It was in the Luxar hotel. Did we walk? It might have been the Luxer. Yeah, we walked for a while. I used to stay I would listen I would stay at the Luxer during those time periods when it was at the Mandandalay Bay like everyone else is at Mandandalay Bay I'm at Luxer why are you staying next door at the Luxer McDonald's I say cuz the McDonald's is in the food court there I need Yeah we we walked we we we took a walk I can't remember it but we ate McDonald's that's we walked we probably walked through there's like a connecting you know corridor it's close oh man yeah craziest craziest thing but just the fact that you like had just finished a bag of McDonald's and then we went and had more McDonald's and I just I'll never forget that I always tell people, you know what, when you're, it doesn't matter if you're eating a meal right now. You have to be thinking about what your next meal is. Especially if you're on the road, you know, and you're you're not in your normal natural environment where you can access food. I was always thinking about what the next meal is. Where am I going to get it? What am I I never missed a meal. Didn't matter if I was at a booth all day. I would not miss eating. And I and and you have to have that mentality. That's why I love when Nick Walker was interviewed once. He said, "I haven't missed a meal in five years." You know that you have to have that mentality if you want to be huge because your body you miss one meal a week and that could be your progress for the whole week. You just 52 meals a year. No. Yeah. But I'm saying that one meal that you missed can kill the whole week's worth of progress you made. One meal. Yeah. And people don't get that. And people miss meals all the time. Oh yeah. All the time. Yeah. Oh, my aunt can't stop by the house. I couldn't eat. Oh, I I my nose was stuffed up and I was trying to blow my nose and I some time passed. I somehow missed my meal. Well, guess what? You just lost your muscle for the week that you were going to gain. So, yeah, I remember you saying like, "Well, it doesn't matter. There's no limit to calories because I'm standing at the booth." You're right. It's true. Cuz my metabolism was like a blast furnace. You know, you knew you knew Greg Kovac. He was like the same way. We would that the sweating that you would do at those booths. I knew with Greg as well. Yeah. But just sweating you you sweat so many calories just standing there all day that this you could eat anything. I could have just poured, you know, ice cream down my throat. It wouldn't have mattered. I would have just it would have incinerated right in my body. I mean, that's how fast my metabolism is going. And when you have that much muscle, you know, if you have a good metabolism on top of that, it's like even more so. It's like you cannot eat enough food. So, you have to eat denser foods because if you don't eat like these these shittier foods like that have a lot of fats in them, it goes through you too. Like if I ate a if I would have eaten like like tuna and rice, it would have lasted my body like 20 minutes and I would have been starving already. So I had to eat these dense foods just to hold me over, you know, back then. Yeah. Now, what about you were also uh you also trained a lot like Dorian, too. Like you you were similar training style to Dorian, right? Like hard sets that count, limit your volume. Yeah. That sort of thing. And that's that's I I think that's what you were doing at your biggest anyways. Yeah. You know, I do that. I still train that way, you know. And it's funny because I used to train with these guys that were like overt trainers. Like they would do like, you know, 25 sets per body part and then at the end of the workout, they'd run around and do like another five to 10 sets. And I'm like, aren't we done? I'm like I was shot after like 15. And it's not that I I can go forever. You know, if you tell me we're going to train for for six hours straight, I'll go six hours straight. But I my body doesn't recover from it. In other words, it doesn't like some guys might get some benefits out of that. I I get negatives out of it. So, I realized very early on when I started reading the articles about Dorian and Amener talking about lower volume, giving your body more rest and recovery because I was a chronic overtrainer from running. You know, that's just the mentality. You never take a day off and that kind of stuff. So, the the the more I reduced the volume, the better my results got and I was growing better. I'm like, you know what? And then I thought about it. I said, well, you know, what set really is going to make you guys make you grow the most? It's going to be the heavy set, right? you that you get a couple, you know, four to six reps on uh with full range of motion, that's the set you're growing from. So, the whole strategy of your workout is should be geared around that one set. When you think about it, right? So, if I'm doing chest and I want to build, you know, a bigger upper chest and I'm doing like a a mild incline barbell press, the heaviest set of that where I'm going to get full range of motion and and get a, you know, good form on that is going to be where I'm going to grow from. So everything in the in the chest workout should be geared around maximizing that set. That means I want to rest between sets. I don't want to go too fast because I'm not going to be able to lift as heavy. I don't want to do too much volume because if you do too much volume leading up to that, guess what? You you're going to sacrifice how strong you are because you're going to deplete too much glycogen. So you want to get to that set as quickly as possible without getting hurt, of course. So you got to warm up. So I might do, you know, 135, 225, you know, 315 and 405. But 405, then I'm gonna push, you know, I'm gonna push. I'm gonna have my my training partner maybe help me get a few extra. I might do a strip set with that. And after that set, I should want to go home. And usually I do, but then I'll go and I'll do maybe some dumbbell presses, you know, one or two sets, and then I'll do one or two sets of flies, and I'm shot. I'm done. I'm I'm going home. I'm done. That's my workout. And you know what? The only set that really mattered was that heavy incline barbell set. That's the set that built the muscle. That's the set you kind of logged in your head. But most people never even get to that set. They're so busy doing all the preliminary stuff that they're doing 25 sets of preliminary stuff. They never have a really heavy intense set during the whole workout because they're so worried about getting all that volume done. So if you just cut the volume back and focus on what's building the muscle the most. Now Dorian and Mener took it down to a level where they said you only need one set. You don't even need to do any more than that because because that's the mentality. But you know the bottom the the reality of is that you no one can generate enough just doing one set like that. It's very hard. Very hard. And I it leaves you open to injury too sometimes I think because you you're almost trying too hard in that one set. So like I would do one intense set for like incline barbell, one intense set for like incline dumbbell presses, one intense set for maybe flies, you know, and that so and and that's how so I kind of spread it out a little bit more than what the way they did it. Um I'm doing a little more volume. And you know what? I'm I'm still spending an hour in the gym because it I got to I'm resting a lot between sets because I want to make sure I can lift the most. There's no reason to rush through a workout when you try to lift as heavy as possible. And also, if you don't have a spotter, a training partner with you, there's no way you're going to be able to push hard because you you'll never be able to do it. I could never get under a squat bar if I didn't have someone spotting me and I'm doing 600. I'm not getting under a 405 on the bench if I don't have a spotter that I trust. So, you got to have a good training partner in order to train like that as well, right? Is there is there anything you look back on, you know, if you were doing it again, you know, the old time machine question, is there anything you would change about, you know, your drug protocol or or how you got ready for shows or anything like that? You know, because, you know, we have learned a bunch. Yeah. Um, it would also reinforced a bunch of what you were doing with what we know now. Um, is there anything you ch you'd change? Uh, gut health. Uh, didn't know anything about it. I learned more toward the end of my career about gut health but um didn't know about fiber. Obviously I have like the you know the best the number one selling fiber supplement fiberiz everyone uses fiberiz but yeah and you know and no one knew about gut health and and so we just we we eating like enormous amounts of food and and no you know we thought because we went to the bathroom three times a day that we were getting rid of all the waste and we really weren't. You know if I'm eating 12 times a day and I'm only going to the bathroom three times a day I'm certainly retaining a lot of stuff in my gut and not good for the gut. number one, not good for stretching out that abdomen. I had that obviously you get the distension going on. And so I didn't know anything about gut health. I wish I knew what I know now about gut health. And I wish I knew now what I knew about insulin. I was experimenting with insulin, which was better than what everyone else was doing, but I didn't have a grasp of the whole concept. We didn't have blood sugar monitors because they weren't like available for 10 bucks at Walmart, you know, like they are now. And if I would have known then, I would have probably been on a long acting insulin, you know, uh, probably my whole career because, uh, when you eat that enormous amount of food and you're taking GH, um, most guys run high fasting blood sugars. I couldn't even tell, who the heck knows what my blood sugar was because I never tested it. So, I'm sure I was running high fasting sugars. I'm sure I wasn't absorbing all my food. So I what I was doing is I was taking hum Humulan R twice a day to try to like compensate for the fact that I wasn't absorbing my food but it was a it really wasn't what I needed was a long acting insulin. That's what a lot of these bodybuilders today I have most of these guys taking long acting insulins if they're running high fasting sugars and they notice they absorb their food better. They look better. Their blood work is better. So fiber, gut health, probiotic type stuff uh and and proper blood sugar control I think is something that uh I would do better. And you know what? I don't even know if my blood pressure was high or not because I never checked it either. So I I would I'm glad you're still here. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I probably would have taken like a blood pressure medication like a ramipril or an AC some kind of sort of ACE inhibitor just as a pro prophylactically especially at 315 pounds, you know. Damn. Yeah. Yeah. Now, uh what about what what inspired you to start RX Muscle after your time at MD? Well, ironically, I actually there was a guy who who approached me in the n in the late 90s. He wanted to start a another hardcore bodybuilding m like kind of like a bill Phillips had sold um muscle media 2000. He wanted to start a magazine like that and he had buy he was a drug dealer. This guy sold steroids and he had money and so he figured I'm going to hire like all these guys. Craig Titus scammed him for some money and a couple other top bodybuilders and he came to me and I'm like, you know, what's you know what how you going to do this? Do you have a editorial staff? Do you have this that you know because I'm like you know when I think I don't just try to get people's money. I want to make it successful because I'm like AI'm like an or go go goal oriented guy. I'm like a results guy, you know. And he didn't know what the freak he was doing. I said, "Listen, I'll I'll I'll run the magazine for you. I I like the idea if you're going to pay me and you're going to do this and that." So, we started off doing it and I said, "Get rid of these guys that are just sucking you dry for money. We don't need them. We need guys who can write and who, you know, have knowledge." So, I started contacting, you know, all my friends, you know, Jimmy Quinn at the time and and all my the hardcore guys I knew. And I said, "We're going to put out an issue." And then this guy realized this thing was going to be a little more expensive than he thought. And I don't know if he wasn't. So, he's like, "You know what, Dave? I feel bad that I kind of sucked you into this." He goes, "How about I just give you this? you know, since I didn't pay you anything yet, I'll just give you the magazine. You could just take it. I had He had the website rxmuscle.com and and it was all his idea. I didn't make it. I didn't write that. It was, you know, he he had put together the original Great name. Yeah. Well, it was his it was it was RXMuscle, your prescription for hardcore muscle. That was his thing. So, I thought it was it was good marketing. I like the idea. So, I started doing I said, "Fine, that that sounds fair." So, I took it. He signed everything over to me and I started doing it. And we came out with a few issues in the early, you know, 2000s. And then Blechman saw that I was doing that and he bought the title from his brothers muscular development and he wanted to switch it from all natural which it was to like back to hardcore. So he's like would you write for me? I said yeah sure no problem. So I still was doing the RX muscle. I was writing a column anabolic freak for him and then I read every single one of those. Yeah. Thank you. And then we got to a point then I I did the whole the whole jail thing went oh down. I did the six months in prison in '05. And when I got out, Steve realized, you know, I was going to all the shows and I was putting pictures from the shows on my website, my Dave Palumbo.com website. So I was dating that girl Colette at the time, collected websites and she built me a website. So I would just put all the pictures and I was going to every show, you know, just because I had clients in there and just to hang out and um so everyone was going to my website checking out all the pictures. So Steve realized, he goes, "Why don't we just" He goes, "I I want to launch a website for our for muscular development." He goes, "Now that you're not competing anymore, you want to I want to hire you full-time." So he hired me full-time as the editor-in chief. We launched muscular development digital, as he called it at the time. Yeah. And you know, that's the I kind of just felt my way, you know, we we kind of bluffed our way through it. We didn't know what we were doing. I didn't know what I was doing, but I just had some creative ideas and I knew at least Steve would financially back those ideas. Um the only idea that he never backed was I wanted to start a TV show. I remember and no one was doing TV. It was impossible to do it. It was like TV was for TV and and and you know we were just doing podcast at that time like audio podcast and we I remember we had to pay every podcast we did we was like 200 bucks. It was like to this company Voice America we had to call in there live show. Yep. And there's that little that little that little jingle Voice. Yeah. Yes. I said, "Steve, we got to build a studio in in the office." I said, "And we we got to make a TV studio." And and he wouldn't do it. He wouldn't do it. And then we started having some creative issues. He wanted to buy into species nutrition. And and I didn't want him as a partner because, you know, I didn't really like his business practices. Even though we probably would have made money. I I just thought it was going to ruin our relationship. I kind of like Steve and I got along really well. And his family convinced him that we were like Romano and I were trying to steal the business from them. where they got this idea because we had how we would have done it. I have no idea. But so he fires us and then I said, you know, I didn't know what John and I like what are we going to do now. He's like I said, you know, I have this magazine RX Muscle. I haven't really used it because once Steve hired me full-time, he said, you can't do the other thing, too. So, I kind of just had it on the back burner. I said, but I still own the website. So, within a week, we had the the rxmuscle.com up and running. We did our first podcast like the next week and two advertisers followed us over and so we Nice. I remember I remember the big kathuffle with you guys getting fired from MD and then within a week there was a new podcast. I because you know me I will not fail. I if there's one thing in life I will not if when when the chips are down I will not fail. You could you want me in the in the lifeboat with you? You know when when the ship is sinking you want me in that lifeboat because I will not die. You know I will I'll do anything to stay alive. Not only that, not only that, I remember not only did you guys have a new podcast out like it it was right around that time within a few weeks I think that you guys were you species was at the Arnold and you guys were there. I was going to have a booth anyway and so I contacted the Arnold people and said, "Hey, look, you know, John and I used to work for Muscular Development as you know, but we we have our own thing called RX Muscle now. Um, would you give us press passes?" And and they they love the idea. They they they opened the they opened the door and they said, "Go ahead." I I had my staff, my species crew run the species booth. I stopped by there. So, we had that and I was running around with John videoing people for RX Muscle and we we we like, you know, we we I don't know. We I don't even know how we made it happen. It was it was it was meant to be obviously. And I believe everything in life happens for a reason. Um and then John I got John to move to New York for a little while. I think he was living there for like almost a year and he built our studio, our first TV studio. And I ran into these guys in the store who were doing TV. And they're like, "Oh, I I just saw, you know, I talk to anyone. They're like, "Oh, we do TV. We're we're doing fledgling TV." I'm like, "TV for what?" He's like, "Well, we're we're trying to do like like stuff for the internet." I'm like, "That's what I'm looking for." I said, "I need a TV guy." And so these guys started, they it turned out they didn't work out for me because they really weren't hard workers, but they got my brain working in the right direction as how to set the cameras up. They set up the lighting for me in my studio. John built the studio and uh the rest was history really. I mean it it you know Steve's problem was he said there's no business model for for TV. I said well we let's let's create the business model, right? Um because I said that's going to be the future. I said Steve I hate to say it. I know you love the magazines and I and I do too, but these things are going to be gone. No one's going to read these things in five years. I said anymore and if you don't have an a strong internet presence you're going to go out of business. And he didn't want to listen to me. And look look look where he is now. He's out of business, man. So, bodybuilding media today, I mean, you know, with the social media, uh, it's very click driven and the clickbait and a lot of that type of stuff. How do you balance entertainment, if you want to call it that, with with, you know, real journalism and and keeping everything like legitimate. You know what's you know what's great and what's terrible? What's great terrible about YouTube? And let's face it, we all are on YouTube because YouTube lets you monetize videos and that that's a source of income. So you don't have to worry about advertisers really. Although I have advertisers and I have the monetization from from YouTube, which I'm lucky that I have both. But at the end of the day, it's it's about YouTube and monetizing getting people to click right, like you said, on your on your TV show or or whatever you're doing. The best channels are the the most niche. Meaning that the more focused you are on what you do, the better you're going to be. Like take that Nick strength and power guy for instance. He does the same thing every single time every day, right? It's it's just a recap of what everyone else is doing. He's been doing it for years, but that's all he does. And so people know when they go to his channel, that's what they're going to get. A review of whatever's going on in the bodybuilding world. I don't know. He's not as popular as he used to be, but he still does very well, you know, and he can he'll make a living from that forever probably. If I had to do that every day, I would blow my brains out because it's too it's too mundane. It's too boring. I I need when I go to a channel, I want different programming on there. I want to be like a TV station. I don't want to be a channel. I want to be a station. Meaning that one day we're doing I'm answering questions on Ask Dave. One day I'm doing Heavy Muscle Radio. One day I have the Lunatics and we're doing the Whack Pack show, the after hours. Another day I'm doing a podcast with Romano. And then I'm doing rants. If something's bothering me or I see something in the industry that I think is nuts, I'm going to do a rant on it. If there's a show and I want to do an update or I want to do a, you know, a prediction show, if I'm at the Olympia and I want to, you know, do a wrapup or or interview with the winner, I want everything. I want to be ESPN for bodybuilding. That's what RX Muscle's always been. Unfortunately, YouTube doesn't reward that. They actually they actually ding that because the advertisers don't really know what you're putting out every day. It's something different. Even though I I have a schedule that's pretty regular, it it's not one thing on that channel. And that's what keep but that's that's the reason why I've been doing it for 15 you know almost 18 years now if you count muscle development because if I'm not diversified in my brain then I'll get bored and I won't want to do anything. So it's hard to do the same exact thing every day. It's hard enough to put content up every single day and we do that. We've been doing that for you know 15 plus years now. That's how you be successful on YouTube and on on social media. Regularity. it. Sometimes your content isn't as important as the regularity of what you're doing because I could put out a great great show. Once that show's done and everyone's watched it, they want to know what I'm going to do next. Yeah. And a lot of guys spend so much effort into one thing and then they it's like they they have nothing left to do. They It'll take them two weeks to put another piece of content up. You can't do that. You got to be thinking every day, what am I putting up next? Yeah. Yeah. That's enough. Well, I mean, we we do a show every Monday. Even if we have absolutely nothing to say, you got you have to be super expected. And if you don't if you miss a a Monday, you know, I haven't missed one heavy muscle radio show in 15 years. We didn't miss one week. Never. Ever. I was in the hospital at Open Heart Surgery. I did a show in the hospital. I remember that. You have to because if you miss one show, people think, "Oh, the show's over. All right, I'm going someplace else to find something. I'll watch something else." You know, right? Well, we also wanted to talk about what's going on now. Today's bodybuilding scene. Now, we actually intended to lead with the Pittsburgh Pro. I don't know why we did this uh whole retrospective thing. It's not great. Hey. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But u but yeah, we got to we we want to get to that because um I mean that's looming very very soon here. And uh and and we want to ask you what you think of this lineup. What do you think is going to happen at this show from the pictures you've seen? And I know you've got a lot of insider look. You've probably seen some phones held in front of your face with some shots. Maybe maybe Chris has sent you some photos that Dusty and I haven't even seen. I don't know. But uh I know I get the odd photo from Chris. Um and then you know so so what's your take on on this Pittsburgh? I I want to turn this around on you guys for one minute. I want to ask you a question then I'll answer that question. Um I think this is is is we're entering a new like golden era of of bodybuilding. I'm going to tell you why. because there's money available now, right? The Olympia is giving 600 grand. The Arnold's giving 500 grand. Pittsburgh's giving 100 grand. Bader in Dubai is giving $140,000. And we're going to start seeing this these these numbers going up and up because everyone's competing with each other now, right? Which is good. It's good for the bodybuilder. Oh yeah. Might not be good for the promoter, but good for the bodybuilder. And that means more excitement. So these lineups are getting stacked now. All these line. We're not just seeing Olympia lineups. We're seeing Olympia lineups in regular shows now because there's a lot of money at stake. Y and I think that we're going to start to see a lot more talent entering into bodybuilding now because I think look when you play football, you get your head bashed in. You know, it's if you're doing MMA, yeah, you're making money, but you're getting your head bashed in. Yeah. Let's face it, bodybuilding is a non-cont sport. The reason why you never get these top top athletes doing it is because there's not enough money in it. But if you if an athlete thinks I can make a million dollars a year, you know, or $2 million a year if I'm at the top of the bodybuilding world, you know, for no contact, your longevity is much better in bodybuilding. It's kind of fun. You might I think we're going to see a lot better athletes entering into the bodybuilding arena rather people think people moving away. I think people moving into bodybuilding because of the prize money. I just wanted to get your opinion on that. What do you guys think? It definitely will draw the the guys who know like there's guys who know they have pretty good genetics. you know, the PE that have been athlete for years and people telling them, man, you you know, we all see those NFL guys that look like bodybuilders. Yeah. You know, um those guys, they step on the gas and do what they got to do, train the way they got to train. And uh I mean the the gene pool, we're going to see more Derek Lunsfords. We're going to see more Samsons. You know, let's they say that's why the heavyweight division in boxing got completely decimated and they lost all the good boxers is because if you're foot4 280 lbs, you can go play offensive line for three years and make a couple hundred grand a year. At least you'll get a three-year career out of it. But if you go boxing, chances are you're just going to get wind up a broke boxer because there's only really what like.1% of the boxers ever make any money, right? So, um, you know, you definitely definitely agree with you. I don't know. What do you think? What do you think, Dusty? I want to see what Dusty What I'm curious about is if we're going to see some of these top um classic guys that are able to be open bodybuilders, stop the argument of we don't make as much money, and just slide over. Like, I've never really understood the idea of crying from the sidelines. I'm like, yeah, I look at some of these guys. I mean, hell, Chris is guy that uh that won the Arnold in the um men's physique. Like, dude, switch to bodybuilding. Yeah, Ali Bal. Yeah, exactly. You're already there. Like, you're you're winning now if you slide over in a small show is going to pay you more than the Arnold. So, I I think what that'll be is the first guy crosses over and does really well and he's maybe not even the top of the of the the food chain over there. Yeah. And then the other competitors start kind of glancing over going, "Well, wait a minute." So, I keep doing exactly what I do now, but I eat more. Yeah. Uh cuz because there's definitely some confusion that these guys aren't on a bunch of drugs. I'm like, "Oh, they're already doing that. They're doing the same drugs as the open body. They don't know that." So, all they got to do is is slam the eating, maybe alter the training a little bit, let themselves put on a little bit of weight in the offseason, and they're good to go. So, I think we're going to see some classic physique guys ruin some bodybuilder dreams because there's just so much money there. And those guys physiques are off the charts. I mean, yeah, that's been my argument for when everyone was bashing the men's physique division. I'm like, okay, remove the board shorts. Don't make him pose like that and tell me that's not a phenomenal physique. Yeah. No, you're right. I'd love to see like a Logan Franklin do the open, wouldn't you? Oh, man. Yeah. Yeah. He's already proven he's he is a bodybuilder. I know. I know. I know. He He started in men's physique, too. So, I mean, yeah. So, yeah, I I agree 100%. I think the the money game is huge. And I love that the Arnold and the Olympia have gotten a pissing match because like you just said, you know, when I started watching bodybuilding, Ronnie was winning and the Olympia was 110 grand, right? Now, you got all the you got smaller shows at 100. I mean, how long was 10 grand the prize everywhere, right, for for the Iron Man and these kind of shows? And now I'm like, those are going to those are starting to drift up because they have to cuz no one's leaving their house for 10 grand, right? What what's going to happen if like someone in Dubai offers a million dollars first place, what does that do to the Olympia and and the Arnold? They have to they have to they have to meet those prize monies. Yeah. The biggest show is really decided by the biggest purse. Let's not get confused. Yeah. At the end of the day, I mean, it's great to say, "Yeah, I'm Mr. Olympia," but I'd rather say, "I just won a million dollars, you know, to buy, you know, pro, you know." So, yeah, I can tell you this much. Uh, when when you're getting your your mortgage worked out, they don't ask you how many Olympia titles. Now, let me see that bottom black number. How big is that? No. And you know what? We were just talking off camera, you know, about Fibo, you know, and and uh Ron is talking about, you know, how they had a a room. And when I say a room, if you guys have never been to FIBO, the halls are enormous. They like they like they go on, it's like football fields and football fields along, they had a room that was just dedicated to like Nike and stuff like that. I mean, once I mean why in Europe that's acceptable there, but we can't get Nike to sponsor the Olympia. I mean, once that stigma is gone, and I think it will be gone eventually. Once like Nike starts because a million bucks for Nike is like a joke, you know? It's like almost like a chump change for them. Once you get companies like that forking over money, like Red Bull will sponsor like X Games, like where these guys are like in jet skis and they're upside down and and they're like, it's so [\h__\h] dangerous, but they won't give money to bodybuilding. Why? If I'm Red Bull, I'm going to give all my money to bodybuilding because that's exciting. You know what I mean? That's that's extreme, right? And once you get companies that realize that that it's worth investing because you see other companies, they're giving away a lot of money now. Money attracts money. And I think once that happens, forget about it. You're going to get bodybuilders that are going to be making a ridiculous amount of money. And once they do, the physiques are going to be off the charts. I think that we're going to see physiques we've never seen before. You're going to see 10 Ronnie Coleman's out there, you know, and and and that's going to be I hope I I live to see that. I hope I'm alive long enough to see that happen. I hope it happens. And and for now, even if it's not at that point yet, it's at the point where I think more guys are competing more often, which I love as a fan of the sport. We're not just seeing Mr. Olympia just sit at the sidelines until, you know, the following Olympia. It's like we've got guys that are going out and putting it, you know, putting their putting their hat in the ring and and risking it like like Samson did, you know. Yeah. But I mean, look at look at Samson. I mean, yes, if you want to argue championships and all this nonsense, there's a risk. But to me, he he did another show, banked another couple hundred grand, and uh if you want to call that a loss, be my guest. But I'm all good on a couple hundred grand. Uh he's still Mr. Olympia. Yeah, he's the Olympia champ. Who cares? Yeah, not a bad choice. Get back to your original question about Pittsburgh. The lineup is phenomenal there because of the money they're giving away obviously and because it's the first year show and it's Jim Manion show, everyone wants to go do the show. Uh, but you know, to have a lineup of Nick Walker, you know, good veto, Derek Lunford, who just came off the Arnold win, you know, who won who's trying to win the three biggest shows of the year, you know, the Arnold, the Olympia, and the and the Pittsburgh. That's which is insane if he does it, you know. Um, you know, and who did I leave out? Um, Chris. Well, and then you got you got uh um Oh, geez. Martin Martin. Martin. Incredible. who who in my mind beat Nick last year at the New York Pro even though he didn't beat him. But so I mean you got you got a lineup there that's just outrageous. Then you got Mike Michael Krzo who's who looking freaky. You got an Olympia lineup in Pittsburgh. I mean I'm going to Pittsburgh just because the lineup is so good. So you're getting more people to actually go to these shows too because they're actually good shows, you know, and they're that enjoyable and I want to cover the show. So, I think that uh if we see more of these happening like this, you're going to see the bodybuilding audience is going to grow as well because it's exciting because let's face it, a lot of these shows are so boring. There's no one really there who's any good. I don't even I don't I won't even buy the pay-per-view because it's so boring, you know? Yeah. So, to to see there there's a direct card and I got to give Chris Aceto credit for this because he's the one who said he said if they give more money you get better shows and I'm like I don't know. I don't think these guys want to compete. He's like, "I'm telling you." And then Arnold gave that 500 400 grand. I think he he gave what three I I think he did 300 for the first year and all those guys entered. And and I have to say Chris was right. More money, more another common theme we've found. Um I I want to ask you, you've seen you've coached like what thousands of people over the years. Oh yeah. What is there a common trait that separates the champions from everyone else that that you know I mean I'm sure we can guess but I want to hear you say it. Consistency. Um that's the most important thing. Uh and and that's the most important thing with everything in life. Y we're just talking about before. You want a successful media website like RX Muscle or you know what you guys are doing, you got to do it every day. I it's not a it's not a a once a week thing. It's not a occasionally thing. You can't be a cas casual bodybuilder. You have to live the lifestyle. If you want to be the best, I'm not talking about you could if you just want to look good and feel good and be in the gym. I'm talking if you want to compete at an elite level and be the best. It has to be your life and you have to sacrifice everything else to to the detriment of that because if you don't and you put other things ahead of that, you'll never be your best. You'll be good, but you'll never be the best. Yeah. And you know, people say, "Well, you know, family's more important or this one's more." Yeah, that's fine. If if you want to be the second or third place guy, yes, that that's true. But ask Dorian Yates. I mean, Dorian Yates when he when he when he retired, this that was the end of his marriage. I don't know what caused it, but you know, there's a cause and there there's things that happened. Look at Greg Kobach's our good friend. um you know as soon as he stopped competing his marriage ended as well you know to and and Kim was awesome but they were it was like they were a team you know and that that worked for them when they were when he was competing and doing appearance so yeah you have to be dedicated and you need a you need a group of people behind you that are going to support what you're doing and understand that you're going to sacrifice everything maybe even your health a little bit right because you want to be the best at something you're doing and there's nothing wrong with that there's no right or wrong you can't don't you can't say that person that's he's a terrible person because all he cares about is taking steroids. No, he cares about being the best bodybuilder he can be. And you know what? It's admirable that he's willing to sacrifice everything to be the best. But that's what it takes to be the best. And any champion out there will tell you that and say the same thing. And some guys get to a point with like, you know what, I don't want to sacrifice everything anymore. And that's why they they bow out of the sport. And people say, I don't know why he quit or why he stopped. Well, because it wasn't that important to him anymore. But at the moment he was at his best, he was giving everything he had to that. And that's what it takes to be a champion. And a lot of people are not willing to go there. They're not willing to suffer and feel like they're going to die. They're not willing to give up the food. They're not willing to, you know, miss the parties with their friends. And and they're not willing to, you know, to to have people think that they're they're self-centered ego maniacs because they don't they're worried about what other people think about them. You cannot be worried about that. You have to be single-minded focused if you want to be the best bodybuilder. And and that's the way it works. Yeah. Who? Here's a question for you. You know, we're we're at an hour now, Dave. We really appreciate Sure. Whatever you want. Keep going. Yeah. Yeah. Um, who you I mean, you've seen everybody. Who is the most underrated freak in bodybuilding history that you just don't think got enough love, credit, or judging, you know, attention? I think and and and I I don't particularly like this individual because he's he's he was very jealous and said some nasty things to about me because he was a little jealous of me. But I think he was one of the biggest freaks and he could have been a a crazy successful bodybuilder. Edgar Fletcher, if you remember him from Pittsburgh. Oh yeah. Yes. Guy was a [\h__\h] phenomenon. I mean he not a good person but physique-wise man that guy had it all. But he didn't he didn't have the brain. He didn't have the head. Remember Jim Manion telling me he was looking he was out of the old NPC offices overlooked the street and Edgar was like a week or two out from a show and Jim looked down and he was eating like a a cheeseburger or something like that like you know cheating on his diet you know and then he was you know you'd be like oh you know you know when you get to the show they have the excuse I'm holding water I don't know why what happened you know you so you know I think that you know he he's a guy who could have gone very far but you know he was his own worst enemy too so you you know another common thread in bodybuilding. Yeah. Yes. Yes. Yes. Most a lot of guy, you know, flex wheel should have won 10 Olympi, you know, if he would have had the mindset of Ronnie Coleman or Dory Nates, he would have been Mr. Olympia 10 times. I mean, there's no doubt about that. So mindset is really important, you know, and a lot of guys, you know, um just don't have that that mental toughness, you know, and I think the guys that don't have as good a genetics overcompensate by being more mentally focused because we know we have to work harder. I put myself in that category and uh maybe you guys find yourself in that category. Absolutely. Yeah. Because we know we got to work harder than the next guy because that guy's got better genetics than us. But when you get a guy who's got the genetic talent and the mindset like a Ronnie Coleman, it's he's unbeatable, right? Y that's uh Chris used to say that uh I won't won't name any names but he has had a few really really good guys and he's like if I could just put your brain on their body right the the wins would be uh forever. I I think Levrone could have been Mr. Olympia 10 times because you know when he first came on the scene he was all out when he tore his pec Mhm. that he even said to me, he goes, he goes, "I was afraid to train in the offseason heavy because I was afraid I was going to tear. So, I would only train really hard before a show thinking I was preserving my body, which he might have, you know, he might have preserved himself, too." But, but he never was as good as he was prior to that pec tear, you know, and so he would he would he was winning shows and he was, you know, placing second, you know, at the Olympia a couple times. Not at his best. Yeah. Because he had really good legs if you remember when he first came on the scene. insane legs and and then they they weren't as good because, you know, if you don't train your legs all year round, you know, they're not going to be legs are hard to get back. Upper body comes back quicker than legs. Oh, yeah. So, I just think he never was as good as And I told him that. He's like, "You're right. He could have been way better if he would have given 100%." He was a guy who who had the talent. He had the mindset, too, but he just he was he was a little gunshy, trigger shy, you know, on the whole 100% thing. Yeah. He's my That's my favorite physique of all time. Him at his best. It's just Yeah, I take that over anything. Yeah, me too. What was your favorite gym that you ever trained in? This is This is a hard This is a hard one because there's so many good ones, you know. Um It's not Metrolex in Arlington. I I I don't like training there because it's hot. It's dusty. Yeah. I don't the heat. I I like I like the hardcore mentality of it, but it's it's definitely not uh it's not the best. Uh you know, I look I got spoiled because I was when I was living in New York, I trained at Beth Francis gym all the time. I mean, Steve had the best equipment. It was the atmosphere was great because there's a lot of guy great guys there. Was it the best gym? I don't know if it was the best gym, but it was the best atmosphere for me to train in. So, for me, that worked. I mean, obviously Gold's Gym Venice back in the day had the greatest energy of all time. It might not have had the best equipment, but it was the best energy of all time because I mean, at any one time, you had Flex Wheeler and Cormier in there and, you know, it was every top bodybuilder was training in that gym. Celebrities, you know, I mean, how do you get the the energy of that gym is great. Now, that I've been to gyms that were esoteric gyms like in the middle of nowhere that had maybe the best equipment I've ever seen. My friend Ron Norman probably has the best equipment in his home gym than I've ever seen in in a regular gym. So, um, you know, but every time I go to a new gym that comes out, I'm like, "Wow, this is this might be the best gym I ever went to." So, I'm always changing my mind. So, it's hard for me to say, "hm, that was the best one." And I've never gone to that crazy gym in in Dubai. They have that that Benise gym. Oxygen or Binus. Binus. Yeah. Banana gym. Yeah. I I don't I the new ox gym, I don't know if it's opened yet, but the I but the Banana gym, everyone tells me, is insane, too. So, it's it's funny. Everyone says it's insane, but when I went there, the dumbbells, remember Dusty? There were no dumbbells on the rack. They were just all on the floor. Really? Oh, really? They didn't put it away? Wow. And and there were no plates anywhere. Like, there were no weight trees anywhere. So, you're looking down for run around the gym. I was like, ah. So, like it's it's an amazing gym with like these giant TVs and like, you know, lasers going off and I got going up. But, uh, yeah, the, you know, as a bodybuilder, I'm like, where are the plates? Like I have to walk all the way. You know what I mean? What What's What What's a cra like what's the craziest thing you've ever seen in in in Bevs? Because Bevs is on Long Island. There's some tough characters around there. You ever see any scores settled or in in Bevs? I I I'll tell you what. I used to work at this gym in in um Pelum Manor. It was called Metrofit. It was in uh it was just just north of the Bronx in Westchester. Chris knows the the gym because what's his name? Bob Gruskin lived around the corner from there, right? So Bob would take his guys there to do photo shoots. Gruskin. And when I left medical school, I I was still living in Westchester. I had a lease on this apartment. So I I started working at this gym and I would I would work like 6:00 p.m. to like midnight and I would close the gym and these guys would come in at night like you know hardcore like you know guys. Turns out they would like I didn't even know this but it was like Albanian mafia guys. They loved me. I used to bring them steroids and stuff like that. We would always talk about drugs and I diets and stuff like that, but but these guys would get into fights with each other with with with dumbbells and plates and [\h__\h] like that. And I and I was like the essentially the bouncer there. And you can't bounce, you know, in in in a gym when people have weapons, you know, and they weren't using knives or guns. They were using like plates and [\h__\h] like these guys would get into arguments. So I was I was like Daniel Webster. I was like the great negotiator. I had I would sit I would have to like negotiate peace at that was a dangerous atmosphere. But what everyone had in common was everyone loved to lift heavy and so and and so you could turn it into a competition like all right guys let's do a deadlift whoever deadlifts more that's who wins the argument you know that I would do [\h__\h] like that with kind of like a dance off like a dance negotiate with these guys all right fine [\h__\h] knees are [\h__\h] he's not going to lift more than me I'm like all right let's see load up the load up that deadlift bar and we would do [\h__\h] like that was the craziest gym I've ever been never a crazier gym than that because you know what you never knew every night you never knew what was going to happen there and uh you had I had to think on my feet there and I was only like you know 22 years old at the time and I was you know I was I was like maybe 250 at the time I wasn't I was just starting to really put on some size and so that that's the cra I never saw a gym like that ever in my life ever and like I said it would all happen at like mid like around 11:00 p.m. at night when there was no one else there, you know, right? Do you do you tell the Albanian gangsters, "Hey, it's midnight. I got to lock up." Or do you just let them finish their workout? No, they knew they knew it was time to leave because they were Yeah. But they they were they were great, these guys. And you know what? I gave them so much good advice like diet and supplements and how to do this and I because you know me, I'll answer anyone's questions. I I like I get off on it. I like getting information out. And years later, I had a problem with someone. I'm not going to go into the situation. And it turns out that the one of the guys that used to come to that that gym at night was the head of the Albanian mafia. And and I knew him. I knew him because I knew him from the I knew him from 10 years earlier. And he's like, "Holy [\h__\h] Dave Palumbo." He goes he goes, "Dave's a good guy." You know, and whatever I was going I don't want to talk about the situation, but it worked out in my favor because I was a bad deal a bad deal with a used car. It worked out in my favor because I I did a good I did a good deal. So, I always tell people, be nice to everyone because you never know who you're dealing with. You know, it's like the old saying, the guy who comes into the dealership in shorts and a tank top and and they treat him like [\h__\h] because it's a Mercedes dealership or Ferrari. Like, this guy's not going to buy anything. Meanwhile, that guy's like a billionaire. No one even knows it. Be nice to everyone. And that's I'm nice to everyone. I answer everyone's People send me questions. I don't charge anyone to answer question. I answer questions all day long on emails. I've been doing it for for 30 years, you know. And you know what? If you do that, most of the time those people eventually sign up for, you know, with coaching for you. Um, I've had guys where I've answered questions for them for 20 years. And the guy even said to me, he goes, "You know, you've been answering my questions for 20 years. You've never asked me for a nickel." He goes, "I'm going to sign up with you for coaching because you know what? I want to do my first show after 20 years." And you know, and I and I become great friends with that person. So, you never really know. And like I said, never never look down upon anyone. Never like prejudge people because you just don't know who you're dealing with. Give everyone the chance to be the person that you would like them to be. And if they prove you wrong and they and they screw you over or whatever, then great. You get rid of them from your life. But don't prejudge people. You just never know. That's the perfect way to end this this interview, Dave. Like almost like you had this after school special moral that you were going to deliver deliver to us right after the Albanian gangster story. And uh and that's why that's why they say you're the original OG interviewer in bodybuilding, you know, because a good interviewer knows how to wrap up his own interview. There you go. There you go. That's right. There you go. But thanks a lot, Dave. You guys are doing a great job. By the way, I want to just say keep doing it. I love to see all the new podcasts out there. I like to see people that are love, you know, telling their stories, their war stories, and commenting. And you guys, like I said, are doing it right. I don't get to watch your show because I I don't have time. But I I my my guy in the office of me tells me that it's a great show. So congratulations. Awesome. Yeah, we're happy that he watches. That's cool. So I hope you know Yeah. Good good luck with you and uh Species and RX Heavy all that you know everything that's going on. And you're uh you you know how to uh draw all the the things you need to together to make it happen in bodybuilding. So you know you can't just do one thing in this industry. It's just not how it works, you know. True. Okay. Thanks everybody. Dave Palumbo. Check him out. Of course, you got to follow him on Instagram and huge 285. Same email. I've had the same email since the 90s. He's had the same email since the 90s. I refuse to change it. Yeah. I give it to people and they're like, "You're still on Hotmail." I'm like, "Oh, yeah. I'm still on AOL. That didn't work." I love it. Okay. Thanks, Dave. We appreciate you. Thank you. Okay. So, there's Dave. That was great. It was We could have went for hours. That was way too easy. We had a ton of stuff planned. We had all these questions and I just felt like he just gave us uh he was like, you know, he would be talking and I'd be like, "Oh, I don't need to ask that now. Oh, I don't need to ask that now." You know what I mean? So, I thought we did did a pretty good job at covering the bases we wanted to hit. I don't think we did. We miss anything. Scott, anything you were We uh we got a very uh you know, in-depth retrospective on Dave Palumbo. I think all the all the OG original Dave fans will appreciate this one. Yeah. And and a lot of people that that know him just as this Dave Yeah. Yeah. maybe don't understand like, you know, the Dave that that we know him as. And uh it's not the Dave I grew up on. No, he was a different dude. He was a different dude back then, you know. And I have to mention the contrast. I I remember I went to eat dinner with him and Aceto one time. Yeah. Like in like, you know, 2014 or something. Mhm. And Dave ordered a salmon um with with steamed veg. Not McDonald's, huh? And that was like stark. I was like, "This is a different person." You know what I mean? And then he only ate like he didn't even finish all of his fish and he was like, "Oh, I'm good. I'm good." The whole time the rest of your Did you ask him if you wanted the rest of your s the No, he didn't offer it to me. He didn't offer You would have said no anyways. Yeah. Well, he'd eaten some of it. That's You don't offer that. Yeah. No. No. Dorian's salmon was completely untouched and you still exactly that's how much I that's how much I'm a fan of salmon. So yeah. No. So thanks everybody and we look forward to getting this one out. We hope you enjoyed it and uh you know we love uh we love that you guys like when we have guests on. Yes. So uh it's fun for us. Yeah. I felt like with Dave especially, we didn't really have to do much. I did nothing. Showed up. Me either. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Remember everybody, like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. Yes. And remember, immutant.com. Go to immutant.com. Get your ISO surge, get your all in, and everyone should get on the gear. Codes Dusty and Big Ron. Use them. Keep us employed. Yes. Want to go. And uh remember, it's just bodybuilding.