 milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit milit Welcome back to Blood, Sweat, and Gear with Coaches. Skipp Hill, Andrew Barry, I'm Scott McNally, and all our programming is brought to you by you, the people of Patreon. Thank you for your support over there. We are brought to you by truenutrition.com. Use our code THINK for additional savings. We are brought to you by supplementsource.ca for Canadians. And we're going to do like a Ghirapalooza talk tonight. We do just have a bunch of listener questions. We're going to just try to knock all this stuff out. Skip's been coaching for literally over 20 years. Andrew, you've been like 15 years coaching now. I'm a little bit behind you, but basically we've got basically 70 years of coaching experience at this point, and we are here to freely share that information with you. I just want to dive straight in. Somebody asked us, can you talk about DHB? I can't remember what the exact question was. I have it in my list here. But I wanted to jump straight to that. I know we talked about it recently, Skip, but it wasn't a main topic. And here's the thing. That somebody will say like six months from now, oh, have you guys ever talked about DHB? And I'll be like, dude, yeah, we talked about it six months ago. But I'll be like, I don't know where. So I wanted to kind of just put this to the forefront. You know, and this for me has been the year of DHB. I kind of had written it off. I used it years ago, liked it a lot, but I'd written it off. Now I'm back. You've been loving DHB for quite a while now. I thought we're not going to do the kind of podcast where you're like, well, here's the androgenic androgenic, you know, androgenic anabolic ratio. And this is when it was developed. I just want to know, man, tell me what your personal experience is with it. Well, a lot of people complain about the pain, the PIP. You die with PIP? Okay. I don't know. I mean, I think I was one of the first who was kind of like, why is no one using this? And typically when something comes along like that, you know, it's like it's going to run. It's, you know, it's going to peak and it's going to come down, you know, six months later, nine months later, you know, it meant is a good example. All of a sudden, you know, they found this compound that we didn't know about. And it was just this, you know, this, I don't know, hidden gem. But DHB is just, I just kept thinking why, like, why? And I think part of it, and we talked, we spoke about this before we discussed this, was there have been a couple outliers who have said, I have bad panels. And, you know, my blood panel is just destroyed by it. And I'm like, I just don't see this. I have not seen this. Show me this. Checking it with clients. And it just isn't there. I hadn't seen it. And you guys didn't see it. It just took time, I think, for us to figure that out. So, you know, I rank it up there, much like UC Suma. You didn't want to use Trend. It's a great alternative to Trend in a prep. But I'm an off-season DHB guy. I think that it's, I don't want to say that it's the equivalent of Trend in the off-season. But I'd rather not run Trend in the off-season because I'm going to run it pre-contest. I don't have a lot of the symptoms that a lot of other people do. And I've seen this with my clients, too, you know, as well. I don't sleep poorly on Trend. Yep. So, I'm going to make sure that that's a staple. I don't have the massive night sweats. So, I don't need to replace it. Some people do. They have that. They have the sleep issues. They have the sweats. They just act like an ass while they're on it. Whatever. However, I'm going to keep the DHB as an off-season trend, if you will. Let me ask you this. A big compound. I think that translates into the answer being yes. But when we talk about steroids, let's say, like, we've got our Masteron. We've got our EQ. We've got our Deca. Like, some drugs you would say, that's a stronger drug. Some drugs you'd say, that's kind of more of a milder drug. Anivar, we always say, like, oh, it's kind of a milder compound. Where would you put DHB? Is DHB to you a stronger drug? Because I feel like it's a stronger drug. Yeah, I do. I think it's up there with the EQs. And I would put it in the same class as the EQs, the NPPs, that sort of thing. You know, you can't put anything in there with Trend. But I think that it's the best alternative if you struggle with symptoms from Trend. And remember, I'm not a fan of the longer Estrid Trends. I don't like Trend and Anthate. I don't like the Hex. I'm an acetate or none kind of guy when it comes to Trend. And I try to advocate for that with my clients and with other people if they ask me, too. Because I think acetate is predictable. It's in and out fast. So if you're having problems with it, you can get off of it and you don't have those lingering symptoms. I have found personally with some of my clients that the longer Estrid Trends, as they build and the blood levels built, the symptoms just become magnified. And I felt like crap on Long Estrid Trends. So DHB is outside of the sometimes very uncomfortable injections. But then you have people like me who like the soreness. Remember, I'm a bilateral injection kind of guy. I'm not going to hit one delt and then go in and train chest. I'm going to hit them both. So they're both equally as sore. And I have shoulders that wide. Too far off topic. But I wouldn't put EQ in as being like a strong one, a strong compound. Oh, I do. What about you, Andrew? I'm more in the middle. Probably closer to Scott. Yeah, I feel like because I'm going to run it higher. You know, I feel like versus DHB. It's like I feel like for me, and that was going to be my next question, three, four hundred milligrams, I think, is a, you know, a robust dose of DHB. Where do you think is like an average dosing for it? Are you asking me if I agree with three to four hundred? No, I'm asking you what you think, like what your dosing would do. Oh, yeah. I mean, I don't, it's not a compound that I really would care to go over 500 with. I mean, if someone said, well, I want to run 600, you know, a client said, I want to run 600 milligrams of DHB. You know, and obviously it depends on the ratio of the other compounds. Yeah. How much gear you've used, you know, whether you're a veteran to gear or not. But I think that's getting up there. I think that the three to four hundred, I think five hundred, maybe not pushing it, but, you know, that's a pretty big dose of DHB. Yeah. So milligram for milligram, I see what you're saying. You know, but trend, I consider trend a strong drug. Yet at the same time, that dosing, milligram dosing is going to be lower, too. So. All right. So if you're talking up to, say, 500, how does it end? So when I first did DHB, it was 200 milligrams per mil. And now I'm seeing it's all less like 100 milligrams per mil on average. So one of the logistic things is if you want to do like less oil, you're not going to get away with that while running a DHB cycle. You're going to have to get in at least, you know, three mils, four mils per week. How do you split that up then? Would you say like an every other day protocol? And I'm asking just because I'm genuinely curious. Yeah, I don't care whether it's long ass or short ass or I'm still splitting. It's just a couple of reasons, especially with DHB. You're going to want to combine it with other compounds so that it's arguably not as uncomfortable. So there's that. And every now and then, I'm sure you guys have come across DHB where you're like, wow, I'm either tolerating this really well or the, you know, the carrier is different. So it's not as uncomfortable. But then most of the time, you've got to pretty much count on putting other things in that barrel along with it to try to dilute it a little bit. So could you run it once a week or twice? You could because it's a longer ester. But even your longer esters like your sipping eights and an ant. I like to run those broken up every other day. Three times a week is kind of my thing. Monday, late Monday, late Wednesday. I'm sorry, early Monday, early Wednesday, late Friday. You know, it's kind of my clients will know that that's a that's a thing that I do so that it's not Monday, Wednesday, Friday early. And then you have this long or longer lag time over the weekend. But yeah, it's let me ask you guys, what is the minimum amount that you will dose in a week? Mine is two if it's roughly 84 hours a week or 84 hours between injections. So like a Sunday night, Wednesday. What is that? Well, Sunday night, Thursday morning, Monday night. There's our Monday morning, Thursday night type thing. But I think that those that type of thing is seen when you're starting a cycle versus once you're into the cycle. So you'll have more fluctuating levels, say, for the first few weeks versus if you're once you get a month or 10 weeks into the into the cycle. But I wonder what is your what is your like basement for frequency? I do everything every other day now. OK. And that's my recommendation, if not every day. So, OK, I don't care about the ester. Like, that's literally, you know what I mean? Like, I don't care if you're using testosterone undec. What is undec? Undecanoate. Yes. Thank you. Yes. Yeah. I don't know. I couldn't. I stuttered on the word. It's such a convoluted word. Yeah. But I don't I just think more frequent injections. They just make so much more sense to me in terms of the delivery to keep the most stable blood levels possible to eliminate. Why do I feel this way? Why do you know? Do I feel like I have high estrogen? Do I feel like I have low estrogen? Like, let's eliminate a lot of those questions by keeping things stable. And then if you do have a signal of higher low estrogen, for instance, you can address it. You know what I mean? Yeah. Because you take your shot of, let's say, testosterone once a week. OK, you're feeling great. Let's say you take it on Sunday. You're feeling great. Monday, Tuesday, as Thursday, Friday, Saturday roll around when most people want that test to kick in. Hey, hey. You know what I'm saying? It's like it just doesn't make sense to me. So I think if you could do it more frequently, plus, in my experience, smaller injections don't hurt as much. That's why, yeah, I'm with you on that. Especially with DHB now. Dude, I remember I used to put, because I was running out of real estate, I would put three cc's in my triceps, dude. And that thing would balloon up and, you know, it'd look frigging massive in the gym and it'd look awesome. But it's like, I'm afraid to do a tricep extension right now. Am I going to pop the muscle? You know? So why not break these doses up so it's something that's much more manageable daily and rotate sites a little bit more? Yeah. Yeah. What about your injections? Let me just piggyback off that real quick. What about the injection timing versus workout? Are you a before or after workout injectioner? I have always been an injector right before bed. Okay. Because I shower at night before I get into bed. I don't like it before bed. I feel like it's going to sit in the muscle and if it's going to get sore, it's going to really get sore. Or versus if I take it earlier in the day and then I'm even just like moving around and kind of working it in. I probably just from a bad experience one or two times and then I was like, nope, got to do it earlier, Scott. Yeah. You know what I mean? I've had some bad ones. Don't get me wrong. Like if I do my lats and I'm trying to lay on my side, that's painful. But who knows whether you would have anyway. You know, it probably had little to do with going to bed, I'm sure. It's just like that weird thing in my head. So I always do earlier. The other thing is I've always been a like deal with everything and everyone else first throughout the day and then like nighttime. I got like 20 minutes to do my own shit, whether it's playing my own cycle or take my own drugs or whatever. So it's kind of just like built in ever since I was like a kid. Like you work all day and then you play at night or whatever you want to call it, you know. So that's kind of where I'm coming from for that. Yeah. I settled in with like this is my TRT plus cycle, 200 tests and 200 DHB. And I like it a lot, man. It's awesome. It's solid. And I just went to Facebook. So I'm going to share with you guys my middleweight pictures. This is the last time I used a DHB. And I looked, this was 2010. So we're talking literally 15 years ago now. All right. You ready for this? This is the last time I used DHB right here. Boom. Ooh. I mean, if you had different lighting, this would be a sick shot. Yeah. Yeah. You know what I'm saying? It was the best I had at the time. I'm like, it was literally like, I was like, well, I better do some pictures. I'm in shape here. You know what I mean? The delts and arms. I was happy with that. That conditioning. Oh, there we go. Now we're better. I've been chased for years. Like three, took me three more seasons to like, because I got bigger, you know, and then I wasn't in quite as good shape. This was the year that we talked in the last show about the wrong color trunks. Those are the wrong color trunks. When I got on stage, they did not look right on me. They look, I didn't look like I wasn't wearing anything. Oh, nice. That's always nice. I did copper once or bronze and it actually looked pretty good. But there were times where people would say, oh, if they saw a picture on social media, oh, it looked like you had nothing on. My brain was registering that you weren't wearing anything. Yeah. All right. Well, I just wanted to get that out of the way. Because like I said, we hadn't had like that solid DHB topic. We had somebody else ask us. Oh, okay. So kind of follow up here. A question for Scott and Skip. Have you guys had any muscle and joint pain while on DHB? I've been having big gains from tests in DHB 300 per week and had to come off DHB and add NPP to get rid of the pain. Would it be inflammation? My E2 is 44. Thanks. I can't say never. Like it couldn't possibly be related, especially if you change it out to NPP. Yeah. And it seems far more causative than correlative. But as a rule, no. I've never noticed that. Have you, Andrew? No. No. Yeah. But I agree with you. Never say never. All right. Injectable L-carnitine. What do you guys recommend for dosage? I remember at one point John Meadows had recommended something like 200 milligrams per 55 pounds of body weight. I honestly can't remember the dosing. That's one of those compounds where on paper I can see how beneficial it is. And then I go to take it and I just don't want to take daily injections like that that burn like battery acid. You're already taking your DHB. Yeah. But I'll tell you what. I'd rather take DHB than I would carnitine. The new stuff doesn't burn. It might. It might not because I haven't used it in quite a while. The new stuff and you get it like 600, 800, it feels like water. Don't even notice it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. What's a dose? I don't know if that 200 milligram per 55 pounds of body weight would be a John Meadows recommendation. I don't recall that because he would have tried everything out on me. It rings a bell that that was a recommendation, not necessarily from John. Yeah. But that was at one point. It sounds right. That when I hear that, I go, oh, yeah. Okay. I mean, I was, you know, competing in the 230s to 250s and 650 milligrams on training days. So five days a week, 650 milligrams. Okay. I think that was appropriate. I just remember from going to John and Scott Stevenson would have seminars before the Arnold for a few years. And one of those seminars, they went deep into their thoughts on L-carnitine. And what I remember gathering from that was more along the lines of just like 600, you know. So with you, you know. Yeah. It was more like just 600. It wasn't like, well, if you weigh this much. Well, because remember, you can take too much of it and slow down your thyroid activity. We didn't ever talk about that, though. You know what I mean? I don't think that was out yet. I don't think that. Scott started talking about that like just a few years ago, you know. He sent me an article. Man, we're probably going back maybe six years ago, I think. And then it started making me think, okay, make sure we don't dose it too high. Maybe I'm dosing my females too high. Ah. Yeah. So I found this like in more recent times because here's the thing. Back then at those seminars, they talk about the 600. And I was like, geez, the only stuff available was 200 milligrams per milliliter. Yep. I was like, I'm not going to take three cc's every day. I'm already taking a bunch of other stuff. I don't, you know, I just, I'm not going to, I just didn't do it. But since then, the 600 milligram has come out. 850 milligram has come out, which I have a bottle of that I need to try still. And, you know, it's, it's nearly painless. That said, I found that a lot less is beneficial. Like, here's what I notice is that when I take L-carnitine and then do cardio or train, oh my God, I will sweat. Like, I just, do you get that, Andrew? Like, you just freaking pour sweat. Dude, I trained on Monday and I remember to take it sweating bullets. I trained on Tuesday and I remember forgetting to take it. Yeah. And I'm like, why is my shirt so dry? I didn't take my carnitine. So yeah, a thousand percent, a thousand percent. So one of the things, and this is before we got all into like the new mitochondrial enhancers that we're all talking about now. It's something I'd been focused on for a couple of years because we knew that I probably had an issue. And so one of the issues is that my body with mitochondria, converting fats into fuel is probably been part of what my issue is getting the mitochondria to work. And L-carnitine does help with that directly. And I think that's why if it's helping to like kind of beef those mitochondria up, getting them to better function and burn fat as fuel. I think that's why it's helped with brain fog. I found that like 300 milligrams has been plenty for me to get a good effect. Are you saying that the carnitine directly helps with the fat metabolism, like in the fat cells or no, in the basically because it's a transporter. Yeah. It helps to transport fatty acids as energy. It will transports it from the cytosol into the mitochondrial through the mitochondrial matrix. That's what it is. It's like a shuttle basically. Yeah. And I found that it helped a lot with that. You know, I don't know about you guys, but when I was in my prime and I was using it, there was a dramatic change for me when I started taking it versus not where my shoulders and delts, everything just looked fuller. And it's, it's from the glycogen sparing effect, utilizing more fatty acids as fuel on a regular basis. And yeah, I mean, you want to talk about a great way to carb up, not carb up, but to keep yourself fuller and prep is add L carnitine. Okay. Interesting. I'm telling you, man, I definitely overlooked it. Like I had written it off for years and it was a mistake because it's a lot stronger, a lot more, a lot more beneficial than I thought it was. So Ryan touches on the thyroid thing. He says oral can inhibit the entry of thyroid hormones, T3 and T4 into the cell nuclei. Not sure if the same as with the injectable, but yeah, that, that, but he also adds, you don't get the possible TMAO issues with the injectable versus the oral. So there is that, but yeah, we do. Andrew is like Scott was talking about. There is that potential of, you may not take advantage of say higher doses of thyroid hormone if you're really ramping it up. Theoretically. Yeah. If you look at the literature, I think the dose is 40,000 milligrams of L carnitine when someone's in thyroid storm. So to stop that process. So, yeah. So whopping dose. Who's to know what, if someone's taken a thousand milligrams a day, is that inhibiting thyroid activity? Is it a hundred for say 120 pound female? Quite possibly. Maybe not to the extent that, you know, when you're in thyroid storm, you need to shut that down, but, um, you know, if you're, if you're blunting any thyroid activity, when you're in prep, not a good idea. Yeah, exactly. And for anybody who hadn't heard Scott talk about that on muscle minds, the opposite is true too. If you don't have enough, if your thyroid isn't strong enough, if you aren't producing enough and it's too low, then it will help you to get more out of your thyroid. So it's kind of like a middle ground thing. Hey, what's going on guys? Just a quick shout out to true nutrition. I figured I'd bring you to the home gym here. So welcome. And I just wanted to show you my order. So nothing big deal. I've got a few pounds of the cold filtered weight ISO. I'm a big fan of the cookie butter flavor. I've been on this this year. This has like been my favorite, but they've got a bunch of different flavors. So if you're interested in something else, just check them out. It's a, it's a very light protein overall. It's not going to blow your digestion down. It's not going to cause a bunch of water retention. This is the kind of protein that I suggest to people who are doing a contest prep. They've got all your basic bodybuilding supplements like creatine. They've got great intro workout, highly branched cyclic dextrin, which is the high end. And then they've got the cheaper stuff like carbo load. Like anybody can afford that. And of course, use our code. Think it'll get you 10% off. They really kicked up. It used to only be 5%. Now you get 10% off. If you use the code and it throws some money our way too. So it definitely helps the podcast out a ton. Might be a buck here and there, but you know, if you guys all use the code, it definitely adds up and you have been using the code. So thank you for that. Let's get back to the podcast, but thank you for hanging out with me here in the home gym. All right. What else do we have here? More DHB stuff. We already did that. All right. So question for the next show. I'm later in a show prep and do multiple shots per week. 200 milligrams a test, one CC, 200 milligrams of mast, P, two CCs, amongst other things. I moved away from larger volume glute shots because of scar tissue concerns and have started doing more in the shoulders in other areas. When can you take, let's see, when can you take smaller bilateral shots or excuse me, when you take smaller bilateral shots, would you put 100 mast, 100 test into each shoulder or does balancing the compounds between the sides make much difference? So I think he's saying like, can I do all the mast in this shoulder, all the test in this shoulder? No, one doubt would not do that. I know. Exactly. My OCDness would not allow for that. Yeah. I actually don't, for the record. Yeah, I would. I don't. Do you guys ever get the five CC syringes? First time I bought syringes, I did by accident. I never did again. Oh, sorry. Very hard to plunge. I've still got a day or harder to plunge. But I would. Yeah, I would. I would get those and I'd mix if I had three and a half CCs of stuff for the day. And I'd, you know, do, do, do, do, you know, back and forth, try to mix it. And then I would do half in one, change the needle tip and put another one and do the other side. So, yeah. Again, it's probably superstition, but. Right. You know, doesn't hurt anything. You see Sumas with Andrew. He says, team injections immediately post-shower. The muscle is warmed and more pliable. Yeah. I think there's something to that, too. I really do. Because think about it. If you're cold. Yeah. You know, you got to take a shit. You're like, oh, I don't want to do that. But when you're warm, you're just like, it just goes right in. Just a comment. Not right immediately. But post-workout when everything's still warm. Then you're all sweaty. Yeah, there's that. Best show on Think Big. Skip has grown on me. Scott keeps the show moving and Andrew brings the calm balance. Skip has grown. I think that must be my wife. I'm pretty sure that's my wife. She did say I bring the calm balance. 32 years. I'm going to have to stick with him. So he's growing on me. Can you put oil-based L-carnitine in with your oils? Example, test, mass, trend, and L-carnitine in one syringe since they're all I am. I won't do it. I don't know that you can or you can't. I won't do it. I don't think all L-carnitine is oil-based, though. So I don't know if he's making it or what. I guess why. Yeah. But the water-based stuff we have today, like you said, Scott, it goes in like butter. You don't even notice it. It's not like it was 10 years ago. You don't even feel it. Could you? Yeah. I mean, I'm sure you could. Is there interaction between the carnitine and the esters? I don't know. That'd be the most odd study that someone at some university would be doing. But it's definitely a bodybuilder that's doing that study. I don't know. I'm going to skip, though. I wouldn't do it. Even if I could, I would just separate them. Just better off separating them because we don't know. Yeah. What are your thoughts on mixing peptides in the same syringe for injecting? Don't do it either. Don't do it. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, theoretically, and I've talked to Scott about this, Stevenson, theoretically you could. But we just don't know if there's any interactions between the disulfide bonds breaking them. To me, it's like, it's this much. Pick another spot on your abdominals or somewhere and just put it somewhere. I won't even do them back to back or at the same time. I feel like there's a, once that peptide is introduced into my bloodstream, I really don't want another peptide in there confusing it. Almost like they're going to get together in my bloodstream and go, wait a minute, I'm supposed to be here doing this job and I don't know why you're here. You're getting in my way. And then they start fighting. Like they literally start fighting each other like, you're an asshole. You know, that type of thing. This is how my brain works. Nope. I'm not going to do it. A question for the next Q&A. What dosage do you, oh, never mind. We already did that one. Sorry. I got, I went the other, I went the other way. How about this one? 46 year old male have done a few, have done a few years of cycles. One gram plus a couple of times in the past. I've had a DVT 13 years ago, six weeks after a full PCT traveled to my lung hospital for 10 days. I've been on blood thinners ever since. Completely stopped going to the gym. Completely stopped going to the gym. I have got back to, into the life again and I'm loving it. Currently down 90 pounds in 220-ish days. On red and now at three milligrams per week. I want to know how running a TRT test and a match of Masteron, say 200 weekly of both, would be affected by blood thinners. Hard to find any info on this. Thanks. Love the show. Skip, how do we handle this one? You saw me paying attention to my phone. Oh no, I just know how you normally answer these and say, this is not the place to ask a question like that. Like as much as I would love to help him. Yeah. It's, you know. I'm always careful in situations like this because it's just not, if I feel like it's outside of my wheelhouse or I'm stepping over that line, I'm not comfortable with it. Now you guys may be, I'm not. Yeah, that's where we differ. Yeah, and that's okay. Okay, that's okay. I don't mean it. Take it. Okay, so the last episode we were talking about articles being obsolete now. So when you're reading these questions, here's my problem. I need to read them. Like, remember we used to be able to put them up on the thing so I could read them? As you're saying it in my brain process, that's my mental deficiency. So in a sentence, what is it? It's he's. Basically, he had a blood clot 10 years ago. Yeah. And now he wants to run a cycle. And he's on blood thinner still. He's on blood thinners for the rest of his life. Okay. So I'm not telling you to do this. I'm just saying if I were presented with these situations and I wanted to run a moderate, let's say a TRT plus cycle to start. I would do that with, I would start with just testosterone and maybe a primobolin. And then I would get labs done six to eight weeks later and I would check all those clotting factors. Okay. Yeah. That's where I would start. And if I see changes. I would probably pull back. I guess if I were to give him advice, I would say, and I'm not going to say like, just go to a TRT clinic, bro, because they'll just put you on whatever, you know, and send you off and say, come back in six months or, you know. But there are really good doctors out there. Like there are doctors like Dr. Mike Miltak here in Detroit, who is a literal genius when it comes to TRT and the human body. Really? I would want to put my trust into someone like him to first get me on actual, like get me on test first. Right. And tell him what, and like walk through it with him. You know, I just, I feel like I'm scared of blood clots. You know, I, I understand that if he were to follow Andrew's advice, that is on him. You're not telling him to do that whatsoever. I just feel like me personally, if I were just me giving the advice or what I would, would I do it or would I just do it myself and do Andrew's thing? I don't know. I would do it myself. And I would, but I would, I'd get the full panel done. Yeah. Like not the regular labs. I'm talking about like, remember during COVID when people were getting like all the labs done, like the clotting factors, all those different. Things. I would be doing some in-depth panels like that. So learn. Yeah. Oh, totally. Yeah. And I would just keep track. Well, I probably don't before. Yeah. Probably he is doing them regularly. You know, I would imagine once a year, he probably has to do them with his doctor. So you have a baseline of knowledge. I would maybe start a cycle right after getting that knowledge and seeing where things are at and then looking for any changes that would be deletious to his, his health. Um, yeah, I'd probably maybe even test like five weeks later and then maybe again, eight, 10 weeks later. And I'd spend more money on the testing than the PDs. Put it that way. Yeah. Ooh, Skip's not going to like this one. Great show. Love you guys and your vibe and your info and authenticity. Skip, please get your snoring checked out. You most likely have sleep apnea and it will take you sooner than you should go. Your joke about your wife being alone will no longer be a joke, especially at 55, even more so on gear. Once I realized I have to strap the pap, it all changed for me. It will reinvigorate you and, uh, in ways that you can't even imagine once you commit. I don't know where that's coming from though. I don't. You talked about snoring on a previous episode. The, there was a bunch of comments. You know what that was? So that was like literally Skip was in contest shape and then it was like, he went eating. He would start eating for a few days and you know, that happens like every bodybuilder after he gets on a contest. Do you snore normally? No. Oh, there you go. Yeah. That's what I think. I think that's where that was coming from. Yeah. My wife backs me up. Thank you. Cause I'm, I'm thinking that doesn't make sense. That's not a regular Skip thing. Only when I would drink and I haven't had a drink in like 15 years. Yeah. Which would be normal for people to snore then, you know? Yeah. And then much like you were saying, like if all of a sudden I come out of a cut phase and you know, I'm eating more for a few days. Yeah. Or if, let's just say I'm exhausted. Like I get a couple hours of sleep, you know, for a night or something, then I, then I might snore, but it's not like I'm not breathing. So, you know, there was, and I track my, I track all that with my aura ring and stuff. So I will see any type of breathing disturbances or, you know, my oxygen saturation or anything. I've been fortunate. I laughed and said, I still say I am never been big enough to have apnea. Yeah. So I haven't graduated to the, to the big boy, you know, muscle size problems. Fortunately. All right. I saw that comment. It was just from three days ago. So he was commenting on a previous episode, you know? You know, I mean, I appreciate it because if it were an issue, I, I've been with my wife for 32 years. She already thinks that I'm not terribly sexy. The CPAP is not going to ruin that for me. KS Barry said, if the drugs haven't gotten skipped by now, nothing's going to get him. Yeah. Never know. Maybe I'm good to go. Maybe I'm on borrowed time. I don't know. Yeah. Let me see if I have anything else here. We might not have anything else. Oh, I keep getting that one about a video. Can you guys do a video talking about all the health supplements that you take? I got a bunch. I have a bunch. I don't know. That's probably better, but we could probably use that. We should have used that for a topic. Well, you think that would have been like a big catching topic? No. No. Think about it. Good point. What are three prep coaches use for health supplements? Yeah. How much fish oil do three coaches take? Good point. Good point. I mean, it's good information. Well, okay. Give us five, Andrew. Five foundational things. Well, first, let me put it this way. Yeah. How many times, like, do you even talk about sports supplements anymore? Like, it's just a given. You're going to take creatine. You're going to take, you know what I'm saying? Like, it's. Yeah. You just write down. It's really based off blood work where we really get into the labs and we really get into, okay, what supplements can help you here or there, right? Yeah. Um, I mean, I've shared a couple of things in the past, like my fixed cholesterol stack that basically doubled my HDL in five weeks, dropped my LDL down almost in half. And then that same period of time, um, I got to pull up my list here. That's what you see me fidgeting. And I'm Tanya said, well, it should be interesting to people. She's right. You know, I mean, okay. So citrus bergamot, you know, that's a given for me. I do 1200 milligrams AM and PM fish oil. I do three grams AM and PM. Um, do you get into like the DHA EPA like ratio at all? No. Okay. I go with the high EPA, the two to one. That's what I, I've gotten more focused. I didn't used to pay attention to it, but I'm making sure that that's what I get now. Yeah. Um, I'm trying to think green tea. I'm big on green tea. That one's, you know, from antimicrobial to helping your HDL cholesterol, a little bit of blood sugar. It's kind of like an all in one. So I do drink it or do you take caps? Both. Okay. I do, uh, like four caps a day. And then I also drink one to two cups a day. Okay. Um, what are some other ones that are on this list? I take a product called cortisol QR, which is a patented form of ubiquinol. Yeah. Um, that one is a, is a must. Uh, I love you. I love you. So far there's three of my five. Yeah. I mean, it's, we're going to have the same fucking last, you know, I'm just, well, I'll, I'll leave it at three so you can have a few skip. Well, the citrus and citrus bergamot and the, um, straggless are like you said, I just consider them staples. Um, I just started a straggless. I hadn't been consistent with it. I don't use them. I don't know if you guys do or don't, or if you find one to be higher quality than the other. Uh, I use, uh, what is it? Hawaii farm or Hawaiian farm, something like that. Um, I should know cause I work from the same place all the time and it is arguably more expensive. Um, but I think when it comes to something like that, just like the other viewer pointed out, I'm 55. I don't really want to die tomorrow. So trying to prolong this, um, blissful life of mine. I can, uh, ubiquinol. Someone asked me the other day, coenzyme Q10. I mean, it's just a more, you know, they were comparing the two and ubiquinol is just a better, more absorbable bowl form. So, uh, vitamin K, I don't know. But it's, you know, on paper, it sounds great and helps to keep, you know, you from storing calcium, I guess, where you don't want to store it. So I find that to be, I don't know if that's an absolute, well, it is for me. I mean, if I, here's how I, here's how I rate them. If I run out and I'm like, oh shit, I got to get that ordered. That to me is an important supplement. If it's like, eh, I'll get to it when I get to it, then it's not as important of a supplement. So I would rank that up there too. So let's see, I only have, that's one. So I need to add one more for the fifth that you didn't mention. And I'm looking over there and I'm trying to think Natto. I mean, Natto. Yeah. I got Natto in there, of course. What else is over there? I got one. What is it? Help me out. Well, when you said KD, I'm always going to. Oh yeah, there you go. You know, vitamin D. And I'm running my D. Even with the sun that I get, I do the same thing. I run very, very high. Matter of fact, my doctor told me one time, he's like, if I can have all of my patients have your vitamin D levels, and I still take 10,000 units a day, the only time that I don't is if I'm actually out in the real sun, like out on the boat or at the beach for a while to where I'm really getting a lot of sun, then I might not take it that day. But I run in the 90s. I've always run in the 90s with vitamin D. I think it's huge for your immune system. I run this guy. Oh, am I plugged in? No, I'm not plugged in. I've got my light here next to, I run this thing every day. And because there's times in a minute that I just end up not going outside for real. So, and especially in the wintertime here in Michigan, I find it to be super helpful for my mood. But yeah, I've been running my day super high ever since it was when we went to that first Swiss together, Skip. We both went there, you know, that was because we went to two, right? The first one we were together and I heard Serrano talk about it. And then did you listen to Serrano the first time? Or I know you did the second time. I can't remember if I did or not. I bet I did. But it was that first time. Just because I hold him in high regard. And he was talking about vitamin D and he had said, you know, because we always were in fear of high vitamin D levels and like, oh man, you can't have high vitamin D levels. It's toxic. And he said that he had a patient that didn't want to use vitamin D supplements and he just used a light and he cranked his levels up way out of range. And his conclusion was, so if your body can produce this, you know, it's, it's not hurting you. You know what I mean? Like, as long as we make sure that you're not over storing calcium, you know, use MK7, K2 with it, you're, you're going to be all right. And from then looking into it further, vitamin D is, it works more like a, it's people will tell you it's a steroid. It's not a vitamin, you know? Whereas like vitamin C, if you take vitamin C and you take too much of it, you just piss it out. It's not like, oh, vitamin C is good for your immune system. So if you take 20,000 milligrams of it or 20 grams of it, you're going to get like 20 times immune system. No, but vitamin D will keep building up and you will get improved benefits from it. It's been the cornerstone of my recovery from the long bug. I would say I'll run it at 30,000 units, basically year round. And when we go into, if I go into an event like the Olympia, I'll boost it up. Like when I, when I prep it for the Olympia or, you know, I go to an expo like the Arnold, I'll boost it up to 50,000. Let me ask you guys a question. We've seen a lot of blood work, right? Between the three of us. Have you ever, and maybe you have, I haven't, you ever seen science blood work where their vitamin D levels were too high? Yeah, like once. Really? Okay. And that makes a good point. I've never seen it. No, that's one out of like. Out of range? I do. Thousands, you know? Too high? Not too high. Out of range. I mean, I don't know if, I wouldn't call it too high. After hearing Dr. Serrano talk, I'm okay with the quote unquote too high. Same. You know, I am way out of range. I guess what I'm saying is I have not seen it even past the high range. But how much are they taking, you know? Well, I mean, it'd be different. But my point is just like, even with myself, when I'm running in the 90s and I'm taking 10,000 units a day plus I'm, you know, at the beach twice a week or out on the boat for four or five hours a time. I look like a charcoal briquette. I'm so dark. Yeah. I'm saying that it's, it's just not, I've not seen it above that. But you have no shit. Okay. Yeah. But we're talking guys that are running like, women that are, not everybody, by the way. I'm not saying everybody across the board should do this. But I've built up and I've worked with people who have built up to 30, 40, 50,000 a day. Oh, okay. That's what I'm saying. I run 30,000 year round, basically. I will deload from it. Yeah. Oh. Yeah. And I will deload from that to a degree. Yeah. Because I've seen Serana, I think, because I did hear him, that was the year we were, because I remember him saying, you could literally take it once a week at 50 or 70,000 units once a week. When we talked about it, no, he was saying, you can do that, but you can also do daily. Like, and you can ramp it up high. Yeah. Kind of load it. Yeah. Yeah. And keep it up too. When I say I'll take breaks, I mean, like, maybe for a couple of weeks, every eight months, something like that. It's just funny that we go back, what, 10, 15 years, and that would have been, what? You're doing what? That's a fat-soluble vitamin. That's so toxic, it's going to eat up your organs. Yeah. I remember when there was a big push. I mean, I used to work at GNC 20 years ago of, get your vitamin D because pharma's going to come in and label it as a drug. Oh, yeah. Because they were really, because they did get a patented form, right? The coli, cassif, cassifol, is that it? But remember, I don't know if you guys were, I was in tune with, like, the supplement business side of things, I guess, working at GNC, and there was rumors going around from the managers, like, oh, push the vitamin D, tell your client, tell the customers that they might not be able to get it soon because they're going to have to get a prescription from big pharma. And I learned from Scott, and then I had seen it in myself, that as testosterone users and steroid users, we deplete vitamin D faster. I saw that the year I did a prep from February through November, and afterward, man, I was, like, so fatigued, and I was just, like, nodding out. I'd be, like, on the podcast, just, like, falling asleep. And I took vitamin D at just 5,000 units, and instantly that day it restored me. And if I'm not mistaken, and I should know this because I, you know, spend a lot of time in the sun, but it is the B rays that allow vitamin D to be converted by the skin, right? It's not the vitamin. The reason I say that is because back in the day, you know, you go back 20 years ago or go back to the tanners of the 90s, and they were so much stronger because they had more B rays than they did A. These days, the reason no one ever comes out of a tanner or rarely comes out of a tanner very dark is because they're predominantly A rays instead of B rays. So it's kind of funny. I think, if I have to guess, that is the reason, then, that the tanning now, like, the fake tanning doesn't provide anywhere near as much vitamin D conversion as the old school ones did. So if you're not getting very dark from your tanner, the FDA, you know, they regulate all that stuff. It wasn't long ago where they'll come through the tanners even down in Florida, the sunshine state where everybody's outside anyway, and they'll bust you if you are bust the tanning salon if they allow me or anybody else to come in 18 hours later. Like, I literally would get there 10 minutes before the 24-hour mark, and they'd make me wait 10 minutes. I'm like, come on. You got to be kidding me. The key tag, we just used a key tag to turn it on, and it wouldn't turn on except for 24 hours. Oh, is that right? Yeah, because I'd get in there, and I'd be like, it's not, and I wouldn't complain the first time. I'm like, your tanner's not working. And they're like, oh, did you come in yesterday? I was like, yeah, after I worked out. And they're like, well, what time did you work out? So, and what got me was in the state of Florida. Like, what are you going to do? Tell me I can't go to the beach for 24 hours? Like, what the hell is the difference here? I'm an adult. I went to the tanner on Thursday. It's now Friday. What's the difference? But regulation, it's got to be there. And one person said, the only thing you have to worry about with D is overcalcification. That's what the K2 is for, is to combat that. And I want to say, don't quote me on it, because I'd have to look at my bottles, because I just know how many pills I take every day. I think it's 200 micrograms of K2 per 5,000 units of vitamin D is the ratio that you want. Yeah, I'd have to check my label. I have to literally look at the bottle to remember the ratio on that. I get it set, I take it, and I usually leave it there. But I got that from him, too. Because I asked him, and he had suggested if I was to build up, to do it slow. So you don't just go to 30,000 units overnight. You build it by like 5,000 every couple weeks. That's good, though. Somebody else mentioned something else I think that we like a lot. Magnesium. What do you guys think of magnesium? Oh, yeah. Sure. Yep. Use magnesium for sleep? I take it before I go to bed, because on paper it's going to help a little bit. But I take it post-workout, because I train about halfway through the day. It's not halfway through your guys' day, but it's halfway through my day. So I typically hit it. Here's how I look at magnesium. It's almost like just a muscle chill supplement. It just kind of relaxes everything versus, I don't know, almost like my muscles are constantly excited. So it slows things down post-workout, and then I do it again, hit another dose before I go to bed. I was trying to find... Glycine. I do the glycine for bed, yeah. Yeah, I use Magtin from Now Foods. Glycine. And that's... I just started using that recently, like this year. And it's been... Like, I found that it's been a great one for me. Like, I noticed the difference in my quality of sleep with it. I was using Thorn for quite a while. Yeah? And then I just realized, because I'm buying them like seven or ten at a time, like, this is really expensive shit. So I found a kind of... Not a generic, but, you know. And I'm like, where you get the tub that's this big, but it's only got like this much powder in it. But it's super cheap. So then I get them all, and then I open like three or four and put them all into one container. You know what I mean? It's like, why? This is what it should be. This is what it should be. It's like chips. You buy a bag of chips, and it's like one-third full. So you open them all up, and you put them all into one. Just kidding. I don't do that. Yeah, you got... What is it? 2,000 milligrams of magnesium thornate is what I'm taking. Okay. Oh, my God. Yeah, I get good quality sleep from it. Anyway. I'm not that high. I'm maybe 1,200 to 1,400. It's in there somewhere. Okay. Well, I think that's good, guys. I think we did it. Leave us questions for the next show. Go to BodyBerry.com. Reach out to Andrew for coaching. Go to TeamSkip.com. Reach out to Skip. And, of course, go to TrueNutrition.com. Use our code THINK over there for all your basic bodybuilding supplements and SupplementSource.ca for Canadians. Guys, I am going to put up a new thread at Patreon. It'll actually probably already be up by the time that the show comes out. Comment with questions over there. And thank you for all your support for another episode of Blood, Sweat, and Gear. I will see you guys soon. And, Skip Andrew, appreciate you having you guys here, man. I feel like this is, to me, this is fun. I love hanging out with you guys and shooting the shit. And I'm glad that... Always cool. You know, I'm glad that it also educates people, too. Mm-hmm. Cool shirts. That's funny. It never gets old. How long have we been doing a podcast? I mean, really. You do. And I still look forward to it, and it's still fun. Good. Well, I'm glad that you have fun, too. Probably a good thing, because we've been doing it for a while. Will you guys start? Man, I don't... 16? Yeah, 15, 16 is what I'm thinking. Yeah. Because I know PED goes back to 13 or 12, maybe 13. Yeah, 12, 12. I bet somewhere in there. Because it was right before I got with Elite FTS, and I've been with Elite FTS for over 12 years. So, yeah, it's been a minute. Wear these shirts. All right. So, I'm just going to drop this topic on you, Skip, and I've got a couple. Just, we don't have to make it a big topic. We'll put it that way. I got to crack open this beer. Pabst. You got a beer over there? What's up, Dane? Dude, it was good seeing you, too, man. I don't drink anymore, just beer. Which, Dane? I don't even know Dane's last name. I just know him as Dane, and I know his face when I see him, which is good. I don't... I'm terrible with faces, and I didn't have my seeing eye, Victoria, with me for the Olympia. So, I seriously talk to people. I fucking don't know. It could be... Oh, man. I almost spit it out. I almost spit it out. You like that one? My seeing eye, Victoria. Damn, dude. That is money right there. Yeah. Have you ever had dinner... That's what you said, right? ...with a former client, and you didn't even realize that you coached them? Oh, yeah. Yeah, I actually... You, too. I think we had a workout. I don't think we did, but I had a workout with a guy. And he was a former client. Yeah. I was traveling, and he came to train with me. I was like, hey, if anybody wants to work out, you know, for the listenership. And then I figured it out afterward. Yes. I've got some embarrassing stories that I won't even tell publicly. Yeah. Yeah. I saw people that... I'm just terrible with it, man. I can see somebody, and they have a good physique, too, like a pro bodybuilder. I don't fucking... My brain doesn't... Like, I can see the physique. There's so many now. There's so many. It's no, dude. It's just my brain. It doesn't work right. No. Just being honest, man. I think it's all of us. Because I'm like, I know I know that guy. We've had conversations online on DMs, but I couldn't say your name if a gun was to my head right now. Skip met me in the elevators at Swiss. So bad. He's coming off the elevator. He's got his stuff with him, and I'm like... I think... I can't remember, but I'm getting on the elevator. You had a bell cart, right? Okay. I had the bell cart. I was going back down to take the bell cart down. I'm holding the elevator door for you. He was like, oh, here you go, brother. You know? He's like, oh, here you go, man. And I'm just standing there looking at him. He's looking at me. And I'm like, why are you looking at me? Like, do I know you? I can tell you didn't know who I was. It was so mortifying. This is like... Yeah, and we literally talked on the way there. You know? I just... You've not ever... Just recorded a podcast. I did. I went through an entire seminar. And it wasn't even a huge turnout. It was in the UK or something. And I asked the guy a question toward the end of the seminar. And he goes, well, you know, I work with you. I was in your mentorship program. I'm like, oh, no, I know. I'm just curious what... Like, I covered it well. But my wife told me later, she's like, you didn't know who that was. Just shut up. Just leave me... Like, I... And I know he knew. Even though no one else in the room knew. Like, I covered it well. But he knew. And it was just incredibly embarrassing. I've had... I don't know how many things happen like that. That it's very, very embarrassing. And how are you going to remember everybody? But I remember Dane. I remember Dane. And when I see Dane, I'm like, oh, it's Dane. Right, right. I don't know why. He's just... Did not recognize Scott in the oven. We weren't five feet apart. Yeah. Oh, God. Yeah. All right. I'll bring us in. I really have to pee. I'll hold it. Bye.