 Testosterone, testosterone, was a PED, testosterone, wasn't like developed as a PED, whereas I think with D-ball they really did like this. Yeah, they literally made to be a PED. Yeah, they literally made to be a PED. Yeah, so the story goes that the Russian coach had admitted they were having some problems with side effects. So part of the drive ran D-ball was to find an alternative that was less, giving less sides. Definitely, appetite for high estrogen drugs has waned significantly and as a result, D-ball has fallen out of favour. And they're still very usable, you just have to control the estrogen. It gives you an extra problem to manage, I appreciate that, but it doesn't make them unusable. It's fine as a standalone, and what's unusual as an oral is the fact that it does convert to estrogen, so you don't have that limiting factor of crashing estrogen, like three weeks on, three weeks off with an oral. So he might do the first three weeks, and then three weeks off, and then three weeks, and then three weeks off, and kind of pepper it throughout. What's up guys, welcome back to the podcast with Dave Crosland, I'm Scott McNally, and all of our programming is brought to you by evalbloodanalysis.com. If you're in the UK, you need to get some labs done and you can get that done by Dave. Go to evalbloodanalysis.com. You can go to Strom Sports Nutrition, check out their health stacks if you're in the US or the UK. Of course, check out truenutrition.com. Use our code THINK over there for 10% off all your orders. I just placed my latest order, got a bunch of their whey protein isolate, the cold filter, and I got the cookie butter flavor. Of course, we're brought to you by supplementsource.ca and by Patreon, guys. Thank you guys very much for your support over there. Dave, we've got some stuff I want to ask you at the end of the show about your truck. We've got some truck update stuff to talk about. But you know what I realized, man? So we've put up all sorts of shows. This is like our 293rd episode, if you can believe it or not. Some of those episodes, they aren't on the channel anymore. One of them that's not on the channel is our Deanna Ball profile. I want to bring D-Ball back. Let's make D-Ball great again and let's start it out by... Dude, D-Ball isn't popular anymore at all, is it, man? No. I think it's just gone off the back of... Everybody got terrified of estrogen. And I think D-Ball just sort of... You want to look good on the gram, you know? Yeah. All year long. I think D-Ball suffered because of that quite a lot. We definitely seem to have a lean in towards DHTs more than anything these days. You got to be hard and dry all year long. Got to look crazy. Like me. Hard and dry all year long, yeah. Yeah. So, D-Ball used to be 20 years ago, like, it was part of basically everybody's first, second, or third cycle. In fact, it was the first thing I ever took. We've talked about that before. Low-dose, D-Ball-only cycle really put on a lot of gains for me. And it was fast, man. D-Ball is a freaking fast compound. There's no weight for it to build up for six weeks down the road. You're cranking. I'm talking, man, like 10 days in. You're like, oh, yeah. I'm on the D-Ball. You know what I mean? With the old moon face. Yes. Yes. So, hey, listen. Let's start out with a little bit of kind of an understanding. Of D-Ball. So, we always go over the anabolic androgenic ratio, which we know, we've talked about every time that, you know, take it with a grain of salt for what it is. But what is the standard? Testosterone's the standard, and what's that? 100 to 100? 100 to 100. Yep. Okay. Okay. And where does D-Ball fit? No, it's a bit weird because, obviously, these ranges were derived from studies. And if there's varying results from the studies, there's varying ranges. So, in the case of D-Ball, it's 90 to 210 for an anabolic and 40 to 60 for an androgenic. Wait. That doesn't make sense to me. Well, basically, what he's saying is, it's a better anabolic action than it is an androgenic action. So, it's less likely to cause your anandrogenic-based sides and more driven towards putting muscle mass on than strength. But because there's been varying results in studies, they give it as a range for the two markers instead of a single value. Oh, I see. And that doesn't account for the side effects we can get from estrogen, right? No, and I think that might have something to do with where there's some variance on the range as well. Okay. But, I mean, it's based on testosterone. It is effectively methylated EQ. So, I've heard that before. But I can't find much written down to say that. When you look at the chemical structure, it's Bordelon-Undacilin-A with a 17-alpha methylation added. Okay. But it completely transformed the drug. So, it makes the drug into a completely different compound with no real bearing on its root, which is EQ. It aromatises like there's no tomorrow and it aromatises to a synthetic estrogen. Yeah. Which means it is extremely impacting, which is why it's got such a reputation for water retention, the moon phase blowing up everything else. In part, was part of its popularity because you've got this massive physical response, even though it wasn't always all muscle. Yeah. But at the same time, as people have become more image conscious publicly because social media booms and all that lot, it's become less and less popular because, you know, big round head doesn't always look that great. Yeah. Might be strong as an ox in the gym because of it, but it doesn't always make you look that great. So, yeah, it's lost some popularity over the years. Out of the orals, actually, it's one of those that is quite harsh on the liver. Hmm. The doses as low as 10 and 15 milligrams have shown to stress the liver, which you look at something like Anovar and you're probably not even going to notice it's in there at those sort of doses. Yeah. So, it's a bit stronger in that department. There's the Dr. Ziegler story, which I've been told is very questionable, but I like the story personally. I think it's quite a bit of fun. I pulled up, actually, I put together a timeline of all of that. So, I had some history. 1955 was when it was first created, Siba Pharmaceuticals over in Switzerland. And from what I understand, Ziegler was part of the story. He was friends with guys from the York Barbell team. And they went over to compete against, what was it? Worlds or something? I don't know. Yeah, World Paladin, yeah. Okay. So, everybody there noticed that the Russians in particular were bigger and more burly and noticeably, they said, hairier than everybody else. And they just wiped the floor with everybody. And from what I understand, what did he say the story was? That he got the Russian coach drunk. Coach pissed, yeah. Yeah, and they figured out that the Russians had been using testosterone. So, instead of just using testosterone, he wanted to figure out what would be another option, something like the next step, what would be better. And thus, what was it? 1955, Deanna Ball was formed. 1957 was where the first patent was actually solidified for commercial use. What were we going to say? Yeah, so the story goes that the Russian coach had admitted they were having some problems with side effects. Ah. So, part of the drive around Debo was to find an alternative that was less, giving less sides. Yeah. Um, I think originally, Ziegler was quoting doses of 5 to 15 milligrams a day. But obviously, you know, if one is good, five is fucking awesome. And he soon switched and became, within 10 years, he was very anti-doping. Uh, which is a bit ironic considering his involvement in the beginning. Yeah, before we got there, though, there was still a lot more stuff. So, 1958, Deanna Ball hit the U.S. market. It was officially launched at that point. And the U.S. weightlifting doctors and coaches began to notice its potential. So, that was 58. It says, uh, through then, like the Cold War influence, American sports doctors often linked the U.S. Olympic team as to using D-ball, uh, to compete against the Soviet lifters who, as we've mentioned, were experimenting with testosterone. Um, Deanna Ball became the first mainstream performance-enhancing drug, which, I mean, that in itself, man, is pretty freaking cool that D-ball was, like, the first look, because, you know, as we were talking about, you and I were talking before the show, testosterone wasn't, like, developed as a PED, whereas, I think with D-ball, they really did, like, this is literally made to be a PED. Yeah, the story goes, it is the first and only anabolic that's been developed purely for post-performance, or that was the drive behind it. I believe SIBA tried to pass it off as a treatment for dwarfism and a few other things. I don't know how well that stood. victims, osteoporosis, that stuff. Mm, yeah. And then, through the early 60s, powerlifters, Olympic lifters, and then early bodybuilders began to adopt it. They did have some tightened restrictions back in, like, 62, where they, they, they required more proof of safety and efficacy, which, I guess, there weren't as many standards up until that point. So, it did pass, but it passed with, like, restrictions, like, kind of like, we've got our INU type thing. And then, finally, in 65, it remained approved for osteoporosis, muscle wasting, and as you mentioned, pituitary dwarfism. But then, it really took hold in our sport, in bodybuilding, in the 60s and the 70s, the golden era bodybuilder, where testosterone, nandrolone, Indiana ball were kind of the classic stack. Finally, into the 70s, it was still widespread, and it even started spreading into football. And then, unfortunately, 83, SIBO discontinued D-ball. But, that said, it was still being, you know, released as a generic. At that point, the patent had gone out. And it wasn't until 1990 in the U.S. when it was actually then deemed, you know, part of the Steroid Control Act, thanks to Joe Biden. Which, by the way, Victoria found this interesting, just a side note, Dave, Victoria found this interesting little blurb, because Biden was really pushing for that Steroid Control Act. He was the guy who was responsible for it. And he had said that it was his fear that the use of these PEDs were going to lead to, they were going to be a gateway. They said, we've discovered that PEDs are a gateway to, you know, illicit drug use, comparing it to, like, if you start with D-ball, you're going to end with, heroin, call it heroin. Yeah. That was his premise as to why it needed to be made illegal. Isn't that crazy? Ironically, the reverse happens. What do you mean? It's actually quite common in opiate addiction that when they, well, maybe not common, it's probably maybe a bit too strong, but it's definitely not unheard of, that when they stop with that addiction, they often move to anabolics. Yeah. I mean, I'm a former recovering, you know, addict. And part of the drive is because they no longer want to look like a substance misuser, so anabolics offer a physical change, and obviously there's no fear around injection or anything like that because they're already fairly experienced in that. So... You'd be booting dope. You got no problem. Yeah, so within the UK in the harm reduction circles, they've seen this, not a massive group of people, but this group of ex-OPIT users that are moving into anabolics as a counter to try and, to some degree, make more positive steps with both the physical image and their health because they're now training and trying to live healthier and everything else. Yeah. So there were a couple more points that I had. Then from that point, the 1990s through the 2000s, that's where, at least in the US market, we all went to, like, veterinary compounds. You know, they had, like, the Tokyo, the Tokyo labs in Mexico. I think there was another one. I can't remember the... You guys, any of my old school guys that are watching, remind me, what were the two big labs out of Mexico that were making gear for us back in, like, the 90s, early 2000s? But then from there, Mexico, Thailand, Eastern Europe, all these underground labs, they were still doing it and they're literally still doing it to this day. Tie five milligrams used to buy them in a thousand tub. Were they five? Were they little hexagons? Yeah, these come in thousand tablet tubes. Pink ties. Yeah, yeah. They were 10, 10 milligrams. Oh, he's got the fives as well. Okay. I never had the big tub, but I had a little package that had been taken from that tub, like a hundred of them. You know what I mean? That's all I ever got my hands on. Those, you know what D-ball I never used and I always heard good things about were, do you remember the Blue Hearts? Mm-hmm. Yeah, I never used Deanna Ball Blue Hearts. They were 10 milligram. My best D-ball was my first D-ball and that was the Romanian Naposin D-ball. And I even got it in the box. I wish I still had that box to this day. It was in a little, they were in blister packs. They were very small white tablets that had a triangle on one side of them. If you guys ever come across those there, they're probably fake at this point. But I remember they had a, like a sweet taste, whatever buffer they had in there, if it was maltodextrin or what. But I remember if you chewed the tablet, it had like a sweet taste and dang, were those strong, man. I think I was taking three of those a day for four weeks. I had a hundred of them. Gained 20 pounds, kept 10 pounds of it. So yeah, that was that, man. So let's talk a little bit then about the side effects, which we touched on a little bit. I mean, this is one man that I feel like D-Ball was responsible for a lot of cycles when I was coming up in the early 2000s. It was also responsible for a lot of gyno. Do you feel like guys got gyno more frequently 20 years ago than they do today? That's a, that's a, oh, I'm not sure. So obviously estrogen is a high estrogen. Drive, and it's synthetic, so it's more impacting, it's stronger. But doses are generally higher, amateur-wise anyway, doses are generally higher now than they were 20 years ago. We are more understanding of estrogen now, so generally there is better control. people. I'm not sure because I think there was probably a little bit more respect for the drugs back then because you were driven by law, weren't you? So it was like, oh, you've got to be really careful with orals because your liver's going to fall out of your ass and you're going to die in horrible death if you don't. Yeah. You know, so there was all that sort of stuff that sort of kept you in check a little bit. But yeah, I mean, definitely the appetite for high estrogen drugs has waned significantly and as a result, D-ball has fallen out of favour. And they're still very usable. You just have to control the estrogen. It gives you an extra problem to manage. I appreciate that. But it doesn't make them unusable. It's just something else you have to manage. But what they are in the world of orals is they are actually one of the more suppressive, harsher orals than like, sort of like Anavar or Tibor. They, even at doses as low as 10 milligrams, they're like 70% suppressive where if you took 10 milligrams of Anavar as a male, you probably wouldn't see a significant suppression of your actual natural test. Yeah, a little bit, but it's not going to slam it whereas D-balls are very much more likely to shut you down. But I do think that some of that suppression is coming from the driven high estrogen as well because obviously that creates a suppressive loop as well. And they are quite stressful on the liver as well so they are one of the more un-liver friendly drugs that we have. So, you know, let's, so we've got estrogen so that's potentially gyno, that's potentially water retention. I've seen fluctuations in estrogen being responsible for acne so I think that that's a potential. Back when I first used it, we were not using AIs. AIs were kind of, they were there but they weren't as popular as they became five years later. we used Novodex to control estrogen by instead of, and I love this analogy I once heard, so if a Rimodex is basically closing the gate to the parking structure so you can't get the cars inside, Novodex is putting a cone in front of each parking space so you can still get in but you can't find a place to park so you still had that high estrogen, you, you still, you know, got like the crazy bloat, the crazy pumps but you, you know, you didn't eliminate that. I feel like, do you feel like, Dave, if you were to control estrogen from D-Ball with Novodex instead of a Rimodex, do you think that you could get better gains from that? Yes. Versus risking crushing your estrogen with an AI? Yes, I do. I think you'll get better gains, definitely strength gains, definitely performance gains. Obviously, the cosmetic look won't be great but it all depends on where your mind is with what you're wanting. Are you, some people are very bothered about the journey, other people are only bothered about the result. So... Also, dude, your diet, man, diet is huge. If you control your sodium intake, if you're eating a clean diet, let's say you gain like 10 legit pounds of water, you're on it for four weeks, 10, you know, four weeks later, that water comes off, dude, it's not like you're any different, you know what I'm saying? Other than the strength that you gain, the muscle you can gain from that strength. Yeah, I think, like I said, I think people these days are much more concerned with the journey to the point sometimes that it's the detriment of the result. Oh, yeah. Whereas, I'm old enough now to have gone through a period of anabolic use where you put up with whatever shit you dealt with because that's what you put up with to get the end result. to our detriment back then. Yeah, well, yeah, I'm not saying it was a good thing, I'm just saying that it was what you did, you know. To a degree, I think that there's a benefit to that, you know, find a balance in the middle, right? Yeah, and I think back then it was you complained about, you know, I'm feeling low or I'm feeling this or whatever, but I'll shut the fuck up and get on with it. It's just what happens, you know. You want to grow, you've got to put up with it. Whereas now, I think we've probably gone a little bit too far the other way where we're hypersensitive to this and we want everything to be fluffy bunnies and flowers and sunlight days and it's like, fuck it about with your hormones, mate. There's a strong chance you're not always going to have that, but not to the extreme of where it was of put up and shut up. So I think there is a balance to be had. Whether we're there or we're going to get there, God knows. I think with some people we are, but I think there's still people that can be quite sensitive to what in some cases is, you know, it's just what it is, mate. I'm just, you know. The gratification is the term that I like to consider, you know, that we, you know, that like I've got a guy right now, he's two weeks out from nationals and he's a little bit flat, but the reason he's a little bit flat is because we're just etching in that last little bit of fat off of him, you know, and could he look better right now this minute? Absolutely. If we just threw some more carbs in, right, he would look fantastic and he would look great all the way from now to the show, but we can do that in another week and he can continue to lose fat right now. So it's like, you know, in his case, he's going to be a little bit flat for the week, but we're going to fill him out later, delay the gratification. You're going to hold water for that four weeks of dbol, but delay the gratification, use that strength, use the anabolism of that compound, grow as much as you freaking can and then bust your ass to hold on to all the muscle when you come off of it, you know? Dorian's attitude was very much of it doesn't matter what I look like until I step on stage. Yeah. Because he used to get criticized for being big and fat and heavy in the offseason. It's like, who cares? It's what I look like on stage. It's my business. Yeah. And he very much disappeared in between competitions. He wasn't one for, I mean, all right, social media wasn't as big then, but he still wasn't one for a big presence outside of competing. And then he turned up on the day and obviously did the damage. Yeah. Yeah. All right. So, employing dbol, let's talk about that real quick then. How do we see it employed in a cycle? Well, I think you can employ it. It would work well in customer service. Obviously, you'd need a good contract for its employment and good hourly rate. I think the employment of dbol is very much based on the goal. It's fine as a standalone and what's unusual as an oral is the fact that it does convert to estrogen. So, you don't have that limiting factor of crashing estrogen with dbol as a standalone drug. So, it's one of the orals that actually works well as a standalone. The toxicity side is still a bit on the higher side so I would probably limit exposure six, eight week. I've said numerous times I like orals at the back end of cycles so that if they do start affecting appetite and things like that, you're not destroying the rest of the cycle. You can pull them out and the cycle job done. Yeah. Dosing wise, it, you know, would depend on you, level of development, where you are. It's effective at as low as 10, 15 milligrams. I think most people are going to be between the 30 and 60 milligrams sort of range with it. I don't see much point in going higher than that. Yeah. I see a lot of 25 and 50 milligram tests nowadays. Yeah, that would make sense to me. Yeah, yeah. somewhere in there. And I would see 25 as being even plenty in that six week window, right? You know, like in conjunction with something else, assuming that you already have some experience, let's say it's the last four weeks or, you know, what Skip likes to do is that he'll go like three weeks on, three weeks off with an oral. So he might do the first three weeks and then three weeks off and then three weeks and then three weeks off and kind of pepper it throughout. Wow. I mean, I've done stuff like that in the past. In fact, back when IGF LR3 was more of a thing and we were experimenting with it more, I might have done three weeks of D-ball or injectable D-ball, taken three weeks off of that and done three weeks of IGF, then three weeks off of that to do three weeks of D-ball and rotate those two things throughout the course of a 16 week prep or diet. Yeah, I could see that working. Definitely could see that working. Like it's something like that. But I'm with you, maybe tail end and then what about like a one-off as a pre-workout? I got to tell you, man, I'm a big fan of a little D-ball pre-workout. Never done it personally. I've used Oral's pre-workout and never used D-ball pre-workout so I can't speak from experience but it's, yeah, it should be fine. I don't see, if anything, it should run itself quite well to that experience to be fair. Also, with the way it works in both tests and estrogen, it should actually be quite handy as a pre-workout. One thing I just remembered and I don't want to forget is when we talk about holding that water, check your blood pressure, guys. That's an important one, right? Check your blood pressure, make sure that's good and I would suggest checking your blood pressure first thing in the morning and then mid-afternoon when you tend to be busy and then check it again in the evening but, you know, just keep in mind though that training is going to change that. You know, if you get done training at 7 p.m. and you go and check your blood pressure at 7.30, it might not be an accurate reflection. Yeah, I think with blood pressure as well, it needs to be averaged out so you need multiple, working on a single check or a couple of checks is not ideal with blood pressure. Different times of day, different environments and look at averages because it is going to fluctuate. Yeah. Hey, Mickey's Workshop, I'll check my email and get back to you. Is there anything else? Right, can you keep your shit in order please and not have it spilling over into the show? Come on, sort your shit out. Why did I chew the D-ball tabs? Yeah, why didn't you start? Because I wanted to work faster, Dave. Why didn't you put it up your bum then? Well, I wasn't that committed, I guess. You know, I just wasn't, I wasn't there yet. What is normal blood pressure? 160 over 100. No, that's hypertension, sir. Yeah. That is not normal. No, that's not normal. I would say you want to be 120 over 60 would be okay and fairly reasonable somewhere around those sort of marks. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, and last but not least, I want to add one more thing too. Is this a compound commonly used with females? My answer would be no. D-ball is not because we do get asked. Guys are, you know, women who listen to the show are like, can you talk about how these things apply to females? D-ball is not a steroid that I would commonly employ, Dave, into a females program. No, I mean, if you're looking for dosing guidance, it is generally guarded at like 2.55 milligram for females if it was to be used, but it's definitely not a common switch. Yeah. All right. Well, I think we, I think we covered that one pretty good, man. I think, uh, it's not a popular compound, but maybe, you know, we'll bring it back, you know? Let's, let's ring Siba. Can we call Siba and see if they have any plans? Is there a number that we can call Siba and find out, Dave? Is Siba still around, I guess. Is that a, my next question? You know, I don't actually know. All right. Well, listen, we do have a bunch of listener questions and you guys are welcome to comment in the, uh, the stream here or comment on this episode and we will tackle your questions in the next one. Dave, we got a lot of really good feedback, uh, from the, uh, the previous episode with, uh, with Nathan Stiles. Good. Check your WhatsApp. Um, I'm asking Scott if he wants to do something without asking him on the show in case he doesn't want to touch it because it's a bit sensitive. I don't, I don't know about this. Don't you? Oh, okay. Outside of Dave Palumbo, there is nobody who has podcasted longer than me in the hardcore bodybuilding space and as a result, I've kind of become that guy, you know, like the podcast dad that everybody reaches out to when they want to start a new show. Well, recently I partnered with this company, Mayano, and I've been testing out their microphone, the PD200. And honestly, I've been super happy with it. It kind of exceeded my expectations, especially given the price. Right now, I am totally wireless. It's a feature I didn't think I was going to enjoy as much as I do. You can also plug it into your phone. So you've got the same great sound on both your computer and your mobile device. You can also plug it in with USB-C or XLR and the whole experience has been easy. I literally just plugged it in and started recording. The batteries lasted forever. I've been recording for the last month. I've only charged it twice. And as I already alluded to, the price is really good. So if you're looking for a new microphone, I give it my seal of approval. In fact, I would buy this over the $1,000 setup that I normally use to be completely frank. Plus, it comes with a stand. So you're set to go. It's all you need. I've got a link in the description. They're having holiday sales. If you need a new mic, this is a great way to go. No, what is it? Tell me. So the world's strongest woman is a man. What? So they've been disqualified. Somebody called Jami, can't remember the last name, entered world's strongest woman, did not declare that they were transgender and born male, and has subsequently been disqualified. And Andrea's been given it. Andrea? Yeah. Yeah, Andrea Thompson, I think the last name is. Okay. But retrospectively, which is a bit of a bummer because she doesn't get to stand on the podium and get the award and all that crap. But yeah. Yeah, I haven't heard anything about this. No, this has been all over my feed this week. Okay. So British strong woman Andrea Thompson has said that she was robbed of her winning moment after being retroactively crowned the world's strongest woman when it emerged that the original competition was a transgender woman who was ineligible to compete. Huh. Okay. Yeah, with a 400 pound bloke. Wow. Interesting, man. No, I haven't heard anything about that though. So was this Jamie? Was that Jamie Booker? I don't know if it's Jamie or Jammie because it's double M, isn't it? So I found it a bit of an unusual spelling. But yeah, so they didn't declare it. They have been in treatment for an extended period of time, I believe, but they were male for quite a number of years. So it isn't like a pre-pub. From the time they were born, you mean? No, but what I mean is they went through puberty, they had the testosterone boost, you know, they'd been experiencing high. You would have some argument if someone of eight, nine year old started hormone therapy to change their sex. And I'm not saying this is right in any way, but I think it's not. But you could argue that they didn't have such a major advantage because they'd always been in a high estrogen, low testosterone environment. But when someone goes through puberty and lives life as a full-blown male for a few years, that argument goes out the window. So irrespective of what estrogen suppression, sorry, what testosterone suppression or estrogen you've had, it's not going to do those pubesic changes that you've gone through. But anyway, yeah, this individual didn't declare it. I do believe it was caught up on pretty quickly. I think by the point at the end of the competition there was suspicion. Huh. What, Thompson said none of our fellow athletes suspected Booker it was transgender until 3 a.m. on Monday when they were allegedly sent explicit videos and images. It was coming from an adult entertainment website. Oh, I didn't know that. That way, very explicit pictures and videos of this person, which then obviously put her gender into question. Huh. They were horrified when they found out and they did call me quite early in the morning to say, we're shocked, we're going to investigate. Yeah, I do think as well that apparently there'd been a lot of support for him throughout the competition. So I think everyone felt quite cheated in the sense not just that what had happened but the fact that it'd been hidden and everything else. Yeah. Yeah, and I guess that just goes to show, man, that honesty is the best policy, right? If, if, you know, you might get caught up in some sort of situation that's going to look bad on you, just get it out of the way, out in the gate and, you know what I'm saying? If they tell you you can't compete, then okay, but if you go in there you kind of hold the wool over everybody's eyes by, you know, omitting that one little fact. I don't agree in transgender being, you know, with the chosen sex. I believe it should be a separate character, category. category. Well, we know, I mean, we looked at, remember we had Alex Piquet on the podcast and he was doing research on basically, what was it with androgen receptors that we will upregulate those receptors with androgens? Like, like basically, satellite cell proliferation was what he was going on about. The fact that the satellite cells remain active for an extended period of time after an increased testosterone exposure. Thank you. Yeah, so you would think then that a male, biological male's testosterone is going to have a massive effect on how their body develops and that you can't, you can't. No, you can't. I mean, like I said, it is much more significant if they go through puberty, but even without puberty, bone structure and all that stuff, as someone in the chat has pointed out, and yes, I agree completely, bone structure, lung capacity, hip shape, hip structure, all those will still be different, but the impact post-puberty is significantly higher, but it's, at the end of the day, I personally feel that there should be a separate category for people who are transgender that want to compete. Unfortunately, I don't think there's enough numbers to make that happen, but there's an outright deception when you don't declare that in a female-based competition that you were previously male. You know, you don't do that by mistake. No, yeah, they didn't slip. I don't, oh, sorry, yeah, shit, I forgot I was born a bloke. Yeah, so anyway, like I said before, Dave, we've got a bunch of listener questions and these guys, they're welcome to comment, and by the way, if you get the chance to hit a hype button for any of our shows, please do, the hype button is elusive, it apparently doesn't show up on all of our episodes, Dave. I feel like you, maybe you might be responsible for that, they see your name and they don't give us the opportunity to hype our shows, so Dave, guys, is keeping us down, that's what it comes down to, now he's just emailing people and talking to his friends while we're going to do a podcast. I am, because I don't like you, you're wearing that fucking shirt again. Thank you, and you're wearing your house coat, so there, it's a house coat, Dave. It's a floofy! It's a, it's, it looks like my bathroom rug, it looks like the bathroom rug at my grandma's house, or it looks like that, you ever see those toilet seat covers? There's like a plush, carpeted toilet seat cover, that's what that looks like to me. At least it doesn't look like a 25 year old donkey blanket. That's good. That's good. That's good. All right, listen, listener questions, here we go. Love the show, guys. I'm currently running 400 test, 200 EQ. What would you suggest to add size? Obviously, more calories, but what about other PEDs? Nupapa. What? Nupapa. NPP. Oh, I thought you said no, Papa. Nuh, Papa. Nuh, Papa. Nup. Nup. Yeah, we could just call it Nup. Nup. Add in some Nup. Yeah, that would be actually a nice combo. How would you run that, though, if you're already at, like, it's kind of low dose, right? 400 test, 200 EQ. I'd inject it. How much? Per week? All of it. I'd probably look at, from where his current dosing is, I'd probably look at something like 50 to 75 milligram three times a week. Yeah, okay. Yeah, that's not much, but. No, but he's not, he's not doing a lot full stop, is he? So, I mean, let's, let's not be sticking 400 milligram MEPP in a total cycle dose of 600. Yeah. That's a big jump. Yeah, I'd go with that, man. I'd be with that. You know, also, too, I could also just see, instead of adding more compounds, increasing the current doses. Yes, definitely. You've got a lot of room to go up with, you know, we kind of talked about that dose curve a couple weeks ago, where, like, eventually, you keep taking more, it doesn't, you know, equate to, you know, two times the gains, taking two times the gear. But I feel like at 400 test, 200 EQ. Oh, he's got loads of ceiling, yeah. Yeah, you could go up to, say, 500 test and 300 EQ. And, like, that in itself is going to do a lot. Or, 600 test, 400 EQ. Or, you could add in D-Ball. You could add in D-Ball. Hmm. There you go. Let's bring D-Ball back. Let's make D-Ball great again, Dave. Are you going to get a t-shirt with that one? They used to have a t-shirt that said, D-Ball breakfast. Breakfast of champions. I would like to have had one of those. That would have been a good shirt. I'm still waiting for me dropping log shirt. Dropping logs. Yeah. Yeah, we need to, we need somebody to get on that, don't we? Yes, Scott, you do. Great video as usual. Dave, would you mind mentioning your opinion on the next video on 400 milligrams a test, 660 milligrams of DECA, and 700 EQ. All of these doses are per week. I was going to run a two to one of test to EQ, but I believe that with the DECA in there, there isn't a need to keep test super high. P.S. I'll be booking bloods soon from Huddersfield. Regards. Oh, cool boy. Huddersfield. It is a decent cycle, is that? I mean, what are we at total about? 1.6? Yeah. Maybe two? 1.76. Yeah, the 660 is a bit weird, but I'm presuming that's something to do with the dosing of the DECA, so it's just keeping it in full mils. EQ might be a little bit high. Yeah. The DECA's not going to aromatise anywhere near as much as tests, so it's not going to need anywhere near as much management. You're probably going to need proactive management with that, so I would suspect you might be reaching for cable on that one. Obviously, a lot depends on level of development, previous experience, and everything else, but you are definitely going to have to keep an eye on HEMO. That is a fair whack of EQ, and it is definitely going to drive, but I think you might actually need to bring the EQ down a little bit. I think it might be a bit high, and it might crash things a bit. Yeah, I'm with you, man. Dude, we're seeing people talk about like a two-to-one test EQ not being enough, you know, tests. They're getting crashed on that, man. Yeah, I agree. I've seen, all right, there's probably a bit of an exception, but I've seen 500 tests only require 100 EQ in a few people. Not a lot, but just the odd one or two, but yeah, for most people, it does seem two to one or even slightly less is where they need to be. Yeah. my, so not knowing anything about estrogen's relationship to EQ, my high-end, high-high-end dosing was 1.25 grams a test with 800 EQ, and at that dosing, I never had any issues with estrogen. But you don't have it. Is that like a three to two, something like that? Yeah, but you didn't know if it was too low or not, did you? You just, No, I didn't. I really didn't, you know, because I didn't get tested for estrogen while on. We tested, like, I have a question that came into my brain today, and this has just reminded me of it. Yes, Dave, question. Yes, it's a question for the class. Traditionally, we used to state that EQ needed to be 600 or more in a cycle. Well, that was a very common belief for UK based. I don't know if it was the same. I remember that. Yeah. And we were also very heavy on EQ was a really slow burner, took ages to build up in the system to get results. Yeah. Do you think that that may be because we misunderstood how effective EQ was at lowering estrogen, and as a result, we needed much higher doses of anabolics or much longer experience to get the results? And it isn't that EQ is a slower burner, it's just that we were taking too much of the shit and slamming our estrogen through the floor. That's possible, man. You know, that's actually, I think, very possible. The more you think about it, the more it seems to make some sense, doesn't it? Yeah. Yeah. I mean, it is a super long aster, so it is going to take six weeks to build up to your peak levels, though, of course, we all know at this point that, you know, the steroid is going to work from the minute you take it. Like, it's active, right? It's just not built up yet. But we used to talk about EQ needing eight, 10, 12 weeks, you know, 16-week, 20-week cycles for it to be effective and no less than 600 milligrams. that's when I would see the results, too. Yeah. That's when I would see the results. It was never like that first month. It was like eight weeks in, you'd look in the mirror and be like, oh, shit, yeah, I see it. So I wonder if that was because oestrogen was over-suppressed and we were having to compensate for that with time and dosing. You know, you might be on to something with that, actually. Hmm. Yeah. Anyway, I'll move on. Sorry. It was just something that dropped into my head today and you reminded me of it. According to the sparking with us, you said that actually makes perfect sense. That's why the first few weeks it seems like not a lot is happening when in reality it is happening but we're crushing the oestrogen which flattens us out. Yeah. I think that's actually a really good point, man. You might be on to something there. Every once in a while, Dave, you think of something that's good. Every once in a while. That's it for 2025. I'm done. Thank you. Good night, Mike Drop. Yeah. So I wonder with this guy, man, I feel like with 700 EQ and 400 tests, like DECA aside, man, that's going to crush his... Yeah, I think that's going to be too negative. I think the EQ needs to come down significantly. I mean, even as low as 400. Or the test needs to come up significantly. Yeah, but I would rather always go on a lower way if it's still effective than go higher for the sake of it. I mean, we might be looking at bringing tests up to a gram to balance that level of the EQ out and MPP or DECA. So that's not a small jump. That's another 600 milligrams. Yeah. So I think I would consider the EQ coming down. Yeah. I'm with that totally, man. But then at the same time, he's going to have to watch for estrogen issues. I found for me and for the people I've worked with that I'm more likely to keep Nandrolone in check as long as my estrogen is managed. If we start getting to that, like if we get to that point where he's not crushing estrogen, then I wonder how is that going to interact with 660 DECA? I think it'll be all right, personally. Okay. Let's see what else we've got here. Good morning, guys. This is my first question. Okay. I have applied a lot of your shows to ease into using PEDs. Oh, God. Oh, yeah. Thoughts on a budget off-season cycle. 41 years old. He's been on legit TRT for years. Added 100 milligrams of test sip for four weeks. Adding Anadrol at 50 milligrams a day for four weeks. And Trend Ace at 100 milligrams for four weeks. 12-week recomp cycle designed on a budget. Thoughts? And Dave is my spirit animal. Love the show. Are you a spirit animal, Dave? What? Warthog? I think we need to drop the Trend Ace, personally. Yeah. I'm with you. 100%. I see where you're going here. I'm not comfortable with the Trend Ace. But I think I would more tend to bring the test up a bit higher as well. So he's on legit TRT. Let's just say it's 150 for the sake of the conversation per week. And he said he added 100 milligrams of test sip for four weeks. So he's at 250 test sip. and he says he is adding. He doesn't say he added it. He's going to add in Anadrol at 50 milligrams a day for four weeks. That is all he needs, man. If you were to up that test a little bit more, 300, like that in itself would be good. But that and the Dural, dude, that's a lot. Yeah. I mean, I'd only be tempted to just go, look, just go 400 fucking tests and drop the Dural and just do that, you know, and that's it done. But definitely I wouldn't be putting training, not at this point in his usage career. Yeah. Yeah, 400 tests, man, and he could run that for, you know, a more extended time. Why throw in Anadrol? It's going to mess up your appetite. It's going to bloat you up. You know, throw off all your health markers. You know, HDL is going to get screwy. Liver values are going to get screwy. Why are you going to do all that to yourself over the next four weeks and then basically get to the point where now you just got to end things and recover versus if he just upped the test to 400 and left it at that, he could do that for another, you know, eight, ten weeks. Yeah, well, even just eight if he's a bit unsure. You know, the thing is you're going to get a, obviously, you're going to get a regulation in performance and growth by increasing, but you're going to be four weeks in and you're probably going to take a couple of weeks to get into the swing of things. It's not a long cycle and I definitely, personally, I would be reluctant to do a cycle shorter than six weeks. I just think it's not worth what you're doing for what you're getting out of it. I'm with you. All right, question for the next show. Does gear help with nutrient partitioning of excess fat equally as well as it helps with carbs for minimizing fat gain in a surplus? Thanks. We only have so many triglyceride stores in the muscle, so once you fill that up, like, the excess calories, I think, are, in my opinion, unneeded. I think insulin sensitivity and insulin response and blood glucose and that side of things is very significant in this. the better your insulin sensitivity, the more of an excess you can push as long as it's clean and shit food, shit food, don't worry, you got it. As long as it's clean and have less of a risk of excess fat. But, yeah, I mean, there's only a point in there, you know, you get so much excess and then if you start going above that, one, it's a waste of food and two, what else is your body going to do with it? It cannot use so much and the rest has to go somewhere. But definitely insulin sensitivity plays a significant role in fat accumulation on when you push it. Yeah. And we don't have to really worry about like, fats are not storing directly as fat, but they are increasing your calorie surplus, which in turn will increase your storage of fat. And they will blunt sensitivity as well if they're too high. So that was why I was talking about the insulin stuff. Okay. A lot of times I found that, well, that's a other type. Let me ask you something else. You kept your fats fairly low when you were in your biggest push, right? Like you, you've leaned more into protein and carbs, right? Yeah. And I find that guys can generally tolerate more carbs if the fats are low. Not everybody, but a lot of people will do really good. If you cut those fats down real low and you're trying to grow, you can handle more carbs and you'll stay hungry. It keeps the satiety down. You're not getting as full. My standpoint is you're either your carbs is your energy source or fats is your energy source. You can't have both. Yeah. I'm not a big believer in this sort of keto-esque approach on rest days, you know, high fat, low carbs on rest days. I prefer to keep the carbs and fats consistent. We need fats for digestion. We need fats for enzyme production. But obviously, when we're not producing hormones, a large amount of our fat cholesterol that we would use is redundant because we're not using it to create hormones with anymore. Yeah. But fats create the base for a lot of our enzyme production and hormone production. So they are necessary, but I think you'll get much better use out of an energy source that your body likes, i.e. carbohydrate-based, than you will out of an energy source that your body doesn't naturally use unless it's pushed into, converting to using. You're not going to jump from fats and carb sources as energy sources sort of, you know, boom, boom, boom, boom. You don't have to swap across. So I'm very reluctant for high fats or higher fats. They can come in useful if somebody's struggling with calorie intake because they're denser, but you're going to slow gut transit down with fats. You're going to slow those processes down a little bit. So it can be a bit of a plus or minus situation where, yeah, I've got more dense calories but I'm slowing the rate at which I'm pushing food through the body. That can help if you've got absorption issues and you're not absorbing stuff. It gets a little bit longer in the system, gives more chance to get shit out of it. But obviously that means you get this almost backup effect where your appetite is going to start against the breast slightly because you're using fats. So I've always preferred a moderately low fat, high carb, high protein. And even carbon protein I'd be probably 60 carb, 40 protein, slightly more if you're really pushing the food up on the carbs because there's only so much protein you fucking need at the end of the day. True. Yeah. Yeah. I'm with all that 100%. And I've seen it time and time again that if we dial the fats down and we keep that protein up and then we fill that diet in with carbs to reach our goals that people can handle way more carbs. So many times people are like, God, I can't believe I'm eating this much and I'm still hungry. And that's, I hear that and I'm like, as a coach, that's exactly what I want. Yeah, that's what you want. You want a metabolism open, running high and hard because you get an excess of nutrition, but because your metabolism is run at a higher rate, you're burning calories at a higher rate. So I've got loads of spare material to grow with, but not at the cost of loads of calories sitting there that I can't use. Yeah. Yeah. All right. Thanks for the podcast, guys. I have a question. What do you think about low test, high trend cycles? I've been doing it low test with high trend, 150 to 200 tests with 400 to 500 trend E cycles, managing estrogen with arimidex. Right now, I'm doing 50 milligrams of test e every other day and 100 milligrams of trend E every other day and one milligram of arimidex every other day as well. I'm a high E2 converter. Any suggestions to manage the cycle better? I find fine, even though I convert E2 a lot feels like overkill using one milligram of arimidex with 50 milligrams of test e. Sending regards from Turkey. I suspect, young man, that you are seeing trends showing as estrogen on your bloods and you think your estrogen is high when it's not because I have never experienced anyone that requires that level of arimidex for that level of test, ever. And that's in five years and tens of thousands of bloods. so I suspect that the problem here is that you're getting high E2 readings because the trend is showing as E2 and you're actually crashing your estrogen quite significantly. That is all things being equal and the arimidex being legit, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. I've made no secret I'm not a fan of trend. I've made no secret it's a very powerful drug but I think the cost of it is expensive in that when it does go wrong it goes permanently wrong and when the anxiety starts and the paranoia starts you may find you're stuck with it for the rest of your life. Yeah. Dosing isn't super high and general dosing overall is on the lower end but it's not something that I would be leaning into on a regular basis if I'm honest. I'm assuming that your choice here is because you feel that estrogen management is difficult so you want a low test base so you've got low estrogen and then you want something that doesn't aromatise to top that up and obviously trend is a very powerful drug. But I think there may be more to the picture than you realise and it might be worthwhile just getting a sensitive so you can see where your E2 really is. If it's available in Turkey I don't know if it's available in Turkey to be honest. I know it's not easily available over here so it might be difficult to get. I wonder if he's getting all that stuff from a Turkish pharmacy. Can you do that? You probably can't get trend at a Turkish pharmacy. It's a veterinary drug so you'd have to get it from a vet supplier. I wonder man. I'm not even sure. Is it available as an injectable as a veterinary drug or is it only available as a pellet? That's a good question. If it's not it should be. I don't honestly know. Have you ever been to Turkey? Yes once. Really? What did you go there for? Holiday. Oh okay. Not my cup of tea. No? No. Country's beautiful and everything but it's not my cup of tea. A lot of people from Europe go there as a cheaper getaway don't they? Yeah it's good value for money and everything else. The touristy trade is very heavy sell. It kind of reminds me of what we think of as Cancun or used to think of. You know what I mean? People from the US used to go to Cancun for spring break because it was cheap and before that it was Acapulco back in the 80s. Yeah I mean the thing with Turkey is I like the country I like the cuisine I've got no issue with any of that but you go around the market and you're just getting battered constantly. I'll buy this buy this buy that it's like just fuck off leave me be. You know I mean if I wanted to buy some I'd be talking to you. So that side of it puts me off a little bit. You know I'm quite happy to wander around local markets but I just want to wander around and I don't want the store keeper coming at me and follow me down the street trying to flog me as fake night trainers or something. Yeah I bet oh man yeah I'd like to see what that's all about go to a Turkish bazaar. It's full on. Yeah I can imagine. All right what else do we have here? I know we had a few more. Good morning guys this is oh wait I already got this one. Okay. Equipoise is extremely aggressive. My estradiol was crushed when I ran it with testosterone at a two to one ratio and I ditched it 2.5 months in. For people who do not aromatize heavily they can get away with a three to one or even a four to one when it comes to test EQ ratio. I think for most it should never be run at a one to one. I've not seen anyone sorry I have seen someone as low as four to one yes but I think that's a bit more of a rarity than a commonality but he's definitely powerful shit. Yeah yeah we're seeing that more and more man I I would say I'm good with I think that a lot of people can handle say like 450 test 300 EQ so it I guess a two to one or what what is that two to what would you call that that's like a three to two hmm you're not good on your ratios today. No I'm just picturing pieces of pie in my head. Right so what were the doses 250 400 400 to three excuse me 450 to 300 so that's a 450 to 300. Yeah three to three to two 4.5 to three 4.5 to three yeah okay we'll take that. It's not quite three to two. Just divide it down from the two doses so. Yeah yeah four to three yeah okay. Because you got 450 you just you just slightly yeah you know if it was four you before the three and if it was it's it's not quite three to two it's slightly off. Yeah yeah four to three I think that's a good place to be I think most people do all right with that but you've got some people man I work with this one guy he's running like 750 tests right now and he doesn't need any AI at all like none. Imagine if he put 450 tests in. Is he using calcium degluconate with that because you like you like that don't you so he's not even using that either. Yeah. Fuck me is he super lean. He's pretty lean. He's pretty lean. He stays pretty lean too like no matter how hard I push his food. He trains hard too so there is that. What's he like on normal ranges? What's his E2 like when he's like you know a test level of low. Low. So it is naturally very low then yeah. Yeah yeah he always runs low on tests which isn't necessarily going to be good for your cholesterol long term you know what I'm saying. No it's not. Yeah I mean a lot of people oh that's amazing actually no that might not be that could actually be some long term problems. Yeah. All right I think that's all we had here for questions. So guys Dave's foot doesn't feel good. He's been walking around in crutches. No my foot's better now. Your foot's better now? No my hand's fucked. Okay. We gotta you gotta take care of yourself Dave. We need you to. It's getting better. It's not as swollen as it was. I don't know if you can see. You can see it's a bit swollen there. Yeah. So that finger that's that that's all I've got with that finger. I can't do anything else. Can't grip with it or anything. Oh jeez. I just saw a thing a video of the guy with the world's largest hands and he does arm wrestling. It was crazy. His hands look like balloons and it was like a big baseball mitt. Has he got arm wrestle that guy? Has he got really big forearms as well as he does. A bit of a giantism going on in his arms. Yeah but then they they so they did research on it and on him and like they can't figure out what it is. It's it's not the giantism or what what's what's the word. Acronomaly or something. Yeah. Yeah. Acromegalia. He doesn't have that but his two hands forearms are definitely kind of suspect. Like you can't put a watch on. Is you can't get a watch band around his hand and then one foot is big. So he has like one foot is an 11 size 11 US. The other foot is a size 17 US. Was he made by spare parts bin? Is that what went out? I guess. But he's like freak status. You know what I mean? Like if you see him you're like oh shit. He can't get his hand around a regular dumbbell. It doesn't fit in the handle. Fuck it. That's a big hand. Yeah he's tried to do like the like they have like heavy dumbbells that are famous that people try to lift but like he can't do it because he can only do it with like three fingers. That's a big hand. Yeah. Yeah. I couldn't imagine man. Hey so you went to Holland. Yes. Took your took your little truck over there huh? Yes. Went to Zandervoort race course which used to be a Formula One track until somebody died. Oh. And then they lost the Formula One status. Okay. Which is about an hour, hour and 20 minutes north of Rotterdam near Amsterdam on the it's right on the coast. And there was I'm not even going to attempt to say the company name. Well I'll try to be there. Well there's something like that. It's a Dutch ram dealer. Okay. And two years ago they did an attempt to break the world record for the biggest number of rams in one place. which is surprisingly low. It's only about 450. And they had 700 and odd turn up. The guy, this fucking made me a laugh. So they had a guy who was supposed to be officiating from the Guinness World Records. And I believe you have to pay for this official to come out and everything. Okay. And this guy wasn't from the Guinness World Records. And he, he, so they did this meet and he was, he was fraudulent. And as a result, they didn't get a gold record. And this thing you just did? This was two years ago in 23. Oh, okay. So they've done it, done it again in 25. Obviously trying to be this time legit. Legit this time. Now there's two records. There's one on the Neuroberger Inn for the biggest number of pickups gathered in one place. Okay. And then there's this record for the Rams. So the Ram record I think was 450, 470. And the world record is just over a thousand for number of pickup trucks. Okay. And I think it was 1180 something that turned up. So you guys beat both records. Smashed it. Absolutely smashed it. So we got the ferry Saturday night. Landed in Rotterdam Sunday morning at nine o'clock. Drove up to the racetrack. Yeah. I had arranged to pick up some parts while I was there. So I got them. But other than that, we basically entered the racetrack. Ended up stuck in a massive queue for three hours. Came off. Said hello. Oh, God. And then drove and got back on the ferry and came back. So unfortunately, it was a bit of a victim of its own success. It was that effing busy that you didn't really get to do much. But they're talking about developing it into an annual event or a biannual event where they're going to have more stuff going on. But it was still a good train. It was still fighting. But yeah, it was mental. Absolutely nuts. Never seen so many trucks in my life. I'm just looking this up because I'm fascinated. I'm going to say Rotherdam to Yorkshire. I want to see what those directions look like. Wow. OK, so it's a nine hour trip. Does that sound right? No, 12 hour ferry. 12 hour ferry. OK. From Hull to Rotterdam. You went to I see you can get across in Dover. Yeah. So I went because where I live north of England, Hull's only an hour and a half away from me. So I drove to Hull. Is that by Harwick? No, that's Harwich. That's down south. We're going further north. Oh, OK. It's tough. Oh, I see Hull. Yeah. OK. Yeah, I see. So it's telling me that I would go down to what's what's the city Hallwick and cross over there for a nine hour. You would, but you'd have a six hour drive to get to Harwich. Oh, it's six hours. And that's almost in London with traffic. Yeah. It's near Ipswich. It's about six hours with traffic. It's the other side of Colchester. So Hull just made more sense because we could just work as normal, set off Saturday afternoon. You're right there. You get on the ferry and most of it's going to be a ferry ride. You don't even have to drive at that point. No, no. You just park up and the ferry's got a couple of restaurants and bars and stuff. But you get on, got something to eat, went to bed, woke up and where we need to be. You know, so you sort of you lose the travel time because it's when you're sleeping. So, you know, you're not you don't feel like you're traveling because you're asleep. So that's why I like it. Yeah. But it was a funny time. Yeah, it seems like it would be fun. I've got back. I've sent the truck down to my mate's garage to have the lights fitted. And he's just messaged me today to tell me that I've got no MOT. So it's like, oh shit. So I need to get that on. It's a safety certificate last 12 months and apparently mine's run out and I didn't realize. You don't need that, Dave. You're fine. It's a legal requirement, Scott. You do need that. It's just a formality. It ran out two weeks ago. Hey, do you have anything else you want to tell the people while you got them here? Any little words of wisdom or Uncle Dave's advice that you may have? And why is it so dark over there? It's only 11. It's only 11 o'clock in the morning. No, Scott. It's quarter five in the afternoon. It's 11.45 a.m. I'm looking at my clock right now. I don't understand why it's so dark over there. Because the sun just doesn't come out in England anymore, I guess. Just so you know, there are other countries over than America. I know it's difficult for you to understand that. But there are other countries over than America. Hmm. That doesn't sound right to me. But I know of Canada. Yes. Which is right there. So technically the whole America, isn't it? To a degree. It's attached. Yeah. Yeah. Technically. Yeah. Have I got any advice? I think it's important that you... Yeah. I suppose having a way. Okay. Okay. And it's sort of related to the weekend. Because... As it came... Well, I'd sort of decided to do this on the spur of the moment. And it was sort of like... I saw it and I was like, oh, I just chatted to our last. I go, oh, that looks fun. And she's like, yeah. Do it then. I was like, are you sure? You don't mind? She's like, no, no, no. So I booked the ferry and the job was done. Yeah. Originally she had ulterior motives because what she wanted to do was put the Christmas decorations up while I weren't around. Oh. Because she always wants them up like in the middle of September. And I'm like, no, you're fucking way. It's way too early. No. She put them up two weeks ago. She brought them up two weeks ago anyway. Her argument is because we're away for Christmas that she doesn't get to enjoy them. So she has to have them up earlier. Anyway. Now, if I've ever sat and thought about it, I would probably have not gone. I know what you mean. And I'm bad for that in the I'll see things and my gut reaction is, oh, that looks fun. I wouldn't fancy doing that. And then I'd literally talk myself out of it. And I think, and not because it's not doable or a catapult, just because it starts to go, that seems like a lot of hassle. Yeah. You know, and I think sometimes you just go for it. Life's more fun when you just do shit. Obviously, don't be stupid, but, you know, so I think sometimes a little bit on the spur of the moment is very healthy for us. And we probably miss out on a lot of fun and possible enjoyment if we take too time to look at things sometimes and start to consider. I mean, realistically, it's like I'm traveling in a ferry without my CPAP overnight, all my meds, and my foot had been playing up all bloody weeks, so I was struggling to walk. So it was a stupid... You didn't bring your CPAP? No. Oh, fuck it, too, asshole. So it was just like, you know, on paper it was a load of grief. But actually, it was quite fun. No, no, I can put it in my back, but I didn't do it. You should. You've got to think of your health. I want you to be spontaneous and have fun, Dave, but I also want you to take care of yourself. You only get one body. It's a little late for that, huh? Yeah. This is like, you know, we're closing the gate after the horse is well and truly fucks off here. It's gone dead and buried. You can still take care of what you got. But yeah, so I, yeah, I suppose if there was some point, if there was some advice to be brought of this, it was, you know what? Sometimes just seize the moment. I like that. Yeah, it is easy, man. You talk, I talk myself out of stuff. I'm like, yeah, let's go do this. It'd be easy. And then I think about it and then I'm like, yeah, but you know what? That means I'd have to leave the house. And you know what that means? I got to go get gas in the car and you know, I got to get this stuff done. I just, why don't I just stay home? Yeah. And you, you, life can be an extremely rich tapestry, but you, you've got to sow it. So, um, you know, just take opportunities. Uh, I mean, I've, I've got a social event this weekend, nothing to do with the people I'm attending or anything like that. Uh, it, it, the, I don't not want to go in any way, shape or form, but then you think, oh, I've got to drive so-and-so, I've got to have a hotel and that starts to become, oh, that's a lot of hassle. But once I get there, I'll be great and I'll enjoy it. And I know that. So it's just like, look, sometimes you just got to go for it. And sometimes the stupidest things can, can be the biggest fun. I just happen to think 450 to 300 is a three to two. No, it's not. Yes, it is. You're right. No, you're right. It is. I apologize. You're sorry. Yeah, you're right. Oh, fuck. I just was like, wait a second, two parts. Cause that's three, you know, 150. Yeah, yeah. 150, 150. Yeah, yeah, yeah. You're right. I apologize. Yeah. Thank you. Made me feel crazy there for a minute. Sorry. Sorry. Do you have anything coming up? I know you're doing, you're doing the pillars of gear, as I like to call it. Your, your online ped course that's coming up in the new year. January. Yeah. I'm taking bookings for that. Obviously client intake in January is always going to be there. So obviously taking reservations for client intake in January. Other than that, nothing really exciting happening. I'm afraid guys go to a email, but analysis.com get your labs done by Dave, especially as we're coming into the new year, you're going to want to hit yourself a good cycle and you want to make sure that your labs are in order before you do it. Check out true nutrition.com. Use our code. Think over there to get additional savings, 10% off on all your orders. I just ordered. So whey protein isolate is getting more expensive. It seems by the year, every year. It's a little bit more, right? And true nutrition has nearly wholesale prices for what they offer. The high quality protein. It's real good. But I broke down Dave and I was like, you know what? I'm going to buy a pound of concentrate and see how I digest that. Because if I can digest weight, concentrate just as well without getting gas and stuff and upset stomach, I'm going to switch to that because I'm not trying to compete at a high level. I just want to get some more protein in, you know what I'm saying? So I'm going to give some concentrated go. Living dangerously there, mate. Yeah. We'll see. I'll keep you guys posted. Code think over there to get 10% off supplement source.ca for Canadians. They do have great deals. They change week to week on short dated label change products, stuff like that. Plus all your, all your normal stuff too. And of course, strong sports nutrition for those of you in the UK and the US great health stacks. Of course, um, Patreon. Thank you guys for your support over at Patreon. We'll get to Patreon questions on the next show. What's up? What, what you can do is cause the Canadian dollar is quite weak against the American dollar, but the tariffs are screwing Canadian imports is you order your drugs from Canada. Scott will then go and collect them because he lives close to the border and then he'll post them down to you making a huge saving. Okay. Yeah. Everything Dave said, I'll get on that. I'll take care of that. So you should do support, support the viewers. All right, guys, for another episode of the podcast, we'll see you soon. Thanks, Dave. Bye.