 etiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiersiers Like she's looking crazy. She's just working real hard. She doesn't have this stress or that stress or whatever the case may be. And then I'm on a flight to Columbus for the Arnold. And I get a message from her best friend who's one of my athletes as well. And she says, Justin, have you heard about Jodi? I'm like, no. And she tells me that she died. Hey, what's up, guys? Welcome back to Blood, Sweat & Gear with Andrew Barry, myself, Scott McNally. And we are joined with Justin Mahaley. Now, guys, we just did an interview with Justin. We got all the way through it. And after we were done recording, I said, hey, you know, there was one thing we didn't talk about. And I wasn't sure whether you wanted to mention it. And we're going to talk about it now. We didn't bring it up. Justin, I didn't realize you hadn't had an opportunity to share your side of the story on this. Yeah. I definitely appreciate you guys bringing this up and allowing me to have a platform. Would you like for me to dive right in? Yeah. Well, first, let's talk about what we're talking about. Because some of our listeners might not know just from the inference that. But we're talking about the Arnold Classic of this year where one of Justin's former or current clients, he'll fill in the details, she passed away from some things that she decided to do. And there was a lot of rumors going around that because Justin was connected to her that he had given her a protocol to follow. And I also want to say right off the bat, she was not competing at the Arnold Classic. She was going as a spectator. And we know athletes and people in our sport like to look a certain way when they show up at these events because they're around a lot of like-minded people in the fitness industry. And sometimes they want to look a certain way and our vanity gets the best of us. So, Justin, why don't you tell us about who we're talking about and how you knew her and just lay a little background before we get into the meat and potatoes. Yeah, so Jodi Vance and I had been friends for about three or four years through the bodybuilding community before this year's Arnold. And she became a client of mine maybe just over a year. We started working together in December of 2023. And I know we were both so fired up when we finally got to team up. We finally got to work together. And Jodi was one of the clients that she is so smart. There's so much information in her mind. She loved bodybuilding. I would put it out there that she loved bodybuilding more than anyone else has ever loved bodybuilding. And she would do anything to be the Miss Olympia WPD. And I was so glad that we hooked up and got to working together because, man, she was the client that you had to pull back. You never had to push Jodi harder. Sure. You know, in our show, we started talking about how some coaches are really good at finding those people who work really hard. Oh, boy. I mean, Jodi would send training videos that it was unlike anything I've ever seen. And there had been quite a few times where we looked at labs and whatnot. We're like, Jodi, you need to pull back. Like creatinine just threw the roof. You know, one fours, one fives after two rest days or three rest days going into lab work. And it's like, yo, we need like two weeks off the gym. And there kind of became a bit of a tension point where like she did not enjoy that very much. But I think she did it. I'm not 100% sure. So she goes to the Arnold this year. And Jodi wanted to look the part. That is for sure. And she was making a lot of progress going in. And I remember asking her a few times. I mean, we have these WhatsApp messages of, hey, why this progress right now? Like this is insane. What's going on? She's like getting leaner, getting harder. She's getting leaner and big. Like she's looking crazy. She's just working real hard. You know, she doesn't have this stress or that stress or whatever the case may be. And then I'm on a flight to Columbus for the Arnold. And I get a message from her best friend who's one of my athletes as well. And she says, Justin, have you heard about Jodi? I'm like, no. And she tells me that she died. And I mean, she's 20 freaking years. What do you mean she – like what – and I couldn't call. I couldn't do anything. I'm just on the plane confined in this time with a ton of fitness people on it. And I just – the worst text message that I've ever gotten. And I get off the plane, you know, a ton of people start texting me like, dude, like what's happening here? What's going on? No clue. We have no idea. So I get off and I call this client of mine who's her best friend. And there's something she really needs to tell me. And she was having a really hard time getting it out. So Jodi had asked me two, three, four times in the previous year to use DMP. And every time, I would shoot it down. Like that is – I will be the first one to say, and Andrew knows this about me. I've spoken very openly about it. I've never shied away from it. Yeah, in 2021, I made a podcast on Grow It I Podcast about DMP information, not telling people to use it. I'm just educated on DMP because that's what the Grow It I Podcast was. I educated on so much stuff, but I was talking about things no one else would talk about. And you talk about – there are studies that were done back in the 60s on DMP who share these results. And it's not saying to use it, although as a coach at the time, yeah, I was using it. And I absolutely – that's not something that's in my arsenal or something I believe in now and since. There's been six podcasts based on the transcripts we have where I recanted that. And I was like, don't use this. It's very dangerous. The issue becomes when you're using it in terms of the bodybuilding setting that's such a vanity-driven sport, people don't follow the rules with the PEDs they use anyways. Like everyone's taking a little extra drugs. Everyone's taking a little bit extra diazide, whatever the case may be. Well, if you combine DMP and diazide together, diazide and potassium-sparing diuretic, it just shoots potassium up. So Jodi had a heart attack that morning. I believe it was a Friday morning before the Arnold. And her potassium was like a nine, which if you're over 5'5", that's hyperkalemic, so you have too much potassium. And they rushed you to the hospital. They tried resuscitating her, and she never came back. I never told her to take DMP. I want to be clear. I never told her. Just so our listeners know. And you never told her to take a diazide that day either. And you only found that out because her best friend, also your client, told you through the call or text message, like, actually, Justin, she was doing this DMP. She took a diazide today. She wanted to look dry at the venue, at the expo. Maybe she's going to the gym, doing a photo shoot like a lot of people do. So it was kind of just humanity-driven and just trying to look apart, really fit into the fitness community. And her family didn't know. Obviously, I spoke with her mom a ton around this time. She had no idea. And all of a sudden, I'm getting death threats. I'm being called a murderer. I'm getting all these things thrown at me from all these angles to a point where, I mean, my parents got doxxed. It's all over the news. Like, I mean, it came out of nowhere. And I don't want to sit here and act like a victim because how did I educate on DMP before? Yeah. How did I use it in clients before? Yeah. And that is not something that people should be using. And I know it's still used heavily today. I tried making a change after this myself and Dr. Afani from Johns Hopkins. We tried pushing hard to make a change after this. And unfortunately, it fell on deaf ears. I pushed very hard to get diuretics banned from the sport of bodybuilding earlier this year. And we had momentum for a bit until one day it became radio silence. And I want diuretics banned from bodybuilding. I do. I think there's a better way. I think we've gone too far with the look for a young girl to go to a show thinking that she had to look a certain way. A young girl who was my friend. And I never got to cope with that. Go to a show and she had to do these things to get an opportunity at a sponsorship where she wasn't even competing. But I never told her to take that. I never asked her to do that. And the opposite is what actually happened. Before her show in December, she competed in December. She wanted to use the diuretics and go really hard with them. And we did not. We did not need that. And I'm not sure if she used it then, if she didn't use it then. I'm not sure what all was happening. But you can have your preconceived notions. You can think whatever you think. I don't want to change people's mind. But I've never gotten to tell my side of the story. And I appreciate you guys letting me do this on your platform. That was not something that she was told to use or had instruction to use. Well, it puts you in a rough position because you're not trying to throw shade or throw your athlete under the bus, your friend under the bus. And, of course, you're totally torn apart and devastated by this. But you don't have the guilty part of your conscience of, I advised her or I taught her how to do this. Right? Like, it's so I could really see your conundrum of not wanting to broadcast and not wanting to use your own platform to come out and say something about it. And I'm glad we asked you about it because I think I told you, you know, I had heard very early on about it. And people were trying to associate saying, well, you know how he is with DNP. And I'm like, well, no, I know for a fact from, you know, some previous clients, because we all share clients over at some point, that he didn't use them with those clients. And they were more frequent clients. And so and I've heard him say that he does not use it anymore through the education platform and everything. So it's either Justin's the biggest liar and he completely just pulling the wool over everyone's eyes and using a sales tactic of I'm a healthy coach now. I don't do this. Or he really is doing that. And his athlete, through vanity and just through wanting to keep up with the Joneses, decided to do something on her own. And I'm glad we got to bring it up. I get it, though. Like, I can, you know, I look at her perspective and I kind of feel like, well, a lot of people are doing it right. It's kind of I mean, yeah, there's dangers, right? I'm just, I guess, putting myself in her position and wondering how many times had I possibly been in a dangerous position when not really realizing that I'd put myself there. You know, had she just taken the DNP that day, even, you know, no matter what somebody told her to or not. Right. She may have been OK. Had she just used a diazide that day, would she be OK? You know, it was a combination that she just wasn't aware would be a problem. And it's so odd the way that happens. But it's like I don't think for any of us that when that time comes, we're we're expecting it. She was expecting to go to the Arnold and have a good time. You know what I mean? And yeah. And she felt that that's what she needed to do to be her best. And I think that's a shame. I will say this, just knowing you, you know, at not the level that Andrew does, but knowing you at the level I do. And then also knowing the way people coach, it wouldn't make sense that a coach would, say, have somebody peak for a show in December and then, you know, trying to do something short term. Those are the things that as coaches we talk people out of to like it's just an event. Just go there. Look, you're the best you can that day. If you want to, maybe we clean the diet up a little bit three weeks out. We had that talk. She wanted to cut for the Arnold. And I mean, people can be like, well, how did you see it? How did you do this? I was asking her, how do you look so good, Jody? Like, how are you making this progress? You guys, we only have the data we're going off of. We only have the check in information and what the athlete gives us. And, you know, I appreciate her family, you know, all came out in support and, you know, made the post and said the thing and told everyone. But it's been very reckless the way that, you know, I mean, the death threats. I mean, don't pull my family into it. Like, it's been the worst year of my life and it's crazy because it's been the best year of my life in so many areas. But this is looming over me. And it's like it's so heavy on your heart because I have still not been able to cope or process because you get on Instagram and there's someone else saying something behind the fake profile. And, you know, death threats, come on, like it's out of control. And I look back on my relationship with Jody and I know that I did the best that I could. And I think what really angers me is this never was about Jody for people. It was about they finally found the stain on Justin that they wanted to pin me for because it was like too good to be true or something. I don't know. I hadn't quite been part of anything like really bad. You know, that's something in our industry, right? Where once you're successful in a couple avenues and you're doing well, the rumors start or people try to find one little thing to try to bring you down on. And we know plenty of other good coaches that have ran into that, good athletes that have ran into that. And I think it's not just our industry. It's society. It's human beings in general. You know, everyone wants you to be doing well until you're doing better than they are in some avenue. And then now they've got to start pulling you back a little bit. And I think that's what happened here. We got you. You know, something like that. Wow. It did feel like a we got you. But if I just had one ask and I know that her mom would back this. It's like, can't we. I hope that people who care about this, just you can be mad at me and this not change your thoughts and whatever. Can we just keep Joey first? Like, can we make change in the industry? We had some momentum. We had some momentum until we got fully blacked out. And, you know, they stopped listening and they stopped working with us as soon as the media storm died from it. And I don't appreciate that. And I will put that out there. And I am calling on them to pick the conversation back up. There's there's bad things that happen in this industry. And there's coaches that make mistakes. I've made so many mistakes. But people go on and, you know, they'll share a protocol from 2019 to show how drastic I was. Yeah. In 2019, I think everyone's quite drastic. They're not not saying that I didn't do things I don't regret. I do. And I've owned all of these on my show. So bodybuilding is a wildly drastic sport. And with that, I never asked her to take DMP. There's no proof of her protocols ever. Me asking her ever to do that. And so the speculation is just insane. When do we have her protocols? We know what she was doing. She was on HRT prescribed from a compound clinic. There was testosterone and there was T3. And she was living in a house that had a lot of mold. And it's very difficult to get healthy with mold. We wanted to pull her off the TRT. She came to me on these things. We wanted to pull it off. But, man, I mean, I'm sure you guys have worked with somebody with mold going on in their house. And it's very rough to heal the body from the inside out without moving out of that. And, you know, everyone stands on a high ground when it, you know, when you're, what is it? You throw rocks when you're living in a glass house or whatever. I'm not perfect. I want no one's sympathy. But I never told Jody Vance to take DMP and Diazide before the Olympia. And that's something that any, that combination has never once been prescribed by me because this is what will happen. And if you're someone who thinks that DMP is great and you can use alongside Diazide, there are way better ways forward. And more people need to start advocating for this. And I know some bodybuilding coaches won't like to hear, yes, I'm trying to get diuretics banned from this sport. And I'm not going to stop. I mean, at the Texas Pro, there's going to be some decision makers there and they will hear it. And the reality is I just, I already feel this weight lifted for you guys allowing me to share my story. I've just muscled through and sucked it up. But this, this feels really fucking good to finally be able to get out there and, and, and set the record straight on that. I, I appreciate you guys. Absolutely. Dude, I, I appreciate you guys a lot. Absolutely. Right on. Well, we're glad we could do this. Like I said, we just recorded a great episode, which I, I, I'm very excited to get out to you guys. And, and we just had that little brief chat after the show and I said, Hey, I, I didn't know if you'd want to talk about it. And so I'm, I'm really glad that we did. I'm, I'm glad that her family is on your side too, man. And, you know, I, I, I've known, unfortunately, you know, a number of people that are no longer with us in this sport. And I've known their coaches and I know what they have to live with. And I can only imagine how terrible that is, you know, no matter what, man, just let's leave and remove like whose fault is it? You know, the mistake that she made, just the loss of somebody that you're close to somebody that's a friend and in, in, in such a, just really a needless fashion. So I hope that my hope is with this, this episode that maybe people may take things a little bit more seriously and recognize, you know, the ramifications that can happen with this stuff. We all have, we have fun on the podcast. We talk about gear and all that at the, the root of it. I want everybody to always be as safe as possible. And that's really, I guess all I have to say, do you guys have anything else you wanted to add? I would just say, you know, if your coach, you know, you try to run a protocol by your coach and they, and they tell you not to, there's probably reasons being health related that they don't want you to do that. And that sounds like that was the situation here. And, um, obviously we all want to look as big and as lean and as awesome as possible, but your life is more important than that. Uh, you know, she had a good 60, 70 years left of her life and unfortunately she will not be able to live it, but not from any doing from, from Justin. Yeah. Thanks guys. I really appreciate you guys giving me the opportunity to get my side out there. It feels good. Thank you guys.