활,활,활, the worst experience I personally had was novice competitor on RX muscle, right? Then one year they got them wrong. And I can't remember what I was, second, third place, but it was a stacked class and they listed us like in the wrong order. And like the top four got shifted down to the bottom and we were all listed at like 16th, 16th, 16th. What's up guys? Welcome back to Blood, Sweat & Gear with coaches Skipp Hill and myself, Scott McNally. All of our programming is brought to you by truenutrition.com. Use our code THINK over there for additional savings on high quality third-party tests and supplements, all your basic bodybuilding stuff like protein, creatine, intra-workout. You get the Team Skip blend over there. Use our code THINK for additional savings. And of course, supplementsource.ca for Canadians. They have great deals to change week to week. Thank you to everybody from Patreon. We've got some Patreon questions today, but first we're going to burn down the NPC, Skip. Not really. Yeah, no. You had a client. This is just going to be a bitch fat. No, it's not going to be that either. We just got demonetized there after 30 seconds. Right. So here's the deal. I love too, by the way, how you are so mindful about that now. It's a chip off the old block now. Right. I got that from you. It took a while, but I got it. So Skip had a client. The placing just looked funky. And we're going to just talk about placings, talk about experiences that we've had over the years where we've seen things that just like maybe didn't add up, mistakes that were made. At the end of the day, you know what? Judges are people too. We all do make mistakes and mistakes do get made, which is difficult, man, because think about all the work, all the effort we put into competing. And so much of it comes down to that. Like if you lose fair and square, that's one thing, you know, at the same time, man, we don't want this to come off. Like, oh man, my client got shafted. Do you know what I'm saying? Right. Yeah. Mom said I should have won. Yeah. Your mom's going to think you'll want if she's a good mom. Right. I'm going to throw the picture up. This is one of your clients on the bottom here. And how many people were in this class? Just the two? Yeah, I believe it's just the two of them. Yeah. Okay. So your client bottom got second to the girl on top and we're not going to disparage anybody. Second slash dead last. Oh, yes. Yeah. There's no difference, is there? And she would laugh about that too. She's a good sport and she took it in stride. Which I was happy for. Yeah. You know, here's the thing. Everybody wants to win. Everybody prepares to win. But some people take it in stride and they arguably, I want to say they trust the subjectivity of it, but they just enjoy the journey and the process more than, you know, the people who winning is all that matters. And I'm not going to knock either, you know, either approach. I don't think one is right and one is wrong. And we all have our, our motivations and I will go on record and say that she will get her card. This is female bodybuilding. It matters. It's not, you know, physique or anything. So this is just, this is all about muscle. Yeah. I, you know, so Skip sent us these pictures over his clients, the one on bottom. He didn't tell us who his client was. You said, Hey, who do you guys think should have won this? I actually asked a couple well-respected coaches too. Like, am I just crazy? Is there something I'm not saying? That's why I said, you know, I'm like, am I, have I been doing this too long and I just am missing something? I. Yeah. So, you know, she, obviously she's got a lot more muscle and her conditioning looks good. You know, like you guys really brought in a good package. Their glutes are hard. And let me say this, cause this is important too. This is a few weeks after the, the Olympia, the amateur Olympia that she competed. Okay. So we peaked for the Olympia because that was the main focus. She took second to the overall winner. Okay. So, you know, a card is, you know, I never say their, their formalities cause they're never formalities. So she won her class. She won her class. No, she didn't. No, no. She took second. And to the overall who beat her. Oh yeah. So, so the, the, I got you. The girl who took first went into the overall and then also won the overall. I understand. Exactly. Exactly. Gotcha. So this show here is about three, four weeks later and it's important because my client is awesome. She owns a gym, um, in funny, if you're a Yellowstone fan, they filmed in, in, um, Darby and that's where the Yellowstone Ranch was. Anyway, she owns the gym there. I haven't watched it yet. I want to see that show. Oh man. It, you, yeah, you have to say, by the way, Landman starts a Sunday night this season. I heard that's good too. I haven't watched it. Oh yeah. Good. Uh, anyway, the, she had a client, uh, who is blind, I believe it was going to do this show. And she said, you know, Skip, would you, would you mind if, you know, I did the show after the Olympia. I'm like, I don't care. That's totally cool. Yeah. Why would I mind? So we came off of the Olympia. It was just kind of a, not a hundred percent peak. I mean, we're not coming in sloppy. She's not eating pizza or anything like that, but it, it didn't have the focus of, you know, the, the Olympia and she was certainly still in good condition. So my point is this, and this is why when she said she took second, I thought, Oh man, you know, the, you mean last, whoever showed up must've, you know, been pretty good, but you know, I'm looking at it and I'm looking at the pictures because I'm thinking, Oh, was she off a little? Like, did I miss something? But you know, yeah, she's not a hundred percent, but she's pretty good. And when you make these comparisons, like I did, I'm like, the math isn't math. And I know it's only two pictures each. Right. I'm thinking, okay, maybe there was an issue, you know, with transitions, things like that. So I reached out to you. I'm like, am I seeing any, seeing anything here? Am I missing something? And you know, you backed me up, obviously I, at first I handed them to my wife because she's seen bodybuilding forever. And she's like, no, you know, she's, she's of the camp now she got screwed. Yeah. And, and here's my thing. I'm not, you know, we were laughing about burning down the NPC and, you know, we're going to storm in there and demand and explain. I'd like to turn the tables, but it's not, it's not this emotion. She took it in stride. She was disappointed, obviously, but didn't even ask me like, what do you see? I just, I just wanted to see the pictures. And so I was, you know, I was, I was disappointed, but this brings me to this point. It made me think of the times over the years, because I've had so many years with competitors and myself too, where, you know, I had a situation where I was called fourth when I should have been second and it stuck with me for about three weeks. And I'm like, gosh, I just beat this guy, but like five minutes earlier, like, how could he, he didn't just beat me a little, like he took second and I took fourth. He was by multiple places. It was just not the, and you know, the judges will always tell you, well, it depends on who you're standing next to and everything. It kind of doesn't. I mean, your, your condition isn't going to change. The other person's conditions are going to change in, you know, 15 minutes. It, it just doesn't, it may hit the pro level because you have two days. Obviously that's different, but this, it just didn't. Well, so there's a, I think at the pro level and at the top pro level, like we're talking Olympia, there's a much smaller margin between each competitor versus it becomes more and more evident, the lower ranks you go and you'll see like the one guy who's there to requalify. And then four other guys that are battling it out and they're all novices. And it's like, you can see, oh, that guy's been training for five years. That guy's been training for four years. That guy's been at it for six months. It's much easier to judge. That's why I said, I don't ever want to judge the Olympia. That's why I'm not very critical of the judging. Yeah. So, you know, I think you had been a judge, by the way, you had been a judge in the state of Colorado for a number of years, right? I judge for Chad Nichols shows too, um, in Kansas. So, Oh, um, yeah, it's in, in, in Michigan as well. But anyway, I knew a judge did Michigan. Yeah. Only a couple of times. Okay. But anyway, what shows did you judge? It would have been the Kalamazoo. Yeah. All right. Cool. Yeah. So, and it was cool to me because, you know, I had kind of grown up on that show. I even thought about going to do the Kalamazoo just because it was the Kalamazoo. Oh, dude. Just because that's what I wanted to do when I was a teen. But anyway, if you do another season, come out and do the K-Zoo. I'll get into like, it would be, it would be, you know what, that is funny. How full circle is that? Right. Right. It was the first show I did. Yeah. That could just be fun. That's not a bad idea, man. I could get in board short shape for it. Enjoy. There you go. I don't have the Masters at the Kalamazoo. 50 plus. Go on and talk. Go on and talk. I hear the Rocky theme in the background. Yeah. Anyway. So, anyway, it's one of those things where I would like an explanation, but it made me think of these things in the past. And the things in the past are this. Sometimes, you know, you said it best. You know, the judges are human. I've sat on a panel. I've seen mistakes. Sometimes the wrong, you know, there could be a problem with the scorekeeper. There could be a special with a, with an overall and they can get turned around, things like that. There were only two people in the class. Maybe the, maybe the, they got turned, the names got turned around. I don't know. I'm not sure, but it would be nice to know because, and look, I'll ask the viewers. Same thing I asked you, am I missing anything? That looks like a pretty big gap. And that is no disrespect to the woman who won because she won. Like she won. It's not her fault. She didn't do anything wrong. She, she won. Not looking for her trophy. I'm not looking to find her on social media and go, you need to give that back. It's not a situation like that at all. Got a question. So you said you, like you took fourth place to the guy who took second and that you should have beat. How did you fight? Yeah. How did you, how did you figure that out? Well, I called the head judge about three weeks later and I just said, look, I'm not, you know, pissed. I'm not bitching. I just like, what happened? Like, how could this happen when I just had been, he goes, skip, you were supposed to be in second. It was, it was called where they had the placings messed up. Like we can't, he real quick. He's like, you know, I can't change anything. I can't do it. I'm like, I don't care about that. I'm not calling you, you know, go out there and get that trophy and get it back from me. But it felt good to go, oh man, at least I'm right. At least I was right. Cause I just, it was, it was unsettling. And since I could just not make any sense of it, but that, that, you know, it's, I don't want to say I'm glad that it happened, but moving forward from that, it did it. I've always remembered it and thought these things happen. They happen. People don't get robbed. Sometimes they're honest mistakes. Sometimes now there was the time in New Mexico. My wife did a New Mexico show. Oh, eight. And she didn't get screwed. She didn't get judged poorly. Uh, arguably in one of her classes, I would, I told her, I'm like, if I was a judge, you might've taken third instead of second. She didn't appreciate that. But anyway, she didn't get, there was no questions about her placings. What happened was there were two guys in a division. One guy was in pretty good shape. Like he was clearly the winner. Like, okay. You could have had a service seeing eye dog and knowing that this guy was going to win. Yeah. And then you had a heavy guy, like, uh, you know, I'll say it. It was, it was a fat guy. He wasn't in shape for the show. One of those things that he was one of those competitors that people go, Oh, why did that guy get on stage? He's taking up space for everybody else. I'm not like that. Anybody can get on stage. I don't know, but I know what you mean. Yeah. And it was, and they called it wrong. They called the guy who was heavy as the first place winner. And what bothered me wasn't that it wasn't even that it was the two a holes judges on the end that busted out laughing. Oh, and that's what caused me to write one of my blogs. Cause this is an Oh wait. So we were blogging, you know, we were blogging back then. And I wrote a blog about that show because the promoter was, I won't say his name, but he was the IFBB, um, secretary, uh, I'm sorry. Treasury, treasury, treasurer, whatever. Okay. And he was a promoter of the show. The whole show was a joke. And my blog was about, obviously I finished with that happening. That was kind of the straw that broke the camel's back, but everything else from them fighting, like arguing with me to get into the show when I was registered to, to enter while I was registering with my, like my wife was registered. I was just with her, but I was real tan and I was lean. They didn't have very many competitors. It was a, and it was a borderline, like it's supposed to be a bigger regional show. And, uh, there were just some things that happened that you competed too. No, no, no. They were trying to get me to compete though. And I'm like, I'm just saying my wife is like, I don't even have trunks. Like I don't want to compete. Like I'm not ready to compete, but they were trying to get me to compete. It was almost kind of a desperate. At first I was flattered. Then I'm like, bro, just leave me alone. Like what, what are you doing? Anyway, there were a few things, but it culminated with that situation that happened. And I wrote a blog about it and the promoter, good guy from Colorado, Jeff Taylor, friends with him for a long time. He's a great guy, but he called me up. He's like, skip, you got to take that blog down. I'm like, yeah, no, that's never going to happen. You know me better than that. He's like, no, really? You know, I'm getting chewed out by, you know, Clark. And I said his name anyway, whatever, you know what? It'd be easy enough for a long time. I'll just, yeah, I'm going all in. I'm all my chips are out there, but is the blog still up? No, no, it's not, but it'll make sense here in a second because I was right in the end. Anyway, he told me, take it down. I said, I wouldn't said, well, you can't judge in Colorado anymore. And I'm thinking to myself, I'm already done because of what happened at the Colorado program. When you said, you know, when the judges got together and the head judge said that my client can't be handed, can't be the overall winner. You got a panel of judges getting together saying that they're not, the head judge is not going to let the rest of the judges call the let it was just bizarre. So anyway, the next, the next year and the year after that, he didn't promote that show. Oh, now I am not going to take credit for him not having the show, but the point was it was so bad and the turnout was so bad that he didn't have it for two years until he restructured and then started. So again, there, there are those, I'm sure you have them. You have those situations. You've been prepping long enough and need, right. I haven't really had anything like crazy like that. I, I, yeah, nothing that's been like super radical. I think the worst experience I personally had was there was a RX muscle came and covered a show and they put out the pic, they took pictures, which was cool. Cause Jeff Zygo was here in Michigan, RIP Jeff. He was fricking awesome. And he would cover all the shows. And so like my early shows, I'd see him there. He'd take the pictures and put them up at RX and like, I'm fricking flattered, novice competitor on RX muscle. Right. And then one year they got them wrong. And I can't remember what I was second, third place, but it was a stacked class and they listed us like in the wrong order. And like the top four got shifted down to the bottom and we were all listed at like 16th, 16th, 16th. And I'm like, but that's my breaking rights being on RX muscle, you know? And everybody thinks I took 16th place, you know? So whatever that was like, so I could only imagine how it felt to really take home that fourth place trophy when you deserve it. I wasn't very excited about it, but you know, it had a couple of fours and thirds and, you know, the story about me taking third to Phil Heath. I mean, I said, and I still stand by, I'd rather take a third to somebody like Phil Heath or William Reese legends in Colorado than to win a mediocre show, you know, too. So it is what it is. She took it to stride. I just wanted to know what happened because that something went wrong. Well, keep us posted. If, if she hears anything and you find out, then let's be sure to fill the audience in and give them an update on that one. We do have a bunch of listener questions, by the way. I do want to say that guys, if you are new here, if you've sat through us moaning, complaining about judging for the last 15 minutes, we're going to tackle a bunch of listener questions. Skip and I have been coaching for a long time and we're here to just freely share our education and our ideas with you. So if you are new here, then definitely hit the subscribe button, hit the bell, hit the hype button. Skip, do you know about the hype button? So yeah, tell them to hit the hype button. Thank you. Thank you. And comment with questions for the next episode. We probably have more questions that we're going to be able to handle today. So I'm just going to dive right in. And since there's just the two of us, Andrew's got some stuff he's got to deal with this week. We can probably, you know, rip through a bunch of these. I'm just going to jump up from the top here because I know we had a few from Patreon. Hey, what's going on guys? Just a quick shout out to True Nutrition. I figured I'd bring you to the home gym here. So welcome. And I just wanted to show you my order. So nothing big deal. I've got a few pounds of the cold filtered weight ISO. I'm a big fan of the cookie butter flavor. I've been on this this year. This is like been my favorite, but they've got a bunch of different flavors. So if you're interested in something else, just check them out. It's a, it's a very light protein overall. It's not going to blow your digestion down. It's not going to cause a bunch of water retention. This is the kind of protein that I suggest to people who are doing a contest prep. They've got all your basic bodybuilding supplements like creatine. They've got great intro workout, highly branched cyclic dextrin, which is the high end. And then they've got the cheaper stuff like carbo load. Like anybody can afford that. And of course, use our code. Think it'll get you 10% off. They really kicked up. It used to only be 5%. Now you get 10% off if you use the code and it throws some money our way too. So it definitely helps the podcast out a ton. Might be a buck here and there, but you know, if you guys all use the code, it definitely adds up and you have been using the code. So thank you for that. Let's get back to the podcast, but thank you for hanging out with me here in the home gym. Jake says currently on my first cycle using NPP pinning every day, totaling 150 milligrams a week with test at 350 a week. Okay. Here's the deal. He said he can hardly tolerate the pain from the NPP, the soreness in the injective muscle lasting three to five days, even rotating six sites. He's talking about transitioning to DECA. He says, maybe I would transition to DECA, but I wanted to ask you, does that sound right? I asked Dave about this. Dave and I talked about this too. Does that sound right to you? It sounds right. If he has like thousand meg per mil NPP, that would make sense. Yeah. I mean, I've had that before. Oh, doesn't feel very well. You have not had a thousand. You have to use a spoon. You like take a spoon. No, no, no, no. Yeah. That is an odd one. That's an odd one. In fact, if I ever did that, if I had that problem with NPP, like something's, something's wrong with this. This isn't, this isn't right. But you know, I don't know. That's my best guess. Never in my life have I had issues like that with NPP. Yeah. Me either. So he says that he wants to transition to DECA. What is a good protocol to change over? Would you just stop the NPP and start the DECA? Yeah. It's not. Yeah. I think people get, there's a misconception that NPP is like prop or something compared to, yeah, it's, the Esther for NPP is shorter than DECA, but it's not, I wouldn't consider it a fast acting, you know, Esther. So it's like faster than DECA, you know, I would stop the one, go straight into the other. Especially if you're having issues, you know what I mean? It's like, I'll just stop that right away. Do you think it could be, and I just happened to think of this. He said, currently, currently on my first cycle. I do, you tell me, man, I know it's been a long time now, but the first shots that you take, oh my God, like hitting sites that haven't been hit before, dude, like my first shot, I think of test was of like a pharma sussed amp. And oh my God, dude, it felt like I got hitting the glute with a bat. Yeah, but that's probably because it was sussed in that. Yeah, but I mean, oh my God. From south of the border. It was actually, yeah, no, it was, it was European. It was good. It was a good stuff. Oh, okay. Fair enough. So either that or you're using one of the ReadyJet. Yeah, I was probably like moving around. 20 gauge. Yeah. Yeah. Driving a car. Yeah. All right. How about this one then? The non-drug question to keep it fresh. Today is the first time in a long time that I've taken an unscheduled rest day because I feel sick. Sick as in common cold type bug. What's your thoughts on training sick? And do you recommend as soon as you feel a little bit better or do you need to be fully recovered? Policy. I had something in my throat there. No, you know what? I might have a different approach than most people. And it's probably because I trained for a long time. I say take the day off if you don't feel 100%. You know, I look at my training. Look, if I don't train chess for 24 hours, okay, I've trained chess probably 1200 times in my life. I don't think my body is going to go and I'm going to lose size, you know, a day or two. I'm, I'm always of the camp these days. And I try to encourage my clients to do the same thing. If you're not a hundred percent, just wait a day, take a couple of days. That's the lesser of the evils because we have so much floating around out there that if you start to feel better and then you go and you train, you could just, you could just end up sicker than you were before. And then you're dragging it out for two or three weeks and you know, two, three days of resting, you'll, you'll come back a hundred, you can come back a hundred percent and have a good workout. I don't want to have a mediocre workout. So I encourage other people to do the same thing. Dr. Justin Marchegiani Dude, I'm with you a hundred percent. And I would look at my, I wasn't always that way, by the way, there wasn't a time that I would say that if I had a fever, that was the line I would draw. Dr. Justin Marchegiani Mine was the throat down from the neck down. If it was down below my neck. Okay. If it was above my neck, then I was above my neck. I was training. If it was below my neck, then I was not going to train. Dr. Justin Marchegiani Okay. Like your lungs and stuff. Dr. Justin Marchegiani Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I just said, if I had a fever, then I'm going to take the day off of training. But nowadays I'm like, I'm with you. I'd rather, if I don't feel good, I'd rather take the day off, come back and then probably have a much better chest workout two days later. And if you're sick, the number one thing I tell people is to watch their hydration and probably drink more water than usual. Because when we're sick, no matter what happens, we are going to get, because people tell me like, oh, well, I'm drinking my normal water. They're like, yeah, well, we could probably use your normal water plus some, make sure you're getting electrolytes in because you're probably going to be a little bit dehydrated. You know how after you get sick and then you're feeling better and you go back to the gym and you're weak? It's not that you lost a lot of strength. You just aren't hydrated yet. Dr. Justin Marchegiani Right. Yep. Or you weren't feeling well and you missed a meal or two. There's that too. Dr. Justin Marchegiani Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. All right. I have an anivar question, Scott. I feel like some of us have been led to believe, okay. Okay. I remember this one. This is from Patreon. We were led to believe that it'd be super safe to do basically, I'm trying to be careful with how I word this. I don't want to put another YouTuber on the spot. Let's see. Anivar would be super safe in general. He says, training by about seven, seven AM really works for me. So I feel like anivar really helps with my drive and intensity at that time of day. With someone in a 16 week cut, mimicking a prep, but no show. What protocol, what protocol would you consider the leverage has been driving during early morning training? Currently running 750 test, the 600 EQ, and it feels great. The anivar isn't at an end all, be all, be all, but the contractions, as Skip says, are amazing. When able to train with whole food before a later training session and not just a shake early in the morning. Okay. Sorry, there was a couple extra periods in there, I think. So yeah, when he's able to train later in the day, the contractions are amazing. But not in the morning. Yeah. In the morning, he says, early training, the anivar has less effect. So I guess his question is, is anivar super safe? Is that what he's getting at? That's what I'm trying to figure out. I'd say there, whether it's safe, which safe is a relative term. And the, so it is relatively safe compared to, especially the other orals. My biggest concern is just the lowering of the HDL more than anything else. But I mean, that's my, my bigger thing. Or is he asking why it's doesn't seem as effective because he doesn't have that same contractile force in the morning. And if that's the case, he doesn't see it in the morning versus the afternoon, it's probably a hydration and, um, in food. Yeah. Especially that water. Right. You know, just get that. Like, cause I feel, and I think I've heard you say this before that you could probably train. You could get just as good of pumps on an empty stomach, really, if you had your hydration up. Yeah. And I think so too. The other part is, does he train consistently in the morning? Because if you're flopping around and you're training at night versus in the morning, then you're going to see more of a contrast and that's going to happen. True. If you train even fasted is another good example. I had three solid years of training fasted that on paper, you know, it's not supposed to be very good. You know what? I had great growth over those three years. Could it have been better if I wasn't fasted? We don't know that. It's a, it's a hypothetical. And I like to argue hypotheticals, but if I had it to do over again, I would have ate. I would have eaten. I'm sorry. I would have ate. Yeah. It's a participle would have eaten. Anyway. You can edit that out. No, you got it. I'm on it. I'm on it. Anyway. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I would do it over again, but the consistency of it, if you're going to train fast, stay consistent with it. You're going to train early in the morning, stay consistent with it. If you can't, then you may see those subtle differences, but I don't think it's going to be bad. I might have missed a line. You said, what, what protocol would you consider to leverage it on those early training days? As far as like the Anovar taking it? Yeah. Uh, take it before you train. I mean, okay, but he's asking for like a hundred milligrams, 50 milligrams. Oh, oh, oh, oh. Um, look, I, I think when people go to a hundred, a hundred milligrams of Anovar, I think they're, I think it's kind of, I I'm A-50 million. Look, if you're not going to get a benefit from 50 milligrams, I'm going to be a little surprised. You want to go a little, you know, a little higher, go to 75. I just think when you get up there to a hundred, unless you're running four weeks on four weeks off and you're, I don't want to say you're a veteran, but let's not be a newbie taking a hundred milligrams of Anovar. I'm not a big fan of it. Yeah. You know, I'm going to tell you this. Um, so there's that, he said that there's like, it was, he's led to believe that Anovar is super safe. I think that a lot of that comes down to the dosing. Cause I know of one guy, a friend of our show, uh, Steve, he's talked about like Anovar for long-term, but I asked him about it and he would say, in like real low dose, like five milligrams, 10 milligrams, you know, and that's different than females. Oh, what we're talking about, you know? And like I was talking about before my concern using Anovar, especially longer term or higher dose is, you know, the lipid profile. So you already have an HDL that isn't very high and then you're going to take higher dosing Anovar on top of that. Then that's going to, you know, those are the variables that matter in situations like that. You have a pretty high HDL and you're comfortable with it and you've got a good, you know, lipid profile, then okay, run it, do your labs, you know, do your blood work and see what it looks like. I'd say this too, that if he wants to, cause he's got a 16 week cut here, mimicking a prep. Personally, if I were doing a prep, I usually don't add orals in, into the last, you know, six weeks, four weeks, maybe eight weeks, depending on what the cycle was. But the less he takes, the longer he could take it, you know? So if he wants to just get like some added training benefit, and let's say that a real low dose, like 10 milligrams is enough for that little boost he's looking for. I think that then he could probably manage that for, I don't think that's crazy talk to do 10 milligrams for 16 weeks. I would still get your labs done, you know, midway, see what's happening with your cholesterol. But you know, at that dose, it's, it's so minimal. You're going to tell him to take 10 milligrams? Yeah, Steve. Well, here's the thing. So Steve was talking to like, like a different audience. He is talking to vigorous Steve. I don't know. You don't know. Bigger, bigger, bigger what? Vigorous. Bigger, vigorous Steve. No, I obviously know Steve. Yeah. He's a guy on YouTube. Yeah. Yeah. He knows, he knows a couple things about here. No, good job. But his, his perspective is more for not somebody who's like Carter here running 750 test 600 EQ. He's talking to the guys who are doing nothing. And they're like, yeah, you know, I just started TRT. And I want to do something a little bit more than that. You know, like, there's TRT. This is what I've determined, Skip. So it's TRT people. There's TRT plus. And then there's like legit full on cycles, you know? Yeah, there's love. Yeah, there's, there's, there's ranges, you know, because you've, you've probably talked to guys like that, man. Like our last guy, he was like, I'm on a cycle with 150 NPP. Dude, if I were to come to you, Skip, and I were, let's say, no, I know you guys didn't talk gear on intense muscle in 2006, but let's say I came on, you know, any message board that you were posting on professional muscle in 2006. And I was like, guys, I'm starting a cycle. My first cycle, I'm really getting ready to ramp things up. I want to run gear. I'm going to run 300 tests and 150 NPP. How would I be received? Yeah, not very well. Maybe directing you to the female forum. Yeah. You'd be like, oh yeah, that's a great job. And that's not, you know, I mean, I make a joke about it, but you know, for someone who's just starting out, it, it actually could work well. So, you know, I don't, I don't want to knock it, but no, no, no, it's not going to do much after your, you know, your cycle's in. So I, I don't know about for this situation where he's at 750 tests, 600 EQ, you know, I, I, he's not a TRT guy, you know, at this point he's doing a full on cycle. And the other thing, you know, you brought up a 16 week, it is a prep. Yeah. It's, it's a mock prep basically. Fair enough. You also have, um, you got three sixes in there. So you could run a low dose for six weeks, come off six weeks, and then double the lower dose for the last six weeks. If you wanted to, you know, especially if it were a prep, I may approach it somewhere like that. You also have the, uh, four, four, four, four. So you could go four on, four off, but you probably would want to go four on eight off and then hit the last four weeks harder, but I'm a, I'm a balance. Yeah. I like that numbers to be synergistic, you know, you know, to put together. Uh, so I'd probably do a six, six, six, but that's, oh, that didn't come out right. Iron maybe. Yeah. All right. Well, I hope that that helps him. And thank you for your support over on Patreon. Let's see if we had something else here. Yes. Phil from Patreon. He says, uh, oh yeah. Um, how about favorite exercises that aren't the best, but you still like doing them as a gut check? For example, Zurcher squats. I know there are many other exercises that target the quads better. The limiting factor is how much pain my arms can take. Lower back is in a potentially bad position. Um, that's just what comes to mind for me. I'm going to be honest. I don't like any of those novel, like the Jefferson squat. Anything though. Okay. But anything that's like, maybe not, and I'm not saying like squat, it doesn't have to be a squat or a weird bar movement, but something where you're like, this isn't the best for my growth, but it's a good challenge. I don't do anything like that. I don't know. I don't, I'm not, I'm not a chair, you know, and look, I've trained for 41 years guy. So yeah, I'm not, you know, I know what feels good and what mechanically, you know, is fluid for me and I'm not out there. Um, I, I don't, I don't vary too much, you know, these days with, I tell you what, the most odd thing I would do that people find odd, especially with my age and, and people think that it's arguably a dangerous move is I do. And, and stand behind firmly the behind the neck press if done correctly. I think it is a great exercise, but it's nuanced and we don't have the time for my. Well, you have to agree before, and that's not, but that's not like just to like torture yourself. Like you're doing that because you feel it's good for development. It's yeah. I just think it's awesome. You have to have the shoulder mobility. And if you don't, here's the art, here's my argument. If you don't, you should. So if you don't, that's your problem. It's not the exercise's fault because you don't have the mobility to be able to keep your, uh, you know, your arms, what is it? Um, the external rotation, the rotation matters in a, in an exercise like that, because if you don't have that ability to have what should be normal external rotation, it's not going to work well. That's the same guy who can't put their hands out on the squat bar, you know, because it hurts or they fall asleep or whatever. I mean, like maybe it's just, I've never been that big to have that problem. But the big is an excuse. You, if you have that bigness, you ability to be able to put your hands out on the squat bar. That's not a size thing. It's a mobility, shoulder mobility issue. Yeah. I'd go with, I think my exercise traditionally for like, just like, this isn't the best for my legs specifically is barbell squats that I've always had like a, you know, that love relationship with leg training and that faded after I got sick in 2021, because then I couldn't breathe anymore. That said, man, I'm, I'm figuring some stuff out this year. And my core, it was, I was telling you it was a real big weak link since I've been training core a lot. Now I'm actually able to squat again, which is crazy. Like lightweight, you know, real lightweight. It feels good to be able to do it though. Oh dude, it feels good while I'm doing it. But the, like today right now, my legs are trashed from doing them two days ago now. But yeah, that was always my exercise because it was just like that. Like, you don't challenge yourself kind of thing. We had one in the stream. How about this? How do you assess when a physique responds better to carbs than to fats? Is there an equivalent of overdoing it with fats during fat loading similar to spilling over with carbs? Thanks. Well, the spillover with fat is just gaining fat. You're storing it as body fat, but that's really no different with carbs either. The difference is, is the excess fat isn't going to make you hold water like carbs are. So, you know, then you get into the insulin sensitivity issue and, you know, things of that nature. But, um, you know, I'm not huge on carbs. I don't like to pile on carbs. I like to structure the protein. Uh, and then when it comes to the carbs, I think it has to do with, has more to do with intensity of the training, duration of training, frequency of training, basically the carbon take you need to maximize the activity that you're doing or benefit from the activity you're doing. I mean, fill in the, you know, the fat after that. Um, but to give specific, you know, no, that's a difficult one. Um, yeah, I feel like it's like you structure that, right. And you see that somebody isn't responding well, let's say that, uh, they're getting fat now. Um, obviously, I mean, probably less food is the number one thing, you know, but it is, I mean, that, that would be a point where you'd say like, well, maybe we really, I don't know. I, it's, I guess it depends on the, actually a specific diet. It's hard to break. Yeah. Cause I think his question might even be, do you, if you start to get fat or do you pull back carbs or do you pull back fat? Well, yeah. So it's going to be able to handle more carbs, right? Yeah. You'd be able to handle more carbs, but you know what, if you pull the back, the fats enough and your carbon take is high, what are your blood glucose levels of blood? True. Yeah. You know, there's that too. So there are variables in there that, you know, I always say it's, we want to give black and white answers. I, and I want to give as much, as much specific information as I can, but people do need to understand that it's sometimes these questions are so individual that they're difficult to answer. And this would be one of them. Yep. And I'd agree with you. It would come down to actually like working the diet and seeing how somebody responded. And then, I mean, to a degree, man, it's making adjustments and then seeing what happens after those adjustments, you know what I'm saying? And then you kind of feel your way through to determine what somebody responds to better. Yeah. And if you're not sure and you don't know where to go, go with a low fat, higher carb intake and do that for eight to 10 weeks and see how you respond. Keep the calories the same and switch and drop the carbs down and take the fat up. But the calories need to remain the same. So if there's a constant variable, do that for the same amount of time. And then you can go back and assess, okay, which one do I think is better? Did you control every variable? Of course not. But you'll have a good idea to see if one works better than the other. And you might find both work the same. Dude, that was some pretty, for not being able to answer that question because it was too specific, that was a pretty damn good answer actually. Now and then I got a profundity under my sleeve, under my... All right. See what else we have here. Oh yeah. I don't know if we can help Phil out here. Maybe you have an answer for him. Yeah. You have the bracelet. Oh, we did. This is a different Phil. He says, hey Scott, I have a training question. And what is it here? You know what? I have to blow these up so I can actually see them. It says, when I do squats, regular back squats or hack squats, I get so lightheaded after doing a couple of reps. It's not as bad as the hack squat. But on the back squat, the more weight I load up, the worse it gets. And I have to bail out before I can finish a good set because my vision starts to go and I feel like I'm going to pass out. Blood pressure is typically 125 over 75, but I haven't checked it post set. In the gym. What would you think could be wrong? And what do you think would help this issue besides using lighter weights or just abandoning squats altogether? I want to see your breathing and I want to see what kind of pressure you have in your head while you're squatting. Even arguably the intra-abdominal pressure as well. Because if you have it in your stomach, you probably have it going up into your neck and your head. When you say vision like that, immediately I'm like, I don't know. I'd like to see what that looks like because his head probably looks like a tomato. Yeah. You might say tomato, but I say tomato. Do you really say tomato? You don't say tomato. But my kids bust me for saying, and this is, I'll throw this to the viewers. Is it an orange or is it an orange? Is it Florida or is it Florida? I am not a long old guy. It's not an orange. It's an orange. It's an, say it again. Orange. Say cool whip. Cool whip. Say whip just by itself. Whip. It's whip. Whip. Yes. You got to pronounce the H? Whip. Whip. Whip. Whip. I know they're laughing. There's at least two people laughing going, oh, that's a Stewie joke. I know. Because that was just, I love that. That's a family guy. Yeah. No, it's, it's, it's, I don't know. It's semantics. It's, it's how you, it's not even semantics. That's not even the right word either. It's how you pronounce it. Anyway, how did I even get here? Tomato, tomato. I think it was. You talked yourself into the circle of all that. I did not say tomato, but anyway. Hey, I had something I wanted to share with you. This is honey right here. First of all, I haven't eaten this honey. This was given to me by a listener from his own personal beekeeping. I wanted to know that I've had this for a while. Okay. I wanted to know that I am going to eat the honey, but honey is a position to eat honey at this point. So it's been sitting in my cupboard. That said, I wanted to get this out. We had a Sas Harati, Sasan Harati, who just competed in eight shows, got his first Olympia qualification and it looked incredible. You know, he's not like the, you know, top placer at the Olympia, but he came out with like a ton of second places, couple of first place finishes this season. Like he really kicked ass. And I guess he eats a lot of honey. We had some of the listeners message and ask, like get Sas to talk about his honey intake. So we pulled this out of the cupboard because I wanted to like visually see how much honey Sas eats. Pre-workout, he literally eats a half a jar of this. Really? Yeah. That's, that's his pre-workout dude. That's a lot of freaking honey. Could you imagine that? I'm not going to do that. He mixes it with his oats. Okay. So imagine how, dude, could you imagine how much honey that is? Yeah. That's a lot. A lot of honey. I just wanted to share that with you because all of our listeners knew. If I was doing this, you'd be like, yeah. No, all of our listeners, all of our listeners know what I'm talking about because they just watch Sas talk about eating a hundred grams of honey on the show. Dude, 300 grams of honey. 300 grams of honey is literally half of this jar. So they got the visual. All right. There's probably more carbs in the honey than in real maple syrup. I'm sure it's a lot, man. I mean, I don't, I don't know about the comparison, but there's the moisture one tablespoon is so much lower. How much? Let's see. One tablespoon is 16 grams. Yeah. Oh yeah. Yeah. I think we figured out he was eating like, was it three, 300 grams. I can't remember something like that, but it's a lot of 300 grams of carbs from honey, from honey. And he eats honey multiple times a day. That's just the pre-workout honey mixed with his oats. Nice. It's incredible, man. And then he also does an intro workout shake. Wow. He doesn't just eat that 300 grams before he trains. That's throughout the day, right? No, the 300 grams goes into his 100 grams of oats. And then he eats that. Oh, 300 grams of honey, not 300 grams of carbs. No, 300 grams of honey, which is what's, let's see here. Here, hold on. I'll give you the, I'll give you the math on this. I believe it's 300 grams of honey. Um, so half of this jar would be, let's see. Oh my God. How many servings in a jar? So it's about 200, 200 grams, something like that. 200 grams of carbs? Oh yeah. That's a lot. Yeah. It's 200, 300 altogether. So it's a lot. Anyway, question for the next show. Um, Dorian Yates mentioned he used to do two sets to failure, load failure, uh, 10% drop in weight failure again, per movement up until 92, 93, when he met Mike Metzer and pulled back to one set to failure. So he could have already been, uh, uh, he was already in Olympia, Mr. Olympia at that stage. Um, oh, he asked on our show, but he says for Ron, did he do one set to failure with doing many, uh, or he's asking Ron, uh, a question on his training, but I'll, yeah, I don't think that you've ever done just one set in your training. Have you? Did you do the DC? Yeah, but I did my version of it. Okay. I mean, it was about as close as I could get to one. I, it was certainly the time where I had the lowest volume of any time that I have trained in 41 years. Did you say you were also pretty big at that point too? Yeah. I mean, I was, I probably made my best gains. It was, oh, three of those. That's a long time ago. Oh, three. Oh, so oh three. Oh four. Oh five. Probably. Yeah. Or oh two. Oh three. Oh no. Well, I have that probably overlap, but anyway, it was in there somewhere. Um, I, my strength gains were, they were through the roof. Yeah. For me, you know, for me. So relative to other people, not that impressive. My bench, I mean, I would slight decline. I think there's a YouTube video of this from Oh nine. I wasn't doing DC training then, but I hit three 65 on the body. Master Smith is a heavy Smith. Oh, nine or 10, but everything in body masters heavy, right? Exactly. Made there. They're made like the old Mercedes. My hair is so heavy. Like two plates on my hack is brutal, man. Yep. Put it this way. Miss Olympia was at the house and she put on a 25 on each side. That was literally the best. You have the body master hack squad. I do. It's literally 10 feet from me right now. Oh, okay. Yeah. I thought you were referencing it from a gym. I didn't know that you had it in your, that's a good piece though. Oh, I love it. Saves you from that laborious task of loading up a bunch of plates. It sure does, man. It sure does. All right. Um, what does this have to say here? Let me hit a button here. What's the best way to learn how to get my peptide dosages, right? A bit ambiguous. I don't know. I just use a peptide calculator, right? Oh, you're talking about the numbers. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Get a peptide calculator. That's your safest bet. Yeah. Yeah. Do I use it? No. You don't use a peptide calculator. I honestly don't. I am a, you're going to laugh, but you know, I'm giving away my age or something, but I am a pen to paper guy when it comes to like, when I used to go to set up my cycles, when I do numbers like that, I really end the paper. Yeah. Yeah. I rarely will use a calc, my calculator. Okay. It's like I, me putting it down on paper allows me to step through the process and double check and do them backwards. And with a calculator, I can't do that because as soon as I do something on the calculator, I can't save it. I can't reference it. So I scratch on a note, on a note pad. Yeah. Wow. I just use a calculator. And if a client, and will you help clients with that? Because I've heard some people telling me a lot. It was Andrew. True. Remember Andrew was like, that's a math problem. That's not my problem. Yeah. Yeah. I've had, I'll make sure that they like, I'll screen cap it. I'll go to the calculator myself. Cause I don't want them to mess it up. Well, I'll do the math too. Easily too. Sometimes three times backwards and forwards, just to make sure it's right. And then I tell them what it is. Yeah. I don't want a client screwing something up. Yeah. For someone who hasn't tried certain compounds, wouldn't testing it in the offseason, be the smartest way. Like why do we try trend for the first time in a contest prep? It's a good question. It's actually a really good question. And I agree with him at the same time. I think the reason people put trend for the first time in a prep is because everybody raves about it. Like, you know, the other part is too, is I don't look, I don't have problems with sleep and I don't have problems with sweating with trend. Uh, some people do, but I also think that that comes along with everything that goes along with prep. Um, I, it, it's exacerbated during prep much more so than the offseason. You can still get those, you know, side effects in the offseason in prep. It's, it's a different ball game. So I was just trying to explain that to somebody who I, uh, a guy I had worked with who had dealt with. It was the guy who stopped checking in with me. And it, you know what, one of the mistakes I think I made with him was he, I, I should have, I couldn't have known dude. There's been a couple of times in my life coaching where trend didn't agree with somebody. And, uh, and, and I think that in, there was one case, man, I've told this story in the show before I found out later that the guy had, uh, anger management issues. Oh, and, uh, he had not taken trend before, but he wanted to run it in the prep. And when the trend went in, he became a different person. I've had spouses, not a ton of them. Yeah. But I'd say, and maybe not even a half, maybe three or four reach out to me without my client knowing saying, get him off of this company. And you know what my response is to him being honest? What's that? Yeah. I'll get him off the compound. Yeah. Let me ask you this. I'm not going to be a part of ruining or helping to ruin a marriage. Fuck that. Let me ask you this. Had that spouse not reached out, would you have known that there was like that level of a problem? You know? No, because they typically won't tell you, Hey, I'm being an asshole to my wife. Yeah. Yeah. So that guy. F-bombs today, A-bombs, everything. That's weird. Yeah. The guy that I, that I mentioned, he, uh, uh, not the guy at the anger management, that was like in 2015, 14, something like that, 15. Um, but this guy, the guy who stopped checking in, uh, I, I kind of read something was going on and he was telling me, he was like, no, man. He's like, you know, we, I ran trend for four weeks in the offseason. It was fine. And I'm like, yeah, but you know, it's different. And then he said, well, let's, you know, how about this? Like check in with your wife. It's good to have. And he totally, we're on video chat and like, he just was like, uh, yeah. Yeah. You can tell right away. I'll tell you, there's another tell. And that is when, um, the spouse and obviously with Trent, it's male. Um, your male client starts complaining about their wife being, you know, bitchy or a bit. Oh yeah. If they do that, you go right to the client, go, what part are you playing? Are you playing a part? You're the one in prep. They're not in prep. They can eat whatever they want. You can't, you're doing cardio and training. They aren't. Yeah. So yeah. Sometimes you can get a little more information out of them when you read between the lines. Yeah. I had the other guy, the anger management guy, he had a tooth abscess and he was getting pretty close to the show and he had to go to the dentist and, uh, he messaged something with that by the way, to get that to that is crap. How many abscesses do we deal with during prep? It's crazy. Like our teeth start moving around and hurt. Even if you don't have an abscess, go ahead. Sorry. So I remember this to this day, I was, it was like a date day or something like that. And we were getting ready to leave. We're going to the zoo. Right. And this guy, he was supposed to like, we weren't even doing a check-in and he's texting me and he's like, oh, hey, I had to go to the dentist. You know, the doctor's going to put me on antibiotics and we're like closing in. And I, I can't remember what it was, but, uh, I can't remember what he was using. But at the time, I remember Dave Palumbo talking about how, uh, amoxicillin won't make you hold water the same way that other, uh, antibiotics may, if you have to use an antibiotic going into the show. And so I texted him back and I was like, see if your doctor will give you amoxicillin, if that would work. And, uh, this guy who I'm not even expecting him to be so upset at me, he wrote me back and he said, no. And I looked at the text, like what? And then he follows it up with, you're my coach. You're not my doctor. I'm going to listen to what my doctor says. My doctor wants me to take clindamycin. I was like, Oh, that's what you go. They rattle off a quinolone. You're like, okay, go ahead and take it. Don't ask me. Your doctor gave it to you. You know? Yeah. Yeah. And same, the same guy, the other, the other like bad thing was we were going to do a load and, and I, you said, we'll send pictures tomorrow. We'll see how you look. And, uh, you know, we'll probably plan to do that load tomorrow or, you know, or the next day, you know? And, uh, he sends pictures and I said, okay, yeah, let's keep going. Let's give it one more day. And he wrote back and said, you know what? I am so sick of your shit. You told me that we were going to do a load on Saturday. They get attached to that food boy. Don't it's like putting food out in front of an animal and then you pull it back in the last minute and go psych. Yeah. Yeah. They don't, they don't dig that too much. That's funny. You ever have somebody say that to you though? I am so sick of your shit. I, you told me that you were going to do a load on Saturday and now we're not going to do it till Sunday or whatever. It was, I'll tell you this. And, and, and he'll think this is funny. Yeah. There is a client listening right now because he listens to all the podcasts and you know who you are. What's up, Devin? No, no, it's not that. Um, Devin knows him and he knows Devin, uh, but no, and I'm sure he's laughing right now. Uh, yes, we have, we have, have you ever had a client where you just come to blows and you're just like, you're literally coming to blow. And then because you worked with him for so long, you end up fixing it. And it's, it's, it's an odd dynamic that we have. Let's put it that way. Okay. Okay. But it worked, it works. I mean, if I'm being honest, it works. I get sick of him and his shit and he gets sick of me calling him on shit. And then it, it like bubbles over a month or two. And then we just little, first it starts as little subtle jabs and then it starts, you know, this, and then it's like, okay, now I'll leave them an audio message because as soon as you can get away from the, the text in the written communication, that it takes away from the reading between the lines. So then you can hear, you know, tone and you can hear, you know, it's just better. It's just, so now, now we're doing audio message messages a couple of times a week. And I laugh not because, but, but it's funny in the sense that, you know, we're talking about coaching and everything else in the dynamic. I know his dynamic because he's been working. I've been working with him for a long time. He knows mine. He knows that I don't want to put up with his shit, but he's going to give me the shit and then it's going to come up and he's going to come up and then I'm going to come up and we're going to bump heads and then we're going to back off and it'll be cool again. So it's just kind of this thing every now and then. And it sounds like it's based off a misunderstanding to a degree too. Yeah, it probably is. Frustration. I get frustrated with him. He gets frustrated with me, but yeah. Yeah. Yeah. This guy, he, he ended up, uh, this guy from years ago with the anger management issues, he ended up burning bridges with all of his friends at the gym too. He's a local guy. And, uh, then, uh, and I just said to myself, I was like, no, I'm not gonna, um, cause he was like wanting to self implode real close to the show, you know? And I was like, nope, we're just going to ride this out. I'm not going to give you the status. Cause I think he was like, Scott's going to fire me. And then I can not do the show and complain and say that he was a bad guy. Oh yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And I was like, nope, I'm not. That was it. He wanted an out. And I was just like, nope, not going to give him an out. I just went, went blank. You know what I mean? Here's the instructions next two weeks. We're going to do it like this. I'm going to give you instructions. You're going to follow them. You're going to get on stage. You're going to look incredible. We left it at that. Skip, what do you think would be, uh, um, more beneficial for gains? Oh damn. I lost my spot now. Uh, okay. Here it is. So we were talking about trend. What would be better for size test and trend or test and MPP? Same dose, same, you know, um, similar dosing structure, whatever you would do, you know, your average dose of trend to your average dose of MPP. It doesn't have to be a milligram for milligram. Okay, cool. Um, so my answer is still, yes, I don't think you're going to take that cycle or run both of those cycles under the same variables and go, wow, this one was better than the other. Um, I, I just don't, and, and he specifically asked just about, you know, he didn't ask about bloods. He didn't ask about, you know, whether he's going to hate his wife or, you know, anything else. So just, I, I just don't, I just don't think I'll tell you this. I wouldn't, I wouldn't run the trend. Me personally, I like the trend in the prep. Yeah. Too many benefits. There's not that I don't like it in the offseason. It's just that, you know what? MPP is an office. I don't run in, I wouldn't run MPP into a show and I wouldn't recommend that somebody does. I'm not saying that it can't be done, but with the availability of compounds, I would not recommend somebody do that. Yeah. We'll get somebody on the line. It's like, oh, well, Lee Priest ran DECA and show show. Oh yeah. Good for me. There's a Mr. Olympia who has had, had done that too. And my argument is that 99.9% of us are not genetically superior. Um, or give yourself every advantage. I suppose to take, yeah, to not know what we're doing or not do it optimally. Yeah. I shouldn't say not, not, not knowing what we're doing. Yeah. Okay. Um, how long does it take for the sleepiness to subside from a decent dose of growth hormone, like eight to 12 units? I don't, I, I don't really, do you get it? Do you get sleepiness? Cause you've run and you've run higher doses. I've run high, I've run long time. I've run, um, you know, shorter and take the break. The only issue that I ever have personally is I can run really high, but if I take a break and even come down to, you know, four or five IU, like let's say I'm at 12 or 15 and I come down to five or six IU. I do that for a couple of months and I try to go back up. I have to run it up incrementally a couple at a time, maybe an increase of a couple, every couple of weeks. Okay. I go right back to like, if I go even from five to 10, I have to wear my wrist braces. Oh, okay. Yeah. They're like hand and wrist braces. Um, they kind of look like bowlers, um, braces. They're the carpal tunnel sleeve things. That's exactly what they are. I know what you're talking about. Yeah. But I mean, I don't get it a little bit. If I get it, I get it from the shoulder, both arms from the shoulder down and it is horrible. I have to get up four or five times a night. It's not about rolling over. It's getting up, shaking your arms out. And they, they, it is not cool. And it takes good five, seven minutes before you can go back to bed. And if you go back to bed too soon, like you're trying to, you know, get back in bed three or four minutes later, it's going to come back before you can fall asleep. So yeah, that's, but I typically don't have that. I mean, I can run the high doses and there are literally no sides to the point where I go. And this is after I've, you know, incrementally come up to those higher doses. But sometimes I look at my body and go, man, I sure hope this is Sarastem because I don't have any sides from this right now. I can be bone dry on Sarastem. I can be bone dry on 15 IU a day of Sarastem. No kidding. Not holding subq water. Yep. Now back when you used to run generics, did you hold more water on them? Puffer fish. Okay. To the point I can't, I can't, I couldn't do metatrope. I could not do it. I would, I would just blow up and it didn't matter if I was lean or I wasn't lean. I would just blow up and it was horrible. Did not like it. One other horrible, but horrible, horrible, horrible, horrible, horrible. That's a, I'm trying to think of how I say it. Horrible. I know. Cause if you think about it, you won't say it, you know what I mean? You won't say it the way you normally say it. Next time you say orange, just, or orange. Yeah. Orange. I just say orange. Visit me in Florida. Are you going to visit me in Florida? I'll visit you in Florida. Floor. It's like two words, floor and duh. It's the Michigan way to do it. I think. Oh, not oh, oh, but anyway. Floor. Duh. Duh. One's not right or wrong. It's difference between frustrated or frustrated. Hypertrophy, hypertrophy. I don't know if there's anything else here. I think that was about it. Yeah. Hypertrophy. I think that was it. Skip. I think that's all we had, man. I thought I had something else for you. I wanted to ask you. Yeah. It must've been, it's gone. It's just gone. You'll remember. Yeah. A minute after we get off. Oh no. I was going to tell you that it was one of my guys who ran, he got pharma grade and we're like, oh, it's going to be awesome, man. You know, we're going to get on the pharma. Dude, he was running like three units. He held so much water. I couldn't tell if he was gaining muscle, gaining fat, losing, like you couldn't see anything. He just blew up. Is that recent? Does he still have the pharma? I mean, we ended up having to back it down. I'm like, okay, try taking a half a unit of that. We'll see what it does. Yeah. No, it was a little while ago, but he paid like the big bucks from the doctor for it too. Oh, wow. Yeah. Yeah. Anyway, that's all we got, man. That's it. How's your show going? I heard you had Dusty. Yeah. He was okay. Dusty's all right. Yeah. Dusty's all right. Dusty's dusty. No, we had, I found out afterwards, I was disappointed because I would have rather known prior, but he's a bit of a horrophile too. Horrophile. Yeah. He likes, he likes the moment. Oh, no. Well played. I was like, oh, he knows what it is. No, he's a watches. Watches. That's right. He had a video of him handing the keys to his daughter for the truck. And I saw the back side of the bracelet. I'm like, I don't know. That could be a bright one. Not sure what might, and he said he was going to buy something else because he gave her the truck. And I'm like, everybody else is like, oh, you know, all right. And all these, you know, big trucks and I'm like, no, it looks like you might, maybe you're just buying a new time piece. I'm like, what? So I DM'd him. Like, what are you wearing? And he was wearing a Super Avenger, I think, Breitling. I'm like, oh my God, I'm a Breitling guy. So we start going back and forth. He's showing me what he wants to get. I'm like, but I like the metal bracelet. I'm like, bro, you can get a Breitling metal bracelet. It's 22 millimeter lug. We're going back and forth. He's like, oh my God, I didn't even know that. So it was kind of cool, but I couldn't bring it up on the show. Cause you guys already. Yeah. Yeah. I didn't know his wife was, um, how do I say? So hot. She's very pretty. I got like, oh my God. You don't follow the social media then. Do what? You don't follow the social media then. Like they'll go out to eat and he intentionally does this. He'll take like a, cause they go out for good food, you know, which is another thing you would relate to, but he'll take the picture and like of the food, but then like her boobs are in every shot. Oh, no kidding. He's like, it's about the boobs. Right there. Yeah. Oh man. I'm going to have, I do follow him though. I just have to pay better attention apparently. Anyway. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's doing well. He he's, he's always. Yeah. Plus some guys that algorithm. Well, we appreciate everybody tuning in and, uh, you know, go over to skip show and check out our, uh, advertisers, true nutrition.com supplement source.ca. And of course, thank you guys over at Patreon. I've been trying to get early releases out at Patreon and, uh, you know, we take all the listener questions and stuff. I've also too, I've been putting out old shows that are no longer on the channel. I've been putting them out on the think big live channel. So if you guys, uh, want to get over there, watch those things, subscribe, all of that. I'm real close to getting that channel monetized. And that's been kind of a goal for 2025. I think I can make it. We have like just a couple hundred hours of your time left. So maybe I just have to do like one show on that channel and we'll push it over the top, but that would be a goal. I'd like to meet and, uh, guys, of course, go to, uh, team skip.com, reach out to skip, go to body, Barry.com to reach out to Andrew. He's not with us, but, uh, we'll have him back on the next show. And of course, hit me up, McNally diets at gmail.com. And for another episode of blood, sweat and gear, we will see you soon. Thank you. Skep, as always, always a pleasure.