 pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis pis So I think we need to use different terminology like force to communicate with in some way. What's up, guys? Welcome back to the podcast with Dave Crosland. I'm Scott McNally. And all of our programming is brought to you by you, the people at Patreon. Thank you guys very much for your support. We are brought to you by truenutrition.com. Use our code THINK to get 10% off all your basic bodybuilding supplements. We're brought to you by Strom Sports Nutrition. And for those of you in the U.K. and the U.S., they have great health stacks, especially if you're on cycle. Of course, we are brought to you by Eval Blood Analysis. If you're in the U.K. and you're on cycle, you should be getting your labs done. And you can do that through Dave at evalbloodanalysis.com. Last but not least, supplementsource.ca. For Canadians, they have great deals that change week to week. Today, we are joined by Dr. Kurt Havens. Dave, you're going to have to be on your best behavior today. Okay. You promise? You promise? Yes, always. I've even silenced me phones at Dawnstar. For once. Thank you. I appreciate that. It's really nice. All right. So, last week, Kurt, I kind of feel like it was like a loaded question, man. We got – somebody said they're like, Kurt Havens says that test sip doesn't work. You know, so what do you think? So, the question gets posed to me. Questions like this all the time. I'm sure you hear this kind of stuff too on YouTube. What do you think about Kurt Havens saying that test sip doesn't work? I'm supposed to then answer that question. So, we were like, hold on a minute. I don't know if we're hearing the right story here. Kurt, thank you for being here, first of all. Can you please explain to us, man, what's the deal on this topic? Okay. So, it was never meant to be a polarizing thing. I don't want to be a polarizing figure either. I do this end of this stuff so I can kind of help our industry get to the bottom of things and understand things in a more clear fashion. That was – at the outset, that was what my goal was. Kurt Havens says test sip doesn't work. Sorry. I can't help it. I got to keep doing that. The original study – so, the original study was a case study. We're actually working on a second phase one that's a larger population at the moment. Okay. The goal was just to show that there was a difference in the esters. It was never to show that one was better than the other. People can interpret things how they choose. But the goal is basically if you look up testosterone cyponate, a lot of times it will just say, see pharmacokinetics for an anthate. Okay. We know that that's not necessarily the case, that you can't say that they're the same. You change one carbon on a drug and you're going to change the whole thing. And we've seen this in other drugs. MPP has a similar fate, parabolin. We can get into that maybe in another video, what's going on with those drugs as well because I think those are misunderstood as well. It's not about them being better or worse than another option. They're just different, right? So, with cypionate, what we see is the ester has an aromatic ring, which it takes up a lot more space than a straight-chain fatty acid like a nantate. And it just is metabolized differently. And so, it also doesn't experience what we would call like second compartment metabolism. It only goes to first compartment. So, the dose doesn't really stack properly either. I'm trying to make this too confusing. So, the common knowledge with steroids is you multiply the half-life by five to get the total peak in a serum. So, guys are like, when you start testosterone and anathate, it's not really peaking until day 42. What they're referring to is second compartment metabolism is that each dose slowly builds until you get to a level of total saturation. Well, with the aromatic rings, the way they're metabolized, and a lot of people, they don't ever experience that. So, they peak on their own as a dose and then they go down and then they peak again and then they go down. They're basically staying at a level they're never reaching a much higher level. Okay. So, you're saying that's what TASIP is doing? In some individuals. It doesn't mean it does it across the board. But we do see it in some. And that's why we're doing a broader study now. So, we've seen it. We see it clinically. Like in HRT practices, you see it. Certain patients, males and females, don't respond to the same to SIP and A. And if you switch them, testers sometimes all of a sudden they feel much better. So, we took that evidence and we started to just explore what was actually going on there and why it was missed. And I've seen it with myself. I mean, I can respond to both, but I definitely feel different on the two esters. I don't know if you've had any experience with an anthate or SIP and A. I think that, yeah, a lot of times you will see people that you hear it all the time, right? Dave, you've been doing this for decades, right? I've been around a long time and you hear various people who say like, oh, I do better with test SIP. I do better with test e. I've seen various ranges in dosing needed for even TRT. Like outside spectrum, I've seen guys that are like 300 milligrams a week just to get stable, high-end TRT levels. Like legit needed that. Other guys, you know, 100 is fine. So, I could see if this is this then responsible for some of that variability? Okay. I'm going to go against the grain here because on test SIP, I need even less. Okay. Okay. So, you might have more of those specific esterases in your body that metabolize that drug. Yes. So, test SIP, to maintain what I would class as TRT, which is 20 to 24 MO. I'm 60 MIG twice a week. I'm 40 MIG twice a week. Okay. Huh. So, it's possible. Or you have more CYP for 50 enzymes. So, maybe you're metabolizing the E faster as well. Yeah. I think overall, I have a generally slow metabolism of anabolics, which is why when I did push things, they push so well. I definitely have an incredibly high tolerance of estrogen. Okay. So, I don't get symptomatic of that estrogen very easily at all. Yeah. Yeah. So, the tolerance of estrogen is, a lot of it is created in utero. When we're a fetus, the amount of hormones you're exposed to is what's going to dictate your tolerance, what your hypothalamus senses as normal. Right? And that's why you'll see certain guys that can ride the estrogen much higher to 70 in the United States, so like a 70 or 80. Yeah. And they feel fully normal. And there's other people that if they get it at A-50, they're crying at a movie. No. And a lot of things can do with the way your brain is formed when you're in the womb. Yeah. Yeah, that makes sense. Because that's when a lot of those things form, those receptors. You're doing an actual research clinical study on all of this, huh? Yes. Tell us. Can you explain? And there's one. I can send you the case study if you want. It's done. Science Direct did not want to print it. Okay. So, we're looking for another journal to print it. So, in that individual, the ciponate had a much stronger binding affinity to sexamal binding glabalin. It had a much higher affinity to aromatase enzyme, so it produced much more estrogen for a similar dose. And it didn't create the same peak at the same dose. So, the enanthate peaked 50% higher, had less aromatization, even at a higher peak, and had less interacting six-mibin binding glabalin. So, there's more free test as well. And every other variable was controlled for. How high was the dosing on this? We did two different doses. So, we did 300 milligrams and 600 milligrams. Oh, so you actually, you pushed it into the cycle ranges. We wanted to see what would occur. And we know, you know, because of Bayesian, we know that those are safe amounts to use in testing. So, as long as it's within standard of care, it's allowed. Right? I mean, you could test on four grams of gear if you wanted to. You'd just get a lot of pushback. Yes. So, was this, this obviously was on individuals. Was there any qualifying for the individuals? For the larger study? No, for the one you've already done. What was the study? He was just someone who didn't respond. He was symptomatic on Siponate. So, what we did is we did a washout period, just used the Siponate, right, to isolate, to see what was actually occurring on Siponate at different doses. And then we did a washout period and then did the enanthate-ingrated doses and then did blood work at different stages there. And then a washout. So, we compare it, you know, we could compare 300, 600, 300, 600 in the same period of time over months. Okay. So, this is over one person. It was just the one individual or was there a group? That one was. We wanted to do it first. So, the problem is because we're doing it ourselves. My lab partner and I are funding this stuff. We have to pay for everything. So, I have to pay for the testosterone. I have to pay for the labs. I have to pay. He's the physician that's administering the drugs. So, he has to take time to compensate himself for the work being done. He has to supervise this stuff. I have to do the writing. So, the next stage that we're doing now is a group of men, 18 to 35, healthy. No previous steroid usage, right, because that can skew some things. Okay. Yeah. They could have used TRT before, but we didn't want people that – we didn't want bodybuilders. Okay. You know, with that kind of experience. So, it's a larger group. And so, that's going on now. It takes months, right? Because, again, we do the same kind of thing. 300, 600, then a washout, right? And then repeat. How many is in the second study? It should be 30. Okay. Okay. Now, it's all complete. I don't know, right? That's the other thing is, you know, not everyone finishes. But I think with a study like this, you should have been a pretty good turnout. That's cool. Just to clear. How do you select – how do you market 30 people that have never used anabolics that are willing to use anabolics at a dose of 600 milligrams? That's a good point. My lab partner runs a hormone replacement clinic. And so, he was using his market share. So, are these people that were candidates for TRT? So, they have naturally low? Yes. Right. Okay. They were. So, which could, I guess, in theory skew it as well. But, again, like you said, how are you finding people that you want to do? Yeah. No. I was just – I'm genuinely just curious. No judgment on this. Just genuinely curious as to how you've got about selecting these people. Yeah. It was either guy – it was either, you know, hypogonadal men that had never used TRT or hypogonadal men that were on TRT that we removed off of their TRT to start this protocol. Okay. Hey, Blunt Force Tanya asked us in the stream. She says, does the same go for androgen tolerance exposure in the womb? The same as what we see with estrogen? Well, because that's when androgen receptors are going to be formed initially. Right? We will increase androgen receptor density through exposure. Right? Again, another problem in the bodybuilding world is this whole, like, clean out, down regulation thing that doesn't actually occur. We see androgen receptors upregulate in the presence of androgens, and they downregulate in the absence of androgens. So in the womb, depending on how high a mother's testosterone is, what the placenta is giving the fetus will dictate how many androgen receptors are there. And that becomes their baseline. And that's actually where people's genetic response. When we talk about gifted athletes, we've all seen really gifted bodybuilders. What they tend to have is they're actin-3 dominant. They have high density of androgen receptors, and they have a great chagrity. They have all three. Yeah. And those are the guys like a Flex Wheeler or Ronnie Coleman. So do you think, off topic slightly, but do you think based on that, that paternal usage can impact fetal DNA expression? Are you referring to the steroid using population tends to have more female offspring? No, because of that, I mean, though I know there's a study that covered that. I believe there's only one. So, and the catchment was very, very low in the number of people it looked at. No, there's been some thought that, based on epigenomics, that parental usage can have an impact on expression. I think it can. Do I think it's going to across the board in every offspring? No, I don't think so. So, we see increased expression. Like if someone has multiple children, sometimes you'll see one or two of them that you can tell, obviously, we're exposed to more based on their natural level of muscularity or their athletic ability. But not every child, you know. Yeah, no, just if the father was using it at the time of conception, there's going to be an impact on the development of fetal. Well, the anodrome receptor is part of our DNA. Yeah. So, yeah. If you've increased expression, you're going to increase, you're going to pass that on to some degree. Again, how those line up with, you know, between the mother and the father, the expression just depends. Yeah. No, it's just. Yeah, we do see. So, yeah. So, it's just not to say if two steroids, two pro bodybuilders or two professional athletes that use steroids had offspring, there is a good chance that their offspring would be born with slightly elevated levels, you know, tolerance or expression from these things. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. So, with just everything that you've seen so far, Kirk, how would you translate this to your average bro that is watching this right now? How does this, like, basically, how does this apply to them when they're deciding what they want to run for their cycles? Yeah. I mean, I would keep it really simple. What do you feel the best on? Right? If you're using Sipionate and you feel great and your labs look great, keep using Sipionate. Yeah. It's not to say you couldn't try an anthony and see what you feel like, but I don't think there's any reason. I don't want people to be emotionally attached. We aren't. We shouldn't identify as our steroids. Whatever you feel the best on and you respond to. Right? But it can go the other way. If you're using, let's say you're using testosterone and anthate and you're not responding, right? Maybe it's time to try something different and see if you respond differently. Yeah. You also could have a low response. But it was more just to show that they're different and I want clinicians and bodybuilders and everyone just to see that there are other options out there. We don't necessarily need to stick with just something based on a preconceived notion or because Wikipedia says they're the same. Right. Yeah. Yeah. That was the whole gist of it. And then to show, we wanted to take this then further with the other steroids and show the differences in some of the esters. You know, so that's just a lot of that stuff is just a matter of time. Okay. So are you saying that you'll do further studies with other compounds down the road? That was the plan. So we were looking at starting a private medical journal that was like a not-for-profit and it would be a fee-based thing, right? You join for $20. Okay. And the money from that would go toward this research, right? Because we have to pay for it. Yeah. So these pharmaceutical companies aren't backing this up. The university is not backing this up. So we have to fund this stuff. So, and the research is more geared toward you and I or three of us versus like, it's not helping, you know, Jane down the street that, you know, is trying to get pregnant. It's not that sort of research. So we're not going to get big funding from these companies. We're going to do ones on growth hormone again. But a lot of these just take a lot of money to get off the ground. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No, that makes total sense, man. And yeah, it would definitely apply to us, the people, me, Dave, the people watching our programming, your programming, stuff like that. Dave, do you have any other questions while we had Kurt here? No, not particularly. I was, I was a little bit, I caught, people won't notice, but before you two were talking when I joined the video-wise and you'd mentioned ethics. Now, I know UK-wise, this would be an incredibly difficult study to get across past the ethics board. To be honest, the chance of it getting past are slim to nothing. They are particularly strict over here around ethics. And I was just wondering, is it the same setup over there? Or because it's privately funded, is it a lot easier and a lot less open in that sense? It depends. I mean, yes and no. There's definitely pushback on things. And I think a lot more has to do with reputation because my lab partner and I are just entering this world. We don't have a name. You get, like I was saying, our peer review. We went through two separate peer review boards and they were harder on us than they might be on someone who has a reputation for doing this stuff where they would probably just let the data go through. A lot of the scientists wanted or doctors wanted their own little twist on things that weren't necessarily relevant. But you can see that they, they're kind of testing you to see what you'll do and what you won't do. And they didn't love, so we used one of the things, we used Primobalin as an AI. Part of the reason why was we were trying to show what goes on in the real world of TRT, right? That we're all aware of, but yet a lot of physicians are not aware of, right? Because they just see what's in the textbooks and how they prescribe and what the pharmacy gives. We know there's probably a large percentage of men that are using other things out there to control estrogen or to add to their TRT, like TRT plus. So we wanted this to kind of be more relevant to the real world versus just like textbook, right? Here's, this is TRT and this is how it's done. And just so it had more application for us. There was pushback with that, questions about legal issues with Primobalin, how it was obtained, things like that. Okay. Yeah. Yeah, that makes sense. Hey, I've got just one more thing for you, and I don't know if you can do this, but can you give us just a basic understanding idea of why you think it is that tests may not work the same in a cipionate versus anethate? Like what's the big difference between those two esters that may create so much variability for an individual? So cipionate, phenylpropionate, hexylbenzocarbonate, parabolin, those have an aromatic ring. So if you look at the ester, right? So enanthate, propionate, they're basically a straight chain fatty acid. Okay. That's more common in nature. And they're just, basically, you can count the carbons. The carbon's going to dictate how long that ester is and how it's going to, it's basically just getting cleaved off and then released into the bloodstream. When you put an aromatic ring in there, if someone doesn't have that specific, so we're all born, just like with everything else, we're all born with a specific amount of esterases, the chemicals that cleave this ester apart. Not everyone has the same esterases in their body or the same amount of them. And the aromatic ring on these esters make it a little tougher. It's larger. It makes the ester much larger than it looks on paper because of the size of it. Okay. So it's just tougher to break down. It would be like you eating a very fatty steak versus a very lean cut. It's just harder. Like you're chewing on this thing. I gotcha. To digest it. A lot of people's bodies just can't break it down properly. And that's why you're not seeing it peak properly. Okay. So individuals. I think I know you're going to go with this, Dave. Take it. If the ring is harder to break down, wouldn't that reduce the rate of metabolism? Metabolism. Yeah. Yeah. I can't speak. Just ignore me. I'm a farmer. Would that not slow down the metabolism of the drug, therefore leaving it active in the body for longer? Or am I getting this the wrong way around? Yeah. Yes. And we see that with things like, I didn't want to go on the MPP thing, but we see that with MPP that it's not actually short, that it's long. And that's what's occurring. It just not peaking properly. So people assume, yes, the short answer is yes. It changes how long the metabolism is of the drug. So wouldn't that cause SIP to stack, for want of a better word? Because it's not leaving, it's not being eliminated. It's not leaving the body as quick. Yeah. No. So when we talk about the different compartment metabolism, it's more complicated than just the duration of the loss. Hence why asking. Okay. I can send you, I can send you chapters from Farber College Book if you guys want to flip through it and look at it. But it's a more complicated scenario than just the length of something. Is that where that term steric hindrance comes in? No, that's more like that's the sheer size of something. Yeah. Okay. It can't be broken down by something because it's basically like too big and it's pushing its way through. Yeah. Okay. So that was, I, I have a very rough understanding of steric hindrance and it's something we started looking into recently with, with ment, but one of our listeners mentioned that in reference to this topic when we brought it up last week that, oh, it's due to steric hindrance that it's, it's too big. So that. I mean, it's possible to play some role there, but that you see that more in other drugs, like the orals and stuff where they're basically going to be able to push through the liver. Okay. Um, um, that's, that would be more of my guess than, than anything else, but, um, it's steric hindrance. I guess could play a part in its metabolism. Okay. I just figured I'd bring it up. Cause it's something I'm just trying to understand myself. Yeah. I think it's more of a product of the esterase. Like if you have those esterases to break it down. Okay. And because of its shape, it seems to interact more with, uh, like I said, like with the romantase enzyme in those insects. I'm a body glove limb as well. All right. Yeah. I know that you you're short on time. So we were just going to bring you in to, to have this quick conversation. It's kind of a big conversation to just like jump in and Hey, Kurt, tell us real quick. But I appreciate you doing your best man to come in and share this stuff. And is there anything that we can do? Is there anything that the listeners, what can we do to help support the study that's going on now or in the future? Where can people find what you're doing and continue following along? I mean, I know a lot of our listeners are your listeners too. Yes. I mean, at the moment I'm, I've been super busy with clients, with my coaching stuff. So I don't have a ton of time to make content. Most of the content I do is on vigorous Steve's channel. Yeah. So do the Anaboc round table. Most people can find me there. I have my own channel. I just haven't done any content in a while. And on Instagram, Kurt.Havens, I will post stuff both on my Instagram and bigger Steve will put links below when we have more stuff on more studies availability. Like we were going to do a masteron one, but because of the current climate in the steroid world, it doesn't make any sense to study a drug that's near impossible to get at the moment. So, yeah. Sorry. I appreciate it. Well, we appreciate you coming out and guys, you heard it here first. Kurt.Haven says, don't use sip. It doesn't work. Thanks, guys. Thanks, man. I appreciate you, brother. Yeah. I'll see you later. Nice to meet you. Take care. All right. And then we'll just continue this thing on, Dave. That was pretty cool, man. I'm glad we can get him on to sort that out because, like I said, I feel like sometimes we're kind of getting prompted by our listeners. Like, hey, Dave, this guy says that Trent doesn't work for dieting. People love to shit stir, don't they? They love to poke drama and create conflict. But, no, I mean, it's once, I mean, the initial sort of investigation he did with one individual is extremely far from conclusive. Sure, sure. And I think he understands that, too. Yeah, and I don't think he's claiming it is either. I don't think there's any way Kurt's saying, look, this is what happens. You know, SIPP does this. This is why he's going for a broader study. But then again, even 30 people is unfortunately a very, very small collective, particularly when it's 30 people that are all hyper-godal anyway. Now, whether that has any impact, I have no fucking clue. Do you know what I mean? It's one type of person is the problem. And I can see there being a lot of pushback academically just because of the size of samples size, that the findings are just not going to be robust enough. But if it triggers more investigation, then that's great. If someone starts questioning the findings, it's like, well, that might hopefully trigger more looking at it. Yeah, so at the end of the day, I don't see there being anything negative there at all. So, I mean, it is weird. There's so much variation in people's reactions. It can be difficult. I mean, my reaction is the complete opposite. You know what I mean? I use a much lower dose of SIPP in TRT than I do in ENTH. It seems to stay in me much longer. I don't clear it for some reason or don't seem to. So, it is odd. And I think there's a wide... I think Kurt's reported what he's found, which is great. But I think people have, like they often do with studies, have taken this as being a little bit too literal and a little bit too, boom, this is the law. And he's not saying that. This is just what I found. We've seen evidence in TRT that responses to SIPP can be not quite as positive in certain people. And we went to have a look to try and find out why. We took this individual and did this. And we found that the SIPP response was completely different and not as productive in the sense of him benefiting from the levels. So, now we're going to try it with 30 people and see what happens there. Which is the same thing that everybody is, you know, that knows has already said for years that everybody's going to have their own individual response, right? So, it does, I think, for us maybe better explain, okay, well, maybe first of all, give proof that, yeah, there is variability, right? Something that we knew, but we only knew it through looking at people's results. And now I think they're taking the next step as to, well, why is there, how much variability, number one, and why is there that variability? Which is a question that I think a lot of us, and honestly, I don't know, do we, do we totally need to answer that question to be effective as, say, coaches or as bodybuilders? I don't think we necessarily need to know the why, but it is important to know that it does exist and to understand what your own personal, you know, response is. It's, I mean, okay, like, 30 years ago, no frigging science, people using gear based on experiment, self-reporting, general community conversation, and people got fucking big, you know, I mean, people still grew, people still got strength. Were they carrying as much size as now? Now, probably not as commonly. So there were still the big mass monsters, there were still the big monsters about, but I don't think the, I think if you looked at the average muscle mass in the pro ranks, let's say, I think the average muscle mass has increased. Yeah. I think there still were individuals that were monstrously huge and just as big as some of the monsters are now, but I think, I think the average individual muscle mass has increased. So I would definitely say so. And our average steroid user is a lot more educated today. You know, they know so much going into their first cycle. I'm not so sure if that's yielded any real world net benefit from a point of view of health. The problem is we have a greater base of users. Who cares about health? It's all about results. But at the same time, we are seeing bigger and bigger numbers of people suffering in abhorrent health conditions. So, and death being a particularly big one in that one. Yeah. But, you know, I, we, I don't, but then there's so many more people using. So it's so difficult to quantify this level of stuff because, you know, in the same way as say a company grows and gets bigger, they get more problems. But it's like, as long as the percentage of problems is proportional to the level of trade they're doing, they haven't actually got more problems. It's just they're doing more trade. So there's that element of, of anabolics as well. So it is a difficult one. Um, I mean, I'm, I'm very interested and it's definitely, I made some little notes because it is something I've never really fucking bothered to look at because I've never had any cause to, but I would be, I'm going to dig a bit deeper and see if there's any other stuff that gives more meaning or, I mean, obviously you've got his details. If you can reach out because he was mentioning about it send us links to the areas to deal with the aromatization stuff. I'd love to look at that. I generally would like to read that. Um, yeah, I'll connect you to him too over on social media. It is difficult as well. And I mean, Tanya has mentioned this in the chat about research being resistant to the user community. It's something that's changing in the UK. Thank frig, slowly. Uh, and at the pace of a fucking glass melting, but, um, it is, um, there is now open dialogue between the community and research and, and things are starting to get a little bit more integrated. 10 years ago. You know, I was the token drug user that stood at a conference and talked about my personal usage. Now it's much more a conversation around knowledge and experience in the sense of what's happening in the community and what we're seeing and where we want to drive research. And so the world has definitely changed in the UK around research, but our steroid research is, is small. Yeah. But, but there is, there is much more of an appetite for open discussion between both communities, uh, and the academic communities getting much more welcoming of individuals from the user community. However, we still have the big ethics problem and that's always going to be a difficult subject to broach when it comes to research in the UK is how we get around ethics. Yeah. Well, I'll find that. I find it interesting. I find drugs in people. Well, especially like 600 milligrams, man, that's a, you don't see a ton of studies, but you know, Hey, just like you're kind of saying on other aspects, this might be opening the doors for more research like that. 600 is the highest dose that's ever been studied. Okay. So that's probably why they could get away with that. Yeah. So that's what I think he uses his grounds for, for justification is, you know, this study and this study have used these doses, 300 and 600 milligrams. Yeah. Um, so it has been done before at that dose. Uh, but yeah, it is, uh, it's definitely interesting. Uh, cool. Well, I'm glad we get them on man. Hmm. We have a bunch of listener questions, Dave, as always. And, uh, I want to tell everybody too, guys, thanks for being here. If you are new to our content, we'd love to have you along for everything we do. We have several shows that come out each week. Dave's an expert witness in the UK court system, educator of the police military. He's got his company. I haven't done that for years. You got to drop that now. I haven't done that. You want me to stop saying that? That one I haven't done for a long time. That's what you used to always do that stuff. You were constantly traveling when we first, when we first started doing the show. Yeah. No, I haven't done that for years now. I do have a big court case on it a lot of them. Oh yeah. You probably can't tell us about it. Nope. No, I don't know. Oh, you'll tell us about it later. And I've been coaching for the last decade full time. That means that's basically all I do besides hang out with Dave occasionally. And, uh, you guys are welcome to leave us listener questions. We do have a bunch of them from the last show. Plus we got a lot of positive feedback, Dave. A lot of people, uh, enjoying the show. They loved our military talk last week. We had like a lot of you, WW2 buffs and stuff that chimed in. Um, hang on a minute. You used the phrase hang out with Dave. Now hang out would infer that there was some level of enjoyment or friendship between the two of us, which is definitely not the case. So I think we need to use different terminology like forced to communicate with in some way. Dave, somebody said Dave's exceptionally grumpy on this episode last time. Were you exceptionally grumpy? Were you exceptionally grumpy last week? Probably. You're on your best behavior this week. I appreciate that. All right. So listen, here's our questions. I'm just going to dive in from the chat. Um, been a long time listener of the show and I truly appreciate the work you do. Um, I'd like to ask if you could cover the use of thyroid hormones, T3 and T4 in bodybuilding, specifically in what contexts are they typically used? What are the common protocols and timing strategies? What are the potential negative effects on the thyroid? Um, when these hormones are used exogenously? Um, is there, is it, is it true that there are some forms of PCT necessary to restore normal thyroid function after discontinuing? Um, so with thyroid medication, we always were like, oh, thyroid's fine. It doesn't matter. Um, and I think when, when thyroid meds were used in cut periods only, then yeah, that was very much the case. The thyroid did appear to be very, very robust. Now there's this move to year round thyroid med use, um, as, as there's been also a move to year round growth use. Um, I'm now seeing people with problems with thyroid post usage. Um, I'm not aware of any particular PCT that's effective for thyroid recovery. It seems to be that the only real way you're gonna try and get the thyroid to function again is a very slow taper. Uh, and I would tape a T3 out first. Um, then check that your T4 to T3 conversion is fine. And then I would tape a T4 out, uh, with 25 micron decreases. Uh, you can do some things. There are desiccated thyroid and stuff like that that can support thyroid function. How effective that is when we're coming from a use of T3, T4 or GH. I honestly don't know. Um, never had anyone actively done, um, any form of thyroid PCT. Um, so I don't know if there's any merit to it. Um, in most cases, from what I've seen, people who have struggled to recover post long-term, uh, T3, T4 use have ended up just opting for thyroid medication and staying in that situation. But, uh, yes, I am definitely seeing thyroid damage now from extreme long-term exposure to medication. And when I say long-term, I'm talking sort of 18 months, two years plus. Seems to be the sort of range where people are. And it, it, it, it really is. We had a move towards more long-term thyroid use, uh, with a few coaches probably about three years ago. Uh, where we started to see long-term use, T4, T3, long-term use, G-H, long-term use of drugs like Delos Martin and, um, metformin. Um, um, and these started to become a staple year-round supplementation sort of program rather than, than being used as drugs as performance. Uh, and it's, it's those people that started with that, that approach sort of three, two, three years ago that I'm now seeing, not a lot, but some of them start to have problems around thyroid function. I've seen, um, uh, particular, a doctor that I know who's helped people recover thyroid. I think that, I mean, some of your foundational stuff, like proper rest, proper nutrition. I think one way to get that thyroid moving can sometimes being eating enough food. I think that's a factor and I have seen L-tyrosine used as part of, uh, a treatment, you know, in, in like putting, putting your body in the right environment first, not just like, oh, I'm done. So I'm going to go. It's not like a PCT the same way that like post cycle steroid cycle. Yeah. Where you just like in, you know, go straight to that. I think that those other factors and like you said, tapering, I usually taper a little bit slower. Um, I'll go 12.5, uh, per drop. And, but honestly, I think number one, so, so he asked, you know, guidelines on using it. The guidelines I would suggest that I follow nowadays is use the absolute least amount you can to get the effect that you're looking for. You know, and, and, and it is kind of cool to see that there are more and more people getting on board with not using thyroid as much as a fat burner where they're bumping it up to 7,500, 125, 150 mics, but more so using T3 at a replacement dose to, to support, you know. And maintain healthy metabolism as it declines through calorie deficit. Exactly. Because, I mean, one of the factors we deal with is that when we're dieting and we're getting lean and food is getting low, that we may start producing less thyroid hormone. And, uh, you can then make like support that the same way we'd support TRT for a patient that didn't produce testosterone, you know, it, I mean that in itself, like kind of related, but you know, from that, that, uh, steroid hormone side of things. If you were to just put somebody on TRT and then diet the shit out of them, like take them really far into low body fat. I mean, just being on that TRT alone is going to help to support that natural test level. So like things like muscle loss isn't going to be as much of a factor as you know, if you're doing it completely natural. God, I know a lot of natural guys over the years. I've worked with a lot of natural guys. And one of the things they do struggle with is that, yeah, their testosterone levels tank, you know, by the time that they're super peeled. So look at it the same way, you know, having a replacement dose and then coming off that replacement dose isn't going to be as hard. I don't think we're doing as much damage, especially if we're using it for like, you know, dose and then duration. Say it's the last six to eight weeks of a prep, not the whole prep and not a high dose. I think those would be the factors I'd look at. Yeah, I think I think too many people when you start talking about cuts that they reach for fat burners from the get go. And it's like you don't need to just just your initial calorie drop and a little bit of increase in calorie expenditure is going to start the ball rolling and save the fat burners until you start to plateau with those aspects. And you're needing that little bit of an extra push, you know, or like you say, T3, natural T3 levels drop because of the calorie deficit. Or you're starting to struggle with fat metabolism because your body's getting a little bit more reluctant to use fats now because fat reserves are getting low. So it's starting to get more preservative with it all. And, you know, that's when you bring the fat metabolizers in. That's when you bring the metabolism boosts in so that you can. You can sort of maintain progress rather than throwing it all in at the beginning of the court, which a lot of people do. You know, I'm going on the court. So bang, I'm going to take blah, blah, blah, blah. Whoa, wait, wait, why do we need all that? Well, when you say it, when you put it that way, too, like your first the first thing you said was that you, you know, you don't need it. All you need to do is remove some food. If you remove some food, let's say you're trying to do it with just nutrition first. You listen to Dave and it's still not working. You still need to figure it out. Like, you know, because at the end of the day, if you're not getting the movement that you need through the nutrition, the fat burner isn't going to do what we want. You may get some additional progress. You know, you get on. Let's say that you don't have your diet figured out yet. And some people are different, man. Like I'm working with I worked with this guy long term and we just switched to trying to pull back. We pulled back some food and guess what? Nothing happened. And three weeks in and I'm seeing I'm seeing a little bit of recomping, but like it's not adding up. And I know he's following the diet, but that doesn't mean that like adding clinton is going to help. It may drop some additional water, but eventually we're going to get stuck again at the same point because currently his diet hasn't been working. We realized, oh, we have to push the diet harder. I would much rather get that on track versus using, you know, a cutting compound as a as like a bandaid. Do you find that quite often when food reductions aren't even result, it's actually the key ingredients expenditure? That when food what? So do you find because I generally not always there's always there's always going to be those people that don't work the way you think they should. But what I tend to find with a lot of people is we'll if we do a calorie drop, everything else based in that diet is where it should be in the types of food use and everything else. So all we're doing is just bringing the overall calorie intake down. Yeah. And we don't see the expected response, which is obviously a drop in. In fact, the generally the missing problem is usually expenditure. And it's that they actually need to increase expenditure more significantly rather than a calorie drop. It's a balance. Yeah. Yeah. I find a lot of people respond better to higher expenditure than they do to lower calorie responses. Generally, when you're trying to get them to drop some fat. Yeah. Yeah. No, I think so. Dude, I can even use myself as an example. When I competed in amateur bodybuilding and I was working a very physical job removing food, I like I was on my feet probably 20,000 steps a day. And like, dude, I couldn't I couldn't not have abs in the offseason, even when I was pushing food big time. Like, because you were moving. Yeah. So all I would do is maybe I at one point, man, I was eating like super dirty to the point where it was like a maltodextrin and protein shake in between each meal. And then McDonald's, two McDoubles, two small fries and two apple pies, all from the dollar meal. It was like six, seven dollars every day. All I had to do was turn that McDonald's meal into lean beef and potatoes. And, dude, I started getting peeled. Take it fast forward and me sitting at my desk for hours. Back in the 1930s, mate, people people were more active because they didn't have cars. So they had to walk everywhere. Yeah. Yeah. I understand. Just like in England, where all they have are those wagons and stuff that are pulled by horses. It's a lot more work. You know, I can't afford a horse. I'm on goat power. You got a goat? I've got a two goat power car. What else do we have here? How about this one? Hey, guys. Love the show. A couple of questions. How long do you both recommend running a health phase for? And what are your thoughts on running metformin for a cut? My coach has me on 500 milligrams a day pre-last meal of the day. So, I think how long should a health phase be is a little bit of an open-ended question. But I do have one big point on this. Okay. A health phase should not be until your bloods get right. That's not a health phase. A health phase is a period of time when you are healthy. Not the period of time it takes you to get to being healthy. And then you go back on drugs and obliterate the health element of it. So, you know, and this is always going to be in contradiction because people don't like being off cycle. People want to progress. Being in a natural or close to natural range is always uncomfortable for a lot of people. But the point is that you spend a period of time to get your markers in a better place and to improve your health. And then as soon as you, and quite literally, as soon as you reach that point, you then go back on cycle and start to stress the health. There really should be a period of time where you stay healthy. You know, where you actually enjoy that health element. Rather than as soon as you get back into that point, you then go, fuck it, I'm going back on cycle. So, I do think... You don't take the 30, let's go. Yeah, and that's quite literally what happens in a lot of cases. But then that is going to mean an extended period of time where you're away from cycle for some people. And a lot of people, that is uncomfortable or it doesn't align with what they're trying to do from a point of view of competitions, etc., etc. So, I understand it is a difficult balancing act. But I would like to see markers in a better place and that sustained for at least four or six weeks for me. Before I would... Most of my clients complain I don't keep them on drugs for long enough or put them on often enough. Yeah, it's a tough one, man. Because it kind of also depends on, you know, what somebody's goals are. Because if you're competing, you only have so much time. Exactly. Sometimes I think there is a compromise that, you know, a compromise that we're making with health in order to be able to reach our goals. There's performance and there's health. And as one, you know, as Victoria has many times said, as one is going up, the other is going down. So, I think part of it, too, is looking at it as a calculated risk, you know, that you can recognize, like, hey, my HDL is not great, right? And it probably would benefit me to take a break right now or to take a longer break, I should say. But I am planning to do this show. I think that that's where people generally make that compromise. And I just, I think it's something you have to decide for yourself, too, man. I can tell you myself, Dave, that my, no matter what I did, man, I struggled for a decade to get my HDL above 25. Like, it stayed pretty damn low. I mean, I never let it get down into the teens, either, except for getting closer to a contest. Maybe it happened once or twice on orals, but. Yeah, it's, I mean, I've had nightmares programming cycles and anabolic use for some. Pro strongmen who, who would compete in 20 odd times a year. It's just like. Yeah, that's crazy. Yeah. But they need to do it because they need to work the circuit to get the name known, to get there, to get exposure, to get sponsors, so they can finance actually being competitive as a professional strongman, which would only be competing a few times a year. So, you know, there is a, when you get to that sort of level, there's a business element here as well of how you manage your career from a point of view of financing and exposure and those sort of things. Yeah. So, it does take a lot of compromise and there's always going to be an ideal and chances are you're not going to be there. It's always going to be a version of that fits in around everything else you need to do. So, the only thing I'd say is, you know, when it comes to health phases and managing health, don't go into what you view as a health period or a time when you're trying to improve your health and then start throwing other toxins at your body. You know, yeah, you might not be on cycle, but if you're going out getting pissed every weekend or you're doing Colombian marching powder, you're not helping. So, you know, if you're going to commit to being, to using anabolics, just stick to one poison. Don't start throwing two or three other ones in there when you're not on that one because long term, it's going to be a recipe for disaster. You know, kind of off topic, but we had Ed Connors about a month ago and he was one of the owners of Gold's Gym Venice Beach back in the day. And he was responsible for bringing a lot of pros over. So, like he gave Lee Priest a place to live when he came to L.A. He, you know, put up Jay Cutler. So, he knew all the good pros over the years and everybody who trained at Gold's. And I asked him about Mike Menser and his story was, he's like, yeah, Mike was a really cool guy, great member. He said, I think he got some bad drugs at some point. And after that incident, that it just kind of he went sideways with his mental health. He said, but, you know, realistically, it's rare that I have ever in his life seen, you know, people have tremendous issues from steroids alone. He said, in most cases, it's been a lot of times it's something else, some sort of recreational compound. There's some secondary thing, you know, and I guess it's not always the case, but I think common enough, you know. I think I think possibly back then. Yes. I think now maybe not so much. I think with the higher doses. Yeah. And the longer exposure. And Tanya, commission, if you're advertising on our channel, young lady. Yes. Yes. We want a percentage. All right. What else do we have here? Hey, guys. Question. Oh, and he asked about metformin. I think metformin is a fine compound. Definitely. It's not my ideal. You're a fan of berberine, right? I am. Yeah. I don't like that. I don't like the. So I'll explain why berberine improves insulin sensitivity. Metformin improves insulin sensitivity, but lowers glucose output by the liver. I like to keep that side of things unaffected because obviously it's a performance base, you know. Blood sugars and bloodstream is what we use for energy, et cetera. So, yeah, that's the bit I don't like about metformin. I also find berberine is generally better tolerated than metformin. But it's not the end of the world. Yeah. Yeah. I would believe so, too. That's the way I feel. Also, too, I feel like the use of metformin nowadays is probably getting lower and lower with the GLP drugs out there. Like I think that when people are looking to improve insulin sensitivity, that's the route they're going a lot faster than getting into metformin. Metformin at one time, that and berberine were your only two options. Public service announcement. Well, maybe, maybe not. I now am aware of two cases where people have ended up having to have bowel surgery from what would appear the use of GLP once because it's slow transit down to such a point that they've ended up with a blockage. Which is then caused a rupture in the bowel. So, I don't think it's a common problem. Yeah. But what I would say is that if you are experiencing abdominal pain through the use of one of the GLPs, then you probably want to be either reducing the dose or leaving it well alone because that would be the precursor to bowel movement starting to stall and potentially causing a problem. Yeah, definitely things like fecal impact. You could totally get that with slow transit. And I think that that's all the more reason to start as low as possible. Taper up. Assess along the way. Make sure that you keep your digestion. Digestion is really the most critical factor to focus on when you're using a GLP. Number one, keeping fluid intake high. Number two, dietary fiber. For me, this is my order. Number three, digestive enzyme. If we need that to help speed things back up. And number four, getting into like a stool, natural stool softening like magnesium citrate. You know, but titrating that at like whatever dose that maybe they only need 300 or maybe they need 500 a night. But to and you can kind of move that up and down as needed. I think, too, what I've noticed, Dave, is that digestion will get slower around the time you're shot. So if you're doing it once a week, then it's like that first few days, slow digestion. And then it picks back up. Yeah. If you're doing it. I've also seen people, though, that they say that if they do it every day, they tend to get a smaller dose every day. They tend to have more difficulty time getting their bowels cleared than when they do it less frequently. So. All right. Oh, I've got a question. Anyway. Question in the stream. Go ahead. OK. No, did I focus on horrible drug? And people are way too overly concerned. What are you answering, Dave? I don't even know what you're talking about. Hello, Dave. I wanted to ask if you've used Milford Stone anti-progesterone while on Deca. How was your experience? Any side effects? It's a horrible drug. I wouldn't touch it in a million years. And elevated progesterone is way too over-exaggerated as being a problem. Yeah. What's so horrible about it? It's got some nasty sides. OK. I've never used it with anybody. To be honest, it's an anti-progesterone. It's quite hard to get a hold of. It's not commonly available, but I wouldn't bother with any anti-progesterone medication. And personally, I think the concern around progesterone is over-hyped, over-rated, and not such an issue. Darkening of the skin, diarrhea, lightheadedness, dizziness, fainting, increased hunger, mental depression. Huh. It's... You know the bad sides from climate that when people are sensitive to it, it's sort of that, but exaggerating. Ew. That's gross. Yeah, it's not a nice... I don't know. All right. What else do we have here? I'm closing in on my cutting phase from doing a 20-week off-season cycle phase. What is your top five fat loss agents slash add-ons? All right. Another fat loss topic. I wonder if this is a theme. Are our listeners working on fat loss? And then he mentions, I was thinking about Reda and SLU and Klen. But since I'm not going to be below 10%, I am pushing things... Maybe I'm pushing things too far with these add-ons. Yeah, I would have said if you're only going 10%, I'd probably... Right. Can you achieve 10% through diet and cardio without having to go very extreme? Yes, most definitely. So should you not use fat burners? That's a very personal question. You definitely don't need them. I think it's a very achievable body fat level through non-campus. But they are there. So if you want to... Who am I to say no? But my personal take would be I wouldn't really bother, to be honest. I don't think there's much to answer. And if you're going to do, I would probably... I don't know. I think Reda's probably going to be the one that's got the overall benefits because there's other aspects of Reda that are beneficial. So he's doing a 20-week off-season phase. And now he says that... There was one more sentence where he said the timeline is around 8 to 10 weeks. So you're only going to be able to get so lean in 8 to 10 weeks. Depends where we start him from. Does he say where his current good history is? No. But I want to keep that in mind, though. That time frame-wise, you only have so much time. So, you know, you can only move so much body fat in an 8 to 10-week period. Honestly, man, I think that people make the mistake by not taking their time with it and just continuing to ride it out. Like, people start thinking that it has to be a cut or it has to be a bulk. But I guarantee you that for the majority of our listeners, and there are some big guys I know that watch our shows. But, like, if you're my size and you're trying to get leaner, you know, if you're 200 pounds at 5'7", 5'8", like, you can diet for a long freaking time and still grow muscle in that process. Mm-hmm. All right. How about this one, Dave? All right. 65-year-old. He said never used hormones. Yeah. Never used hormones until his 64th birthday. Now he's on 220 SIP. Oh, he was on 220 SIP. Quickly went to 240 and added in 140 DECA for a few months last year. Been experimenting with a few compounds this last year. And at this time, I'm cruising at 240 test e. And pre-workout propionate at 30 milligrams five times per week with a little bit of anastrozole. When the symptoms of high estrogen pop up. He says, I'm having trouble keeping it up. I've got to get blood work. And if everything is fine, I'm planning a low budget, hopefully senior safe cycle at 300 to 400 SIP and Nate. What's his question here? I think it's about the lack of wood. It's a very long thing. And then he's talking about, it's just so much, Dave. Yeah, let's just talk to him about that first, I guess. It's a whole 20-second sentence paragraph. I'm 55 and I can't be arsed with sex. So I can't imagine being 65 and being interested. So I'd take it as a blessing personally. Just want less complication in life, isn't it? The obvious, the first thing is, with the Decker being in there, is obviously I'd be curious as to, you know, is he having an issue around prolactin or something of that nature? And that's why, I mean, I get that he is doing some estrogen management. I mean, but I also see that it's ad hoc and based on feeling. Yeah. It may be that, you know, there's issues with both estrogen and prolactin. And unfortunately, he does say he's got blood splans. So I think it's just a case of seeing where they come back and reacting to what those results are. Well, check this out too, Dave. So he's saying that in this cycle, he's going to go 300 to 400 SIP. Right now, if he's doing 30 milligrams of test probe pre-workout five days a week, that's part of your total weekly dose. Along with 240 milligrams, he's on 390 tests per week for his cruise right now. That test probe is part of it. I kind of get the vibe that he feels like he's only on 240 tests for his cruise when really he's on 390. There's also going to be some E2 fluctuation with the probe as well. So we're probably finding levels are being a little bit undulating. So he's doing test probe as a pre-workout for five times a week. So it all depends on how he's structuring his rest days as well. So like if he's getting two days where he's doing no probe, then there's going to be a change in the estrogen to testosterone ratios at that point. Because the estrogen is going to be a little bit in the lag as well. So it's going to be dragging behind a little bit. So obviously the test probe is going to drop off. It's a difficult one without labs really. But at five days a week a test probe, that's going to have a significant impact on overall test levels definitely. I mean that 30 milligrams of test probe five days a week in itself is enough to sustain you. You know, then having that 240 on top of it. Like I'd say he's still on a cycle. I would. Yeah, I would. I'd agree. All right. If he had another question, he's welcome to definitely comment back with him or just sum it up very concise. And we'd be happy to get it on. Hey guys, question for the next episode. I've been on TRT for three years after a serious car crash five years ago. My prescription in that time has been 100 milligrams of test e and 500 HCG twice per week. My blood draw has always been 24 hours post injection. But in that three-year period of time, my total test has steadily gone from 34 down to 15 and 1.1 free test to 0.4. Is this normal? I got a bit lost in those numbers then. So, I mean, over time, he's been on the same TRT for three years, but his levels have slowly gone down. The only thing I could see, so he's on 100 tests per week and then 500 HCG twice per week. Yeah, okay. So, is this prescribed or is this self-admined? Because obviously drug source is a very important factor here. Okay. Yeah, that's true. Like if the quality went down over time. I mean, his testing is consistent. He's testing at the same time post. So, that's positive. Oh, he's doing a bloodlet through eval every six to eight weeks. Okay. That would lead me to believe this is not a legit TRT. Yes, it would potentially be. Saying that we have had legit TRT companies reach out to us about providing bloodlet in full day. Oh, okay. So, it is something that is now considered UK-wise for TRT. First thing would be drug source. Second thing would be... With the tests he's had, has he seen a decline steadily? Or is he just seen more recently a low-level result? Yeah. I wonder if anything... I've seen... I don't know about the HCG, but... I have known people who... Like, I don't know about HCG in combo with testosterone, how much that's going to affect your levels. But I can tell you that I've known people that were prescribed just HCG as their testosterone replacement. And over time, the same dose became less effective. Yeah, that's very common. Yeah, that's very, very common. I've seen that a lot. Well, HCG is going to have very little impact on his test levels when he's on TRT. It's only real impact is going to be on estrogen levels. But there are some... Because we have HCG receptors in the brain, you do... Some people do report great cognitive functionality when HCG is added to TRT. And they feel a little bit flat when it's not there from a point of view of mentally. Would it be enough of a difference to go from a total of 33 tests to 15? No. Yeah. My immediate thought is drug quality. That would be my immediate thought. Yeah. If he's got tests that say over the period that start with 33 and then next one's like 30, 29 and then we go 25 and we've seen a steady decline, then I would be less inclined to consider drug quality. There are a few things that could upset a single test like scar tissue, slowing down release. So things like that can impact. So you can get where scar tissue would prevent the normal speed. But that would be like a one-time thing. It sounds like there's a continual... Yeah. So that's a... We need confirmation on whether it's gradual, how many tests he's monitored it over. To show it gradually, what are the numbers? What are we seeing in a decline here? But yeah, other than that, tests shouldn't change... No, it shouldn't. There's no desensitization or resistance buildup or anything of that nature. So it's got to be something else. All right. One more question for the next episode. I'm constantly seeing debates on training approach. The Mike Menser popularity, science-based lifting, overtraining, etc. On overtraining, though. I've noticed groups that overtrain muscles for sports or jobs. And those muscles are typically overdeveloped. Think of the forearms of a wrestler, the legs of a track cyclist, the neck of a wrestler. Even recently, I saw hikers and tour guides in Indonesia online who carry stuff up mountains all day. And their legs are extremely muscular and overdeveloped. The body seems to adapt fairly well. Even working in steel toe-capped boots, my toenails have gotten bashed every day. Now they are extremely thick. What's your thoughts? What you've got to be very aware of here is the level of intensity on the stimulation. So for the backpacker situation, they're not doing high-intensity work. They're doing very low-intensity work, but high-volume work. Athletes manage their exposure to recovery and intensity. So, yes, you are seen like cyclists. You see them do a lot of work, but you don't see them do a lot of max effort work. So sprinting is limited. And as a result, they get development. So, I mean, I've got a client. In fact, we're having this conversation today. He set some goals. And so he wants to improve his dead. He wants his dead to be 250 kilo. He wants his squat to be 210 kilo. But he also wants to run an ultra marathon and get his regular marathon time down to 3 hours and 45 minutes. And I said there's a point when these two start to conflict a little bit. Yeah, exactly. Bigger muscle mass for strength is not conducive. Maybe a regular marathon, not so bad. But an ultra marathon, that's when we start having problems. Because you've got to fuel that muscle for an ultra marathon. And a larger muscle will require more energy to function, even doing the same work that a smaller muscle is doing. I used a car engine analogy to get my point across. But so you're being very general about what you're seeing when it's actually much more specific. With regards to training techniques, if everybody started, if it was very popularized, then somebody would come out with high volume. Because they want to be different because that gets click, that gets revenue, that gets some notice, that gets movement. So a lot of the different and opposing training stuff you see isn't that driven by effectiveness. It's more driven by trying to make the individual who's pushing it stand out. There is an industry, there is a business here, which is funded by revenue on engagement. I've always felt that I've always liked more of an intensity approach rather than a volume approach. But at the end of the day, a lot of it's down to what you enjoy and what you will sustain. If you enjoy volume, then you're more likely to sustain volume. So that's probably going to be a better approach for training for you. I think what is undeniable and what doesn't change is efficiency of lift. In that you make sure that the exercise you're doing is done correctly in a way that provides maximum muscle stimulation rather than maximum load movement. And I think that's where a lot of people can screw up with training. It's they move heavy load, but at the cost of stimulation of the muscle they're trying to work. And a good example of this is compound movements. Obviously, you can bench heavy loads. It doesn't necessarily mean you're putting the maximum amount of stress on the chest because the arms and the shoulders and the back all get involved. So sometimes when you push for more loads, you actually take away stimulus from the target muscle because you start to put that load over a greater area of the muscularity of the body. So, yeah, I mean, with training, it's what works best for you. It is, and I sound a bit of a cop out, but as long as you are stimulating the muscle, you're trying to train correctly through good technique, then, you know, it's what you can sustain and recover from. And yes, you know, there are sports where they do large amounts of work on different muscle groups, but it's always within their recovery ability. And the big factor in there is the intensity level. If intensity is high, recovery will need to be longer. If intensity is low and volume is high, recovery may not be as crucial time-wise. Yeah, I think, too. So he's not necessarily talking about bodybuilders. He's talking about, like, take these hikers, for instance. What else are these hikers doing? You know, I think that they're just hiking. I just, I wonder, you know, how does that, and I feel like this would be a great topic to talk about with Scott Stevenson. I feel like he'd be great to dig into this. You know, like, what's really going on when that person probably isn't training? They're only doing that one thing. You know, at the end of the day, we have so much recovery to go around, right? And we're trying to direct that recovery to everything. I think that you only have so much. So if you're going to overtrain a body part and you're training everything else, I think that that body part is going to become a leak. There's going to be a leak, a weak link in there at some point. Well, I mean, I'm not a fan of the terminology of overtraining because, for the most part, it's not really the reality. The reality is that you're not, you haven't got adequate rest or you haven't got adequate nutrition. You know, it is difficult to overtrain a muscle. Yeah. I don't know, man. You can overtrain your central nervous system. You can go to maybe two people. Yeah, I think that that's related. Yeah, I think that's related. But it's, for the most part, I think people don't suffer from overtraining. They suffer from inadequate stimulation and not training enough, to be fair. Yeah, I think that there's a lot of under stimulus or I don't want to say under training, but like not effectively getting that trigger. I can just put it this way. I can say at the end of the day, we only have so much recovery to go around. True. So I want you to be able to get the, and what grows muscle is, for the most part, it's going to be a novel stimulus, something you haven't done before. So if you can provide that novel stimulus, that's going to be the foundation, the basis. Most, that's going to be most of what you get. And then the sooner you can stop after that, the more recovery you're going to have versus the more sets you do. Did you describe hit training there, young man? I was trying to not say hit training. Yeah, I was trying to not say hit training. But, you know, it takes time to figure that out. And what you can't get from that high intensity, you know, you to a degree can make up for with volume. With volume. Yeah, yeah, I agree. And I've always, this is a very Heath Robinson explanation, but I've always likened it to this. We work a muscle from the outside in. So initial muscle contraction is the surface fibers. And they obviously get fatigued and damaged very, very easily. In order to get deeper and deeper fiber recruitment, we have to do one of two things. We have to fatigue the muscle through volume. Or we overstress the muscle through intensity. Because if you present the muscle with a high intensity challenge, it will try and recruit deeper and deeper fibers to perform. Or you can wear down to that point by volume. But there is the trade-off that the higher the volume gets, the more you move into more cardiovascular activity rather than anaerobic activity because of the volume you're doing. So there needs to be a load. There needs to be an adequate weight to stimulate a response. And then you can approach that deeper tissue stimulus via even the volume of that load or by pushing the intensity with that load. Did that make sense? It did? What do you think of a low dose meant as a TRT base? I can't get tests. My coach says it'll be okay. It was trialed for that. I mean, it was developed and used to that. There were definitely studies showing meant used in TRT formats. If you try it, let us know. Yeah, it's viable. I want to know what world you live in where you can't get tests but you can get men. Get men. I know, that is a bit odd. Yeah. Huh. Dave, what's going on with you? I'm holding my legs crossed very tightly because I am absolutely busting for a pee. That's what's currently going on with me. Okay, real quick then. Real quick. All right, so what's going on with us? We have Arnold's UK coming up. I was going to say Uncle Dave's advice real quick. Oh, you know, I did think of something yesterday and I fucking forgot it now. You actually prepared something. I did. By prepared, I mean something crossed your mind. And I thought that would be great for the podcast tomorrow. And you wrote it down and you took notes, right? No, I didn't write it down because I was driving and I was in the car and I was chatting with my good lady. You could have pulled over or had her write it down for you. Could have, should have, would have. But yeah, it's completely gone. All right, guys, you get no advice from Dave for the day. No, you get it. Don't eat yellow snow. There you go. Yeah. That's the buzz. Sweet swimming. Hmm? Keep swimming. Sweet swimming is the best advice ever. Yeah. All right. Just keep doing it. You'll get there. Just keep trying. You will get there. We appreciate you guys tuning in. And go to, I was going to say crosslands.org.uk. Don't go there. But you go to EvalBloodAnalysis. You go to EvalBloodAnalysis.com. You can get your labs done by Dave, right? You can. Go there. Do that. And don't forget to smell the flowers on the way. Okay. Yeah. Oh, there's some advice. I like that. That's good. Strong Sports Nutrition. Check them out in the U.S. and the U.K. Great Health Stacks and SupplementSource.ca for Canadians. We've got TrueNutrition.com. Use our code THINK over there to get 10% off. And, of course, for another episode of Drugs and Stuff with Dave Crosland. We'll see you soon. Thanks, Dave. Thanks, Dave.