 Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess Ess use bioidentical hormones as much as we can to drive growth and to drive, you know, hyper retention of carbohydrates and glycogen versus going to more harsh drugs, which we can save for later down the road when these other tools stop working. What's up, guys? Welcome back to Blood, Sweat, and Gear with coaches Skipp Hill, Andrew Berry, myself, Scott McNally. All of our programming is brought to you by truenutrition.com. Use our code THINK to get additional savings on all your basic bodybuilding supplements like protein powder, creatine. You get the Team Skip protein blend over there. And we're brought to you by supplementsource.ca for Canadians. They have great deals that change week to week. And of course, Patreon. We've got some Patreon questions. We've got a physique critique tonight, and we've got a bunch of listener questions. If you guys want to take part in the next show, we've all been coaching for a long time. We're here to just basically share our education, our experience, and our opinions with you to help you guys do better at the sport that we love. Skip, Andrew, I'm looking forward to getting this thing rolling, man. I had a... Oh my God, I apologize for yawning. Wait, no, it's my turn to talk yet? Shut up, will you? God. I had a topic I wanted to bring to you. So I was over at the Think Big Facebook group. By the way, guys, if you're not a member over there, we'd love to have you. We're just a bunch of people that all enjoy the sport and love the podcasts that get together. And somebody had said, it was the whole topic of, does growth hormone thicken your skin? Was the topic. Does growth hormone thicken the skin? And I do think there, you know, we could look at that, right? Like, I mean, does it? Yeah, it's possible, right? Like, we could start looking at the mechanisms of it, and it would make sense. That said, the bigger picture question I have is, if we were to reinvest that energy into figuring out mentally and physically what it's going to take to get absolutely inside out, bone shredded, peeled, you're probably not going to worry about that question anymore. And if you do, then it's time to address it there. It's, it's, you know what I'm saying? It's, it's not one of these, like, I'm going to figure that out and it's going to be a game changer type thing for my prep. That's my opinion, but it made me think, what do you guys, what do you guys think about things in your opinions where we are, how's that term go? Like stepping over a quarter to pick up a dollar, stepping over pennies to pick up, no, excuse me, stepping over a dollar to pick up a penny or something like that. Yeah. Yeah. Got it right the second time. Yeah. Yeah. So what are some ideas? Major in the minor. Yeah. Major in the minor. I mean, I'll start. I think when someone is concerned with taking every type of supplement and every class of supplement they could take, but they're not eating their meals, they're skipping their meals or they're just winging it with their meals. It's like, we all know nutrition is going to be 90% of your success in bodybuilding. So why are you spending X amount of dollars, X amount of energy, making sure you get every pill in at the right time when you're not eating the right proteins, carbs, and fats? I think that's a great place to start. You know? Um, what do you get? How many times have you guys gotten clients where they have an extensive list of supplements and PEDs even, but you look at their diet to maybe three meals a day. Protein's not where it needs to be. Um, carb sources are kind of like what I call fake foods where they're eating a lot of stuff out of wrappers or out of, you know, they're not eating whole, whole, whole food sources. Um, what do you guys think about that? I want to counter it. Okay. Just cause you know what? I feel like just the devil's advocate today. Like I just want to counter everything and I don't disagree, but I would say this. What about for beginners? It doesn't matter the age, you know, immediately my brain went to, Oh, if you're 17 years old, but it doesn't really matter if you're a beginner and everything isn't right. You got a better idea how well you're going to hike. If you're suited for bodybuilding, if you're going to grow and everything isn't right, that's not a bad. And when you first start out, I mean, let's be fair, your body is so new. Like it's such a new stimulus that does your nutrition have to be right? If it is, obviously, you know, it's more optimal and things will be more efficient, but if it's not tech, you're still going to grow. I would say that your point probably, and probably the point that I make, uh, you know, with the idea of the thing that I come up with, or even Scott, it pertains more to people. I think who've been training for at least three, four or five years, because you can do, I mean, let's be fair. You could pretty much do a lot of shit wrong from the start. Time out, time out though. Wait, you're telling me new person, completely new to bodybuilding comes to you and they've, but they've been reading, they've been reading muscle magazine or if the, I don't even know if they exist anymore, but they've been reading flex magazine and it says, I need these 10 supplements. And they already went out and bought those supplements, but they haven't started eating four or five meals a day, protein each time. You know where I'm going with this? I can't disagree with that. You don't think they're majoring in the minor by taking all these individual supplements? They definitely are. All right. That's what I'm getting at. I think what I'm saying is I was just trying, I was forcing the other side, just basically saying, well, if you do get into it, like a lot of us do, not everybody starts and goes to a coach within the first year or two. So if you're starting and you're not doing everything right, but you are progressing and it looks like, like, like you're putting on muscle, then you start to get everything right. You continue to, if you, if you start from the start, you start working with someone, you're doing everything right and you have average mediocre guy, okay, I'm getting better. You kind of got to think, um, what's going to happen in 10 years? Cause I'm already doing everything right. I'm focusing more on the diet, not on the something, wasting money on supplements. Cause I completely agree with you. Yeah. There, there are things you can do. Let me make a more concrete example. Let me make a more concrete example. Yeah. You are alive and a, and a 20 year old bodybuilder in 2004, circa 2006. And you are buying GACC, LUCIC and every muscle tech supplement, but you are not training four days a week and not eating at least 250 grams of protein. That's where, that's the example I'm thinking. Now you're narrowing it down and I can't. Well, it's like, I'm kind of, this is actually an easy one to agree with. Yeah. Yeah. And I was focused more though on the dieting, but you're absolutely right. When it comes to the I'm just saying, let's just make it more simple. You're focused on taking supplements before you've even asked what should I be eating? That's what I'm getting. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Yeah. Now what is yours? So I can break yours apart. Let's go. You know what? I was going to go down the, you know, training shocker. I want to go to the training. And, and I just think that that there's so many examples that I have to limit them, but you know, you have the skinny little dudes walking around with the studies and doing the one arm, you know, lap pull and everything, you know, the mechanics are perfect and they're not growing. It's like, you're just in the way, dude, just get out of the way and go bang some weight. So again, majoring in the minor when it comes to over-focusing on not necessarily mechanics, but that, well, this is what I'm supposed to do because it says it on, it says it on paper. You would be better off in my opinion, going in and doing things wrong and just clanging and banging than you would to do everything right and have perfect mechanics from the start and, you know, doing the one arm isolation type stuff. It's, I'd go so far as to say that's not going to get you huge. Even if you're doing everything right and you're listening to this, that's not going to happen. You know, Skip, it's almost as if I see people using that, that perfect technique and form, they're almost afraid to go heavier because as they do, you start to lose that ability to control that, you know, versus I think the, if you come from the opposite end of that spectrum where you're a little too wild and you, you, you, you reduce the weight just enough to like hold on to technique by the skin of your fricking teeth all the way through the set. I think you're going to get a lot more out of that versus I'm starting with an empty bar and I'm a technique is perfect and I'm going to just try to, you know, slowly move it up. Yeah. Yeah. No. And that was actually my example too, by the way, I was going to use that one. Well, if you go back and you look at who's going to get bigger in the end, there are going to be more people who are going to get bigger, training heavier on the basics, compound exercises, and arguably their form isn't very good. Then the guy who has everything perfectly done, I mean, come on, who has gotten, who has gotten huge that way? It just doesn't. And not everybody wants to get huge. Everybody on the podcast wants to get huge and rip, but the people in the gym, sometimes we have to remind ourselves, this isn't the eighties anymore in the early nineties. Back then, everybody in the gym wanted to get huge. They wanted to be the strongest they could be. They wanted to be the biggest they could be. That's not the case anymore. A lot of people just want to look like athletes and they want to do, you know, a lot of isolateral, uh, RDLs and things. And there's nothing wrong with that, but that's, that's not what the three of us give a shit about. And I don't think the majority of the people listening give a shit about that. All right. Now I'm going to, I don't want to counter with you here. Only on this, only on the look, like, cause someone, as I've gotten older and I thought of like, wow, which bodybuilder or physique athlete would I most want to look like in my prime? And then, you know, back in the day, it'd be like, Oh, Jay Cutler, or, you know, have a physique like that. And as I get older, I'm like that Chris Bumstead, man, like he, he's pretty solid. Like he's big, he's got well-developed physique. He's not overly big where he has to buy clothes at big and tall all the time. He can still buy some stuff off the rack. I'm like, that's a pretty good spot. He doesn't go anywhere with it. And there's not a single person that that's not like that's a bodybuilder, you know what I mean? But it's just not, he doesn't have that. What we thought was cool in the 1990s and 2000s of, he sounds like a radiator walking by in the offseason. Cause his breathing is so bad, you know, like we used to think of that as kind of like, wow, like that's a badge of honor that he's wearing, you know, but like being like, yeah, he's going to die by the time he's 40. Like, but not realizing, wait a minute, I'm going to be 40 in like 10, 15 years too. You know, that's where I'm going with that. Um, all right. I got another one. How about this? Let me throw one in. Let me throw one in. Oh, sorry. Sorry. I've got one. So yeah, I, I mean, I, the one was the example with the, the GH thing, but I guess, so I was going to do what you said, skip. I think the overcomplication of training, but I'll go with the overcomplication of cycles. And I get it, especially in today's age. We like, and we're kind of responsible for it in a way. We talk about compounds. We talk about like, Hey, skip, what is it going to happen if you take this compound at four weeks out? And there's all these nuances to, I want to use this, or, you know, you should use that. What's the optimal blah, blah, blah. And the reality is that there's only so many hours in the day. And early on, I made the mistake personally of getting way too complicated with my cycles, thinking about, well, if it's going to take six weeks for my EQ to really build up and quote unquote, kick in that, I probably want to run a fast acting compound to start the cycle. And you know, that, that all this stuff, and you know, we've got this leg time here. So I'm going to throw an oral in there and like, Oh my God, dude, just, you're going to run a gram of gear, run a gram of gear and what works for you. Keep it is like, invest what you need to, to understand it. That's super important. Understand what the risks are, understand how to control the side effects. And then from there, like plug that in, let that run in a, in the background, like, you know, just a background program, and then put your energy into other areas, like trying to lift heavier, trying to focus better on your diet, making sure that you nail everything. I think that that would have been, um, definitely, uh, you know, step forward for me a little bit sooner. I think it's easy though. So I'm throwing the viewers a bone here. I think it's easier for us to say this because we've been through it. And when you haven't been through it, there's always those, always those questions of, well, this makes sense. I'm going to do this. So there is that part again, just playing the other side. There is that part of, well, I don't know. I know I hear Skip and Andrew and, and Scott saying that this is what it works. They're probably right, but I want to see. And then they have to get through those stages and go, okay, they were right. For the most part, they were, they were right. But I know I even did years and years of using gear. And I still went so much higher last year only to go, well, okay. Didn't really work all that well. So we all do it to some degree. There's always that nagging doubt. Well, I don't want to leave anything on the tape. Yeah. What if your liver's hanging out of your ass, you got to push it back in a couple of times a day, just with one finger, Andrew, push it back in. But you know, those risks, those risks, except when you're 25, you don't think about that. You were talking about being 40. Look, when I was 25, I didn't, I got 40. That's like a hundred years away. Like, ah, you know, come on now. What was that? 240 was 2010. You come to me in the early or mid nineties. Nah, I probably didn't know if I was going to live past 2000. Here I am. 56. Yeah. You know, what's your other one, Andrew? Um, Oh, uh, like people that obsess over recovery modalities, like all the different things you can do having watches, rings, all that stuff. But like, yet they're only sleeping five hours a night. I think that's a big one. Like, yeah, you're going to eliminate the need for having seven days. Yeah. Yeah. Or just not, not having a competent, well thought out, simple program and sleeping eight, you know, seven, eight hours a night. You know, I don't even think eight hours is necessary. It's great if you can get it. I don't know anyone's schedule other than my wife's who can actually get eight hours a night, but you know what I'm saying? It's like, I think six and a half for most people is like the bottom, but like, once you get to the seven territory, you're waking up every day, pretty damn recovered. Ready to go. You're, you're not overly sore. Your joints are feeling pretty good. Digestion's good. Um, it's when you dip below that consistently. And I don't think you need a watch or like a ring or some app on your phone to tell you that you're hurting your recovery by not sleeping, you know? True. But it is a nice reminder for people who aren't aware. I think our society, not even just bodybuilding, but just society in general, we accept all the stress. We accept that we're going crazy. Everything is chaotic. Oh, we're not going to get as much sleep. And even, I think a lot of bodybuilders do. I have clients will say, Oh, you know, I slept four hours last night. I'm like, bro, you slept four hours for like the last week. And their response, and I get it is, you know, that's just, that's my license. Like I have to get my work and job and, and all this stuff in, in a, in a, you know, amount of time only have 24 hours in a day. I understand that. But can you still find, even if it's just another 45 minutes to be in bed early? And a lot of time we decompress. We talked about that a couple of, you know, show ago or two shows ago where you go to bed and you're, our lives are so chaotic that it's still in our brain. And we're thinking about things that we should have been thinking about during the day, but we didn't have time to do that. So it's just a very, it's very chaotic. If you go back 20 probably does help. I'm not a smoker. All my kids are, you know, raised them in Colorado. So there's that, but yeah, it probably, there probably is some type of benefit there to slow your brain down a little bit and be able to chill. Yeah. Relax. Just a little bit. Yeah. Yeah. You guys got anything else you want to throw into this one? Are we ready to move on? Oh yeah. Yeah. Go for it, man. Here's the thing about the, my opinion on the GH. I wonder what you guys think. Yeah. Yes. You do have to get peeled and whether your skin is thick or not, I'm going to sneeze here in just a second. I will not be able to get to my mic to turn it off. So bear with me. Here's what I think a lot of people run into as they age. GH becomes more effective. I think the older you get, like let's just use a dose of say, I got to be careful with the dosing so I don't get blasted. Six IU. Six IU when you're 20, I think it's different than six IU when you're say 40. Yeah. Here's what happens though with the older demographic, not just me, but with a lot of clients and other competitors and stuff is you'll get the thicker skin, but not everywhere. It tends to be, especially with the older demographic, on the backside. And let's, I got to make sure I get this in too, because it's important. As we age, the vast majority of people will be leaner from the front than they are the back. GH or no GH. And you add GH to it and that area or the areas where you tend to carry more body fat, they just get thicker. I don't even know that it's body fat from the GH, but it makes that skin a lot thicker to the point where, and I'm talking about dosage. I'm not talking about six IU and four IU. And I'm talking about the 12s and the 14s and the 16s and really getting up in the dosing for GH to the point where I've noticed this year that I'm not dealing with that as much by pulling back on the dosing. So, and I, I'm going to, I don't, you know, I don't usually put my information out there, but I am not using Sarah Stim this year. Oh my God. He decided to save money. What is he doing? He said it was the greatest thing ever. Why would he ever do anything else? I'm using generics. Honestly, I'm looking at it going, okay, it's like 14,000 here or it's just, and I'm like, you know what? I'll just try this other generic and I'm just going to see. So I matched it six to six at first. I'm like, ah, I'll probably carry a lot of water. Are you, are you confident by the way in this GH? Like, have you seen tasks and stuff? Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Good. Otherwise I wouldn't have kind of push up from there, but very slowly. Cause I was like, ah, you know, I don't want to jump to 10 and see what happens. So I go up to seven. I'm like, okay, cool. I go up to eight. I'm sitting at eight now for about a week. I'm like, man, this is the, holy crap. The fullness. Like I can literally see it. So I'm like, okay, this, this may be good, but I'm not going to go up. Like my cutoff is probably going to be the nine or 10. I'm not going to go over it because I like how my skin looks now. And I don't want to create, I think it's kind of a GH look again. I don't think it's body fat. I think it's just Andrew. What is it kind of a, what is it? It's, it could be water, but I'm not holding water. I have veins through my feet and my ankles. Everything's great. I do believe that it increases your college and synthesis and it increases the thickness of your skin. And cause here's the thing. We look at athletes on stage today. I think they're just as conditioned as the athletes in the eighties, nineties, two thousands, you know, more so in some cases, the visual look just isn't exactly the same because the skin's a little thicker, you know? I mean, even like look at say Jay Cutler. I, cause I remember I use this example a lot. I look at Jay Cutler when he got second place at his first Olympia or the second one he did when he really put himself on the map. And I just remember his body, his skin looks so thin compared to when he was actually winning the Olympia. There's no doubt that he was way bigger when he won the Olympia. You might like that look better. Someone else might like the 1999, whatever year it was, look a little bit better. I prefer the, the, the tighter, drier, thinner skin look. Cause you're a coach and condition is your number one thing. And a lot of us feel the same way. I agree with that. Yeah. But you know what? I even, even when he was winning the Olympias, I'm like, man, he's definitely bigger and he's definitely rounder. He's definitely more 3d. I just liked that look where he lost Ronnie, the first one better. I something about it, you know, even before I was coaching people, you know, I think it's a, I call it the Victor Martinez look. That's a great example. Never shredded, but man, did he look great. I say maybe once, but it shredded from the standpoint of higher expert expectations than most people do because this is our business. So I just, Victor Martinez was always very good, but he was never like, if you were to pinch his skin, caliper his skin, he'd be like, bro, you're seven weeks out, you know, eight weeks out. Nope. You're ready to, you just kill it and say on a pro stage. So it's just, it's just a different, a different look. I think there's a couple of things. Maybe there's genetics. We're pointing out a couple of people that like Jay was never known as being the, like the, the dicey guy, you know, just based off of what we had seen of him. I think, you know, he wasn't known as that just like Victor Martinez wasn't, I can think of a lot of people. Um, uh, Samson isn't known as like a dicey guy, but a guy like Branch Warren, like he probably took just as much growth, if not more. And he had that like really thin skin look. So I wonder, is it genetics then that would have something to do with that? Well, you know, and yeah. And, and, and, and, you know, I've talked to Scott Stevenson about it before, where he said, you know, you'll start noticing the guys that tend to do better with growth hormone. Like as they age, you start to see that, like their ears start to get a little, some guys, their ears, you'll see you get a little bit pointier. Their noses will grow a little bit more because those areas that soft tissue, that's going to continue to grow. Skip has your nose grown? I don't know what my nose has, but I'm 56. So I'm sure it's bigger than when I was 30, but I don't have ears. Yeah. I want them old guy ears that like go from the top of your head down to your neck. I don't want that either, but I haven't noticed that, but I get what you're saying because that will happen. I remember back in the day, younger, uh, when I was younger, like in the eighties, the GH, you know, you'd have the elbows that came out. Oh yeah. You had some, cause you had that real cadaver GH that, you know, arguably killed Al Zato. So there was a different GH back in the day though. Yeah. That just hit different as the kids would say, literally. Oh, it hit different, differently. Yeah. I think I was telling you guys, Dave Kallick told me that it didn't like even show its real results until after he's like, you take it for like three, I think he said like three weeks. He's like, and then you didn't really see a bunch of changes then, but it was like after that, that like your body would just start morphing. So it was really weird. And for what it's worth, even changing the GH that I just, I, I'm like, uh, Melissa, I think I got to do another high carb. Like I am just ripping through, I'm going to, I'm going to, I'm going to say one more thing real quick. I apologize, but I think it's important. And I got a question for you too, just to clarify something. Yeah, go ahead. I'm feeding, I'm feeding the trolls right now. I think it's possible that my Sarah STEM in 2024 was legit. Don't know if it was last year. Talked to three other clients from the same place. And they were like, it's possible. I'm like, did you do any, you know, I Jeff, did you? No, I didn't, you know, for the two years prior, I didn't have to question. I started noticing, I'm like, the labels aren't, the prescription labels aren't on the boxes. He's like, no, they were. They were, but I'm like, I don't remember. And I remember you guys heard me complain and going over and processing over and over and over what happened last year. And part of that, and then I get on this growth and I'm like, what's going on? It looks like someone put an air hose in me relative to me. I don't want anybody to bump into the gym and go, bro, don't flatter yourself. You don't have air hose. Yeah, right, right. But relative to what I, what I was not only just last year, but in the offseason, coming into the, to the winter and into this, when I change, it's a dramatic change. I'm like, no, not only this can't be true. Like I'm denying it. I'm like, this can't be, I did not waste all that money. And I don't know if I did. I'm saying I'm responding that well to the generics of the lower dose. And it's like, the writing might be on the wall. I don't know. Okay. That's why I'm highly skeptical when people say they've got a lot of boxes of serostim. Well, this guy was always limited. Like I, sometimes I'd hit him up and he was legit. Like it, it hit me hard the two years prior to that in a good way, but it's just, it's one of those things where you just go and I would, I'd hit him up. He'd be like, ah, I don't have anything for about another five or six days. And I would, you know, pick them up eight, 10, 12 at a time. So, I mean, that's not, but yeah, I'm sure I wasn't his only client. But at the same time, I do think I had priorities. Like, yeah, I'm going to set aside 12 pounds for you. No problem. Yeah. Okay. Cool. So I just, I don't, here's it. Here's my point with this too, is people who think they have a solid source and we all have solid source. We've been in this, we're very well networked. Sometimes it cannot be the guy. It could just be the supply. It's just not good. It's degraded. It's whatever. I don't think the guy, if it wasn't real, whipped me off. He may not have known. No. And probably didn't. Was it the guy I put you in touch with or originally? No. Okay. Okay. No. Solid dude. Great gear too. Were you saying, Skip, but I had to. Yeah. Were you saying that, so were you saying that you'd noticed like thicker skin last, last diet that you're not noticing now? I'm just trying to clear that up. No, I didn't. What happened was I didn't notice as much as last year, but I did when I was really seeing the benefits of the two years prior. Okay. And not just that time. I've seen it with, you know, prior to that. Cause I've used say Sarastin for like maybe five years. I'm guessing. So would that, if you stop, if you grew thicker skin, like more density to it and then you switched GHs, you know, you know, or you stopped even, would that have gone away or when you just have another question I was going to ask Andrew on? Here's what I'm thinking. I don't think it goes away, but I think that while you're on it, it's still, it's, it's, how do I explain it? While you're on it, if you're on a bigger dose and it is feeding the college, you're going to still have more of that look versus not feeding it, I guess, or arguably making it worse. And that's the best way I can explain it. Does that make any sense, Andrew? Yeah. Yeah. But the reason why you overlook that look or the negatives of that look is because you look in the mirror and you see your shoulders and you're like, Jesus, or like you're literally sitting at the computer doing work and you reach up to scratch your face and you're like, Oh my God, I feel like I just did 10 sets for my bicep. Yeah. I can tell you, man, a bottle of Saracen a day rocked my world. I felt like a million, but I was tired. I was pretty sleepy, but man, like carrying a, you know, my dishes around the house, I'd be like, damn, I get a pump out of this, you know? Uh, but you can go back one thing. I'll go back one thing. Cause Scott said Jay wasn't known for a condition guy. And I would say, he wasn't known as being that, that thin skin, nasty kind of inside out look. Yeah. Yeah. But I want to go back to my argument that had he not used growth hormone to the extent that he did, I think, cause I look, I just looked up his 2001 Mr. Olympia pictures and he had cross trations in his abdominals, cross trations across his, and I think if he would have stayed more in that route and not gotten so big, he would be a, but we consider a condition guy, you know, one other point I want to bring up though to, to kind of, I guess, bolster my point is classic guys at the pro level have weight caps. As we've seen, Mike missed his weight twice in a row, basically. Right. Yeah. So they can't use things like growth hormone to the extent the open guys can. How conditioned do the classic guys look compared to the open guys today? It's, it's, I said this at the, uh, after the Arnold, we're watching you, Arnold, the classic guys go, and then the open, uh, prejudging happens. And I'm like, God, that's an embarrassing look for every single open guy on the stage because the classic guys were peeled to the bone, glutes, lower back, triceps, right? Everything. And then you see the open guys who are in shape, but they don't have that same level of conditioning, like not even close. And I think a lot of that has to do with the perception of conditioning with the skin being thicker with the high dose of GH that they have, that they get to use. Yeah. I don't, I don't, I, but you're not going to be as dry. I'll, I'll disagree still. I'll disagree still. Cause I'll say, I feel like there are plenty of guys that are probably, I'd argue that there are guys still using high levels of growth that they may not just run it that high into the show. I'd say that. And I think that what it requires to get on stage at the pro level has gotten so extreme and classic, you know, like, uh, talking to, uh, Stefan about it, you know, his point was that to get on stage, it was when, uh, your ears went to, uh, open and they was talking about like the difficulty in him making weight. And he was saying that in order to get on stage in classic at that level, you have to not only get super lean, you then have to take it like 10% further than that to get it. So sucked down. Like it's, it's, it's. So what would you pull first to make sure that that scale weight happens? Right. But if you, if you already grew your skin thicker, is that growth hormone is, does that mean that your skin is no longer going to be thick? But let's also, you know what I mean? Like if you grew tissue, you've got tissue, you know? Yeah. But you know, you can string a sponge out and get that little bit of water out. But if the, but if the layer is, you know, if the layer is say whatever, you know, I'll be extreme quarter inch thick. I don't care how much water you squeeze out. You're, you're not going to see as much, but I'm just thinking that all it is though, at the end of the day, it's 75% water. I'm thinking maybe, and correct me if I'm wrong, but I'm thinking you're kind of equating it, maybe not even consciously to, to body fat. But at the end of the day, when you pull water, I mean, if you, maybe you have to pull more, but like Andrew said, the ringing of the spine, that's how I see it too. You can minimize that look. You may not be as tight as you would without it, but you can put it this way. I had a classic pro last year. He was, he, his two 12 cutoff, right. He was in shape at two 30. Okay. Yeah. So do the math on that, on what he was not using to get down to two 20 a week before the show. And then we had to play the game of eight pounds just to string every little bit out of him to make sure he could make weight by two 11.9 the night, you know, the minute before they shut down weigh-ins, you know what I mean? Yeah. So, so what I'm saying is GH was not a factor in that prep whatsoever. And it's not, it's not a factor in a lot of classic guys preps because of that, because the weight caps, cause they've already, they're already so dense with the, with the muscularity. Yeah. I just think that if it was tissue, I'm just thinking tissue is tissue, whether it's hydrated or not, if it's a denser tissue, it's still going to be a denser tissue dehydrate. Like if it's a, if I put a piece of canvas over, uh, you know, if I put a, let's just say, you know, I have whatever I have my clock here and I put a, a, a thin piece of silk over it. The silk is going to shape around the clock more thoroughly. If I put a heavy canvas bag over it, no matter what, it's still going to be just a heavy canvas bag. It's not going to take the shape, you know? So what I'm saying is, what I'm saying is, hold on. And what I'm saying, if that cloak weighs an extra five pounds versus that saran wrap or whatever you're talking about, then you're not even going to use the cloak at all. So you're going to come in not using that cloak. You know what I'm saying? Yeah. So you're not taking GH at all. You're saying, or you're taking such a low dose of it that it's not contributing to skin thickness. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Fair enough. Fair enough. I'll still go back. I say that we're talking about the very high level. I think that there's enough guys that like majoring in the minor that aren't even getting in shape yet and that they're concerned about this topic, high level topic, super high. I would consider this to be a super high level topic. And I, as you guys can tell, I genuinely don't know the answer. So I'm kind of making this up as I go, trying to play it out with you guys. But yeah, I just think that at the end of the day, there's a lot of state level guys that don't even need to consider this. Yeah. I mean, it's rare that a state level guy is maxed out on classic, right? Unless he's also a bodybuilder that decided to jump into the classic because he could barely make weight, you know? Yeah. Yeah. All right. I like what, you know what, this is good. You guys tell us, you guys like when we don't agree on stuff. I feel like skip you wanted it. Haven't you? You want it more fun? Well, I think the viewers like when we don't all have the same perspective and pat each other on the back going, yeah, you're super smart too, man. Yeah. Yeah. You know, that type of thing. Yeah. I would want to hear different perspectives instead of everybody agreeing if I was watching. Well, there's like 90% of stuff we can agree on in terms of overriding principle, right? You got to train progressively. You got to, you know, a lot of things you got to do, you know, in our sport, but then, you know, how you skin the onion, how you, you know, get to those main facets might have little differences or might have differences opinion on why something is a certain way, which makes sense, you know, cause like you said, Scott, you don't know, but like none of us really know for sure. Like we're not doing biopsies on live bodybuilders, skin, you know what I'm saying? So none of us know for sure. All we can do is speculate, use a little bit of science in some common sense and try to come up with some good hypotheses. Let me add one thing before we move on. I'll be very quick about it, but it's important to me. I'm going to have some, probably a couple of clowns in the comments. We're going to go, I told you your gear, your GH was fake. If it was fake, it was only fake in at least a portion of 2025. It was not in 2024 and it was not pretty much back to 2020 or 2021. So try to bust me if you didn't listen to everything that was said, and I'm going to come at you in the comments and remind you. And the other part is the lethargy, you know, that fatigue. Once I got to that top level and I was able to maintain those high dosages, I didn't have that to the same degree at all. Because another, at least one other guy had said, you wouldn't even be able to stay awake at that dose. That is someone making a comment that has not been to those dosages, has not sustained those dosages to know that it will decrease and it will not be at that level forever and ever. Hallelujah. Here's why it irritates. Sometimes people don't do something. They're not experienced with it. They haven't done it. But do they have opinions? Boy, boy, do they want old pine? It's like, if you haven't been there and you haven't done it, how could you possibly take a shot when you just don't know? And yet they do. Speaking of majoring in the minor, UC Sumo says, does anybody remember BioGro? I don't even know what that is. Sounds kind of familiar. Probably something we got at GNC or one of the... It sounds like it, doesn't it? Cybergenics went to Biogenics or the other way around. Anyway, but that's year. That's 80s. Mid-80s stuff. Late 80s. Is it the Isatori stuff? Was it the... Was it like Colostrum, I think? BioGro. I see... BioGro. Everybody else in the... Yeah, it's Colostrum. By the way, on YouTube. Yep. Okay. Yeah, guys, let us know what do you think are the things where we are majoring in the minor? Because I'm sure we missed... There's a ton. Like, we could probably... It would turn into... It would sound like old guys complaining if we did this any longer. You know what I mean? But I'm sure you guys can think of a few things. Here's a conversation I never thought we'd be having. Guys, let's talk about... Whey concentrate. I always avoided whey concentrate. I just assumed it's going to mess up my gut. It's going to give me bloating. All the stuff that people complain about. So I stuck with isolate and I paid a lot more. But I tried True Nutrition's Whey Protein Concentrate and look, I had zero issues. No bloating, no digestion problems, nothing. So the reason I did this was mainly because of cost, but then diving deeper, it turns out using concentrate is more beneficial than just saving money. Concentrate isn't as stripped down as whey isolate. Keeping more of the naturally occurring fractions. Things like immunoglobulins and lactoferrin that support immune health. Nothing crazy, but it is a benefit that I totally wasn't aware of. At the end of the day, it mixes well, it tastes good, and it's doing the job just fine for me. And the big thing, I'm literally paying like $13 a pound, which is a lot better than I was paying for isolate. All I did was use their subscription discount and stack that with our discount code THINK to get another 10% off and boom, about 13 bucks. Go check it out at True Nutrition. Use our code THINK, save 10%, pick up some whey concentrate. It worked for me, it might work for you. And hey, if you want to go in light at first, just buy a pound, see what you think. Immunoglobulins. Immunoglobulins. Immunoglobulins. Man, that's a hard word to say. Questions, guys. We've got a bunch of them, man. So you guys are welcome, by the way, to leave questions, your comment on YouTube, all that stuff. It helps to boost the shows up. And if you are new here, we'd love to have you along for everything we do. So like, share, subscribe, comment, ring the bell, hit the hype button, all that stuff. We got one from Patreon here. Okay. I'm not sure about this question. I want to hear what you guys have to say though. When someone is on a GLP-1 based weight loss cut while on TRT, how important is iron and ferritin monitoring, especially as the size and duration of the cut increases while appetite suppression, reduced red meat intake, potential absorption issues, and TRT driving erythropoiesis. What problems do you guys clinically see that isn't managed properly? Thanks. This is my favorite podcast. I love listening to you guys. I don't like the premise of the question. I'm messing around. Sorry. I just don't like the premise of the question. When someone is on a GLP based weight loss, it's like, yeah, a GLP based weight, like we can't lose weight without GLP ones. You know what I mean? Like you are not a GLP supporter. No, I don't like, uh, no, I'm not as Lily. Uh, I got a guy. It's like this podcast because of what you said about him. Remember he's going to other podcasts. He's going to like Paul Barnett's page. If I post something, he's posting this immature 12 year old shit. And I'm like, bro, about what you're like stalking. He was saying something about my nipples dragging on the ground. I mean, he's just, and I look him up and he's like 40 years old or something, acting like a 12 year old. Did it have to do with GLPs? He was the one that was mad because Andrew said he had, uh, he couldn't lose weight. And he said he had an eating disorder. He's coming after me like guns a blazing. And I'm like, bro, I remember that. Yeah. What the hell? Anyway, I asked if he had Pratt or Willie syndrome. What's that? That's an actual Pratt or Willie? Pratt or Willie? Yeah. I don't know what that is. Oh, it's, um, it's a disease where you never get the, the, the, like the, um, your hunger's never satiated. So like get that. Beagles are terrible for that. They'll just eat. No, that's all dogs. That's just dogs in general. But no, people specifically are known to do that. Yeah. No, like you'll eat yourself to death. Basically. Like if you have a child with Pratt or Willie, you need to put locks on all the cabinets and the refrigerator. And you got to tell the neighbors like, Hey, if my kid comes around at like, look, you might find your kid, my kid in your fucking living room or your, your kitchen going through your food, just eating your shit. Yeah. It's called Pratt or Willie P R A T E R W I L L L I. I think the next time my wife eats something, she's not supposed to be like, I'm going to use that term. Well, you got Pratt or Willie and then gets pissed at me. Exactly. And then look at her like Andrew looked at us and be like, you know what that is? I'm an idiot because like, obviously I always say that like my nutrition degrees didn't really contribute anything to my bodybuilding knowledge, but I guess I'm lying because it did in some way, shape or form because I know about disease states like that, you know? Um, all right. Back to, sorry, back to Skip's thing though. Like he was, he was going off on you because I think what did I say probably said before that was like either you want it or you don't or something like that. Like, Oh, you said that this, I remember what it was. He was like, you got to understand that, you know, with, uh, you know, having had an eating disorder, this, this, and this, and you said, well, we're not making a podcast for people with eating disorders. We're making a podcast for bodybuilders. And Hey, listen, all respect. If you do have an eating disorder, you know, but then understand that you're not everyone, I guess is kind of what that point probably was, you know? I think everyone in the world thinks that like everything needs to be catered towards them. And obviously because your logarithms catered towards you, your YouTube, like all. So they forget that in the real world, like people don't just make stuff just for you. Like we're producing broad content that's going to apply to the majority of people. And to get into shape, you're going to have to eat less food to get into shape. You're going to have to probably burn more calories. It's the, the, the laws of thermodynamics and the principles, they don't change just because your feelings or your past experiences or your astrology side, like they don't change. You know what I mean? Yeah. Like you still got to do the work. And I just feel like today, like we have so many mental health conditions that we talk about. We have so many, it's like, okay, great. You still got to do the work. The judge, the judges don't give a fine fuck. If like, yeah, you have a mental disorder and they're, they're judging what you look like on stage. So if you want to get peeled and be a bodybuilder, these are the things you got to do. It's going to be harder for some people. Totally. Or maybe it's not a thing for you too. You know, there is, that's the other thing as well. Yeah. Yeah. But understand that there are people that do want to try to achieve that. And, and I would say on the note of like people's perspectives, and I guess it sounds like I'm complaining now, but I almost feel like there's a lot more people, as you said, skip, like a lot of people are like, I don't want to get to be the size of Jay Cutler anymore. But with that, I think people have also stopped trying as hard like, cause you remember, you don't have like back way back. If you remember way back in the day, or maybe you've even met people still to this day that have no idea about what bodybuilding is. And they say, well, you know, I like lifting, but I don't want to get too big. Yeah. I remember that being a kid. Well, guess what? You're in luck. Cause you ain't going to get that big. Yeah. And the reality is most of us can try really hard. We can shoot for the stars. You can literally overturn every stone and guess what? Like shoot for the stars. You may reach the first branch on your tree. Like, and that's, that's honestly what bodybuilding is. You're not even going to reach the sky. You're not even going to reach the clouds, but you're going to be able to, like, if, if you can do that and you can be happy with it, you know what I'm saying? Like be happy with what you're capable of. It still takes trying as hard as you freaking can. So Tony Robbins is listening. He's rolling his eyes. It's like amateurs. Amateurs. Yeah. Oh, don't get me going on the Tony Robbins stuff. Cause like, I don't know much about him, honestly. Okay. It's a, uh, I don't, I'm not going to go there today. Okay. It's a scam. It's a scam. Okay. Here's the thing I've got. I used to train a guy. Okay. Um, in person years ago who he sold, um, hidden cameras. And I'm like, that's a weird industry. Like, yeah, I'm like, who buys that from you? And he's like perverts and paranoids. And I'm like, yeah. Okay. Old ladies who don't want someone mowing, you know, stepping on their lawn and dudes that want to put cameras in females bathrooms. Okay, cool. Honorable profession. Jealous spouses too, though. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. All right. That's anyway. Besides the point, I guess, I don't know why I mentioned what I'm rebuilding him up in my head. Right. Right. And I'm like, Oh, okay, cool. And he's like, well, I also work for Tony Robbins. And he said it with like this air of like, I'm like, Oh cool. What do you do for him? And he's like, Oh, I do all his sound and his, his headset. And I traveled at all the shows and I set all that up. I'm like, okay, cool. That's awesome. That must be a nice, you know, nice take for you. Cause I, I looked up Tony Robbins, you know, he's making like 50 million dollars a year back then. And that was like 2010 or whatever. He's like, Oh no, no, I do it for free. I'm like, what, what I'm like, well, they must set you up and like, you know, fly you out there and set you up at nice, um, you know, hotels. And he's like, Oh no, no, I pay my own way. And I'm like, Oh, you're getting taken. Okay. I see how it is. And anyway, that's just one story. Then I meet these other people that go to his things and it's like the type of person that buys into like the Tony Robbins stuff. I'm trying to think how to put this delicately because there might be some people that listen to them. You never know, but yeah, I just think it's a scam. I just think it's a scam. I think the best people to get motivation from are people in your life that are actual role models without coming to you and saying, I'm a role model. You know what I'm saying? Having to pay for it. And without, thank you. That was my next story. And evangelist. Yes. It's a different flavor. It's just a different flavor. It's just not about religion. And they just, they're, they're thirsty and there's a market for it. It's like, I call it, it's the equivalent of Dr. Phil. You already know when someone goes on Dr. Phil, they already know what they need to do. But when you hear it from someone in a, what, from someone in a higher position or someone that you put on a pedestal and you see they're educated, you go, Oh yeah, you're right. And they're basically going, I knew that, but they're, he's reiterating what they already know. And then they walk away and hopefully they do it. How's that working out for you? And here's the other thing. You're never, you're never ever reached that, that top step. Like whenever you reach the next course and you achieve that next skill or, well, you're actually only at this step. We, we've created this whole other ladder for you to get to, to really get enlightenment and to really get master your, your, you know, all that shit. So it's like, Oh, it's just a great way to suck people in and bleed them dry. And blame though him. No, no, not at all. He's got the best scam going. Are you kidding me? Exactly. He's become a millionaire a million times over. Whoa. Yeah. He's changed one life at least. His own. Um, what was that question again? Yeah. Back to the iron question. Sorry. I don't know. No, let me go back to one more side, one more side. Sorry. Yeah. I'm not against the GLPs. It's just like, I'm against the whole idea that we can't do something without you. I'm on a GLP inspired weight loss journey. It's like, or you're on a, you're doing fat loss. You're on a weight loss plan. Great. Okay. And you're taking GLPs. Cool. Okay. Yeah. So I guess, is there any relation between being on a GLP using TRT and dieting that's going to have, I guess that's kind of what he's translating. You know, he's probably saying, well, it kind of counterdicts the two potential issues. Cause he's saying like, well, you're on TRT. So because of that, is that going to spike your red blood? But then he's like, you're also eating less red meat because you're not eating as much. I, I don't know any potential issues. I guess there's, there's nothing I can think of where like, oh man, if you combine a GLP and you're using TRT, you got to look out for this. I can't think of anything, I guess, you know, not related to iron. Yeah, there is though. There's a little bit, there is the potential to lower iron absorption. So it can impact ferritin levels. But I think again, as with anything else, it's dose dependent. Sure. It's how long you've been on it. It is also the other variables. What does your diet look like? Are you on gear? Because gear will impact that as well. So gear, GLP, not a great diet. You're eating a lot of red meat. You probably arguably need more red meat. So you're not eating enough red meat. You might be able to, you might have problems, not problems. You may see those markers change. Okay. Wait, which way? Down. The ferritin would come down, I believe. So, and I want to make sure that I'm right. So if you got something in front of you, the ferritin, but I'm pretty confident in that one, it'll actually lower it because it lowers the absorption rate of iron to something. I don't know to what degree. Yeah. But like you're taking steroids. So that's gonna, you're going to retain. It could possibly. So I don't see it as, I see it as like doing a healthy thing for you. Did he say? Yeah, that's what I'm thinking. Like I'm a little less iron in my life. But again, my point is if everything else is equal and you throw in a GLP based on the dose and say it's higher dose for the sake of conversation, you're probably going to see a shift in the iron, iron and ferritin. So, I mean, I've seen it. So you don't need to go donate blood? Is that what you're saying? Possibly. I mean, saves you one trip every, every eight weeks. I mean, okay. But again, dosage of the gear. He didn't say anything about the gear. It's a TRT, I think. Okay. All right. I believe. Yeah. And then I'll just say this. I guess GLP-1 receptor agonist can subtly lower iron and hemoglobin levels. Get me some GLP-1 guys. I need it. Yeah, exactly. Yeah, but is it only because the appetite is down, you're consuming less red meat overall and less heme iron overall? Or is there a direct – I don't – I've never seen – and I've looked this up. Quit asking so many difficult questions. Right. These are the actual pertinent questions. These are the pertinent questions. No question. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah. Just like the muscle loss. Yeah, it's only because your overall chloric intake goes down and part of that would be your overall intake of heme iron goes down from not eating steak or other foods that carry heme iron. Because I've looked this up in the past. I never saw any direct interaction with iron absorption because of GLP-1s of any of these compounds. So I don't think there's a direct reaction or it inhibits absorption or anything like that. And your question, make no mistake, I'm teasing you, but it's clearly valid. The guy asking the question is valid. The point is we're still learning all these things. It's not – the studies are based on the layman, just the average person, the plebe, not on bodybuilders. So we're learning so much more about these peptides literally weekly. So there's a lot that we don't know. All right. Let's see what else we have here because I know we had a bunch of them. How about this one from – let's see. Hello. Okay. Hair question. If I stacked half a milligram of dutasteride daily with 2.5 milligrams of minoxidil and one milliliter of minoxidil during a cycle of 40 milligrams of test e and 20 milligrams of mast E daily, will my hairs survive? Will my hairs survive? I am prone to male pattern baldness, currently taking one milligram of finasteride and one milliliter of minoxidil daily while maintaining my hairline. Thanks. So very low dose, you know, decently low dose cycle, 40 – I don't know, what does that come to per week? 40 test e per day and 20 – Two test e. 210. Okay. Yeah. With a small dose of mast and he's got everything in there just about, you know. Plus he's using oral minoxidil, it sounds like, on top of the topical. So – This is not my jam. I'm going to step out of the way. I've been bald since I was 21. So I don't pay attention to it. I know I've had clients ask me, you know, over the years and I'm like, look, I'm just going to be honest. It's out of my wheelhouse. So you didn't hire me to save your hair. You hired me to get you ripped and big. So you're going to have to do your due diligence on your own. Fair enough. I'm not even a good person to ask about this. I've got all my hair. Yeah, I was going to say, you got a good – you would make a good doctor, by the way. You have that – does he not have that – He's got the hair. He has that gray's anatomy. Yeah. Yeah. What was the – Mr. – what were their names? There was two of them. The two doctors. Mr. – ah, someone in the comments, say it. What show? Gray's Anatomy. The two doctors had their – Oh, I never watched that show. I didn't – Is it a chick show? I think it is, yeah. Shut up, Scott. It was a great show. You were going to say it's your favorite show. Not favorite. But look, I'm watching the Madison and I'm like, this is really a sad show. It's a good show, but it's sad. Taylor Sheridan. But anyway, you look like a doctor. You have that look. Like if you were in scrubs and you had a lab coat, like a doctor's coat on, I'd be like, I trust this guy. Yeah. I mean, that was the whole reason why I took the MCATs and applied to medical school. You know, I got the look. You know, they're going to let me in. I'm going to shoo in. You know? Here's the thing that – and this is just experience of working with tons of people with PEDs and whatnot – is I don't think we can accurately predict. And here's why. My mother's father was completely bald by the time – like, skip away. Like, by the time he was like 21 or 23 or something like that. You know, I never knew my grandfather to have hair in his life. Okay? Yet here I am. I mean, maybe that says something about my mom. I don't know. But what I'm saying is supposedly it's supposed to follow the mother side of the gene, right? I mean, exhibit A. It's like – and all my brothers, they have even more hair than I do. So I would say they have more hair than I do probably because I've abused PEDs more than they have. You know? My other brother that does use – you know, he's starting to get a little thin in certain areas too. But just experience of working with people – some people use these test mass cycles and they don't lose a hair, you know, a hair off their head. Other people use just testosterone and nandrolones and they're bald by the time their third cycle in. So it's like – I think PEDs just exasperated or speeded up a little bit. But if you're bound to lose your hair, you're going to lose your hair. That's what I found. Yeah, yeah. You might have more to say though, Scott. Well, I'll say this. So, I mean, personal experience, I've always had a high hairline. That said, it's getting higher as I get closer to 50 years old. I feel like I'm doing better than I thought I would given that my dad was completely bald when I was a kid. But like the other side of the family, my mom's side, like the men had a high hairline, but then they just kept their hair. So they also didn't use a bunch of gear. Like I use a lot more gear than my great-grandpa, I think. You know what I'm saying? Yeah, you probably would say that. I'll say like I think with everything, dose, duration, two huge factors. His doses are super low. I would caution you to do lab work using oral minoxidil. That's one thing that I would definitely consider. I think he said he was using oral minoxidil, and that can be more stressful on the liver. I mean, look at – you talk to guys like Dr. Dean or Chris Bumstead. Get your hair done in 10 years if you end up losing it. It's a thing now. Like literally, when we were younger, that wasn't an option. If you went and got like hair plugs, you were going to look ridiculous like you had doll's hair. You know, like you just couldn't do it. Nowadays, people are actually doing that stuff, and it's looking decent. So worst case scenario, you could always do that. But I think dose duration is a big factor here, and his is so low. Yeah, I don't think you've got a lot to worry about. You know, that would be my thought at least. I got to throw in something, and I just checked on it very quickly just to make sure because it was something that had stuck in my brain for a long time. I'm like, I don't want to say this if I end be wrong. So I'm asking you guys too, but it looks like I'm right or there's at least some connection between male pattern baldness and the increased potential for prostate issues and or prostate cancer. And it makes sense because of the DHT. And it's something that this last show I figured that because I ran very high wind straw the last four weeks, and I told the joke, you know, it was to the point where before the show, a week or two before the show, I felt like I had to reach down between my legs and squeeze the prostate like it was a water balloon to get pee to come out. I'm being hyperbolic, but the point is that stream wasn't very strong, if you get what I'm saying. But we get what you're saying. And then only a week after, after cessation of the wind straw, totally normal stream. Okay. So I'm like, yeah, probably not going to go that high again. That didn't go too well. Oh, hey, real quick, before we move on, I wanted to make sure I did add this in. It was added in the live stream that, yes, Grey's Anatomy is definitely a chick show. Oh, not fair. Who said that? If a chick said it, okay. If a guy said it, no. It was Nick. Nick's calling you out, man. He's calling you out. Okay. So he's got to know then what were the doctor's names? I'm going to Google it. They said McDreamy. McDreamy was one name. Yeah, there it was. McDreamy and McSteamy. That's right. McDreamy and McSteamy. All right. Here we go. All right. How about this one? Oh, so I had gotten a question on another show similar to this one. This question is, when do you think that someone is ready to start using fast-acting insulin in their protocols? Is this something where you would consider years of training before you would do it or years of PED use before you would do it? And then crossover, another question we had gotten was, what was it? Do you need to be like a really big guy, like a mass monster, before you consider using insulin? And he also asked SEO. So let's cover the insulin thing first. And I'd be curious to hear your guys' thoughts on the SEO. Yeah, I'm sure you would. To use them for sound bites on the reel. I already know where this is going. So you go first, McSteamy, and I'll follow you. Are we talking about insulin? Yes. Yes. Honestly, arguably insulin is one of the safest drugs you can use if you're just not a complete idiot. If you learn how to measure and you know what one unit is, what five units is, you're good. Okay? Yeah. Like I've got a 21 or 22-year-old kid. One of the first compounds I added in with him was just testosterone. You know what I mean? I love it. It makes the most sense. Like why don't we use bioidentical hormones as much as we can to drive growth and to drive hyperretention of carbohydrates and glycogen versus going to more harsh drugs, which we can save for later down the road when these other tools stop working. Sure. Or if you're a natural competitor, come on. Use your head. Use insulin. You don't need a ton of gear. You don't need to be on gear for a long time. You don't need GH. insulin can be affected. I'm not telling everybody to go out there and just start using insulin. I would say this. This is when you should use it or consider using it. When you're at a level of comfort that you understand it, you understand what to look for, you know how to respond to it, you're going to monitor your blood sugar level, and you have a structured plan of training. You can carry that out, right? Yeah. And you're prepared. You have carbs with you. You have more intro with you. If, like, in a baggie so that if you start to run out. I've done it. I've been more thirsty on days, and I'm running out of intra carbs. I have another bag. I'm not going to be a moron. Or I'm on my way home, and, oh, I decided to get gas. Oh, it's Friday. I haven't loaded since last Sunday, and I'm depleted. Ten minutes can, oh, I'm starting to sweat. This isn't good. I've got to get home, and I'm still 15 minutes from getting home. You have to have a comfort level with that. And I'm going to say this. I've said it a million times. You guys have heard it, but I'm saying it again. The people who have problems with insulin are not the newbies. They're the veterans, because the veterans become complacent. They've used it so much. They know, oh, I'm going to go get the mail. Oh, I'm going to take a shit. Oh, I'm going to do this. And then you get up and take a shit. You're like, whoa. Oh, and you're laughing to yourself like it's funny. Oh, my BG is 49. That's really super funny. I've got a client. I'm taking a shot at him. He's a good dude. But he's run 40 in the 40. I'm like, bro, you're about ready to hit the floor. This isn't like a badge of honor. He's come around. He understands that. But it's not the newbies. The newbies are like, oh, I think I'm going. I think my blood sugar is tanking. Oh, it's 78. Okay, I'm waiting. And know that that 78 or that 88 or that 98 can drop 20 points in 10, 12 minutes. Depending on what you're doing. If you're hurrying around for something, you're getting ready to go. It'll bottom out on you in 10, 15 minutes. And you'll be like, whoa, this isn't good. I want to add for the listeners. We've had several episodes about insulin. So I'm just going to name them real quickly. Inter-workout carbs, everything you need to know. That's about two years old. Inter-workout carbs, everything you need to know, episode 183. That was just me and Scott. So we called it the same exact thing, by the way. That was even better. That's awesome. Of course it was. A lot more information and a lot more side talk. And then we have another episode called, where did it go? It was just up here. It's like. You just search insulin. insulin for bodybuilders. Go think they can search insulin. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But the other topics or the other episodes just have carbs in the title where we go over insulin protocols. So it's like, I would just say go, you know, insulin for bodybuilders, the complete guide and intra-workout carbs. Type those two things into the Think Big search page and you will find those great episodes. Yeah. And pay attention if you're using a GLP, GIP, that type of thing too, because it will change how you respond to the insulin. Oh yeah. What about SEO for guys that, do you have to have a big massive physique to use SEO? SEO. You should have well-developed tissue and muscles before you develop it or before you start using it. But then you're using it usually because you have a deficiency in a particular muscle that you want to try to even out in comparison to the rest of your tissue. Right? Like if you have really, really, you know, we'll say low sweeping quads, you might want to put a little bit in the upper quad to try to balance that out. So it looks more aesthetic, not too much, obviously. You know what I mean? So it's, but if you don't have a lot of muscle tissue, it's going to be very obvious that you're using SEO and it's not going to look good. So it's supposed to, it's supposed to enhance what you already have. It's not supposed to build what you don't have, you know? Yeah. I don't have anything to add to that. Yeah. I'm with you guys a hundred percent on that one. Cause you end up the guys that don't, the guys that like, you can see it like the, you know, the oil guys that you see that it's like, Oh my God, what was this guy doing? He literally, some of those guys, they don't look, they look like they haven't trained. They're in South America and I don't know what they're using. That's just different. That's weird, man. That's, that's not bodybuilding. That's freak building. But I was going to say SEO is bigger with females now. Oh yeah. Oh, I don't doubt. Yeah. Yeah. Much bigger in females. Yeah. Like I don't really know. Divisions have changed. Yeah. I don't know many guys that are using, I mean, I do know, but in proportion, much higher level females are using it now. In specific divisions. Yeah. Obviously. Yeah. Yeah. All right. How about this one? Um, I've been, let's see. Uh, I think this was more of a comment. Um, I'll get back to that one. You got to read, read, I got to look it over a little bit more. Cause there was kind of a topic idea I had by reading that comment. Um, Hey, Scott Hope all as well. Um, so that I was hoping to see you at the Arnold, but unfortunately did not get the chance. I have a question. Um, it says, uh, I tried running test e versus test sip, um, each for well over six weeks. The test e at 175 milligrams split daily brings me to the lower end of range. He's in Canada. So his range he's on a 10 and his range is eight to 30. Okay. So he was at 10 at 175 milligrams a test, but the test sip at 175 milligrams put me at 22. So I'm, uh, quite a bit more felt better energy, mood, strength, and all of that. E two levels on both were exactly the same. No way eyes came out to a Canadian two Oh eight, the range being 41 to one 59. Um, so a bit more than range, no sides felt good. Uh, I feel like it's worth it for me to run test sip in this instance. But my question is that, uh, the ester that my body maybe doesn't use as well, um, would running primo or mast not be as great of an option since it doesn't seem to, since he's not having a good experience with the NF eight ester in general, is that you think that that's an issue with the NF eight ester in general or, you know, the testosterone. Uh, and have you guys ever seen this before where somebody responds better? Yeah. Yeah. But I've seen it. Okay. I would question, sorry, Andrew. I know you, no, no, no. You, I think you're going to say what I was going to say. So that's fine. I'm wondering, uh, how accurate is your enanthate and your sip in eight strength dosing? Yeah. Yeah. I guess if he had Janoschik reports or some other testing method of like for like apples that we're comparing here and, and, you know, this one has 276 milligrams of testosterone per 300, you know, milligrams of test of test on the label. This one has 288. Okay. That's a pretty close comparison. Did one of them end up only having 125 milligrams of actual testosterone? So it's really under dosed. The E is what I'm talking about. Um, maybe, maybe are they using the same carrier? Carrier oils. I would look at that second, you know, cotton seed versus MCT versus all the other, um, carrier oils. And then, uh, did he say, cause he said he was dosing the E every other day or every day. Did he say how he was dosing the C? I'm going to assume it was the same. Yeah. Okay. That's because I was going to say, you know, okay. Cause I was going to say if he was just taking the test c like once a week and he was testing seven days later, it's still, it's a drop off, but it's like, yeah, that could possibly be the case seven days later. Um, but yeah, I go with what Skip originally said. I think, you know, I, I, I, I, to answer his question, I don't think he should avoid in antide esters. I don't think that's a thing. Yeah. Maybe Scott, you know, Stevenson would have something different to say, you know, maybe enzymes treat an antide in some people versus sippian eight esters differently. I've just never seen any. I just don't think to that degree. Yeah. I mean, that's a pretty big disparity. If it were closer, I'd be like, okay. You know, and I'm a fantasy. I don't know that I've used personally, Ian. I 15, 18. I'm the other way. No kidding. I'm the other way. So why do you like C? You know, I don't, I don't know. I've asked, been asked that before. And I know that back in the day there were questions about the E, um, whether it was supply or what, I don't know. But the fact that it's, I'm not a big fan of, of longer, like the longest esters. You know, I won't take, I could literally be out of testosterone. I'd be looking at Suss and I'm going, okay, I'll use it if I have to, you know, that type of thing. I'm just a pro guy. And I, even the offseason I run, you know, it might be a 60, 40 or a 70, 30. I'm, I'm always running pro and sip 90% of the time for tests. Okay. Yeah. I'd been the opposite because I always felt like I wanted more and you can hold the, that test e will suspend at a higher, you know, it'll suspend at a higher milligram without crashing. So I'm like, well, if the UGL lab is, you know, going to mix it in my favor, it's going to be with that test e. So I better order the test e. Like literally that was honestly the reason that I used it. Getting more testosterone for your money. Yeah. That's what I was hoping, you know, here's the number one. I haven't had test probe crash maybe twice in 10 or 15 years. That's number one. Number two, I've only gotten gyno symptoms twice in my life. And both times it was from high doses of probe. Yeah. Kind of an odd one. But that there's the high, that'll be the real skip. And I'll be like, did you guys know? Skip, Skipp Hill says test probe causes gyno. And his GH was fake. Yeah. What were you doing? Like 200 megs of test probe a day or something? I can't remember. It's in the notes somewhere. But, you know, I know people go, how can you not remember? Oh, dude, I don't remember what I did last cycle. I've taken a lot of fucking drugs for a long time. Sorry, just being transparent. But that's the reality of it. I can't recall what I did. I have no idea. But yeah, I wouldn't be surprised if it was, you know, 150, 200 a day or something like that. I don't usually dose by the day, though. It's usually every other day. But it would have been up there. And remember, I mean, that's what's it too. So it would have been probably in A-50-50 ratio. So 2, 4, 8, you know, 16, off the top of my head, but 16 milligrams of testosterone a week and half of it is probe. Yeah, it could be. Blood levels come up a lot faster with probe. So that right, another itchy, itchy thing going, oh, this shirt feels like there's barbed wire on this shirt. I don't know what's going on. We've got another, excuse me, insulin question. Is Novalyn R worth using with the peak tomorrow? Should I source Humalog 780 grams of carbs per day? I think he said was his diet. Yeah. He's in a cutting phase, spreading across six meals, 780 carbs. Big boy, too. This is Peter Lifts. I met him at the Arnold. He was wearing a shirt that said, I heart trend. Couldn't miss him from across the room. You look like you like tread. Humalyn R, Novalyn R, same thing. One's generic, one's not. I am, and it's essentially the same peak time as Sub-Q Humalog. So keep your, I tell my clients to get Humalyn or Novalyn because you can at least get it from the pharmacy and it's been refrigerated versus trying to get Humalog through the mail that arguably might be degraded, beat up a little bit, thrown around, kicked around, that type of thing. Heat. You don't know where they're keeping it in the warehouse around the truck. So Humalyn R, Novalyn, I don't know if you guys even agree, but you know, my, that was a Scott Stevenson thing a long time ago. I remember that. I like Humalog. Humalog, Novalyn, Apedra, and Fiasp. I like Fiasp. Any of those. I mean, they're all basically the same, but yeah, I like the Rapids. I think they're just so predictable, you know. But if you can't get it, you know, like I really think you could work with Novalyn R. Like it's not going to be the end of the world by any means. Just not sub-Q. Yeah. Let's see what else we had here. We've got maybe a couple more on this episode. Oh, Andrew, question for you. Started the Grandmaster Program by John Meadows for my off-season. Also, question for Andrew. Started the Grandmaster Program by John Meadows for my off-season. Also, how long does it take carpal tunnel from GH to subside? So the first part wasn't a question. Oh. Yeah, I know, I know. I was waiting. I was like, oh, we're going to do a little training talk. Yeah, yeah, yeah. John Meadows, Mountain Dog talk here. Okay, okay. And the question, though, was how long does it take for carpal tunnel to subside from GH? Yeah. I mean, with continuous use, it might not, you know, unless you take a break, unless you come up with some type of dosing mechanism that doesn't allow you to get it. But, I mean, I had it for years. I never complained about it. I'm like, cool, my shit's real. It's working. I never minded side effects like that. It's like it's not internally hurting me. I'm not messing up my liver, my kidney, my heart. Great. I can deal with my arms going numb. I can deal with, and it sucks because, yeah, when you're sleeping at night, you've got to constantly keep readjusting and waking yourself up. But, I don't know. My advice to clients, I'm like, well, take a break for a couple days. You know? Yeah. Usually works. You can relieve it in 10 minutes. You can relieve it in 10 minutes? No shit. Amazon sells a bunch of them. They're carpal tunnel bracelet. Oh, yeah. They're things with a metal rod in the front and their Velcro straps. Okay. And you put them on. And literally that night, if you put them on before you go to bed, that night you will sleep and you will be like, oh, my God. Remember, any, and I'm not talking to you guys. I'm talking to the viewers. Any pain in your arms from the shoulder down, it's not in your shoulder. It's coming from the carpal tunnel in your wrist. So, when you apply that pressure and there's compression there, it will relieve not just the pain where the wrist brace is, but all the way up your arms. And you will sleep like a baby. And then you will send me DMs going, oh, my God, you're a super genius. And I appreciate that. So, if you would send me that and send me a note, I'd like that. Why don't you make a post with the actual device you're talking about? I did that on B2D, actually. But I could literally pull it up and screenshot it right now and send it to you, Scott, and you can put it up. All right. They're literally like $20, $25, $19, and they can't work. Like, it's one of those things, because remember, I'm such a cynic. Like, ah, I'm just desperate. I'm going to try it. And that night, I'm like, no way. I got up to sleep. I'm like, wait a minute. Did it go away? So, it goes away when you put it on. Does it stay gone when you get up then? Like, through the day? Or do you still have to? Well, through the day, everybody's different with this. But I have all that pain. I don't right now because I've adjusted to my dosing. But if I just all of a sudden start again or I take the dose from 6 to 8 or 9 or whatever, then I'll get something. And sometimes it's real bad. But it will. During the day, I don't have it much. My hands might be a little tight. I do have a little bit of a trigger sometimes where it feels like it catches. But it's not like if I'm doing, you know, cardio or my steps on a treadmill, yeah, okay, if I leave my hands there five minutes, yeah, they might get a little bit numb. But it's nothing for me during the day. It's when I'm sleeping that it's like, fuck my life. Like, this is horrible. Like, I can't sleep. There are times I have to get up, walk around. I can't just roll over. Some people are like, oh, I just roll over. It's such a pain in the ass. No. Get up, walk around, shake them out because they hurt from the shoulders down to the hands. Like, it's horrible. Yeah. But it will damn near wipe it out. We're talking from a 10 to less than a 1. And you'll be like, oh, this is awesome. I would say my experience that you will feel relief. What did you say, Andrew? Like a couple days if you stopped the dose. Yeah. You know, I'd say. And then it should be, I would say, like mostly gone within a couple weeks. Like within a couple weeks. I would say within a couple days. I would say like three, four days. Use the brace. Yeah. I would say, I would agree with you. And then if, but like by two weeks, it should be completely, you know, alleviated. But if Skip's got a way to navigate that, then I'm all for the brace. Seriously, it's a super hack. Like if you, if you guys try, you'd be like, holy crap. I was blown away. Didn't even think. I'm like, God, that was the best 20 bucks I ever, 20, 25 bucks I ever spent in my life. Isn't that great when you find something like that? And you're like, it didn't cost you 2,000 bucks. It didn't cost, you know. Yeah. And it didn't just drop it down a little bit. It was like, oh my God, I can sleep tonight. This is awesome. Do you got a word of the day for us, Skip? Yes. A foot. A foot. And there's not a space between a, like a lot. Yeah, I know. A foot. A foot. And I'm just using the, because I brought up here. I actually heard it on the Madison, because that's what I do. I hear a word and I'm like, oh, I haven't heard that before. So I Google it and then I take a screenshot of it. I literally have an album of like massive amount of lyrics. And I want to say this before I tell you what it is. I want to thank the people. People are DMing me. They're messaging me. And they're giving me words. Nice. I have an email from Eric and I haven't read it yet. I apologize. But I, by the time he hears this, I will have read it. But it was something that he's got words in there for me. So I appreciate that. I think that's cool because that tells me that people listen to it. They kind of like it. A foot. It basically means in preparation or progress, happening or beginning to happen. And the sentence is they were forced to go a foot or plans are off. Let me try again. Plans are a foot for the festival. So they're preparing. They're getting ready. That sort of thing. So it's not one of those like super long words that you can't. A foot. Which is okay. I can remember it. A foot. Yeah. Simple. It's a word you can drop in. It's not necessarily an A-list word. But it's better than a B-list word. And you can't screw it up. So people be like, oh, he's very well spoken. I like his vocabulary. Nah, he's a meathead. He usually talks about protein and chicken and rice and picking up heavy things and setting them down. But he used a word that I don't know. Yeah, he must be smart. Yeah. So much smarter than I thought just by looking at me. Guys, we appreciate you tuning in. Thank you for being here. And we did have a guy say that he was like, hey, I never get notifications for your show anymore. In fact, I just re-subscribed now. So if you're not subscribed, we'd love to have you subscribed. And if you were unsubscribed, then we suggest you re-subscribe. And if you hit the bell, that's literally the only way that YouTube is guaranteed to tell you that we have a new show out. Otherwise, it's luck of the draw, whether we show up in your algorithm or not. Of course, comment with questions for the next episode. Reach out to these guys for coaching. Go to TeamSkip.com. Go to BodyBarry.com. Hit me up, McNallyDiets at gmail.com. Check out our advertisers. I mentioned them at the beginning of the show. We'll have them linked in the description. And guys, for another episode of Blood, Sweat & Gear, we will see you soon. See, I'm not saying I don't see that. Hold on. Let me rephrase. Yeah. I still think, and I'll ask you if you agree or not. It's the religion numbers are coming down. It's kind of like it's... I don't know, actually. It's related, they say, in part to social media with so many people being able to get together. And now there's more of the agnostic atheists. They don't have as much need for that community that a church once provided, are you saying? I don't know, guys. I don't know if it's that. I think it's people who are different. A lot of times, you know, if you go back 20 years ago, you didn't have the communication on such a large scale. So they'd keep to themselves. I'm not going to go to someone's house who I know is Christian and go, hey, I'm an atheist. You know, that type of shit. But when you're online, you find those people and you find the forums and you get into discussion. You go, oh, my gosh. I'm not saying that it's like in the... But my dad is in the... He's a huge part of the church in Michigan. And he has said that their denomination, I think it's United Methodist or something. I never pay attention to that part because I can't tell the difference. I figure it's Christianity. Outside of Catholicism, it's kind of all the same thing. How much do they hate themselves? Yeah. And arguably hate other people. I say that as a believer, but I just... I think organized religion is horrible. But anyway. I did not think that would be your take. I appreciate that, if I'm being honest. Well, I grew up Catholic. And I feel like the whole routine of a mass is so... If the idea here is spirituality and get you closer to God, your creator, I don't think a God would create these rules and these... The way that he wants to be worshipped. I think he wants you to have a private relationship with him. That's just my take. I like that. It's more spiritual than anything, right? But I got to disagree with you, though. I think Christianity in particular is definitely on the rise with people in the 20 to 30 demographic. Oh, that may be. In that younger demographic? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That may be. Yeah. You know, and it's funny because understand this. Even with my position, I'm not against religion. Yeah. I'm all... People can do whatever they want. That's totally fine. I have plenty of friends who say, hey, you know, it was my relationship with God. I found a relationship with God and I got sober. Bro, I'm not going to tell you you're nuts or you're stupid. No, it was all about you. I'm not going to say that. I might think it, but I'm not going to say that because I don't know and I don't care. You're in a better place. I don't give a shit why you're in a better place. It doesn't matter to me. I'm not going to fight you on that. Yeah. Yeah. Isn't that good? Talarico for president. Talarico for president. I have a hard on for this guy. I just do. I don't know what you're talking about right now. Texas. Oh. He is. You know what I'm talking about. He's got that theology degree. He speaks. If you don't look at him, when you hear him speak, and even his mannerisms are very Obama-esque. There are some things that I don't like, but I like his approach on religion because he's essentially calling out, I don't want to say radical religious right, but he's like, if you're a true Christian, why are you doing this, this, this, and this? But then he gets into, I'm not on board with taxing the shit out of the rich. I never have been. I'm not anti-corporation. None of that. I'm all over the place, dude. It's hard for me to pick somebody to support, but I like him for the religious component. He's religious. He's just not for the hypocritical shit. You know what's weird? Because our government, as we set it up today, is so different than the founders created, which is a whole fucking three-hour podcast we could do. But I'm saying with the technology we have today, why couldn't we all individually vote on individual issues? Like, why do we even need politicians anymore? With the internet, with everything, like, what does a country feel? Like, do you want to have, you can even do it by statewide. Does Florida want to allow abortions? Does Florida want to allow abortions to three months? Does Florida want to have whatever the thing is up on the document? Andrew, you sound, you're sounding a little progressive. You're making me uncomfortable. I'm being a smartass, but that is a progressive view. That's why I say it's, you're, you would be fun to sit down with and just have a burger. And if I drank beer, I'd have a beer with you. And we could just shoot the shit. I did with Phil a couple weekends ago. I saw that. I saw that. And we had a great conversation. He can speak and talk about politics. And we didn't agree on everything. Yeah. But we have common ground. And that's, I told him, I said, this is, these are the types of conversations that if you could actually, people could actually have these conversations. There's a lot more common ground. Oh, totally. And there is these radically different, you know, oh my God, I hate you. There's just so much hate, so much vitriol. The media's stirring the pot going, yeah, get mad at them. It keeps you coming back to the site. And I think a lot of people don't see that. They just don't see it. Very much so. Very much so. That can't be a topic, though. Not for a bodybuilding show. I know. Bummer. Yeah. Skip, tell us another brunch guy, brunch guy story. You got a brunch guy story for us? Somebody just asked us in the stream. That's funny. I don't have any. I had a lot more stories when the kids were young. Because everything happened. Now that they're gone, I'm like, eh. I had to really milk the story with my wife because she, because of her awards banquet. And then I got done. I'm like, well, that sucks. I'm not going to have anything else to talk about for the next five months. No, there's not a, not a whole lot going on. All right. I've got a critique here. I've got four in the afternoon. Listener question. We have a good, we've got a good, good amount of listener questions here. That topic idea, three things. We can all come up with one thing people are overthinking, basically, in bodybuilding when they could be focusing on the big picture. Can you guys all think of one thing? I'm trying to think of a hundred. I'd have to narrow it down to one. Well, you can give us two or three if you want. So like majoring in the minor, that kind of thing? Yes, majoring in the minor. Exactly. Okay. Yeah. Okay. You got something on deck mentally? I think so. I don't. I'm going to fly by the seat in my pants. All right. Nothing new about that, right? I know. Not at all. Guys in the live stream, if you guys want to ask questions, you're welcome to join us and comment with questions. We'll tackle them, get them on the show. Thank you.