 Again, but you can imagine here, but you can imagine here, in my dining room table, which is a five foot diameter table, imagine people like Lee priest, Jay Cutler, Paul DeMaio are sitting down talking to each other. The young versions. The young versions. Yeah. Yeah. All my house kids were in their 20s. I didn't, I hate the stuff on the internet now, you've got to be in your 30s and pay your dues. Because that's when you start getting hurt. So, no, they were all young. They were all young. They were in, it was a time of their life. They were all young. They were in a time of their life. They were in a time of their life. They were in a time of their life. They were in a time of their life. They were in a time of their life. They were in a time of their life. They were in a time of their life. They were in a time of their life. They were in a time of their life. They were in a time of their life. They were in a time of their life. They were in a time of their life. They were in a time of their life. They were in a time of their life. They were in a time of their life. They were in a time of their life. They were in a time of their life. They were in a time of their life. They were in a time of their life. They were in a time of their life. They were in a time of their life. They were in a time of their life. They were in a time of their life. They were in a time of their life and I'm here with the producer, Scott McNally. Dusty Hanshaw is not at work today, but the last time he missed a day at work, he was in a coma, so we're all right. He's got pretty good attendance. And remember to like, share, subscribe, comment, and... Ring the bell. Scott loves when he gets to do that. It's rare. It's the best part of Scott and of Dusty not being here. They took our job! And remember, IamMutant.com. Go to IamMutant.com and use the code BIGRON or Dusty and save yourself money and get it delivered to your house. So there we go, IamMutant.com. Very excited to have our guest today, Scott. We have the legendary Ed Connors. Ed, longtime friend of mine, longtime friend of the industry and everyone in it. How are you doing today, my friend? I'm feeling well, thank you. You are just a juggernaut of a dude. I tell people I see Ed more than I see my own family because I see you at FIBO in Germany and then I see you at the UK Arnold and then I see you at the Olympia and then at the Arnold and then at every other show I go to. And I don't know how much you travel. Are you a millionaire mile guy? You've got to be. I have about 5 million miles. Yeah, man. You're like that. What's that movie up in the air with George Clooney where the captain comes to him in mid-flight and gives him the 10 million mile card? I think, Ed, did you ever get that happen to you? No, actually, because the 5 million is spread with three or four airlines. Oh, okay. So you're a superstar everywhere you go then. Okay. Well, a few of them. Yeah, I'm sort of loyal more to American Airlines than any others. Yeah. Oh, man, you've been everywhere. So for those of you that don't know Ed, you're going to get to know him today. He has all the stories you wish you had heard and we're going to try to get him to tell us some good ones today. But let's start with kind of your main thing that I know you recently wrote a book a couple years ago that is really cool and you were the owner of Gold's Gym Venice. There's the three muscle tiers. There we go. There's the book. Just looking back, I mean, you own Gold's Venice. How many years did you have that for? Give us a quick... I own Gold's Gym Venice with my partners for 25 years. And it was a pretty, like, pertinent 25 years. Golden years. Yeah. It was the golden age of bodybuilding, I really feel. My claim to fame is I opened up the first gym franchise with Gold's Gym in 1980, so 45 years ago. And before that, of course, you know, the gym scene was quite different than now. Although it's kind of back to the future right now. The smaller gyms are more viable. COVID, you know, change is the one constant in life, but COVID has made the change come even faster. Yeah. So I think gyms like what Ron has in Vancouver are more viable now than ever. What was the story of... I mean, I know the story, but I want to get you to tell the story of you getting involved with Gold's Venice and how that all started with Pete and those guys. And I just want to hear, like, what happened back then? It was the late 70s, and what were you doing? I was an architect working in New York. I got laid off, and I went around the country for job interviews. One of them was in Orlando, Florida. And I went over to see a friend of mine who I knew from a gym in New Haven, Connecticut. He was training in Orange Avenue gym in Orlando. And behind the counter was Pete Grumkowski, and he was the biggest human being I had seen at the time, up until that time. And I said, you know, I had just come from an interview in L.A. And I went to see Gold's Gym, the original one on Ocean. And I said, you know, if I get that job out there, you ought to come out to California and pursue that. And he said he'd love to, but he had no money, no car. He was just going through a divorce. So I ended up taking that. I couldn't stand the humidity in Orlando. It reminded me too much of Vietnam. So I ended up taking the job basically for the weather in L.A. And I sent Pete a one-way plane ticket. He came out and stayed with me. He was really my first major house guest. And, you know, 500 would follow. And so, you know, several years later, after he had settled in, he became Mr. World. He called me up and said, Ed Gold's Gym is for sale. Are you interested? And, you know, I've always been kind of impulsive. And so for about 15 grand, I bought 25% ownership of Gold's Gym Venice. Actually, at the time, it was in Santa Monica. Right. The original location. Yeah. Man. Talk about like getting in. That's like getting in on Bitcoin, you know, in 2016. Getting that $1,000 coin. Yeah. Well, people ask me, Ed, what's the key to success? Or what would you advise? And I said, you've got to take risk. And you've got to never look back. And you've got to work hard. I think, you know, there were about a half a dozen people kind of circling to buy Gold's Gym. But, you know, Pete and eventually Tim and I, we didn't look at the books. There were no real books. Gym was losing money. And we lost money for the first year. And I didn't quit being an architect until six years later. That's how much the business was struggling. You know, you don't just open up a gym typically with a thousand members. It's not like a restaurant. So it takes usually 18 months to get up to where you're breaking even. Right. So, yeah, we grew the business. And then, you know, a year and a half after opening or buying Venice, I saw a gym for sale in San Francisco. And I had gone to school at Berkeley, so I was familiar with the city. And I said, you know, Pete was traveling the world. And he said, you know, not everybody can come to the Mecca. Why don't we bring the Mecca to the people? So I couldn't open the gym and call it Ed's Gym. So it became the Gold's Gym franchise. Actually, at the time, it was called a license because we didn't have a business plan. There was no manual we could give someone and say, this is how you should run a gym. Yeah. So you were doing like a licensing where they'd call it a Gold's and they'd just have some – was this like a minimal list of like you've got to have good equipment or something? Yeah, you've got to be a certain size and have a certain amount of equipment, yes. But we didn't, you know, we didn't give them an operating manual. In fact, it wasn't until 1994 that we opened up a Gold's Gym University. So it was, you know, 16 or 14 years later that we actually had a business plan to give people. And even that is – yeah, it was almost out of date the moment it was written. Right, man. So when you got Gold's initially, it was the original location? No. No, they had already moved it. Yeah, they'd already moved it. Okay. Okay. So at what point did – so that building it's in now, was it originally just one of those units? Yeah, that's a very good point, Ron. That's, I would say, my good fortune. And, you know, life – I mean, having written a biography, I've read a lot. Most of them say that life is half about luck and half about what you do with it. It's sort of fate and opportunity mixing with work, you know, or perseverance. So I was working for Charles – I was talking with Scott just before you came on board. I was working for the office of Charles Eames in Venice, California. And I saw this building down the block that was for lease. It wasn't – it was a four-bay tilt-up warehouse. And we were having problems with the Santa Monica location, which was 4,500 square feet. And so I said to Pete and Tim, why don't we move the gym back to Venice, back to its roots? So we went into the first bay of that four-bay warehouse into 9,100 square feet. So within two years of buying the gym, we doubled its size. And so that – over the next nine years, we expanded to 26,000 square feet, which kind of became – well, it didn't kind of. It was the model for one gym fits all for two decades. Which if you're going to do a gym in America or Canada, you know, 25,000 was sort of the sweet spot. And that's what the – the four bays totaled 26,000 square feet. Man. When Tim and – Pete and I took over Gold's Gym in Santa Monica, there wasn't one bike in the gym. You know, cardio did not exist. Oh, no kidding. So all you had was – and there were very few machines. So it was a whole different world. You know, we had a bigger space now. We could have – you know, we could have a cardio studio. We could have a – we could have an aerobic studio. We could even have a posing room. Which is huge. Like, all of this is huge. I don't know what's bigger, this or the amount of talented bodybuilders that you helped bring to the area. You know, and I know Ron's going to get it. We're going to, of course, shift into that too. But I would say that you have had a legendary contribution on making Venice bodybuilding, Gold's Venice bodybuilding, what it is. You know, bringing the names in and making it what it was. Can you tell us a little bit about that? Because I think it's really the people. You know what I mean? That's what made that place so special, right? There was no social media back then. But if you wanted to get, you know, fame and fortune as a bodybuilder, you really had to come to L.A. And Joe Gold wasn't – Joe Gold, you know, operating World Gym, and he really wasn't very welcoming to outsiders or visitors. So I've heard. Powerhouse eventually opened in the area. But, you know, they were smaller and you really can't compete with a bigger operation in that kind of situation. So I would see – you know, back in the day, people forget, but Gold's Gym franchises, licenses over the country had bodybuilding contests. That was an affordable way for a gym to market its membership. In other words, you would hold a bodybuilding contest in your town and get, you know, the competing gyms to put up a poster featuring your gym. So various people like Jay Cutler had just won a Gold's Gym bodybuilding competition, a classic back in Massachusetts. And he came out to get publicity after winning. I happened to see him in the gym. And it's in my book, but I asked him, you know, where are you staying? And when he told me where he and his girlfriend were staying, I said, you've got to get out of there. It's a bad area. And so I offered them my home. I had a four-bedroom house in Venice. And he became one of my houseguests. You know, Lee Priest was there at the same time. So he met Lee. Lee got to meet people like Jay. And so over the years, I would see talented, you know, bodybuilders and encourage them to come to Venice. You were talking earlier about all the miles I have. I got six or seven free round-trip plane tickets a year with my mileage. So I would send people tickets and say, you know, come out to the Mecca and get photographed. But with the striping we had over the mirrors, you couldn't possibly take a picture in the gym without knowing where you were. And so those photos went into all the magazines. We gave every photographer, about two dozen of them, a free membership. We gave the Wheater staff, you know, free membership. You know, we didn't charge the athletes. If somebody was attractive or could help promote the gym, like the celebrities, the movie stars or sports figures, we didn't charge them. How could you charge Magic Johnson or, you know, you just don't do that. Paul Cogan. Yeah. That's crazy. We were giving away about 60 to 80 grand a month in free memberships for Cogan. But that was our marketing. That was our advertising budget. Right. Wow. Yeah. Yeah. Many of these house guests of mine became famous and helped, you know, promote the gym. John Cena wrote the forward to my book. Yes, it's great. And I guess there are, you know, three categories of people in my life. Some who, if they never met me, would probably still have had the careers they have. Others I know would never have had the career if I hadn't met them. And others I'm not sure about. But like Jay Cutler, you know, I'm not really sure that I made a difference, but he said I did. He said if I hadn't brought, he said if I hadn't brought him back to Venice the second time, he never would have pursued bodybuilding. He would have become a law enforcement officer. He'd have to just to protect that house he was staying at, apparently. Yeah. You know what I mean? Well, Frank McGrath, I know if he'd never met me, he would never become a pro. Actually, I've had seven Canadian amateurs come and stay at my home, all of whom turned pro. They're all in my books. I'm very, I mean, imagine I was able to pick, you know, it was my, I guess my, you know, I had an eye. I had an architect's eye for great physiques. And, you know, Frank was going to quit. And I said, you know, you know, come on out to L.A. And he did. And, you know, he became a pro. He's got his health issues. He was only born with one kidney. But, yeah, he's still, if I had known that, maybe I wouldn't have been so encouraging. But, you know, he's had quite a life. There were Scott Milne, you know, Bruce Patterson, you know, just, you know, all these people that I just latched onto and said, you know, come train at the Mecca. I have a list of, like, guys like Marcus Rule and Dennis Wolf, Mike Mazzarato. You mentioned Lee Priest and Jay. There's so many, like literally hundreds. You probably can't even count. Well, 537 house kids. Oh, you can count. That's so funny. Of course, Ed knows. Of course, a businessman. Wow. If you go to the printed version of my book, you'll see 525. But since I wrote the books, I've reconnected with some people who I had forgotten about. You know, back in the day, people wrote thank you cards. So I went, I had about five, you know, banker-sized boxes of thank you cards. And that's what I used to write my book. I went through this. Oh, wow. Pulled out these cards. Like Frank's mother, Gladys, I mean, she would send me, you know, a card, you know, every year, all the time. And, you know, Frank, Mike Mazzarato's mother would, you know, remember my birthday, Christmas, Easter, you name it. And, you know, Mike was one of my favorites. But, yeah, he was stranded in L.A. like a priest. Luzwick, who Ron probably knows, was kind of the ultimate, I don't know what to call him exactly. But he would encourage people to come out to L.A. and then leave them high and dry. And at one point, I think I had three people in my house who were I called Luzwick refugees. Right, right. Paul DeMayo, Mike Francois, you know, just Lee Priest. I mean, it was quite a... Legends. Yeah. You know, they were all a lot of great bodies, a lot of talent. And, you know, everybody has great memories of that time. And they were... It was a wonderful time to be in L.A. And it was really a golden age. I want to ask you about the kind of the mid to late 80s at Gold's Gym. The kind of Lee Haney era where you had the Barbarian Brothers in there. Wild times for me here. That's sort of like... It's like right before I started bodybuilding in 1990. So when I started, the magazines were all still like, you know, the pilot, the gym are still like the 88, 89 magazines. You know what I mean? So I got a really heavy... I got a really heavy dose of that era when I first started. I was infused with Barbarian Brothers propaganda. And I just want to ask, I heard so many stories about the gym at that time. What was Gold's like in the late 80s? How many bays were you at that time? And you remember the Barbarian Brothers being in there and all that? Oh, yeah, sure. I mean, they were... Again, I mean, they both ended up owning homes in Malibu and, you know, just being the Barbarian Brothers. I mean, that kind of speaks to the time. Yeah. You know, it was a different era. But no, they... You mentioned how many bays. You know, Pete, Tim, and I bought the gym in 79. We did move it back to Venice in February of 1981. And then over the next eight years, nine years, we expanded. So at the end of... By 1990, it was all 26... That was all four bays. Okay. So it was full size by that point. Yeah. Yeah. And the Barbarian Brothers were... I remember the day they came into the gym in Santa Monica. They were two guys that... I mean, they... Of course, my immediate thought was to try and get them into pro wrestling. But they didn't want to... Which would make sense. Yeah, they didn't want to... You were ahead of the curve on that, too. Yeah. They didn't want to... You know, I had just gotten... Well, I had just gotten... You know, the two wrestlers became Sting and the Ultimate Warrior into wrestling. And so... So that was... Just pause. Just pause for a second. Yeah. So you got... You got Sting and the Warrior into wrestling. Yeah. Yeah. It was just a casual by the way kind of thing. Casual by the way. Yeah, yeah. I've gotten about two dozen guys into pro wrestling. And Steve Borden, who became Sting, was my manager of the Gold Gym in Reseda. And, you know, back in... Again, that's another thing people forget. That wrestling was a big deal back then for people. Oh, yeah. Huge. It was... Mythical. Mythical. Yeah. Well, imagine, you know, as Vince McMahon is buying up these federations and, you know... You're buying up gyms. No, we're not buying up gyms, but we're selling franchises. So that if, you know, Vince's group... Every night, you know, 15,000 people were watching his wrestlers sometime in America. Yeah. And that might have a Gold's Gym. So those wrestlers would go into the ring and wearing a Gold's Gym. You know, they just trained for free probably at a local Gold's Gym. Ah. Which was really... And they would then rip off the shirt, you know, the t-shirt, throw it to the crowd. You know, it was a wasted t-shirt, but a lot of great publicity. That was $10 very well spent for you. Yeah. Yeah. Well, McMahon, you know, even tried to buy Gold's Gym back then. So he was... Oh, no kidding. He was... You know, he's a great marketing genius. And he said, you know, if I'm giving you all this free publicity, I might as well own it. But he thought we owned all these clubs. Well, we didn't. You know, we only... Pete, Tim, and I only owned one together. I personally was involved in 37 locations. But, no, so the deal fell through. But, again, my relationship with him carried on. And so we formed a Gold's Gym wrestling team, two tag teams. And when the big guy left, I called Jim Helwig, who had stayed at my house trying to become a pro bodybuilder. But he was 6'3". He was living in Atlanta, going to chiropractic school. And I said, you know, are you interested in joining the Gold's Gym team? It only pays $100 a night. And he said, well, that's more money than I'm making working now in Atlanta. So he came out, stayed with me. He paired with Sting. And they went on the road. They had a couple of very tough years. And eventually Sting split to the WCW. And then, you know, the Ultimate Warrior, who was wrestling as a Dingo Warrior, joined the WWE. And McMahon changed his name from Dingo Warrior to Ultimate Warrior. And he had a great run at it. He was intense. I mean, he legally changed his name to Warrior. So, yeah, if I had never called him, if I had never called him or encouraged Steve to become a wrestler, neither one of them would have had a career. That's wild. And then John Cena worked your front desk, didn't he? And you told him to be a wrestler. Well, yeah, I met him. He has, in his foreword, he talks about meeting me. And I have my story about meeting him in my book. And fortunately, they agree. But I had seen him in the gym. And he had kind of, he was out on spring break from the University of Massachusetts. They're not the sports university back in that state. And I said, you know, have you ever, I tapped him in the parking lot. And I don't like to bother people in the gym. And I said, have you ever thought about pro wrestling? And he said, his exact words were, it would be my dream. And he said, well, but there's just no way I could do that. And I said, well, I could show you how. So I encouraged him to go back to school, finish college. And he came out later that year, stayed in my home for about five months. And I got him several jobs, one of which eventually was working the supplement counter at the gym. But 18 months after meeting me, he had a contract with the WWE. So he did the work. I mean, I didn't, you know, I had opened the door, but he had to walk through it. So to his credit, he, and it wasn't easy back then because you had to go to wrestling school and hope to get seen. But, you know, he was terrific. So, yeah, it was, that was, you know, again, it was fate. How, how did all of that work? So, I mean, obviously you had more than one house that you're putting people up at. And then I, I imagine there were probably multiple people staying at the same homes at times or how, how did it, yeah. What were the logistics? Well, I had, I had three homes at one time, but my last house on the beach had four bedrooms. So I, I would, I could easily have three house guests there. So it became really kind of a guru house. It's like a reality TV show. It's like a reality TV show. I know, my God. Before it's time. If I, if we had had cameras back then, which some people think there were, you know. And there were no two-way mirrors. Yeah, yeah. But one of my house guests, Jesse Goddards, became one of the stars of Big Brother. And of course, he was the bodybuilder you love to hate. But he, they had, they had, you know, close, they had hidden cameras in all the rooms. But yeah, that would have been a great show because again, but you can imagine here in my dining room table, which was a five foot diameter table. Imagine people like Lee Priest, Jay Cutler, Paul DeMeo are sitting down talking to each other. The young versions. Yeah. All my house guests were in their twenties. I didn't, I hate the stuff on the internet now. You got to be in your thirties and pay your dues because that's when you start getting hurt. So, uh, no, they were all young. They were in there. There was a time in their life and they, but they were sitting down at a table with someone who had the same dream for the first time in their lives, because most of these people came from small town America or small town Canada. Like Frank McGrath. I mean, I actually had to fly to Newfoundland to encourage, uh, his parents to let him come to LA. You went to Newfoundland to meet his parents? To make sure they knew it was okay. Yeah. Yeah. That's a, that's an out of the way place to go. That's not like going to Toronto for a night. Yeah. I had just, I had just sold the gym and I had, I had been pushed out. You had a little pocket change. So yeah, I, I, I thought, well, I've never seen Newfoundland and I love to travel. So it was, it was a memorable trip. Oh, absolutely. Did you kiss the fish? It was, it was a dead of winter. And, uh, I mean, how Frank has been in some, Frank eventually totaled my Jaguar in Venice, but he did, he did amazing driving in the, in the snow. I mean, I was convinced he could drive anything after what I saw when I was, but not a Jaguar in LA. Yeah. Oh man. I grew up in Omaha and people think I'm fantasizing, but I remember three foot drifts, but, uh, and I wrecked quite a few cars growing up in, in that, uh, in that weather. One reason I, you know, I love California. So no, uh, yeah, Frank was, uh, uh, it was, he was, I think he met me at the airport wearing a t-shirt and it was probably 15 below. Outside of Dave Palumbo, there is nobody who has podcasted longer than me in the hardcore bodybuilding space. And as a result, I've kind of become that guy, you know, like the podcast dad that everybody reaches out to when they want to start a new show. Well, recently I partnered with this company, Mayano, and I've been testing out their microphone, the PD 200 W. And honestly, I've been super happy with it. It kind of exceeded my expectations, especially given the price right now. I am totally wireless. It's a feature. I didn't think I was going to enjoy as much as I do. You can also plug it into your phone. So you've got the same great sound on both your computer and your mobile device. You can also plug it in with USB C or XLR. And the whole experience has been easy. I literally just plugged it in and started recording. The batteries lasted forever. I've been recording for the last month. I've only charged it twice. And as I already alluded to, the price is really good. So if you're looking for a new microphone, I give it my seal of approval. In fact, I would buy this over the thousand dollar setup that I normally use to be completely frank. Plus, it comes with a stand. So you're set to go. It's all you need. I've got a link in the description. They're having holiday sales. If you need a new mic, this is a great way to go. So, you know, it was so many people and you couldn't know, you know, who's going to be successful or who isn't. Is there anybody who stands out to you that completely surprised you? Like, I don't think, you know, we'll see what happens. But, you know, I don't expect much. And then all of a sudden this particular bodybuilder specifically just maybe took off or was more successful than you could have ever imagined. If there's anybody that comes to mind. Well, I'm amazed. You know, I guess I'm amazed at the success, you know, Jay has had. I mean, I knew he was good, but to become Mr. Olympia. I mean, again, I think it's not to me, it's more than just, you know, being number one. I mean, you could have a great career as a bodybuilder, especially now with personal training and not be number one. So I think having someone like him or, you know, Flex Lewis, I met he was 19. I encouraged I flew him over from England. And to be six time Mr. Olympia in the 212 class, I mean, that's beyond my wildest expectations. Yeah, no kidding. So, yeah, Dennis Wolf, actually, I brought him over in 04 along with Flex. And he was my first house guest when I moved out of L.A. to a house in the desert. And I mean, I knew he was good, but to see him do, you know, have a pro career he had, that I guess that surprised me. In 2004 for Dennis Wolf, he had to be pretty young then, because I'm thinking when I was really getting into it. Yeah. So he would have been super popular when, like 2010, 2012? He probably was 20. He probably was 28, I guess. I think I would have been a little bit leery of bringing him over if he was over 30. But, okay. Yeah. Paolo Amedo, Paolo Amedo was the only one I really encouraged over 30. He was, I think, 35. He didn't start training until he was 30. That's why. It was late. Well, yeah. How incredible he was. And I took him to meet, you know, Rich Piana. But Rich said I always found his best talent. That's so funny. So, of course, Rich's first words were, fuck, why are you not a pro? Absolutely. And so with Rich's help, you know, financially, I think, you know, Paolo got his pro card that you're probably another one that beat you, Rod. I'm sorry. Yeah, yeah, yeah. No, I took a second to Paolo. I did. I took a second. And it was one of those ones where there's nothing you can do about it. Like, you know he's coming, you know. You asked me how I meet people. I was in Canada. I think Edmonton or one of those middle cities watching Antoine Valiant compete. Antoine was a house guest. And I saw this guy who was in eighth or ninth place, Paolo Almeida. It took me two years to find him. I mean, I wasn't looking every week. Right. Once a month, I would check social media. Well, finally, he went on Facebook. And that's when I said, you know, come on down, meet Rich. I'm sure he'll give you a contract. You know, he had 23 and 5 eighths inch biceps. I taped him. Dang. His arms were the biggest I've ever taped other than Rich's. And Marco Savalainen, a Finnish bodybuilder who was a house guest. You can look him up on YouTube. I remember Marco. So I'll tell you a funny story, Ed. Paolo was just at my gym like a couple weeks ago. Wow. No kidding. Yeah. He came in for a drop in and he's boxing a lot now. Oh, good. He's super fit. He's super fit. He's doing all this cardio. He's boxing, jumping rope. Just in for a fun workout, getting, you know, doing some chest. He's, he's shrunk down a lot, but he's still like big dude. He's like, you wouldn't want to. Yeah. He's like a heavyweight boxer. He shrunk down a lot. His arms are the same. Well, he just looks crazy. Well, people would ask me or ask him about Rich Piana's arms and they were very flat. And I, you know, being an architect, I've taped a lot of the guys over the years because, you know, part of it is I would meet people like Evan Santopani and he would say, oh, I said, did you compete? And he said, no, I'm not big enough. So I said, well, let me tape you. And I wrote down, I would write down the measurements of the pro bodybuilders I had taped. And I then would write down his measurements. And I say, see, your arms are actually bigger than most of the pros on stage. They were. I mean, he had 21 and a half inch arms when I met him. Most, most 20 inches is a huge hurdle for most people. Yeah. Paolo, Paolo's arms, the bicep shape is unbelievable. The roundness of it. Yeah. But Rich, Rich Piana had very flat arms. So they looked, I mean, what he did only worked for him, you know, and maybe not, you could say maybe it was a cause of his death. So it didn't, in the long run, it didn't work. But, but that was Rich. I mean, Rich was a character that I love and miss. Yes. But yeah, there'll never be another one like him. But no, there's the shape of the arm makes a big difference. Some guys could actually have bigger arms, but they don't look as good as like Mike Francois. I remember taping his arms at 20, the incredible shape. They, they look much bigger. Paul DeMayo had huge arm, you know, and I should have called him triceps. I mean, if you could put some pictures, if you could, if you could put some pictures with this, with this conversation, you know, that would be a good one to throw in. And I'll send you some, but yeah, Paul. All right. Yeah, please do. I would love to. Let me ask you this. So you, you knew Rich Piana personally. Ron obviously knew him too. I've heard some of Ron's stories. And I, he's somebody I never met in person. You know, I'd seen him at expos and stuff. And, and, and by that point he was always just like so jammed busy, but I could see there was something really unique and special about just him as a human being, him as a character. Yeah. And you know, what he did in bodybuilding is it like for his career is just crazy. Can you explain to us, say, say I'm from another planet. I've never known who Rich Piana was. How would you describe him to me based off of what you knew? Well, he was passionate about what he was doing and he really, he really appreciated other people's physiques or hard work. He didn't put them down. So he was, he was amazingly, I would say, well, he was, he was like Pete Krumkowski, my partner in the gym. He was upfront about what he was doing. You know, he, you know, he didn't beat around. And he knew how to work a booth. You know, I go to some of these expos and I see all people, people all covered up, you know, bent over, not even looking up at what they're doing. You know, Rich would, you know, Ron knows he would, he would be at the booth for eight. I don't know when he peed. I mean, he would be there for eight or nine hours and have the longest lines and just was, he was so dedicated to his fans. What other bodybuilder had so many people write 5% or whatever on themselves in ink? Tattoos. Yeah. Tattoos. No, it's. Necks, back of hands. I see. Oh yeah. I, I just, I have so many friends on social media that have ink from him and they were just so inspired by him. And so he was, he was, what would you call it? Someone who inspired somebody like that. I mean, he, you know, they became his disciples. So what was he? Yeah. Just an incredible leader. It was a real phenomenon. Rich, I've, I've talked about how I, I, I watched that whole thing evolve, you know? And I remember, um, you'll appreciate this, Ed, cause you kind of already touched on it, but I remember when he first joined mutant, um, they signed him and we brought him to the Arnold for the first, the first show was the Arnold. And I was going to stand right beside him at the Arnold. And I remember just the way he thought of everything. He thought differently. He thought, how can I make this better? Right. And so we're standing at the booth and we had a corner booth, right? So there was like a big, big walkway on two sides of us with a lot of people. And he's, he was in the corner. He was standing in the corner of the booth and he goes, you know what? And he just picked up the table we had for him and he just moved it out into the hall. He just moved it a couple feet out of the booth and he goes there. Now people can see me from all four directions. And within 30 seconds, the line for him went from long to security coming over and having to like start talking about, oh my God, we didn't need ropes. This is not going to, this is crazy. That's wild. And then they started to say, well, actually he's outside of the booth. Can you please get in the booth? And he's like, I can't stand in the hall. And they're like, what are you supposed to say? He can't stand there. He was just, just standing out in the hall was just causing chaos at the expo. And it was crazy. We had the craziest booth. I remember being frantically busy that day because of Rich, you know, it was really something else. And Ron, I remember being at FIBO, you know, for your listeners, that's the biggest fitness trade show in the world, which, you know, happens every year in April in Germany. And Rich had a, you know, still had a very long line when they were, security was trying to close the doors. And they, they somehow thought I was, I guess, because I had a coat and tie on, they thought I was in charge of his booth. And they said, they said, they said, you, you, you need to tell him to shut down. I said, you, you tell him. Oh man. I, I got to ask you, I got to ask you here. Who is the most disciplined? Did you ever have an athlete that came where you were like, oh, this guy's next level prepared. This guy's like super, super on top of everything. Where is anyone that kind of impressed you? Like, oh, this is another level of detail with the bodybuilding. Well, John, John Cena was a machine. Okay. Yeah. He was incredibly disciplined and I think he still is. Yeah. And that's, that's one reason I knew he'd be a great pro wrestler because he, you know, a lot of these wrestlers don't realize that their time in the limelight is limited. And they become, you know, party animals or they abuse drugs. And, and I knew John had, you know, you have to get on a plane, get to the next town, get your meals in, your training in. A lot of the members are still embedded, you know, coming back from night, nights, whatever at two or three in the morning. They miss their flight. They don't get their meals in. But, but, but Cena was just from the day, you know, he, I've never seen, I've never had a house guest that I was that aware of being that disciplined. That's cool. How about, how about the, how about this one? Who was like the craziest, most off the wall person where you're like, oh my God, I can't believe that I invited this guy to stay with me. Well, the warrior, the warrior was intense. Okay. Okay. What you see on TV, I mean, that was no act. That was him. Like, kind of like with Rich. Yeah. Right. It was kind of larger than five. It was just turned up a little. It just, just turned up a little. Yeah. So, so imagine, I mean, this is back in the day and you guys in the supplement business would appreciate. I don't think, I don't think people realize back in the day, you know, what was on the label wasn't necessarily what was in the can or bottle. Right. It didn't taste, it didn't taste good. And you had to use a blender to mix it. Nowadays, you've got these shakers. Well, back then, you know, the warrior would be in my kitchen. And, you know, he'd put in, you know, protein powder, garden it from whoever and, you know, bananas, egg, peanut butter, you know, just a can of tuna fish. 5,000 calories shake. Yeah. Blender, turn the blender on high and then chug it down. That was just, and he took that on the road. I mean, it was gross, but I traveled with him and Sting a few times. Okay. The Steiner brothers were there too at the time. They were never house guests, but I got to be good friends with Rob Rick Steiner, Scott Steiner's brother, who was actually, they're both great athletes. Great. They were, they were big wrestlers. Yeah. They were real actual wrestlers. Yeah. Those were fun times. McMahon doesn't like the guys to have wrestling experience, but I think that's invaluable. So, why doesn't he like it? Because he wants to train them his way? Yeah. He wants to train them his way. But I mean, the Steiner brothers were incredible. Because Hellwig really wasn't that great. I mean, he's dead now, so I can talk about him. But he wasn't that great. He hurt people. Right. He was a bit stiff, right? They call that stiff. Mm-hmm. So, yeah, he would, people hated to wrestle him because they might get hurt. They might, you know, they might end their career because of him. But, you know, he became, you know, he had a physique. He had a look. I mean, I told, I tell people, you know, people don't want to see ordinary. They want to see people like a John Cena or Ultimate Warrior. Yeah. You know, that's the problem with wrestling now. The physiques are so bad. The gimmicks are so bad. Yeah. I love it. The physiques are so bad. They're not allowed to gear up like they used to be able to either. Yeah. Yeah. No, you could still have, you know, a much better physique, you know, naturally than what you see now. You just got to be, you got to be disciplined, right? Yeah. I mean, it's amazing. It's amazing some of the natural bodybuilders I meet, given the quality, I think, of the, over the counter drugs. You know, I mean, I see people who are natural who I encourage, you know, compete because they look better than some of the guys I know who aren't. Yeah. Again, so much of it's genetics. I mean, there's only, you know, genetics may only be 5% of it, but without that, you forget it. Yeah. And I would never encourage somebody to go for it who I didn't think had the potential. So, so that's... I wanted to... Oh, yeah. Yeah. I know you've had a crazy eye. I wanted to ask you about the women's side of the golden era and the evolution of the female gym goer through your lens of owning Gold's Venice and watching that all evolve. That's an easy one, really. We, I mean, we pioneered women's bodybuilding. We had the first women's bodybuilding contest back in 1979. Yeah. But I mean, unfortunately, the women, I mean, my, my first female house guest was Corey Heverson, you know, and in my opinion, it kind of all went downhill after her, you know, and now it's almost totally dead. So, you know, you know, the femininity of it is gone. I mean, you can't, women can't do what the men do, period. Right. Now, what were you seeing? Like, were female bodybuilders moving to Gold's Venice the same way the guys were coming out for the dream and everything like that? Or was that not as... A few were, not as many, of course. But yeah, there were a few that came to, you know, but some, you know, beautiful women who then basically dropped it and then just became trainers or, you know, were part of the whole LA scene and didn't, you know, Monica Brandt or, you know, I can, a whole list of women that were gorgeous that, you know, I don't, don't think wanted to abuse their bodies the way the women's bodybuilding was, was going. Right. And they parlayed into other things once they had like some, some, you know, networking done and everything like that. Yeah. That makes sense. What, what, what year did you sell Gold's? 2004. So, it's funny, I remember the first time I went to Gold's was in 96. I stopped in, I was on my way somewhere else and I go, I'm going to stop in LA for a few days and go to Gold's Venice. Of course. And the first person I saw at Gold's Venice that I talked to, I went over to Preacher Curl Machine and this other guy came over to it to use it at the same time and he had a hood up. And I go, oh, you know, you can, you can have it. And he goes, ah, work in with me, bro. And he gets down and starts doing a set. And then I'm like, oh, that's Rowdy, Rowdy Piper. Oh. And I worked out, I did biceps on the Preacher with Rowdy, Rowdy Piper. I was 19 and I'm first time in Gold's Venice and I'm doing biceps with Rowdy, Rowdy Piper. And then after the workout was over, I see him at the front door and he goes, hey, I'm going down to the firehouse. Just walk down with me. I'll show you where it is. So I walked down to the firehouse with Rowdy, Rowdy. It was like the craziest thing as a kid. But that was just the first day at Gold's. You know what I mean? It's like an only at Gold's Venice kind of story. And only at Gold's Venice will that happen. And, you know, you just, you were, it was just such a crazy place to be for a guy like me in the late 90s. That's what people, you know, don't quite understand because you didn't want to miss anything. So, you know, this again, there's no social media. So people would go to the gym, maybe work out in the morning like you. They would go to the firehouse. They would come back and just hang out. Come back and just do cardio for no reason. Yeah. Yeah. We just go back and sit on the bike at night and realize who we missed during the day. Well, Scott, I, when we finally brought bikes into the gym, I said, well, this is a boring activity. So we put it on top of the restrooms in the first room and then the maintenance shed. So you could be on your bike and look at what was going on in the floor below. It's a perfect idea. It keeps you so entertained just to just be able to look down at everybody. I just want to point out something real quick. Yeah. We have our cardio at, at, at our gym. We have it up on the second level. It looks out over the gym. Yeah. I'm not, I wasn't aware that you were the first guy to do that. Pioneered that. Yeah. And that's why we do it because we've been to Gold's Venice and we're like, man, it's so cool. It's up high. It overlooks the gym. Yeah. Yeah. So that was you. Yeah. Well, Mensah brothers were riding their bikes on the beach and that they believed in that activity. And I said, well, you ought to bring that inside. And I had, I had opened my gym in San Francisco where it rains and it's hilly. And I had put actually swim, a squirrel cage bikes in there, you know, 350 bucks a piece. So when we, you know, Pete, Tim and I put bikes into Venice, I said, well, let's put them on top of the, people can look down and be entertained. Eventually, you know, we put them in the fourth room with a big TV in front of it. And this is again, before there was, you know, somebody trademarked cardio theater. So I can't use that, but it was bikes in front of TV. And then of course, now the, now, you know, it's gone to, you know, individual television or monitors on the bike. And now just people just put their phone on the bike or whatever. So it is coming again. Yeah. Go ahead. Mike. Yeah. Yeah. Go ahead. Sorry. I didn't want to interrupt you. So, so you can see how cardio has progressed. From, you know, basically a simple bike to a device that is sort of, you know, helps you be entertained to, to basically now it's just your phone and the bike or whatever. Right. The treadmill. So it is, again, it's part of that evolution. So the bike's up high and then the TVs in front of the bikes and all that stuff came out of Gold's Venice. Yeah. Yeah. It was just something I never thought of. Yeah. I'm sorry. I was jumping in there. I just got really excited because I was like, oh yeah, you would have known the Mensers. Yeah. And I, I, you know, a big fan of Mike Menser and his story is so fascinating. He did things so much different than Arnold and a lot of politics there. And he became really kind of a, such a character himself. And it was so unfortunate the way things ended for him, but he had some pretty cool years in there, you know, and I'm just curious to know what, like your interactions were like with him and how you, I actually, I talked to him a lot. He was, he was very interesting to talk to and he was a great member. Yeah. I think sadly what happened with him, this is back when I, you know, people were smoking a lot of pot and I think he got some marijuana that was laced with some PCP and he, it caused him to go crazy at one point and get arrested and kind of downhill from there. And, uh, tragically when his brother Ray found him dead, he killed himself. Yeah. So it was a double, but yeah, it was, uh, again, bad drugs. Um, you know, people, and I say this in my book and I don't, I say, I honestly can't, I don't know anyone who, who died because of steroids. Right. It's always some, when I, when you start digging, it's always something else. Right. Yeah. You know, it's just, uh, you know, people, and even, even, you know, I just saw on the feed this morning that someone said they identified Scott Milne as a bodybuilder who died before 50 because of steroids. Scott left my home. He couldn't stand the traffic in LA. He went back to Canada, got hit on, uh, on a train crossing in a car. He died from that eventually. Not, not steroids. He was amazing. So, yeah, I mean, you, you. You, you've always got to, you know, don't, um, if anything, I mean, every time I, I, I meet a bodybuilder like Frank McGrath has been in some horrific accidents and the doctors always say, oh, if you hadn't been so big, you'd be dead. I mean, how many times have bodybuilders heard that? So actually the steroids, um, save their lives. And, you know, I, I, one of the things I'm proudest of is when the TV show 2020 or whatever it was, I wanted to do an expose on, on creatine. I said, you know, that it caused wrestling deaths that year in America. I said, no, that, that that's a hero. That's. I said that, that caused athletes to actually have more fluid in them and probably prevent them from dying. And they ultimately did an expose on the wrestling deaths due to people, you know, wearing the rubber suits and having to lose too much weight. And because of that TV show, the NCAA changed the rules for four or five years where you could be, you know, four to six pounds overweight and still make weight. So, you know, wrestling deaths. And it's something I write about in my book because most American bodybuilders wrestled in high school or play football and they had to make weight that, that makes for it's, but it's sense of growth. So I encourage any parent that's got a kid in high school, not to have their kid drop weight for wrestling, but in fact, to go up and, and, but, but dropping weight creates the, you know, the perfect proportions, a longer torso, bigger, thicker legs. So you'll, you'll find, you'll find the majority of, of, uh, American bodybuilders, uh, were, were wrestled in school, high school, great school. Um, especially back then it was, it was a lot more common. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. What about like, uh, Arnold, Arnold and Lou? Cause you, you, those guys were still all around too. When you were, you know, running goals. Well, can you, do you, can you have any thoughts or any stories? Well, actually, Arnold, Arnold was very loyal to Joe gold. Okay. So, so he, he didn't train at, at, at, at gold's gym at, you know, he would come by occasionally to, to see people, but no, he was very loyal. I respect that. So, um, I would see him socially at, at his restaurant in Venice, you know, in drostanolone called Shotzi's. Shotzi's. Yeah. Yeah. And, and Lou, Lou would go with between both gyms. Okay. But I write about Lou in my book because he disappointed so many of my house guests. He was a big jerk. He would, you know, he was, he was their hero, you know, and, and again, you know, you, I would often ask people when they came into the gym, I said, you know, why did you start in bodybuilding? What, you know, some people would say Arnold or Lou, um, the ultimate warrior. Most would say, uh, you know, a wiener magazine, um, the cover inspired them. But, you know, so all these people at my house who, who were fans of Lou, they would meet him in the gym and then Lou would want, you know, 20 bucks for a photo, you know, just, um, you know, he wasn't. Back then that's like 50 bucks. Right. Well, he was just being a jerk. He was, um, you know, he, and, you know, he's, I think to this day, he's still a big jerk. No kidding. I've heard those stories. I've heard that. It's rubbing people the wrong way. Yeah. They're all true. That's the difference between Lou and Arnold. Arnold knows when he, when he goes out his door in the morning on his bike to the gym, he owes it to his fans to be a nice guy. Yeah. I mean, he, he has to give back to this day. I've seen it. He still rides his bike. At least when last time I was there, it's been five, seven years now. I would bribe my Catholic house guests. I'd say, if you, if you go to mass with me this morning and Sunday at nine 30 at St. Monica's in St. Santa Monica, I'll introduce you to Arnold. And I did. And, and, and Arnold would stay on the, would stand on the steps, you know, you know, talking to these house guests of mine. And I could see Maria and the kids off to the side kind of, you know, you know, being bored to tears or wishing we were all over. Being patient. Yeah. But, but, you know, just Arnold, you know, tell, telling somebody, you look fantastic. You know, that could change. Do a front double. All the arms. That could, that could change their life. You know, don't just know that simple phrase from him. So, and he's still doing it. I mean, he, Gold's Gym, I think is only in Venice because of him right now, because, you know, Google's, Google owns the building. It's trying to make that whole area a campus. Yeah. So Arnold has basically said, you know, you can't touch Gold's Gym, let, you know, keep them in place. Got it recognized as like a landmark, right? Historical landmark or something like that? Well, there's the second biggest tourist attraction in LA County is Venice Beach. And I, I believe we are part of that. People go down and see the crazy. Oh yeah. And, you know, we get my, my last home was right on Venice Beach. So it, it all gave, you know, we, we helped give it the color. We were, we cleaned up the neighborhood. It's a colorful place. Yeah. But when I moved to Jim back with, you know, Pete and Tim back in 81, Venice had the highest murder rate of any zip code in America. No kidding. It was encryption. So you helped clean it up kind of. We, we, we cleaned it up. Yeah. I heard it had been rough in the past. I don't know about you, but I mean, yeah. When I would call the police for help or something, they would always say, you can't you handle it? You know, like. Cause this goes to Jim Venice. You can take care of yourself down there. Can't you? Yeah. Ron, have you ever had a, a nude streaker male or female go through your gym? Have you had that? No, I'm short on nude streakers, but I'm not surprised that you have a nude streaker story. So, yeah, we, we had, you know, people that decided to, you know, bear it all. Uh, and then, uh, when we, when we moved down there, uh, you know, some of the members caught, uh, somebody breaking into one of the cars, you know, back then people were stealing block punk radios. And, um, um, so I called the police because they caught him and they said, the police said, can't you take care of him? And I told the guys to take care of it. And we never had a problem after that. Yeah. Yeah. I was, I was going to ask you if you had some interesting problems. Like you never had anybody armed robbery the place or anything like that. I mean, you know, actually none of, none of the gyms, I don't know of any gold's gym that, that was robbed. Um, and, uh, Victor Richard shot off a gun in my gym in Northridge and the bullet lodged in the cash register. That's, that's the most violent. And he, he wonders why, you know, he was banned from the gym. That's a good reason. Was he mad or did he just accidentally, was it a desk pop? No, he was, he was upset. No, he was upset. He, Oh, what do you know? He, he thinks I have it out for him. I could care less, but he was actually banned from three gyms in which I was an owner. None of the managers knew, knew what the other had done. Yeah. He, he was, he was just a big jerk. Oh, wow. No kidding. You can't, you can't fire a gun off in the gym. Yeah. That's, that's frowned. I think it's frowned upon. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Even here in Detroit. Yeah. Even did they shoot everywhere. They shoot everywhere there. I wanted to ask you, what about the weeders? What was your relationship with Joe and Ben? Like, you know, like I, I'm not sure. I've never really. Ben, Ben, I never really cared for. So we didn't have much of a relationship. But Joe, I saw quite often. And that's when he, when he pulled, it's in my book, but when he pulled the, the, our ads from the magazine, I thought, well, I should get to know him. So I called him up and I introduced myself. And when he found out I was an architect, he said, you know, can you help me? So I, I, I went to his home, which was fortunately at the time, very near where I was working for an architectural firm in LA. So we formed this relationship over the years where I, I would send him people. I mean, I, I remember taking, I called him up. I sent him photographs of Lee Priest at FedEx. You know, next day or two days later, we were having lunch with Joe. Frank McGrath, you know, Dennis Newman, Mike Francis. So I took, I took all these people to meet Joe and, you know, cause he would, he would not come down to Venice. You know, Venice was kind of an acquired taste. You, you know, you have to, you have to be Venetian. And Joe, Joe lived in a wealthy suburb of LA and his office was in the Valley. So for him to go to Venice was kind of a big trip. So I, I became a link and, but yeah, I, I spent a lot of time at his home or in his studio and he had an eye. I watched him, some of his covers are just, you know, you can appreciate this. He would spend, I think he'd hire these top photographers. I think one of them just died, famous fashion photographer. I think he spent, I want to say like 36,000 for the day doing photo, doing cover shots. Wow. Just, you know, beautiful, you know, work. Sikulsky was his name. Okay. But it was, it's in my book, I think, but it's some, you know, staggering amount of money he would pay to get these images. And the covers were, were works of art. Yeah. All of Joe's magazine covers were, there was something about them. Everyone looked amazing. The lifestyle was captured. It was like this mythical dream life that was on every cover. I remember buying, you know, flex and I'd buy muscle and fitness sometimes because muscle and fitness was also like, had the fitness in it. But if it had like some good pictures, I'd get it. You know, it's such a crazy era. Actually, my, my house guests love muscle mag and I, I knew Bob Kennedy well. And I, I, I, I would, I would tell Joe, you've got to have more, you know, human interest in it like Bob had. So. Right. But yeah, we were friends with all, you know, and the photographers, they all had their unique style. So I, I didn't really have favorites. You know, I could tell Chris Lund photo, you know, cause he shot, you know, or Perbinelle shot in black and white. And it was, you know, so it was, it was a great time. And those, those were the images. We, Weeders magazines were in 36 different languages, uh, two in India, two, two language. And we, we now have, uh, 137 Gold's gyms in India. No kidding. I've heard that India has blown up for bodybuilding. So that makes sense. There's like a thousand domestic supplement brands there. Isn't there really? Wow. Hey, I've got some questions related to like the present day, because I'm, I'm really curious to know, uh, if you had to pick based off of the bodybuilders you see today, would you vote for classic or open? Do you have a preference there? Well, I, I, I don't like, uh, what I see with most of the open. I like the classic look. Um, you know, I'm very much impressed with this Spanish bodybuilder, uh, Jose, um, uh, Munoz, I think his last name is, uh, and then the other, the other Spanish bodybuilder, Juan, uh, Pradelez who just came in third in Japan. Both those guys have beautiful physiques. Um, and I think again, uh, you know, just since again, I'm an architect, I've taped a lot. I'm always interested in the height and weight. So let me just tell you where the, where bodybuilding world is at. Nick Walker is five foot seven inches. He weighed, I think 155 on stage. Okay. Dallas McCarver, who I knew well, I really got him into bodybuilding. He was exactly six feet tall. He turned pro weighing 255. So he, here is five inch difference, but the same weight, you know, that, that to me, that's not going to work. Dallas had a, a much better look, more, more athletic, you know, at the lower weight. I mean, or proportionally. So, I mean, Nick is incredible, but it's just, it's, I think the general public doesn't like that look and it's not, not athletic. Maybe it's not healthy. I don't know. What do you think about gym culture today? And I, cause I feel like it's evolved so much and with social media and Ron, you see it, right. There's constantly, you know, we have, uh, it's changed. I would say, uh, exponentially in the last 10 years. What's, what's your take on it? Well, I think in my book, I write about the music. I think the difference between then and now was people, people now are, are in their own world. They've got, you know, ears, ears, something in their ear. And, you know, back in the day, I would, the first thing I had piece of equipment I would buy would be a great stereo system. And so everybody is immersed in that world, that music. Um, and I would change the, the, the music during the day, depending on, you know, the time of day, but the music was key. And I think that's missing now. So, uh, I love that. You know, we went from Walkman to, you know, Spotify and it just, we lost all that. People are in their own little world and not, you know, it just, and the gyms are typical. I, Ron, I don't know what your gym looks like now, but, uh, yeah, I mean, they were, the gyms are black and just, you know, even more restrictive in terms of creating their own little space. Hmm. Then Venice was white, you know, and well lit and, you know, comparatively and just people were. Oh, lighting's important. Yeah. You gotta be well lit. Everyone's gotta look good. You want everyone to look good with a pump, you know? Yeah. Yeah. I wonder if one of the reasons why they're, this is the, all the gyms I see, all the new gyms are black. I know why I, I, I know where that comes from. Um, the first gym I ever saw that was black was Rob Bailey's gym, his private gym. And I said, Oh, this is interesting. And he goes, yeah, cause all of our equipment is different colors. So it all pops because none of his equipment matched. Right. He was all one that, you know, white leg press, red hack, green chest press. Cause he was, it was just a private gym. So he just bought whatever they wanted. Right. Well, the problem, most of the gyms, most of the gyms though have black equipment that are black. So it's black. There's that. Yeah. Yeah. The style that, well, they say in modern society, color is sort of like the, uh, everyone right now is sort of decolored. Everything is not another thing that I've read. Like if you go into like a new library, it'll all be like gray and dark gray, like kind of Yeah. We were just talking about that. Even McDonald's. Like if you look at McDonald's today compared to 10 years ago, it's like all these companies, they're pulling the color out and we're just kind of turning into a black and white world. I think McDonald's has done an incredible job of, of, of, of modernizing their, their facilities so that no matter how, what age you're at, you are, you, you're not embarrassed to be in a McDonald's. They hired. Yeah. They have totally rebranded. They have, they have hired a very good French designer to come in and, and, you know, with this, with, with their look, if you compare them to the other chains, it's night and day. I mean, they're brilliant at what they've done. But I, I wondered if the whole black look is, isn't kind of like the, the nightclub scene where people, you're not really, you're, you're not putting as much light on them. So that doesn't matter so much how they look. And then of course, because remember nightclubs, when you time to close, you just turn the lights on and everybody looks at each other and Oh my God, it's time to go. Um, what, what, what do you think is, uh, the future of, you know, I mean, there's, it takes all kinds of gyms, you know, you got your fancy sort of executive, you know, Equinox style towel service, valet parking style, high-end Malibu gyms, and then you've got your, you know, 5,000 square foot private studio style. Where do you think the commercial gym model is heading? Well, it's definitely split into a number of different, um, uh, groups. Uh, in, in my book, I think identify five different areas. So in other words, back, back in the day with gold gym, but for the first 20 years, I would say, um, the 26,000 square foot gold gym Venice model worked everywhere. But then about, uh, about the, uh, you know, turn of the century, uh, you know, there began to be this splitting up where you had, if I were franchising now, I would allow gold gym owners to basically have at least three gyms in a market under different names. One would be a high end like Equinox or, uh, life fitness. Um, and then in the middle, then there'd be a middle range, probably a gold gym, someone like, uh, a crunch. And then the lower end would be a, like a planet fitness, a low cost, high volume gym. So, but I see the big gyms are in trouble because the millennials aren't going back in the same number. So the smaller, more personalized gyms make more sense. So it's, it really, to me is more back to the future right now. Um, you know, uh, and I think for, for the smaller gyms or any gym right now, getting into the longevity center component makes sense. The, uh, the pads and the, you know, uh, ice plunge and, and, uh, infrared therapy and all of that. So, so, uh, Ron, if you have the room, I would, I would try and get, I don't know, I don't know the health and the codes in Canada, but I would try and get in a blood testing component with, with offering those other ancillary services, uh, in your gym. Your mic's off, Ron. Oh, uh, like a longevity tech, you know, like clinic and upstairs or something like that. Yeah. That'd be cool. Yeah. Yeah. Well, you know, it was kind of one stop, one stop shopping where one of your members could get a cold plunge and infrared therapy, whatever, you know, pay, pay, pay per use. Maybe they would, you know, do blood testing. I don't know. Again, I don't know. Canada's, uh, how, right. Yeah. There's a lot. Yeah. Yeah. But anyway, no, I think that's for American gyms. I think it makes a great deal of sense to, to begin off, to become more than just a gym. You're, you're basically your lifestyle. You're, you're interested in longevity. And I've seen it now working in some gyms. Yeah. Well, I think with us, you know, like what we try to do, I mean, we got to, we're not doing the commercial gym thing where you're going to have 5,000 inactive members. You know what I mean? So we got to sell everyone a hoodie and we got the meals at the gym, grab a meal out of the cooler, you know, grab a, you know, grab a tub of protein. You know, you got to be able to service your members that way. And, um, you know, the commercial model of, you know, I, I'm not sure how some of these gyms, like I know what their leases are. I'm like, Holy smokes. You know, some of these big downtown crazy gyms. And I, are you seeing, um, do you think there's gonna be less cardio? I'm, I'm being told by some of the reps I've talked to that the, the bigger gyms, they're ordering less cardio and more strength. They're shrinking their cardio floor a little. I hear, I hear that. I don't quite understand it. Right. Okay. Yeah. I, I just thought maybe more people were doing like alternative cardio, you know, like outdoor cardio or these, you don't see it. No, I, I don't, uh, I don't, I don't, I don't, I hear that, but I don't, I don't really kind of, I don't believe it. Oh, okay. Yeah. It might swing back to, you never know. Yeah. Do you think there's still, is there room in, in bodybuilding today to have a Mecca, like a one place, the way the magic was with golds? I don't think so. No, it's, uh, I mean, Venice still has some magic, but, um, you know, the days, those days have gone. Yeah. Yeah. People don't have to be anywhere anymore. They can be anywhere and be connected. Yeah. Yeah. I know what you mean. What, what, uh, when people talk about golds Venice in, in 50 years, what do you hope they remember? That's a great question. I, I, I hope, uh, we, they remember that we, along with Joe Weider and Arnold changed the culture regarding fitness and working out. Yeah. Yeah. For the world. yeah yeah yeah i mean i just i just went to the uh the grand opening of the second gold's gym in milan italy and you know it was it was actually like walking into any uh corporate-owned gold's gym in america uh you know the same you you'd swear you were you were you know you wouldn't even know you were in italy which does that mean that this whole trip is a write-off then is that what i'm hearing i i can't go anywhere without it being written off it's smart man smart master yeah um what what part of the legacy are you the most proud of you know the gym the house guests the effect on bodybuilding the help you gave guys like jay and john what what do you think you're the most proud of i change lives i i i say in my book i got to play god with a small g but i i did i did change lives uh i hope for the better maybe not always but i tried i did my part you gave a lot of people a lot of opportunities and whatever they were able to do with them yeah you can only control so much yeah yeah that's amazing ed well i i i really thank you for your time it's been a blast talking to you i always love when you when i'm at the booth and i'm busy and and i look up and i'm like ed connors you're you're a a very pleasant 15 minute break every expo i go to and i look forward to seeing you again my friend well ron you are you are you are the one constant in this bodybuilding world i appreciate that it's always reassuring to see you and and uh you know reminisce and i'm glad you've seen it you know what you have but um yeah yeah and i've always appreciated you and have you you have approached everyone that you've dealt with and thank you you know and i wanted i'm really glad you're on because i want people to listen to our show to understand yeah um there was a there was a um a puppet master behind a lot of what went on in those early days and it was ed connors and he was how did they get connecting the dots and yeah how do you get the book you download it buy it off amazon the book is on amazon you have to look under my name okay but it's it's i i also narrated it so if you're if you're into audiobooks it's uh it's on there too nice and it's uh yeah i'm the guy in the middle wearing the coat and tie which i wore every day um yeah yeah when you say you narrated it you mean did you read it yourself is that you're not gonna hear your voice okay hell yeah i like that yeah actually i i was leery of doing it but having now listened to my voice which isn't great today versus a professional read i think it i think it was a good idea because it's just it's somehow different and what's amazing you'll appreciate this i chuckle a few times even you can imagine how many times i've i've i've i've i've read what i'm reading or have tried to say it uh speak it and yet it still it still seems funny to me or it still brings a smile to my face so that was that was that was really neat yeah i just put on my facebook page a picture of me recording the book with uh two of my former partners jack and leslie weatherwood she does professional voice so it was it was her it was her editing kind of like euro scott i mean i i now appreciate what an editor can do to a voice oh yeah that's cool i've heard it's a lot of work to to read and i've heard that they recommend like if you write a book they say like you shouldn't do your own read no so it's a lot of work you've been through it it's incredible that's incredible well go listen to it you know can you get a sample there on amazon you can hear it listen to a sample so yeah let me know what you think i'm proud of it i'm okay it was a wonderful new experience and i guess i was 70 i was 77 when i did that how old are you now you're 70 you turned 80 didn't you yeah yeah 80 man i can't believe how sharp you are uh just you know i i was lucky enough to meet you a few years ago at feebo i'm i'm so grateful for this opportunity to sit down and actually get to have this conversation with you but honestly man like you're you're you're a sharp cat man it's it's great to hear the all the stories and and to hear how much you actually still like man i have a heart let me put it this way i have a hard time remembering what i did last week you know let alone uh you know what happened back 20 years ago so that's well i think some of that taking care of yourself uh yeah stuff rubbed off on ed because uh right you told me once you said i don't eat much i keep my calories low i walk every day i get the remember you told me that and i was like yeah he's he's doing his part so yeah thanks ed thank you very much for your time enjoy italy i'm sure you've got lots of other stuff to do while you're there and uh oh yeah i guess i'm i'm thinking i'll see you in feebo that's probably when i'll see you next so yeah come and come and find the booth man and i'll put the link in the description down below to the book anybody who wants to check it out absolutely download the book okay get off amazon thanks ed so um remember everybody ed connor's legend in the bodybuilding world um everything would be different without you ed everything you know we might not be sitting here like the chain reaction of not having a gold's venice not having that culture not having that whole like i can't imagine how many lives that would transform while i was in europe i went to see some of the contests over here and i couldn't help but feel that you know had we never started the npc ifb that that that might not exist like that no yeah yeah and one thing's for sure joe gold wouldn't have had anybody playing music in their gyms from what i understand right so it'd be very quiet in your gym today that's the that's the big thing in my my book again this is the role of fate in our lives if if joe gold had owned gold's gym when pumping iron was made he never would have allowed it so yeah okay that that movie was i can't i can't say enough about how how how you know george butler and charles gaines changed the whole world because of that one movie yeah no kidding i love that movie i still love it that was the thing that turned me on to bodybuilding and it was decades after the movie had come out yeah you know i saw it on vhs and i was like so again building center right it was fate yeah so that that changed everything one movie yeah thanks ed we appreciate you i'll let you go my friend yeah good good night to you good night from it we're gonna do the like share subscribe thing all that run yeah yeah remember to like share subscribe comment and bring the bell there you go and remember i am mutant.com big ron and dusty are your codes ed connor's all the way from italy thank you you