 p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p always be supplied. What's up, guys? Welcome back to Think Big Bodybuilding Media. I'm Scott McNally, and I have a special introduction for our guest today, so you'll have to bear with me, Rick. It's going to go something like this. Today, we are joined by guest who is one of the most respected minds in the world of performance enhancement and bodybuilding. He has been called the steroid lawyer for good reason, defending high-profile cases, shaping policy, and helping athletes, coaches, and companies navigate the complex legal world around PEDs, supplements, and research chems. Please welcome attorney, author of Legal Muscle, and longtime friend of the industry and friend of mine and my wife's Victoria, Rick Collins. Thanks for being here, man. Hey, brother. How are you? Thanks for having me on. It is my pleasure, man. We've done this talk before. This is something we did a few years back, but here's the deal, man. There has been some major crackdown on peptide companies, research chems. We're seeing companies that are getting shut down. I don't know whether it's the, I'm hearing the FBI over here. I'm hearing the FDA over here, and I thought to myself, man, who could give us a better perspective than our lawyer friend, friend of the industry, Rick Collins. So my first question to you is, why is the government subtly cracking down on research chems and peptides? Yeah. Well, so, well, first, to give a little bit of a background on it, why are these things sold for research purposes? What was the purpose in selling it for research and not as something else? And the reason is that the Food and Drug Administration considers anything that's intended to affect the structure or function of the body to be a drug. If it's not a food, it's a drug. So this market evolved, Scott, like 20 years ago, maybe even a little bit longer, close to maybe 25 years ago. Sure. Where somebody came up with the great marketing idea that if you sell chemicals not for human use. Never. Under circumstances that, you know, probably indicate who else would be buying it, but that you've sort of loopholed yourself out of the drug classification and made it just a chemical for research. And research isn't really defined in the law. And so there have been prosecutions for this sort of, you know, introduction of misbranded drugs into the marketplace for close to 20 years. And I've handled probably more of them than any other lawyer. But you're right. There is sort of an intensification or a prioritization by government now that probably exceeds anything in the past. Okay. So what specific laws are we talking about that are being, you know, people are being accused of being violated of at this time? Yeah. So if you're a website or owner of a website and you're selling chemicals for quote unquote research purposes, not for human use, and you're marketing them and, and selling them and shipping them to people who arguably would have no other use for them, but to use it to affect the structure or function of their bodies, that would be classified as introducing a misbranded or unapproved drug into interstate commerce. And by calling a research chemical and not what it's really intended for, the FDA considers that fraud on the agency. In other words, the agency has a right, you know, by law to oversee drug transactions. Yeah. The transaction of you at CVS or, or, or anywhere that you're getting a drug from a pharmacy. So by sort of taking it out of that, you're defrauding the FDA out of its regulatory authority to oversee a drug transaction. So that's a federal felony. It's got a three year maximum imprisonment possibility. But there's also other charges that the government, you know, federal government can, can pile stuff on, right? So they could consider mail fraud because if you're putting the packages in the mail and then want for something that's defrauding the FDA, well, then there's a mail fraud charge. And if you're taking money and you're depositing it into your bank account, or you're paying your mortgage or your car loan with it, well, what is that? That's money laundering, right? So there's a whole host of other charges that the government can creatively tack on. And one of the things that, that I would do as a defense lawyer is to try to navigate away from those more serious charges. And I have a good, I have very good precedent having handled so many of these cases. I kind of, I'm always a few steps ahead hopefully of anybody else. And so I can kind of see where things are going and direct them in a direction that's better for my clients. Okay. So with everything, so like you said, these sites have been around since I got into bodybuilding. Basically, I remember, gosh, it had to be before 2010. There was a big crackdown that they were coming after sites that were selling Viagra. It was still name brand. And I think in our opinions, at least as the bodybuilding world, we felt like, you know what, big pharma doesn't want to let go of this money. Like what's the deal? Is there any recent changes with legislation or has this enforcement picked up maybe due to like the, the, the popularity of the GLP one meds that, I mean, cause those things are so hot. I see, you know, legitimate pharmacy companies just making a mint off of that. Then all of the little pop-up shops where you can go in and get a shot for, you know, X amount of dollars per week, or then those same people may be going to a research site to get the same product. Is that what this is all about? Yeah. I think you hit the nail on the head. You know, if you go back 20 years ago, it was before peptides were, were really even out. And so the research chemical sites were mostly peddling tamoxifen, clomiphene, arimidex, you know, all of the ancillary drugs that bodybuilders use was what was being sold for research purposes, clonbuterol. And so from a pharmacy interest, big pharma really didn't care about any of those things because, nor did the medical community, because doctors and pharmacies couldn't actually sell any of those products to the people who were using them. You know, that was why they were being marketed. If you went to your doctor and you said, listen, I, you know, I'm looking for an anti-estrogen, the doctor would say, well, you know, why do you need that? Or, you know, tamoxifen is for breast cancer for women. You're a man, what are you talking about? And so because there wasn't really a legitimate source of supply, that's kind of why those, those drugs became available as research chemicals. But, but the FDA didn't really care. Nobody's really dying. You know, in my opinion, nobody was dying from tamoxifen or clomiphene, right? So there wasn't really any urgency of public health. And there wasn't any incentive for big pharma to urge FDA to crack down on it because they weren't really losing any money. That obviously starts to change when you get into GLP-1s. And I think that is, you hit the nail on the head. I think that has had a major effect on the FDA's priorities. I am sure that if you're a big pharmaceutical company who's put a billion dollars into developing, testing, and ultimately marketing a particular patented drug, and now there are people who are selling that exact ingredient, having invested zero money into it, and just getting it as a chemical from China, you're not happy, right? And you're expressing that to FDA, and you're hounding FDA to do something. As you probably know, there have been a number of letters that have been sent out from the big pharmaceutical companies on the GLP-1s to websites that are selling them saying, basically, you're violating our patents, you're violating the law. And it was clear that that kind of intense effort to sort of crack down on the market by the pharmaceutical industry has spilled over to FDA priorities. I see. Okay. And hey, let me ask you too, just a side question here. If a company were to receive one of those letters, and then they said, okay, we comply, we are no longer going to sell semaglutide, for instance, or whatever, would that be it? Most likely, would they just back off? It's a tough thing, right? I would say, immediately call me or a lawyer who you trust. Yeah. Because by saying, well, no longer sell, you're now admitting that you were selling. Potentially, you're walking yourself into another problem. So you really need to get good legal advice. If you get a letter from any government agency or big pharmaceutical company regarding threats, threats, which they'll often threaten to sue, or allegations that you're in some way violating the law, that's for lawyers to kind of guide you through. Understood. Understood. And are they mainly from what you've seen? Because I know that you work deeply in this world. You know, you've alluded on various other platforms, I've heard you say, like, and you can't name names, but these are people, you know, you're working with companies that are doing these exact things. Are they mainly going after the people who are selling the stuff, the websites? Or have you seen instances of them going after the end user, the person who's using the website and buying the products? I haven't seen a single instance of somebody who was a personal user of non-controlled substances being targeted. Because the crime, again, is typically introducing the adulterated or misbranded or unapproved drug into interstate commerce, meaning into, you know, the hands of other people. So if you're just receiving it, I mean, there's maybe some lame argument that you're in some conspiracy with the seller. I've never seen that really floated as a viable prosecution theory in these cases. So you're right. It's really just the companies. And, you know, I'm getting, Scott, I'm getting a lot of calls. And I'm helping everybody that I can, you know, so if you're a pharmacy, a website that's, you know, calling itself for research purposes and not for human use, under circumstances where the government could say, that's bogus, I'm probably on your speed dial. Yeah. Or should be. Should be. Certainly should be if you're smart. Yeah. Hey, guys, thanks for watching. Leave me comments and let me know what you think of this one. I use all your comments to determine what our future content will look like. And if you are enjoying the show, please hit the like button. It won't change anything in your algorithm, but it will help to push us out so that more people can see us. Like I said, I'd love to keep growing this thing as much as we can. If you are new here, let me encourage you to subscribe and hit the bell. We have several bodybuilding podcasts that come out each week, and we'd love to have you along for all of them. Yeah. Okay. Okay. So it sounds like the GLP-1s are a big thing. Can you tell us any red flags, though, beside that, that would potentially make these places a target? So also SARMs seem to be a bit of an issue now. So I have a number of SARMs cases that are still pending. SARMs and GLP-1s, I guess, as the chemicals. I have a number of chemicals. But, you know, it's funny. I do get a lot of calls from companies in this market who have not yet been in trouble who are looking to call me and say, all right, what are my risks, Rick? Give me a risk assessment. What are the red flags? What can I do and not do? And what I always say is, look, you know, if you're selling chemicals for research purposes only, and that's kind of a fraud because you know that that's not what's going on. And you're shipping it to, let's say, private mailboxes and college dorms and, you know, to people who are requesting it from email addresses like bigandjacked at gmail.com. And you're not shipping it or getting any inquiries from legitimate research organizations, hospitals, anybody who would be really involved in, quote, unquote, research. Well, then you have an issue. And I kind of go through and I consult with a lot of these people. And I basically tell them, look, not how to do it. No lawyer can tell you how to commit a crime and get away with it or how to do it better and avoid being arrested. That would be part of the conspiracy. Except for Saul. Maybe Saul could do that. And that's why I fight for you, Albuquerque. Maybe Saul could. Things didn't work out well for him at the very end for Jimmy, right? But what I can do in these consultations, and I do it a lot, is I kind of go through, okay, Rick, what have you seen in companies that have been targeted? What were they doing? What did the government's theory look like? What were the facts that the government pointed out to support their theory that this was just a ruse? And so I can go through that methodically with people. And while I tell them, look, if what you're doing is criminal and the government may view it that way, my advice would be not to do it, right? I mean, that's what any lawyer would do. But if you're asking me what are my risks, I can go through that risk assessment. And then you can make up your own mind of what you want to do. And if you decide to stop, and I do have some folks who maybe just got into selling research chemicals, and they didn't really realize that there was any criminal component possibly attached to it. And they'll say to me, gee, Rick, I got a wife. I got kids. Even if you're telling me it's a 5% chance of being targeted and charged with a federal felony, I'm not taking that risk. I'm getting out. I'm going to sell off and get out. And then I have other people who say, listen, I appreciate everything you've told me. I understand there's risk. I'm an entrepreneurial, risk-taking guy. No risk, no reward. And I'm going to continue. But now at least I fully understand what the risks are. And if they come in with a search warrant to take up my stock or if I get a letter from the FDA or a subpoena, you're going to be the first person I call. And I say, okay, let's leave it at that. Yeah, that makes total sense. And it makes sense, too, how it would be a case-by-case basis based off of how each of these operations look, how their marketing is. And even then what – because what I've seen, too, is there's a variety of types of research sites. Some of them will offer a much larger variety, and some of those things do get a little bit more gray area than others are kind of keeping it real simple and trying to be, I guess, closer to be like by the book. I wanted to ask you, too, what about people like influencers and coaches that may be promoting these sites? Yeah. I mean, in theory, certainly there's an argument that everybody who agrees to do something that's not legal is involved in an agreement or a, quote, unquote, conspiracy to do that. So is there a level of risk to that? Sure there is. Anybody who is involved in an affiliate program or something like that has some level of risk. Have I seen that up until this point? And, again, past results don't guarantee future outcomes, as every lawyer always says. But I haven't seen that at this point. But in theory, there is a risk. You know, just going back when you mentioned sort of the things that we've seen and there's different marketing strategies in different sites. Back in the day, I'm talking 15, 20 years ago when print was still, you know, existing, there were websites that were marketing in MD, you know, in Muscle Development Magazine and other magazines where they'd have an ad saying research chemicals and a picture of like this huge jacked, veiny bodybuilder. And, you know, back then, that was part of the government's evidence that it was a ruse because they would say, look, you know, you're selling these, you're pretending these are for research, but you're marketing it in a bodybuilding magazine. What research organizations are going to Muscle Development Magazine and seeing a picture of a jacked guy and saying, okay, that's where we want to get our chemicals for our, you know, phase two clinical trial of this, you know, research compound. Yeah. Like you said, being email, you know, they're sending it out to a guy whose email is like jacked, you know, 364 muscle, you know, it's email. Right. Now, do you think that this is just like a larger overall pattern in U.S. drug policy or is this just a temporary focus in your opinion based off of the history that you've seen? I think that the market, you know, the priorities of the government are determined by market factors and by pressures from private industry. You know, there are those who believe, and there's something to be said for it, that the relationship between the Food and Drug Administration and private industry and the pharmaceutical industry is maybe closer than it ought to be. And that there's some amount of, you know, undue influence that the pharmaceutical industry has on a government regulating agency. So it does seem like when big pharma's profits are threatened, in this case by the GLP issues, that FDA is responding. So I would think that as long as there's that continued pressure from big pharma, FDA will probably continue its prioritization of some of these, you know, websites that are being looked at. But when that pressure comes off, probably the enforcement will reduce. Makes sense to me. Yeah, that makes total sense. You know, I've gotten messages, emails. I just see people in general commenting on social media asking, is this the end of research chems and peptides available through research sites? You know, what's your take on it? Do you think that the move that they're currently making is going to just wipe this out? Will this no longer be a thing? I think where there's demand, there will always be supply. The supply changes. I mean, look at the history of anabolics, right? So back in the 80s, they were just kind of super vitamins. You know, you'd go to your local pharmacist and, you know, on the down low, he'd give you some, you know, testosterone or DECA or whatever for, you know, just sort of out the back door of the pharmacy. And, you know, when there was a crackdown in 1990 on the, you know, the legal availability of anabolic steroids and they were put into a controlled substance status, well, then you suddenly had, you know, a shift in, there was still a demand. There's always going to be a certain percentage of the human genome that wants to get jacked. And no matter what you do, I think that demand will beget a supply. So we saw, well, then it became Mexican veterinary drugs that were available. Then it was European products that were available. Then it was raws from China being shipped here. You know, as the government tried different ways of interdiction of the market, the market would adapt. And there's always going to be entrepreneurial, you know, non-risk averse marketers who will perceive a demand and will say, OK, how are we going to make this available? Maybe it'll go more underground. Maybe there'll be some new way of, you know, getting them into people's hands. But I think as long as there's demand, there'll be supply. OK. Hey, you mentioned the which is kind of the new thing that's been happening with anabolics. And I'm going a little off script here with just this one question. And maybe this is outside of your wheelhouse. But you did mention, you know, raws from China. There has been an interesting development over the past few months where there has been a reduction in availability of raws. We're seeing that in the form especially of a couple of certain compounds, primabolin being the main one, that all of a sudden there's a major disruption. We've tried. Dave and I talked to some of the companies over there to try to get something from them. I've talked to guys on the source boards to try to get to the bottom of what's really going on with that. Just curious, have you heard anything or do you have a theory on that? Right. So I do because of what I do. I interact a lot with DEA and FDA agents at the at the enforcement level. You know, we have AI think we have a good relationship in many cases, but they're not going to be open to, you know, to telling me about their priorities or strategies. It's just what I can kind of glean from the conversations that I have. The sense that I have is that they're very aware of China as a source of a lot of the raws and are trying to come up with ways to put pressure on these companies not to sell to the U.S. or not to ship to the U.S. And I sense that just in in conversations that come up. They're very much interested in, you know, more than they've ever been before in in the specifics of the Chinese sources. You know, historically, there was very little interest because of the idea that, you know, it's very hard to go outside U.S. jurisdiction and go after bad actors, let's say, who are located outside the U.S. There's jurisdictional limitations. If you remember many years ago, there was a, you know, a concerted effort or coordination between the U.S. and Thailand. And they went after, you know, a steroid, big British dragon in Thailand. So but those were rare. Right. You know, you didn't see that a lot. So, yeah, Operation, I guess, Operation Raw Deal, Raw Deal and Gear Grinder. Yeah. We remember that back in the day. But but they're few and far between. But I sense that there's this interest in trying to shut down that source in China, whether they'll successfully be able to do it beyond the limits of what they've done so far. Yeah. That's an open question. I think you'd need cooperation from China to do it. And in today's political environment, I'm not sure that's very likely. But that was going to be my next question. Like, I don't know. Would China ever cooperate with us on that? Right. Right. So, you know, there'd have to be some sort of quid pro quo, you know, offered for that. But like I said before, you know, even if China were to cooperate and even if there was to be a shutting down of most of the Chinese supply sites, what do you think would happen? If there's still a demand, the supply will just move. It'll become 100 percent. It'll become India. It'll become somewhere else. There will be a market shift to supply the demand of, you know, U.S. bodybuilders and, you know, fitness enthusiasts who want some extra juice for their training. Absolutely. Yeah, that's fascinating. Thank you for your insight. Like I said, that wasn't something that I had planned to ask. But in the back of my head, I had been wondering if we could sneak that one in. It was a topic I really wanted to get your insight on. How has your work as a lawyer, and we're close to wrapping here, guys, but I've got a couple more. How has your work as a lawyer evolved as the PED scene has evolved? Yeah, so I would say that as the demand continues and the supply shifts, you know, my work shifts. So it's those who get targeted are often, you know, the ones who call me. I've probably handled more steroid cases over my career than certainly any other lawyer, I think, on the planet. And I still have steroid cases. But I probably at this point have more SARMs and research chemical cases pending right now on my docket than I have steroid cases, interestingly. So that, you know, that may change back at some point down the road. But right now, that's the way it is. I've had a number of cases involving clinics and, you know, online pharmacies. And, you know, there's a variety. There's those that are legitimate online, you know, clinics for TRT. And then there are the ones where, you know, you call up a phone number and you get, you know, a guy with 21 inch arms who says, OK, and Anivar and it'll be on your way to your house tomorrow. And some, you know, senile physician is just signing scripts, you know, all day long. So I've seen those two and I've been involved in some of the prosecutions of those cases. OK, wow. Yeah, that that could probably be a whole other podcast on its own. I bet that whole topic. There's a lot we could talk about. I'd love to at some point, man. I've got a couple rapid fire fun questions and we're going to get Rick on his feet. Just like we'll get to see him like real life. This is Rick on his feet, which I'm sure he used to all the time. All right. What's more intimidating? Presenting in the courtroom or stepping on a bodybuilding stage? I think it's a similar skill set. You know, don't forget, Scott, I was an actor. How many times do you hit a most muscular in the courtroom? You know, I'll say I'll sort of flip it around and I'll say that being a bodybuilder probably makes you more intimidating in a court of law. I remember years ago I represented a pro bodybuilder. Some may remember the case. I won't say his name now, but it was two pro bodybuilders who were charged in a case in Iowa. And I was standing between the two of them. It's the only time that I felt tiny. These were both really big IFBB pros. And I'm like the guy who doesn't work out at all. I look like a child. By comparison. By comparison. But you're not a small guy. And I represented Dave Palumbo. I remember walking next to Dave in the airports and it was like, you know, oh, my God. But yes, for the normal population, I'm sort of, you know, at the far end of the spectrum. Two thirty, you know, at five ten. So so I do think there's a certain intimidating quality to that. Yeah. And but I always try to downplay that. I always play against it. I always try to be the most humble, nice, non-threatening, non-intimidating guy. Because I think there's there's I think Jordan Peterson said, you know, there's you know, it's not sort of being threatening overtly. It's that you have you just visually viscerally people can see just by the way you're constructed that you have the potential for mayhem. And, you know, and so I think on some, you know, playing against that really works. But but yeah, I've competed as a bodybuilder. It isn't, you know, look, you know, you have to have a certain a certain mindset to be able to, you know, get up in your underwear in front of, you know, a packed house of people and show yourself, you know, nearly naked. But it's also intimidating to be in a courtroom, certainly where if you're in a hearing or a trial, the other side wants you to lose. You know, they're going to do everything possible to beat you. So I think the competitive if you're a competitive person by nature and you're you like the idea of mixing it up and and showing your skill set, whatever it is, I think you're going to do well in both. I like that. I like that. I've got one more fun question. Have you ever had to explain clembuterol to a judge? Yes, actually. Yeah. So I had a case a number of years ago in a police department trial room where a the cop was at risk of losing his job, his pension, his job for violating the anti steroid and growth hormone policy of the department. Wow. No steroids, no growth hormone right there in black and white. Yeah. He was accused, though, of testing positive for clembuterol. OK. And so I explained to the my adversary, the prosecutor, you know, this is a beta to agonist. You know, this is a bronchodilator that's used in other countries. We have albuterol here, but in some countries, clembuterol is is used. So this is this is not appropriate. He shouldn't lose his job. He shouldn't he shouldn't be here. This case he brought. And she said, well, we have a, you know, a zero tolerance policy. I said, but it's zero tolerance for steroids and growth hormone. Yes. But this is neither steroids nor growth hormone. She goes, but we have zero tolerance. So it was this circular, insane conversation that I ultimately had to try the case. I called witnesses. I had experts. They brought an expert. Ultimately, the part of the explanation to the judge was what clonbuterol is and what it's not. Yeah. That it's neither steroid nor growth hormone. And ultimately he was acquitted and, you know, got his job back. So that was a nice win. And statistically, those cases in in police department trial rooms usually go with the department. So it was a nice little that was a sweet victory. OK, one last one, actually. And this is maybe going to be the toughest question of the day, because, Rick, you are a wordsmith. You're a man who explains things better than I have may possibly ever met. Anybody can explain things. Great detail. But how would you how can I put this? Legal advice in one word. I'd say it's tough for one word. I know. That's the challenge. Can I give you two? OK, we can have two. Shut up. Just keep your mouth closed. Keep your mouth shut. You know, that that is, you know, what I tell everybody is the fourth, fifth and sixth amendments of the U.S. Constitution give you certain rights. Yeah. And the Fifth Amendment gives you the right to shut your mouth. Yeah. Yeah. Don't have to say anything. And that is what so many people in the, you know, when they're faced with a law enforcement agent, the intimidation factor, they will just roll over and either admit everything which is going to be used against you in a court of law. Everything that you say. There's few things that are as powerful evidence against you as the words that come out of your own mouth. I did it. I did this. I did you. You know, did you order this package? Well, yes, I did. OK, well, that takes away any doubt about that. The problem, though, in federal world is that if you lie to the agents, that is a crime in and of itself. That's what Martha Stewart went to prison for. So if you say, no, I didn't order this or no, I've never used steroids or no, I don't know anything about this. Well, if you lie to federal agents in the course of their questioning and doing their duty, that becomes what's called a 1001 violation. It's a section of federal law that makes it a crime to actually lie. So you're stupid to admit it. You're stupid to deny it falsely. Just shut up. All you need to do is say, you know what, I'd love to answer your questions, cooperate in every way. But my lawyer has asked that I call him first and that he do the talking. Give me your card. Give me your information. And I'll have him call you right away and say nothing more. Once you invoke that Sixth Amendment privilege, which is the Sixth Amendment right to counsel, all questioning by law must stop. So they can't continue to question you. And you've just potentially limited the evidence against you in a very good way that I can use later when I come into the case. Amazing. Thank you, Rick. I can't tell you how much I appreciate just all the insight that I've gotten from you over the years and the insight that I've gained from you in this conversation. I'm confident that our community as a whole is going to benefit from having heard this. And I wanted to ask you, too, if there is anybody who does need representation, what is the best way for them to reach out to you to find out more information? I'm very easy to find. Go to RickCollins.com. My phone number is there. All my information is there. And I'm pretty active, like you are, on Instagram. So RickCollinsESQ, please follow me. I try to post stuff of interest to the community. So I appreciate all the follows, all the likes on social media, especially Instagram. And I do appreciate you having me on the show. I love talking about this stuff. I do what I can to help the bodybuilding community every day. And so thank you. And say hi to Victoria for me. I certainly will. And, guys, I'll put Rick's information down below. You have to go follow him because you have to hear his recent story as a skydiver. He had, I can't believe, the incredible accident and the incredible luck that you had in that accident. You almost weren't with us. So, oh, my God. We talked a little bit about it before the show. Obviously, it's off topic here. But, you guys, you have to go over and hear Rick's story because, dude, that was nothing short of incredible that you're even here with us today, man. Thank you, brother. Yep. Yeah, check it out. I just posted a video yesterday. Everybody can watch it. Guys, for another episode here at Think Big Bodybuilding Media, I'm Scott McNally with Rick Collins. Thanks for watching. Oh, and by the way, if you've watched this far and you haven't subscribed, we'd love to have you along. I mean, if you enjoy this stuff, if you don't like it, that's okay. You know, still hit the like button. That'll help us. Leave us a comment. But if you enjoy what we're doing, we'd love to have you here for more, guys.