See, that's what we're talking about. I I always had to do so many pre-exhaust movements to get myself warmed up. Yeah. Where he he just starts with bench press, starts with rows, starts with the hardest [\h__\h] There we go everyone. Welcome to another episode of It's Just Bodybuilding as Reacts as says. There you go. Jumping in big. We got Jose Raymond on jumping on today with of course Scott the producer. Remember to like, share, comment, subscribe, and oh, ring the bell. Do the definitely ring the bell. Almost missed. You got to ring the bell if you're not in here. So Scott, what are we reacting to with Jose? All right, we're going to try this out. Look who that is. Oh, there we go. This is it. This is going to start a fight with someone. This is the MOC presents 2014 uh Battle for the Olympia. Oh, that's great. I think this is just a uh a trailer for it. Oh, that's great. Oh, who's that? Who's that? Is that me training with Evan? Yeah, I think so. Nope. With David? Yeah, it's just the intro thing, I think. Yeah. Oh, that was great. I could never do that damn thing. It didn't feel right. Look at you guys. What am I doing there, Chewy? Oh, Chewy. Okay, give me just a minute, guys. I think I saw that Evan workout. What's this? Oh, man. I was just telling uh I was just telling Ron about Chewy like two days ago. Jose, he sent me a video of a bunch of huskys laying outside in the snow and I'm like, "Oh, chew us to stay out there." What's up, baby? I loved it. What is this one? This is muscle development. Yeah. Yeah. Back workout part one. Evans sent to Jose Raymond. What's going on? These were great. They really were. I look forward to these coming out. Okay. And uh he was so big. Oh yeah. What's up guys? Uh Jose Raymond here. Lucky enough to uh come down to Montinari Brothers Gold and train with the ax himself, Evan Centipani. I knew this was going to be a hell of a workout. We trained sort of similar. So uh and anyone who knows Evan, he's a thinking man's bodybuilder. So um even though I've been doing this 20 years, I can always learn something. Who better than to learn from than uh Evan? So uh we had a hell of a workout. Hope you enjoy it. We're going to go eat and grow some muscles. First, I always let Evan run the workout. Whatever he wanted to do, the traps. Yeah. I'm like, "This kid's a monster. I don't get to tell him what to do." Older bars. You don't need bars. You know, they're a little bit of rust on there so they don't slide around. They're all old. He's probably about probably 20 plus years old. Not one's bent. Look at his arm. They're a little thinner. Yep. Thinner grip, dude. He was crazy. Giant stuff. Bunch of [\h__\h] Yeah. Junk. Big shiny ones. And he [\h__\h] He was in an era with everyone. That was awesome. Yeah. You know, Dennis Wolf, Froden, Dexter. Remember he beat all those guys at the Flex Bro? Yep. I was there. Yeah, he was he was one of my favorites forever. Just mainly because of who he was though. Exactly. And I could already see this is going to be like an old school workout starting with barbell rows. Oh yeah. One room about the size of this room just for legs. Evan was old school. One time we were training chest and I started on the bench with 135. He's like, "What the hell are you doing?" He He starts with 225 for a woman. I'm like, "I can't do that, dude. What the hell are you doing? Yeah, I'm like eight years older than him. Yeah. Look at that. He's got like four plates now. Yeah. I don't even remember this. No, that's amazing. That's perfect then. Yeah, it makes it reacts better if you have no idea what's about to happen. Right. Let's go. This is five weeks out from the Olympia one year. You guys are both in it, too. Yeah, he did a lot of unconventional [\h__\h] like super setting reverse hypers with deadlifts. I'll just put it down. Oh, but that felt good. I do like four or five sets of pullovers and I'll do like four or five sets of pull-ups. Nice when you start with it, right? Yeah. Feels a lot better. This is usually See, that's what we're talking about. I I always had to do so many pre-exhaust movements to get myself warmed up. Yep. Where he he just starts with bench press, starts with rows, starts with the hardest [\h__\h] I got into pre-exhausting watching one of these videos and you were talking about it. I can't even remember what body part it was, but I was like, "Oh, that makes sense. I'm going to try that." And then I started doing that in my own workouts. It was from like an MD video. Yeah. The bigger I got, the more I needed to warm up, right? But today was a nice change. Training with the I miss those days, man. Almost got the socks. I had to up my calves. He's barefoot. Yeah. Sit there in his socks. And see, there you go. Warming up with 225 on the rose. Right. I actually was able to do it. So, it uh it was good and and I was stronger throughout the exercise than maybe I I would have um normally been. Huh. Yeah. Triceps around. Yeah. He just says yes. Yeah. Recently, this one's always feather like this [\h__\h] Y is like that kind of year round. I've been like this. The same thing this one. It's even when I'm super fat. Yeah. I can't get the left one to come in. I'm trying. It's starting to get Yeah. Some little ones. It's not the same. It's funny. I love that you don't even remember this, Jose. I know. No, I don't. He's I don't even remember. They're not. It's all red now. Yeah, great separation, right? Lewis, it was I called it gold. So, it must have been a golds back then. I noticed that, too. They don't separate. Now, it's super separate more. Look at Evan's tricep. He always struck me as like the bodybuilder who looked the biggest in a t-shirt. But it takes a little more separate. That's And he's tall. Is he taller than you, Dusty? Yeah, he's taller than me. Yeah. And he's uh but he's he's a guy for sure, Scott, that when he was at his biggest you would see him in person, he was bigger than you thought and you knew he was big. You were just like, "Right, oh shit." Yep. You guys are still rowing. Come on. Five. Come on. Eight. Keep going. Yep. 10. Two more. Yep. Nice. He didn't let me stop. Yeah. I was trying to quit at 10. He's like, "Nah, what are we going to here?" We got Wait a minute. We got some pull-ups next. Next, we decided to do assisted pull-ups because we wanted to look extra [\h__\h] Evan's near 300 lb and can't really do pull-ups cuz it it looks extra hardcore. No, I don't know. I uh I I I've done I did them a few years ago uh before I did the nationals and I felt like they actually did help bring out my lats, especially lower uh like the lower insertions. Um I love that machine. I got a really good feel. You like I loved it. You know, an assisted pull-up is way different than a regular pull-up. When you do a regular pull-up, you're using everything. Here, you can actually isolate your lats. Yeah, you're trying to get your body up on a pull-up. You don't really care what does it the next day your biceps are killing you. Yeah, I like that. That's a cool machine. They got so much cool stuff in there. Oh, yeah. Is it funny to look back at these like these videos and remember the MD days and the boards and I mean yeah that was a that was a special time in life it was and that that's what I was talking about on the podcast was what's different you know we had these chat boards we had magazines that would come out and now you don't really have any of it unless people are making their own content. Yeah. Right. And I'm saying they are a lot, but there was a continuity to it where like, you know, I I can go seek out everybody that's competing in the Arnold and find their content right now. But there was something cool about seeing it all presented in that one place, you know. Yeah. Yes. And being featured there. Yeah. You know, weekly there'd be all different videos going up. Yeah. Of so and so getting ready for the Olympia, getting ready for the Arnold. And it was cool. You get an in-depth look at them with their life, you know, a day in the life. You go through their homes and and it's so many cool things to see. I think people driving that was better is you got to know the guys because now when these when when people including us, but when they're creating their own content, it's a little more picking and choosing what you want to do. Whereas like they would come in and be like, "All right, we're going to walk around your house now." you're like, "Oh, okay. That's a good point." And then you're like, "Oh, who's the dog?" And, "Oh, let's see your cars and where do you go eat?" And it really did allow you to to get to know the guys a lot better because I felt the same when I would look I mean MD was a part of life back then. Like every Sunday morning, I'd wake up and go look at every show that happened in the amateur level. go see who won the overall, ask myself if I could compete with that guy, then go look at the pros, then get on the boards, you know, see the videos they put up of these guys. I mean, it was a great time. And I and I'm glad that uh that we were there for it because, you know, you never would have thought it was going to end and and there's almost too many options now. You don't know where to look. Yeah. Yeah. Well, Andrew, I I think the one thing that I preferred back then, and I love what we have now, obviously, it's helps me pay my bills, but I love the fact that before if you were on a board and you said something stupid, it wasn't like your page where you could just start deleting people like Yeah. You just get destroyed. You didn't speak unless you knew. And if you did, you were about to have a bad day. And uh yeah, the crucifixion was was going down for your stupidity. So, yeah, you know, that was a good time. So, well, Jose, thanks for joining us for a uh another episode of Bodybuilding Reacts. Ron says, "It's great to have you on throwing back." And uh I'm glad that Scott found that last one because that was a little more Yeah, the Evan one was what I was looking for. Yeah, that was good. That was good stuff. Anything Evan is good. Yeah, the memory. So, for all you guys watching, remember to like, share, comment, subscribe, and ring the damn bell. There we go. There it is. I knew if I waited, he would do it. Yeah, there it was. Also remember, uh, Mutant, our main sponsor, I am mutant.com. Remember your codes, Big Ron or Dusty. Either of them will get you the discount, but using Dusty gets the scoop at the top of the protein. Keep that in mind every time. And until next time, it's just Bodybuilding Reacts.