 Hey everybody, welcome to it's just bodybuilding, I am your host, Ron Partlow, and I got Dusty Hanshaw, the producer, Scott McNally, remember to like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell, and ring the bell. And we don't have a guest today. We have a guest host. Yes. Yes. Yes. Evan Santopani is back. I guess your, I don't know, three or four times you've been on now, buddy. Yeah. You always bring wisdom and a fresh perspective of not just a new perspective of not just a new perspective of not just a new perspective of not just a new perspective of not just a new perspective of not just a new perspective of the podcast. not just a new perspective of not just a new perspective of not just a new perspective of not just a new perspective of not just a new perspective of not just a new perspective of not just a new perspective of not just a new perspective of not just a new perspective of not just a new perspective of not just a new perspective of not just a new perspective of not just a new perspective of not just a new perspective of not just a new perspective of not just a new perspective of not just a new perspective of not just a new perspective of not just a new perspective of not just a new perspective of not just a new perspective of not just a new perspective of not just a new perspective of not just a new perspective of not just a new perspective of not just a new perspective of not just a new perspective of not just a new perspective of not just a new perspective of not just a new perspective of not just a new perspective of not just a new perspective of not just a new perspective of not just a new perspective of not just a new perspective of not just a new perspective of not just a new perspective I got Dexter winning. Yeah, Dexter's top three. I think it's really going to be Ronnie Raquel's year. Yes, yes, yes, definitely. I sometimes envy that. I think a lot of guys enjoy that phase to a degree of whatever they do. You know, like I've heard NFL guys talk about the, you know, the first, you know, five years out of the league. They're like, oh, I didn't even watch football this Sunday. I don't even know who's winning the division. And it's like actually becomes fun for them to watch football again. In a way, they check in on it once in a while and they're like, oh, damn. How were you guys as fans? Like when you were coming up in the sport, you were watching it. Like were you guys like really good fans? Like you paid for magazine subscriptions. Did you buy DVDs? Did you go to shows? Did you do all that? Because I was a horrible fan. Are you? Well, the paying for stuff, I think I, you know, read as many free magazines as I could. You always had, you know, your buddy that always bought the Flex. So maybe you just bought the muscle mag and then you like, you know, save yourself a few bucks, swap, swap magazines out. But yeah, I worked in DNC. Oh yeah. You had them all for free. I would just read the whole rack. I was the type of guy. Like I ordered, you know, Dorian's VHS out of the back of muscle mag on the original send out of blood and guts. And I like used to, you'll go into the store when they'd get the new VHS tapes and get the new Cutler, you know, cut above and all that stuff. I used to go buy the battle for the Olympia tapes and then eventually DVDs, you know, but I go back to the VHS tapes. Yeah. I was, I was a pretty good fan that way. I think. Yeah. See, I was just profiting on the old stuff. And the funny thing is I didn't mean for any of it. Like I just like borrowed it from somebody and then just never gave it back. You probably have my Ronnie Coleman. Unbelievable. Yes, he does. I have that. I loaned it to someone. I never got it back. I have no idea where it went. It was one of my contributions to someone else's bodybuilding experience. That's probably me. Yeah. Yeah. No. And I also, uh, um, look at, look at Evan guys. Let's just take a moment and look at Evan. No brands. Nothing. What about that? Just wearing a shirt, just going through his day, not advertising a product. I, I, it's just amazing to me. It's like, you know, it's like you escaped the matrix. Yeah. I don't know. You know, it's funny because, and not that there's anything wrong with it, but like, you know, like guy sister, you know, he gets the nickname NASCAR, which is hilarious. Right. Cause he's got, he's got all these brands that he's affiliated with, which to be fair is, is incredible because, Oh, I know to keep like, to keep going. It's look at the duration. of his career and what he's been able to generate, which, so it's, it's amazing. And then like, there's the total opposite end of the spectrum, which I guess, I guess I'm probably on and I don't know, but there's nicely, there's a freedom that comes with that. Right. Yeah. Yeah. I know. That's the, you know, absurdity that, that can happen down there because that's the limitation of every home gym, you know, right there. You know, you give me 2000 square feet, I will fill 2000 square feet. You give me 10,000. I'm going to fill 10,000. Um, you know, I do, you know what I do? It's really bad. I'll come across a piece and all my friends benefit from this. Cause I'll come across something that I can't resist that I want, but I have no room for it. And I'll be like, yo, I've got this piece. I'm going to put it in your gym, your garage. You can use it for free. Just, just don't forget that it's mine. So it's like, it's like I have shit stored in all these places. Yeah. That's amazing. You're like one of those rich guys that like, you know, he buys like Kurt Cobain's guitar at an auction for 4 million, but he doesn't just want to, he wants people to see it. So then he gives it to a museum and they put it on display, but it's got the name tag underneath. Like I own this, right? Still says Evan on it. I just have no room. So it's like, Hey, I'm like using their place as storage, but then they're also benefiting from it. It's just, but one day I'm going to come calling for it. Just, just don't, don't forget that it's mine. This is a 1993 flex fitness row. I want the world to benefit from this. Yeah. Yeah. It'll be in Johnny's, Johnny's gym. One day, one day you just need to get like a warehouse space or something. And then you just pull it all together. Call in, call in all the favors. Say, Hey guys, I need you to deliver that piece of equipment you've been holding on to. And boom, you'll be, you'll be set to go. Well, I was told half, I was told all the nebulous stuff on the floor at super gym was yours. Is that, was that actually true? Or was it just a leg press? Tom Eilerman, I saw just passed away recently. Yes. Oh, no kidding. And he was the creator of, of a lot of the real popular machines, right? Yeah. Yeah. Nebula was his. Yeah. And at the very end, so this was 2007 after I just turned pro nebula was kind of at the tail end of its, its run. And, um, I had spoken to Tom and I said, Hey, um, you know, I want to pick up. It was the, at the time it was the leg press, the hack squat, the glute ham raise. Um, there were a couple other random pieces, but those were the most important ones. And, uh, he cut me a good deal. I mean, dude, back then I think maybe I paid 2000 for that leg press, which nowadays when you look at what stuff goes for, it's crazy. Um, but yeah, it was all black on black. I ordered it directly from Tom. It was all brand new, got sent right to the gym. And, uh, yeah. So it's hanging out there for you still when you get your spot. yeah, you know, we, we, we kind of went at like, we, I think we went half and half on it. So, you know, it's one of those things where if I was to say, Hey, you know, I really let me buy you out of this one piece. Would they do it? I don't know. They probably would, you know, like there's an old Nautilus. Yeah. Yeah. The, you know, first generation Nautilus pull over the big fucker that you kind of climb up in. I, I picked it up from a guy locally for 300 bucks and he even let me borrow his van. And I, I loved it into the gym in pieces on a Sunday afternoon and put it up, you know, assembled it. And, you know, look, I, I, I'm not necessarily even crazy about it, but if I did want it someday, you know, hopefully they'd be willing to park with it. That's all. Right. Yeah. Right. So when was the last time you've actually been in a public gym to train? Dude, it's really bad at this point. I stopped in there. It had been so long since I had been there. I stopped in there. Oh, a couple months ago, but dude, it's been like a couple of years, which I never thought this would be the case. I mean, that was my, my home and home away from home. I freaking lived at that place. And it's, I still tell everybody, man, it's the greatest gym. Um, but I just, it was, I've gotten so accustomed to just walking downstairs at 5am, getting it done and getting on with the day. And that's just, that's hard to be. But then what I do is I don't go to the gym in forever. I go, I see everybody I haven't seen in a long time. And I can't even blame them because I like talking just as much as the next guy. And then I'm there for three hours. Then when it's all said and done, I'm like, I'm not going back. This never happens in my gym. Yeah. Do you get, do you get like, you get the red carpet there? Do like, you know, at this point, how many members don't know who you are? Yeah. I don't even know. I mean, I still got a giant picture. You're still like eight feet tall on the wall in there. Right. Yeah. So, but yeah, I mean, that's the funny thing too. There's probably a whole new generation. They don't even know who the hell I am. Why is everyone going up to that guy and saying hi? Yeah. Hey, let me ask you guys something. Nebula equipment. What, what was so special about it? Because you see companies that are trying to make reproductions of it now. Like, like you said, Evan, you see that stuff on marketplace or something and people are wanting a ton of money for it. There's so much lore around it. What would you say are that like the absolute best Nebula pieces, Evan? And what do you guys think is so special about that equipment overall? I mean, honestly, they're most known for their leg press. It just became, you know, I think a lot of it was probably seeing Ronnie on it. And to be totally honest, it just went wrong. Like, Like, 裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面裡面 of it. It's not like, you know, Bodymasters, there was a lot of that stuff out there. They were in business for a long time on a large scale. Nebula was just never that big of a company. It was not boutique, but a little bit more so. So I think a lot of it was just supply and demand, and there just wasn't a ton of it. So people want it. It had a mysterious marketing, like, you know, there was a back in like the late 80s. It was, you know, it was marketing was totally different now. Like we just we can't even remember what it was like back then before phones and shit. But there was like this, it wasn't marketed towards the fitness, you know, that's when everything was going fitness, fitness, fitness. And then Nebula was like, like, fitness clubs would look at it and kind of be scared of it. Because you know, the leg press horn was like three feet long. And it was like, obviously made to be heavy duty. I think that was one of the things and like Evan said, you know, it wasn't like it was made 20 times better than everything else. It was just it was made really strong. And I think one of the problems with Nebula, Evan might have something to say about this, but it was one of the equipment manufacturers that went under because their stuff was actually over engineered to a degree. Like, does a leg press need to weigh 800 pounds empty? Right. To be a decent leg press in a commercial gym. And so you know, you're paying a lot for shipping, you're paying a lot. It's you know what I mean? Like everything was heavy and big and overbuilt. And I think that that's why a lot of those kind of hardcore brands eventually, you know, disappeared, like is the health clubs just didn't want to wait, do we order this leg press? Or do we order this leg press? And they got the one they needed not the, you know, not this overbuilt one that Ronnie Coleman could put 25 plates on a side, you know? Yeah. So and granted, I don't know all the particulars of it because it's not my, you know, my industry. But, you know, I think at some point, you know, whether it was flex fitness, or I carry in or body masters, you know, they all got outshot, not outshined, but kind of rushed to the side. Because once hammer strength started partnering with life fitness, and now it's like, okay, buy the cardio equipment, and we're going to throw in all this hammer strength stuff. You know, gyms were getting these big package deals, who's gonna shell out the money? And by that time, all the hammer strength stuff's made in China anyways. So you know, when you look at the body master stuff, which I'm really partial to, to built like a brick shithouse, it was made here in the US. It was definitely a lot of it was overkill. How are you going to compete with hammer strength and life fitness as a duo? And I don't know, you know, nowadays, I'm not even up on you know, I don't know, I see hoist and I don't even know what they're using in commercial gyms. I mean, a lot of it's just total fucking cheese. It's shit. Um, to be just to be frank about it. And you know, you're seeing all these brands too, that they're kind of mimicking the look of some of the classic stuff. But yeah, a lot of it just doesn't hold up. You know, I don't know if it's, it's just the mechanicals that they're using the bearings. There's a lot that goes into building a proper piece of equipment. Yeah. And a lot of this stuff looks cool. And you know, everybody paints their gym black inside and they get this black equipment and it looks cool. And a lot of it's just fucking garbage. Yep. The, the, um, the third party manufacturing thing is what people, most people don't understand, you know, like, you know, if, if, if you wanted to start a equipment company, you could start one just you yourself from your laptop in your house. You just contact a original manufacturer in China. You get someone on the phone, you tell them what the, what you want. They send you blueprints of, of things they can make you and you like pick the item you want. So like, that's why we're seeing so many copies of like Nautilus explode stuff. Yeah. The old Nautilus explode chest press, you see that exact same design with those handles and the same linkage and the same it's, you can just tell it's a Nautilus explode, but you check the box. Like, do you want round tubing or square tubing? Do you want the top end bearings, medium bearings, cheap bearings? So you, it's just plug and play your design. So you could have five different manufacturers that are just one guy like Evan from a laptop having equipment sent out of China. Their stuff looks the same. One guy's got the better bearings. One guy's got the cheaper bearings. That's why the price is different. And so that's, what's going on. It's a la carte equipment manufacturing right now from China. So a lot of these brands are like, who's this brand, brand new brand. That's what those are. So it's interesting. And like, everything's made in China now, like the robots are taken over. Like, you know, I mean, everything you look at the welds and every weld is just absolutely perfect. Like, you know, these are all, this is like, you know, the Terminator's welding all this stuff for us now, but it depends on the quality control in the factory. So I'll be fair. You know, listen, like my father's in the machinery business since I was little. So, you know, if I look at a casting or, you know, certain parts, like I can tell if something's a piece of shit or, or not. And to be fair, made in China, what that meant 20 years ago versus what it means now, as much as it pains me to admit it, I know a lot of it has gotten a lot better. However, still, when you're talking about, say that the quality of steel and things like that, look, you, you can look up on it on YouTube, you know, there's the, the pressure test anvils and things like that. And, you know, they'll, they'll take an anvil from Russia. They'll take one from the U S one from England, one from China, one from India and watch the way some of them just fucking turned to nothing under pressure. So I've seen that exact video, by the way, literally I've seen an exact video. Yeah. So people tend to think, well, steel is steel, iron is iron. No, it's not. So all of that shit matters. And, you know, just, just based on experience, you know, that if you get a piece of fill in the blank, a piece of equipment, a piece of machinery, an automobile, and it comes from the U S it comes from Germany. It comes from Japan. It's going to be pretty, it's going to be pretty decent. All of it stuff from China could really go either way. Um, and, and do I think that a lot of these gym owners have any clue what the hell they're doing in that regard? Most of them, no, probably not. Right. And there's a difference to like, when it comes to, you know, where your money's going to go as a gym owner, you know, obviously stuff that's handmade in America, you, you wonder, you know, a lot of people look at prices are like, why? And they say, well, yeah, that's the difference is like the American manufacturing. Right. So, but there's certain things like the way I think is, let's say I have X amount of money and I need five pieces. Well, the leg press is probably going to take the most abuse. So let's make sure that is able to handle dumb shit. But the preacher curl machine with the weight stack on it, probably easier to get a pretty good preacher curl. Like it's not going to take the leg press type of abuse from a guy like Evan, you know, like, I mean, I'll probably tell you like most of the preacher curls he used, he didn't even use a whole stack on them. You know what I mean? So there's a stuff like that where the gym owner is a lot more safe to like, you know, save his money a little bit and get a good preacher curl. He doesn't need to get the handmade, you know, USA steel 300 pound stack preacher curl. No one's even going to care. But the leg press, there is a, there's a difference maker. So that's kind of a thing now that I think is something gym owners have to think about. I recently saw a video and I'm assuming it was funded. It was put together by Rogue because they tested their bars. And I guess Nike entered the barbell market. They decided they're going to put out barbells and they put these in, they had another brand. They didn't name it. I'm going to assume it was the Texas. There were some Texas bars, which I'm, I'm very partial to. And they put them through how many cycles? No, they simulated it being dropped and loaded and dropped. And I mean, you know, in the Rogue bars and the Texas bars went through like, you know, 60,000, 80,000 cycles before they snapped. And the Nike ones snapped after like 600 or something. And the point being, well, first of all, number one, Nike shouldn't be, that's not their business. You should stay in your lane. But beyond that, so to anybody who's buying something, buy something from someone who that's what they do. Right. Texas, Texas, you know, buddy caps, they make, they make barbells. That's all they've ever done. That's all they do. You know, you're safe buying a bar from them. You know, to Rogue's credit, I'm sure their bars are solid as well. Very, very good. But, you know, people mistake the difference between price and cost or value. And, you know, look, you know, you know,  If a Texas power bar cost 350 bucks, which to be honest, that's a joke, that's a joke, that's like nothing to buy a bar that's gonna outlive you, what is a night, what could a night, what could a night, what could a night bar cost 150? 150? It's not free, it still costs money, and it's a total piece of shit. If you're gonna have to replace it at some point, well, now you're already up to the cost of the power bar, and the reality is the whole time you were using it, the Texas power bar would have been better to use. So you didn't even get the enjoyment of the power bar, and the reality is the whole time you were using it, the Texas power bar would have been better to use. So you didn't even get the enjoyment of the equipment of the equipment, and you ended up the equipment, and you ended up paying more for it. Yeah, yeah, it's also interesting, like right now we're setting up another location. So I'm talking to reps and like, you know, pricing out equipment, trying to get the best prices. And, you know, you talk to, because, you know, most of these reps, they're, these guys, they're dealing with the vast majority of facilities, that's their business. So they have like, you know, all the hammer stuff, you got the life fitness, you can get eight, you can get anything. And then when it comes to stuff like barbells, they'll, the reps will even say to me, oh, you don't want the bars we have, just get, get your own bar. Like they know that those are commercial bars. And those are the reason they carry those bars is for 99% of the gyms. And they know our gym is not one of them. So they just say right off the bat, oh, we don't have bars for you. Like they know, right? They don't even bother. They don't even bother carrying those bars, because it would be such a small, you know, like every 50th gym would want them. So they just don't even carry them. They just tell you guys got your own bars, figure it out, you know, But those bars, they all end up bent. Yeah, soggy as shit. Horrible. I remember seeing a guy squat seven plates at a corporate gold's gym. And I remember the bar was just fucking hanging. And I was like, that's like a lot like, because you know, you should use a pretty stiff bar for heavy squats. Yeah. And he squatted and he was he did he got a single with seven plates. It was amazing. I racked it and the bar never went back to shape. It was just like he just ruined the bar with one. You know, one rep, he ruined the bar. I was like, Oh, my God. Just just two nights ago, a client slash friend of mine, sent me a link to a website. It was a page of like selectorized or plate loaded equipment. I don't remember the brand. I've never heard of it. But they're running some type of Black Friday sale. He's like, Oh, what do you think of this stuff? And obviously, I couldn't really comment on it. I said, I can't speak to it. I've never used it. But if I had to guess, you know, it's, it's really like prosumer stuff. The thing you've got to keep in mind with that stuff. And even with some of this commercial stuff that you know, like you were speaking about earlier. Um, that's, you know, made in China. People got to keep in mind, sure, you're going to pay a lesser upfront cost for it. But once you buy it, you better be willing to die with it. Because pretty much nobody wants that shit once it's used. True. True. It's a good point. Once you buy it, the price, the, the, the, the, listen, I understand if you're, you're, you're assembling a whole gym, the ability to go out and handpick every piece. Okay. That's a daunting task. Maybe that's not realistic. But for most homeowners, if you're putting together a basement gym, I would implore most people to use marketplace or use what's out there to try to get used commercial stuff at the right price. Because if you do, you're going to buy it. You may be able to use it for 10 years and sell it for what you paid for it. You're not taking any price. You're not taking any hit on it whatsoever. Versus you go buy some new prosumer stuff. And the minute you buy it, it's worth almost nothing. Yeah. Yeah. I got to stop you for a sec. What's the, you're using the term prosumer instead of consumer. What's your definition there? It's actually the first time I've heard it. Because it's really residential shit that they market as being like commercial, but it's not. Ah, okay. So like prosumer, like, okay, it's better than a bullflex, but it's not, it's not commercial equipment as we would know it. Like hoist makes a line of stuff like that. It's definitely like home quality. It's better than what the weeder sets used to be, but it's not the quality of hammer strength, you know? Yeah. Yeah. And another thing too is it's like good enough for one guy to train on in his garage for 10 years. It probably won't break. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And look, to be fair. Okay. If you get on a, you know, a machine, you use it for, look, even if you're leg pressing, you're not leg pressing for more than a half an hour. Right. A week. A week. Yeah. So yeah, I mean, most stuff is probably going to hold up just fine, but you've got to realize that once you buy it, it's worth almost nothing. No, no, no. You can't get rid of it. I mean, the stuff now, I mean, the, the gym I train on, Evan, the kid, uh, he flips equipment. Like that's how he kept the business going when he was getting started. The front room was just always equipment. He'd buy and sell and buy and sell. But I mean, the prices are crazy now. They're mental. I mean, he has an H squad in our gym, which I think is a completely useless piece of equipment. I always thought those were so fucking stupid. Yeah. They're dumb. You can get over 20 K for one of those. Now I sold one. I got rid of one. I got rid of one when we opened our gym. Cause it came with the old shit. And I was like, get this H squad out of here. And I sold it to a dude for two grand. We used to laugh at those things. Yeah. Imagine smoke, assuming you could, which you can't that machine, but imagine smoking your legs and having to get down. I mean, I get done with a set of leg press. I got to sit there for a minute. I'm like, I'm not climbing down something. Well, there's, there's a certain that machine. Okay. Yeah. Oh yeah. That machine. There's a thing. There's a thing that happens in bodybuilding and, or in the fitness world. And it's, it happens like cyclically and the hammer had it with some of those pieces. And I see it now with kind of some of the stuff that's trendy on Instagram is just unnecessarily overly mechanical equipment. Yeah. Like seven pivot points. I remember I used this one machine at FIBO and I counted seven pivot points on each side of the chest press. Hmm. So there's 14 to me as a gym owner, I see 14 points of failure. Right. Right. Right. Cause then I also have like this Atlantis plate loaded press at my gym that has one pivot on each side. It's like a hammer machine and it's the best chest press we have. Everyone loves it. And then I look at one that has seven aside and I'm just like, what are we doing? Like, is this for, is this cause it ever people love them action on Instagram? Like, Oh, I'll get all the moving parts. And I don't know what, what Evan thinks of that, but that's a thing. Well, dude, let's be honest. I don't need to be doing a pull down and then the seat lifts up. Oh yeah. Yeah. The hoist stuff. What the fuck is the point of that? Yeah. Yeah. But your body weight becomes part of the load. You know, you know, and not to sound like, um, thick headed or closed off or old fashioned or any of those things, but a lot of the time it can go back to when people say, what do you think they'll name some peptide I've never heard of? I go, I don't know, but I know that Ronnie Coleman didn't use it. And Lee Haney didn't use it. And Doreen Yates didn't use it. And Arnold Arnold Schwarzenegger didn't use it. So is it necessary for you? Probably not. Yeah. Right. You know, which doesn't mean you wouldn't benefit from it. I'd be totally fair. Right. It doesn't mean that it's not of any benefit, but. It's, it's, it's as my coworker says, this is his phrase and I love it. Putting the emphasis on the wrong syllables. Oh, that is great. Right. I love that. On the wrong syllables. But it's so true, right? It's like people focus on the wrong shit, which again, it's not to say that it's not stuff that matters, but you need to focus on the shit. That's going to get you 95% of the way, not the stuff that's going to move the needle 5%. Yeah. The stepping over dollars to pick up pennies. That's the other. Yeah. You know what I mean? Yeah. Yeah. No, I totally get that. I'm stealing that by the way. Yeah. That's the greatest. It's the greatest. I use it all the time. So have you found with your home gym, and this is something we've talked about on the show before, that now that you have limited equipment, and I know you're not professional bodybuilding anymore, but you're still holding a great physique. Do you find in hindsight that you didn't need a lot of the equipment you used to use? Well, that's a great question, and it's funny because I started off in my basement, you know, 14, 15. I used to ride my bike to my uncle's house and use his barbell and dumbbells. Then I got my own, and, you know, you have to really, because you don't have any machines, well, first you have to master all the basics, the bench, the squat, you know, the deadlift, and the barbell row, and the shoulder press, and all that stuff, and you need to get really good at it. And then, you know, then you become a little bit more inventive with different angles and rep schemes and so on and so forth. So by the time I joined a commercial gym, I looked around really at a lot of people who, because they had the luxury of resorting to machines, had a lot of really poor training habits. They sucked on all the compound basic movements. And throughout my career, just because, you know, it was just, that was the thing to do, I stuck with all. I deadlifted twice a week. I squatted every week. I never did I not flat bench. I just flat benched yesterday. Okay. Um,  So I never felt that it was really necessary. And the only thing I wish I had now is maybe just like a dedicated, like a low row. I kind of modified my cable stack so that I could pull a bench up to it and use it that way. Right, right, right. Oh yeah. We don't really need much. Really don't. People need, you know, look, if you're putting together a gym, you're putting together a gym, you're putting together a gym, you've got the, the equipment has to be a, there has to be a hierarchy. And the barbells, you know, meaning the bars themselves, the plates, the dumbbells, the dumbbells, and the benches, that all has to come first. You know, and then you need racks, you need good racks. And that's, if that's all you had, you're already 85% of the way there. Right. You know, you don't technically, technically, you don't need anything else. In so many gyms, how many do they fuck up just that most crucial fundamental stuff? They got these shitty bars. The benches are stupid. They got these plates, the Chinese plates, they don't made up nice and tight. Uh, or they're, you know, they're supposed to be 45 pounds and one weighs this one weighs that. Uh, I can't tell you how many gyms I go to and just the basics are shitty. That drives me crazy. Um, I hate that. Yeah. I have with you on that. Cause that's a, um, I coached a lot of guys now that have, you know, they've kind of, they started on their own. They've been in it for a few years and you ask them to send like their training routine. And then you're like, all right, throw that out. And video a set of barbell rows and then they send it. And you realize they don't, they don't know how to activate their back at all. And I had a conversation with Scott with Skip about this. And he, he argued, well, don't you think it's easier to be on a machine that forces you to target the muscle? You're shooting for. And I've always thought the opposite end of the spectrum. If you can't make a bar feel where it's supposed to feel, then you can't really utilize that machine properly anyways. And at the end of the day, I always ended up back to anytime I got away from the basics and then went back, I always asked why I left them. My body changed quick. I was smoked from head to toe. You know, I just, I do think that, you know, my general guideline to clients is, do the stuff you don't want to do. It's a lot harder to load up a bar that's sitting on the floor in a row than it is to put it on a machine and pull the handle. So do the hard one. Amen. Just, just, just this morning, I, um, I still do some coaching on the side and, uh, a girl signed up. I don't want to work with a ton of females, but a girl signed up. She's actually a friend of mine's daughter. And she said, you know, I need to do training regimen because, you know, I'm just not getting sore and bubble on. She's young, but I really, what I need to tell her is, okay, you probably should come by for a workout because I already know you don't know how to train. And like, you know, I'm going to be honest, my training regimen didn't change that much in the last 20 years. And people think like every six weeks you need like a new routine. And it's like, no, you just don't know how to train. You know, it's not, it's not, yes, it's what you're doing, but it's really more how you're doing it. And you don't really, you don't know the how. Agreed a million. That's when you write it down on a piece of paper and you know, immediately, if you do this correctly, this workout is terrible. If you don't, it's going to seem easy. What do you, I have some questions here. How many times I've had clients where I've given them a training regimen and they've done it themselves for the last four months and they finally work their way out and they come and see me and I put them through it and they're like, well, that's not like what I've been doing. And I'm like, yeah, I know. What if I had to go the other way with you, Evan, and this for all you guys, if, if you were doing your, your bodybuilding now, your, your main, you know, competitive years right now. What modern stuff that guys are doing or emphasizing that you see on Instagram, is there anything that you, you, you think actually that would have been great. I wish we had more of that, or I would have been able to utilize that, or I would have been into that. Is there anything like that that sticks out? No, I just, I just wish I, um, I hadn't been so bent every week, you know, like, all right, I'm going to take it easy this week. And you go in there and you just, you can't help yourself. So it's like every workout was as, as heavy and as hard as humanly possible. And, you know, my, you know, I just had one hip replaced. The other one needs to be replaced. Shit gets worn out. Yeah. And I don't think that that was entirely necessary. I probably could have gotten just as good, maybe even better results if it was just tempered a little bit more. So I don't see anything new in terms of, well, you know, it's not like there's a new machine or a new exercise or a new drug or anything. I see where I'm like, well, if I had that now, no, I just, it would have just been having that same palette, um, you know, to paint with just painting differently with it. Right. Just smart, smarter with how you mix your, your, your paints. I don't think you would have known how anyways, Evan, when I was, uh, when I was working with Chris early on, we were in a prep at one point. And he said, uh, I want you to go in the gym and just, but this, this guy is outside. Can I, can I be right back? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He's probably getting a new lawnmower delivered. Yeah. He's so excited. Probably something very, very, no, it's gotta be a snowblower because it's November. Snowblower. It's coming. Yeah. I'm not, you know, I gotta read this real quick. It's something very like the neighbor dad type of behavior. So, uh, snowblowers. Or something. Dusty's correct. Black Angus 92. How old are you? That's an important part of this birthday leg day. Oh, what does he ask us? Uh, he wants a, uh, nice, slightly psychotic birthday leg day, but I need to know how old he is. Cause that's an important part of the, uh, okay. Yeah. Um, it's part of the equation. How about, yeah, you could do body weight for reps or you could try 10 sets of 10 with two minute rests and see if you survive. Just pick a weight that you think you can do. And I guarantee you'll fail. Oh, 33. You're, you're doing sets of 33 on everything today, but it needs to be, it needs to be where 25 is where a normal person would stop. And then you got to find those eight reps. Yeah. Oh God. You know, pick five movements, two for hams, three for quads. Can you do three sets of those? And you're, you're done. You're going to hit us for sure. You're squat your body weight for 33. I used to love that though, Ron. That was one of my favorite. Um, that was one of my favorite things was 10 sets of 10 with four or five and then leave squats. Oh God. How'd you do that? That's an insane, but that's a whole work. Just your 10 sets of 10. Yeah. That's one of my classes. And then he said with four Oh five and I'm like, who the fuck does that for squats? Jesus. That's the one where you would time it time in between sets. Yeah. You only get a, I think it was, what was it? 90 seconds. Oh yeah. We did 180. So yeah. So I think that's what I'm talking about. Dusty, you could make a, you people think, Oh, I need all these different leg exercises. You could squat 10 sets of 10. Like you just described. There's your workout buddy. Oh, the whole thing. Yeah. You go home. Yeah. You're done. The most I ever did 10 sets of 10 with, I did two minute rests and I did, uh, what's two and a half plates, two 65. Yeah. So I did, I did two and a half plates for 10, for 10 sets of 10 one time. And it was like, I remember realizing at the fifth set, I was like, I overshot. This is going to be, this is going to be horrible. But you still did it though. You still did it. Yeah. On my last couple of sets, I don't know if I got 10 on my last couple of sets. They were just like failure sets, but I was brutal. And then Dusty throws four Oh five at me. I'm like, fuck off. Yeah. So what I was telling you before you left, Evan was, uh, that I know you would have never succeeded on that mentality of cleaning it up because, uh, Chris told me at one point during a prep, he said, I need you to just do 70% today, like 70% intensity. And I read it and I text him back and I said, I, I don't know how to do that. How do I even measure that? And so he immediately replied, he goes, the, the only ever person that's ever answered that way was Evan. And then he goes, since you can't do that, go in and do 70% of the sets you're going to do at a hundred percent intensity. I'm like that I can do. Yeah. I was like, I don't know how to, I don't even know where that would be. Like, like, yeah. Once you get to a certain point, you come, you come to realize, yes, exercise selection matters. Form matters. But what really matters the most that's going to get you where you need to go is the intensity of it. That's kind of, that's everything. So you become programmed to focus on that. Yeah. Yeah. And they're just putting the workload on the muscle tissue. Like I break it down like that in my head. And now that I'm retired and I look at my physique in the mirror, I'm finding, I'm like, Oh, like, I mean, I was pretty good at this. I wasn't like caught up in like doing a million different movements. I had the movements I liked and believed were good. And, and I, I just think that, you know, it's very simple. You need a movement that.