Guys, welcome back to Muscle Minds with Scott Stevenson. I'm Scott McNell in all of our programming. It's brought to you by yobbcoach.com. You can get Scott's book there. If you want to get the hard cover, we've got a link below. You can get the hard cover there. And it's special edition because Scott's going to sign it for you. It's through eBay. Check that out. It's really the best deal you can get. Plus, uh you're going to also donate money to the ASPCA uh to help with animals. So, I think that's freaking cool. Uh, supplements.ca for Canadians. They have great deals that change week to week. And true nutrition.com. Use our code think over there. Highquality protein powders, every freaking basic supplement you could think of under the sun that you need like intraworkout, creatin, all of that. Great flavors. Check them out. And of course, Patreon. We've got a couple Patreon questions today. Scott, I was about to sneeze through that whole entry, but I made it through. Nice job. I'm good. I'm good. What do we want to start with? I think we were talking a little bit about this question related to uh uh stretching. Huh. Yeah, we can go into that. It was a good question that was on the the Facebook group that I um I gave a long answer to. Okay. Um what's the deal here? I just see to clarify occlusion and extreme stretching as part of fortitude training. Oh, so is this is this what you wrote back to them? That was part of the question. There was a bigger a bigger question was when should I do stretches? Um Okay. So her name her name on Instagram or on Facebook is so many toes. Okay. And then then I think maybe is her last name. People can look up the look up the um profile and look up the question if they're in the group. Um but the question was like how do I when do I do the stretches and um so it's kind of important as to when you incorporate those to some degree because of how they work. Um, so I and people who've done DC training or fortitude training know that Dante recommended not everyone did this necessarily and it's it's not going to be the end of the world if you don't, but that you would do them with a muscle that you've just trained and chest pumped up. Um, you know, within a few minutes likely you can do it. You don't have to do it necessarily, right? I remember when I first did DC training before I knew Dante and I just read about it somewhere and I was doing the stretches like as an add-on at the end of the rest pause sets and I would actually do them. I'd finish the the the pulses or the or the partials and I go right into the stretch cuz someone said go right into the stretch. So I just like kept the weight there. So that was just brutal. So you do, you know, the the three segments of the rest pause and then you do like, you know, try to pulse the weight out for like up to 30 seconds. And then once I couldn't move the weight, I would just hold it and it was just [\h__\h] I was I remember I did it on leg presses for instance, you know, a rest pause. You're not supposed to do really rest pauses on leg presses, but I remember doing it, you know, before I figured that out. And and you just hold the weight down at the bottom. So, I'm like being crushed and trying to, you know, I had to set it up so I didn't actually get caught under there and and pinned. Um, but just absolute brutal. So, anyway, the the thing that's her question was about whether um an occlusion stretch would have create more blood flow which might help with sarcomogenesis. So there's some pieces there I think that are worth kind of looking into because like for just for one reason is when I've done fortitude training camps and often times majority of the people there have done fortitude training already and they that's how they knew about me whatever they want to come to a camp so they can get better at it and many of them have just not been doing the stretches. I would say the majority, more than 50% just don't do the stretches. And the stretches are brutal and I think they constitute um a novel stimulus that can indeed potentially create muscle growth for individuals at least under certain circumstances that you wouldn't otherwise have. So she was had a question um about the uh the quad stretch for instance. One thing I noticed and people are going to say, "Oh, this like that's bullshit." Like where do you where do you come up with this? But I've mentioned this, I think, on this podcast. One thing I noticed when I started doing those quad stretches when I was back when I was training with Dave Henry is that I got better quote unquote separation in my quads. Here's so this is sort of example of a stretch and a type of stimulus you can't really create probably safely in any other way. So you train your quads, your rectus forous is the middle muscle of your quads, right? It runs down the front. It's um it's a bipenent muscle. So if it's really welldeveloped and you're lean enough, you can actually see there's a central tendon and there's striations so to speak there. It's pretty badass when you get that. If you have that, you see it, it's like really [\h__\h] cool. Um like high green is someone who has that. It's got striations all over the place. And if that is welldeveloped, then you've got the medialis on the inside, the lateralis on the outside, and then you have this muscle in between. And the larger that is, the rounder that is, the the bigger the separation literally and the the delineation between the mediialis on the inside and the lateralis on the outside. Imagine the rectus forous was just flat and sort of just there wasn't much there. Somehow was like underdeveloped. It been partially denated or something. you wouldn't see that delineation separation between the two muscles because you wouldn't have like a a round mediialis a round rectus forous and a round lateralis. So one of the things about the rectus forous in particular um like the hamstrings too generally is that it's barticulate. So when you do a squat the rectus forous is a hip flexor. So if you're standing there and you lift your knee up, um your soaz your iliacis, those are m the major hip flexors. But your rectus for is also a hip flexor. So it shortens when you flex at the hip, but it's also a knee extensor like all the quads, right? So when you go down on a squat, right, you're bending at the knee, you're flexing at the knee, and you would be lengthening your rectus forous, right? But you're flexing at the hip which would be shortening your rectus forous. So like many barticulate muscles the hamstrings the gastro there's this biomechanical transference of of angular um torque or angular momentum that is created by having these muscles that cross two joints because if you look at it and this is I've talked before this is lumbard's paradox like so what happens to the rectus forous when you squat down it lengthens at the knee but it shortens at the hip so does it lengthen or does it shorten right all in all it's len doesn't change very much. So, you'll activate it in doing a a quad exercise, doing a squat compound exercise like that, but it never really gets activated when it's in a lengthened position, right? Um to to that great of extent during that movement because it's it's shortening at one end and lengthen at the other. So, overall the muscle is the same. But what if then you take take it and do a quad stretch? So, the way I have people do this, you you find something a pad behind you, like the round pads on a lat pull down machine that you put your knees under to hold yourself down. Those are great for this. So, you can put the your the top part of your foot on back on one of those. So, your your legs back behind you, your knees flex. You're doing a quad stretch and you just rest the top part of your foot on that. And you can go squat down and throw your thrust your hips forward and stretch your quad and and have get some hip extension and you can really then you're then your rectus force is on stretch right um at both joints as much as you can and then you activate it. So that's what an occlusion stretch is in in uh um in fortitude training is you get into a stretch position and then you voluntarily perform an isometric contraction in that stretch position and as long as you're you know in a good biomechanical position and the nice thing is you can do these unilaterally. You can activate with all of your might. You can do a maximal voluntary isometric contraction in a stretch position and you would hold that for 60 to 90 seconds typically unless you just need to do less. So you take the rectus forous in many of these situations where um it's not like a on a squatting movement for instance on knee extension it's different you got lengthening and shortening right just like the other quads but in the in the let's say you just do squats um you wouldn't get that lengthen position you can take the rectus forous who wouldn't which wouldn't always be lengthening and shortening during normal concentric eccentric exercises and put it in a lengthened position and then activate the be Jesus out of it as maximal effort for a minutes straight. You don't do you don't do with free weights. You don't do any maximal activation until you really get to the end of your set because the first reps aren't aren't maximal. You can do that on an isocinetic device in the lab for instance. Um but in some machines that used to be out but but typically gyms you don't have that equipment in a gym. So you take someone who's never done that and particularly the rectus forous, put it in a stretch position, activate it maximally like that and add that regularly. Now you've got the possibility um potentially because you're at a lengthened position like there's really unless you're doing [\h__\h] squats, right? Where you're in that lean back, you know, um extended position, you know, you got a weight on your chest maybe and you're going deep into a squatting position, then you're going to have some activation of the rectus forus in that lengthened position, but only at the bottom of the movement and then it's going to be shortened as you come back up. So this is a very novel tension in the lengthen position stimulus especially for the rectus fororous. And what I noticed before I thought all this through and you know sort of figured all this out as to how this could happen in my head is that should I'm get it looks like I'm getting better separation in my quad. It's not like my quads just getting although EC training is phenomenal for putting on muscle size. my quad was my quads were looking different and Dave noticed the same thing better separation and that's between the rectus fororous and the mediialis and lateralis on either side okay so that that's something like putting a muscle this is what extreme stretches out you can put a muscle in a lengthen position and activate it and you get and this is what lengthen partials are about and the studies are very very mixed now the more studies they do the more they suggest that this isn't going to just happen universally all the time um and we can talk more about that but if there is some room for creating sarcomogenesis where and that and I'll explain what that is. So it's it's generating more sarccomirs. So what happens when you put muscles in in lengthened positions or or chronically lengthen them or you put cast muscles in shortened positions is the muscle will adapt its resting length to accommodate the length that it normally sees. And that's that's so that the actin and meosin overlap is somewhat optimized to for for maximal interaction of actin and meosin during the range of motion where the muscle is actually producing tension. Makes sense. So if a muscle's always short, you know, it doesn't it doesn't want to have actin and meosin that that can't interact with one another because the sarcimeir are so tensy. So you lose sarcimeir. Less sarcimeir means for a given muscle length each sarcimeir is longer and you now optimize the actin and measin overlap in the sarccomir. And what's a sarcimeir? Oh, sorry. So, so if you look here's how I always I'm glad you asked that. This I love talking about this [\h__\h] I don't get to teach this stuff anymore. So, the way I sort of imagine imagine you've got a muscle cell and it's kind of like a a a spaghetti can that's full of like uncooked spaghetti, right? So that's your muscle cell is the can and it's long sort of cylindrical and if you reach in and pulled out one strand of spaghetti that would be a myophibbral right and if you picked it up and looked at it and it runs from end to end from the muscle and looked at it you'd see there's these little singular segments it's got little se and that those are actually that's actually where you see technically in the extra in the scientific um realm what striations are and you'll see there's this this this pattern this striped pattern as you look down each of these myophibbrals you see that on all of the spaghetti strands and that is each of those sections is composed of what's called a Zline which is which is the border between each of these sarcimeir so each section is a sarcimeir and you've got measin coming from the sides from the Z lines and it comes from a German word senmia the lines between the sarcimeir sin means between um and you've got sorry actton there act in arms and in the middle you got a big piece of meosin so when there's ATP available you got calcium available sequence events um happen where the actin or the measin binds to the actin and have what a power stroke happens and each time that happens you would shorten as long as the muscle can actually shorten you it pulls the actin towards the middle of the sarcimeir so you do that with all the sarccomirs along all the spaghetti strands um in that particular fiber. This is just one fiber. And as long as the the force is um the external applied force isn't too high, the muscle can actually shorten, the fiber can shorten, the meosin pulls the actin towards the middle and each of those sarccomirs get shorter, each of the myophibbrals gets shorter and the whole fiber gets shorter and that's a concentric contraction. Okay. So, so you can change the length of the fiber um by losing or gaining sarcimeir. Okay. So, if you have then a muscle that is being exposed to tension in a lengthened position or chest is chronically lengthened. You see that? That's kind of the classic conditions. But this is what we're seeing. You can look um uh at um so the the muscle fibers are are organized in in um facasicles, bundles of fibers called facasacles. So you can you an ultrasound for instance you can see that and you can look at the angle of those facasicles and get an idea of how long the fasicles are, how long the fibers are. And some studies have suggested that the fibers actually change length when you expose them to high tensions in a lengthened position. It makes sense. So back to we've got those two we got the sarcomir here the Z lines the actin and measin and if you've got that always being lengthened so that the actin there's there's some measin that doesn't have any actin to interact with. So it's the sarccomir are too long um to have good actin and meosin overlap. The more meosin that interacts with the actin the more tension you produce. Each of those meosin actin interaction produces a small amount of tension. The more of that you have and when it's optimal you get the maximal tensions. When it's too long you get less tension. When it's too short you've got overlap such that you've got actin that's not have doesn't have any meosin to interact with. So there's a length tension relationship. So if you're chronically producing force in the lengthen position or you've got this stimulus from training a smart way to adapt to that is to add more sarcomir so that when you're in that lengthen position each sarccomir doesn't have to be as long anymore and now you've got a more optimal actin and measin overlap. So that is sarcomogenesis the genesis of more sarcomirs because of having trained in a lengthened position. So if there's any and see the thing is like that that can happen but you still have an origin and an insertion for your muscle right it's like you can't just all of a sudden like you can't like create sarcomogenesis so your quads are just like hanging off your leg with this like extra loop of muscle that's available there. you'll only get that to c some certain degree, right? You because you've got a skeleton that your muscles are attached to. So once you exploited sarcomogenesis to some degree by forcing the muscle to be used or be in a lengthened position, then that's all you got. Like you're not going to get any more of that. But what that means is if you've added sarccomirs, you've added contractile tissue to the fibers. So the fiber is the same length. The spaghetti spaghetti piece is the same piece. You're just adding more segments. You you've still got you still got the same origin insertion, right? You didn't change that. Um but now each of your fibers has more sarccomirs or at least the majority of them you you presume let's just say that all of them has more sarcomir. So that when the muscle and when the fibers are stretched out, those sarcimeirs aren't so stretched out that they don't have good actin and meosin overlap. Okay. So, so but when you do a measurement how big is the muscle, you take it back to anatomical position, some standardized position, and now you've got the muscle has better, it's better able to accommodate force production and lengthen position because there's literally more actin and meosin and there's more sarcimers in there. And when you bring it back to that standardized position where you measured pre-training, now you've got simply more muscle mass. So you've got a it's like a a a hot dog, let's say, or you know, think of the muscle as a hot dog that is is accommodated more being able to produce force in a linked position and is so there's more actin and there's more more meat to it. And when you when you squish it back down, this is a very pliable hot dog here. You squish it back down now, it's got a greater diameter. It's got a greater thickness if you measure it that way or it's greater got a greater cross-sectional area. So you literally have more muscle mass and it would be rounder, right? It would literally be rounder um because you have this you have the same distance between the actin and meosin, right? And we're talking about a fuso form muscle here that has kind of like that hot dog like shape, right? Um it starts with starts narrow and then it expands to some middle point where it's the roundest and has the greatest diameter. Um but it's got more so it's just going to get more round. it's going to be more more have more sphericity literally if you were to measure that. So training in that lengthen position if that still can be exploited. Now if someone's been training for years and they're doing full range of motion stuff and they've already exploited whatever increment in the number of sarcimeirs they could get because their muscles have adapted to training in that lengthen position. Well then they've already used that up. This is the way I see very like there's no more you can't like I said you it's not going to just keep going until you've got this muscle that is like um because you can only train at certain lengths, right? And unless you're dislocating your joints or something crazy like that. So um there's only so much you can do. But for someone who for instance uh has always done shorten range of motion stuff for instance maybe has gotten to that point maybe because they had joint issues and then starts training in the lengthen position. um this would be a possibility and for someone too like this is just sort of a potential application if someone has not can't really train in the lengthen position because of some sort of structural issues injuries they've had you can go and create two of the major things that are important for the sarcimeogenesis if they've lost some sarcimeir because of limited range of motion because the muscles never be exposed to being producing tension in link position. If they can safely get into a lengthened position and do stretches where they contract simultaneously, this is what I call an occlusion stretch. You have two of the components that are necessary potentially for sarcomogenesis if sarcomir had been lost over over time. So they could literally regain muscle mass to a certain degree. It's not going to be tremendous. I don't imagine this is like, you know, going to boost your gains. you know, you're going to, you know, gain 50% more muscle or something like that. Um, but it it can be, you know, somewhat substantial. So, that's it's one of those things where you simply can't unless you're just doing like this is in a way there's there's one thing I need to add too. So, when someone does lengthen partials, so let's say they're doing length and partials in a really lengthened position. What's a length and partial? So, it's a partial um a partial range of motion repetition. This is a huge thing kind it was. It's not so um it's still talked about. There's tons and tons of people talking about length partials and um there's a couple of people are like really big on this is the the best way to grow muscle and there were people who were doing all their training in the lengthen position. So it's basically doing a partial repetition at the when the muscle's in a lengthen position. So you would do you would do pec flies and you'd only you know start way stretched out and only go halfway up and come back down. Okay. Right. On a pec deck or whatever, whether it's a dumbbell, everything would be in the lengthened position. Um, so there they're they're there because stretch and stretch um activated calcium channels for instance are involved with muscle damage um muscle soreness. There's some potential it seems like too in studies that have looked at this directly that training in the lengthen position can be more damaging. So it may in of itself be intrins an intrinsically more stressful type of contraction to train in the lengthen position and that could be biomechanically it could be just because the muscle length there's a number of factors that could be there could be activation related too whether you can actually do that whether your activation becomes a little bit wonky how fine-tuned an activation is is one thing that could contribute to whether you have more or less um uh muscle soreness. You see this when you go and do a variation of an exercise you've been doing, but you're a little bit uncomfortable and just get really sore. You do the same number of sets, same effort, everything else, and all sudden like you're just sore as crap and all you did was just change the type of deadlift you did, but it just hits you very differently. So there's something about potentially a component of doing coupled concentric eccentric contractions in that lengthened position which would make it different than just doing a lengthened isometric contraction like an occlusion stretch in fortitude training or an extreme stretch which is in DC training and and in fortitude training. But if you know it's going to be something if for someone who does want to do a bunch of length and partials like lengthen and partials are an option for a pump set and fortitude training. That's why I left pump sets open that way. You could do a bunch of length and partials and have that component at least the days you do those. Um but for someone who as like for the rectus forous that's a it's a great way to you literally produce a maximal contraction and isometrics will produce muscle growth in the lengthened position um which you would never really be able to do under most normal circumstances or people never would have done um it's a very simple way to add that potentially additional stimulus and I and I think too it's this is varies somewhat but Um it's something you would need to be autoregulated. This is why I have three different stretches in fortitude training because because if you if your train your normal training is is the stimulus enough and you add this this is an extra stimulus. Um on the other hand, let's say you're you're short for time and you know you've got 30 minutes or whatever to train your your thighs. You're going to do a couple quad exercises, a couple thigh exercises, um a couple hamstring exercises, three exercises. let's say and you but you want to have more stimulus on that Dre because the way you've set up your split, etc. You can finish your last set that's that's quad intensive and catch your breath. Go into that quad stretch, you know, pick maybe the the weaker quad that you want to hit with a little more and literally do 60 or 90 seconds. It literally takes it's just that long. You just walk over to the place where you're not in anyone's way. You do the stretch, you hit as hard as you can for 16 sec 60 seconds and you're done. And that's a powerful stimulus and it took a minute. You didn't have to find a machine and load the weights and all that kind of stuff. So, it's a very efficient way to produce a novel stretch and and add to the variety in your training because you just don't get that that stretch in a lengthened position or or tension in a lengthened position in any other normal exercise that you do because it would be dangerous to try to do that in many cases, right? Potentially at least. So, you can do this with a pec. You do you take like a like one of my favorite ways to do this with with a just get like a a chest high or maybe a little bit below cable, right? And grab the cable and then take the cable and have the cable behind your arm on your head like that. And you lean forward and you can and you're stretching the long head and you're stretching the other heads, the tricep, and you can get a crazy tricep stretch, right? So, you're in this like totally stretched out position. You could just do that with a dumbbell. It's another way to do it. Just go over and pick up a dumbbell, hold the dumbbell, and then what I often do is I kick my head back and and length. So, I got a 30 lb dumbbell in my hand, right? And you spend a minute in that position, and I'm I'm pushing up against my own neck with the weight of the dumbbell to help with the load. And that's a crazy stimulus. Oh, yeah. And you get People don't realize if they haven't done it how how long a minute is. Oh, it takes forever. Yeah. It feels like 10. Yeah. And you get a and part of that too, like back to the one of the questions that was um was asked about is uh or one of the things she was wondering about is increased blood flow. And when you do these stretches, especially if you're it's an extreme stretch or an inclusion stretch, once you're above somewhere around 50% of a maximal effort, maximum volume of contraction, you don't have blood flow. The tension within the muscle is too high for blood flow to get in there. Okay. Interesting. Right? You're basically you're creating a pretty powerful occlusion. You might have some, but it's it's minimal, right? And the thing that's nice about that in a certain way um is that so that you see this with blood flow um occlusion training, blood flow restriction training or katsu training is that you can for a given load if you restrict blood flow you create more metabolic stress, right? you create thus more fatigue and then you your nervous system recognizes that and brings more motor units into play. So for a given light load you're activating more muscle. This is one of the reasons why at least in some studies blood flow restriction training was with a given load was better than normal training because you're act you have to activate more muscle because of the fatigue brought on by the blood flow restriction. So when you do an occlusion stretch for instance or extreme stretch, I mean be careful like some people would go with the extreme stretches. You can progressively overload those and they're just doing crazy silly stuff and people have hurt themselves over the years. Dante's, you know, gotten accusations from people, you hurt me. It's like no, you were just being an idiot. Like you don't need to go that high. But once you get once you get into that accluded position um or into that stretch and you're producing tension with either load or just voluntary contraction, you're going to with a given amount of neural drive or given load, you're going to get more motor units activated because of the occlusion. So you don't have to use like crazy ass weight to activate a lot of motor units and is important. I'm thinking it could be a good idea for me where I'm at with my training. I can I can train I I I'll call it more like exercise than training if I push my central nervous system too far and then it ends up crashing me. But something like this would allow me to hit the muscle harder without having to do the like the the crazy sets that I would have thought were ideal for me or the were you know my jam in the past you know. Right. Right. So exactly and and that's why I I put it in as an additional stress in fortitude training. So there'll be some days where you can kind of autoregulate within your your sessions. So I got three stretch types. This is why I did this and I've noticed this from doing DC training. So this is one thing I wanted to kind of give some options for. Sometimes you do and you just go to town, right? Say you train chest. Go to town. You know, my chest tends to get really sore. It's like now I got to do like shooting for 90 seconds pec deck stretch with the whole stack and a plate on there, something like that, right? We just go go crazy, right? You're in this stretch. It's very very painful. That can have an effect on your nervous system, too. You feel pretty wiped out doing these, right? Yeah. Um and there were some days it's just like it's like, okay, this is in the program, but I'm happy with the training. I progressed on my loads in the gym. I got a couple more reps with the weight, whatever. And then this is more than I need on this day. Some days it's like, "Yeah, give me more, baby. I'm gobble that [\h__\h] up. Give me the [\h__\h] iron. I'm gonna rip this [\h__\h] apart." Other days it's like, "Okay, well, I can do this. I'm going to I can do it." But, you know, the muscles feel really really you're getting soreness like during the workout. You feel when you get in the stretch, it's like this is too much. Yeah. So, that's why I put in an occlusion stretch. So, an occlusion stretch, you activate as much as you feel fit. you know, as much as fits your recovery state. You get into the stretch and you're just bracing, let's for a pec stretch, you just brace yourself against the wall or, you know, grab a hold of the the rack and like that and then you activate as much as makes sense. So, it's very much an autoregulatory thing and then some days I think it just makes sense to include some I called it a flexibility stretch. You basically just take the muscle, you're not trying to create any tension there other than what happens passively from stretching the muscle and you just get into that lengthened position to expose it to being in the length position and you do you know 20 30 40 second stretch and just sort of loosen things loosen things up because on those days if you kind of know it's like okay I'm going to come back fortitude training is high frequently I'm going come back and train this muscle in two days I got it today mission is accomplished right so it was a way to add to those days when you feel like you got it in you and you do an extreme stretch, you try to progress on or like some of the occlusion stretches can be harder because you get yourself in a position where it can be it's maximal from the get-go. You can push as hard as you want. Whereas, if you pick a weight, it doesn't get hard until 40 seconds in, right? So, just like with a set, their first reps aren't effective. the first part of an extreme stretch wouldn't necessarily be effective, but you can make all of an occlusion stretch effective or you can make it all, you know, just a more of a moderate stimulus by how hard you contract and and it's it's almost built-in autoregulatory. If you're just wiped out, you're all out isn't going to be that much because you're already your nervous system is already whack. So, um, so that could be a smart option where you're not really sure what to do is like, okay, I'm going to do an occlusion stretch and push as hard as I feel like I I can. So, so anyway, it's yeah, but you don't get blood flow during the stretches. So, blood flow wouldn't contribute to sarcimeogenesis. And and I really think this is why we're seeing in some of these studies that it doesn't you don't get more growth is because people have already there's already been some sarcomogenesis due to producing tension and length and possession just with normal full range of motion training. Um but like with the I me I noticed it with the with the rectus forous. Um if someone has a muscle group that they don't feel like they have a good mind muscle connection with this is a way to train that. Right. So you're going to pick an isolation stretch which could be very akin to an exercise. So like a pec deck for the pecs. And if you're someone who was like a delt pusher like you said you you were and didn't had trouble like now you're getting to spend a minute in dire agony contracting and practicing a mind muscle connection with your pecs. Oh, so and I think that carries over um and allows you to make sure that you know you're not using your delts, you're not using your triceps, you're using it's just your pec and you and with especially with the occlusion stretch, I'm big on um intuitive stretching. So if you need to hit the lower part of your pec because the upper part has been destroyed or you need to find a particular angle with internal external rotation at your shoulder or you know the amount of of uh abduction that you have or what whatever the right angle you can find that perfect angle that feels good. Maybe your shoulder's a little screwed up or what have you. Yeah. Um so it allows you to really tailor what you're doing and you can literally like okay today I did like flat pressing and decline pressing. I want to add stretch. I want to add something in my upper pec. So then you would do a stretch that hits the upper pec and you would target and contract the upper pec to round out the total stimulus that you got in that singular workout by doing a different pec stretch basically in an occlusion stretch fashion. Right. I could ramble forever on this topic. I like it. I like it. And you're actually getting me thinking about something. I'm I'm gonna add this into my own training. I think it would for me where I'm at right now. it would make a lot of sense and I think I would be able to actually get more activation out of the muscle this way or or or I'll just say more out of the more out of the target muscle group that I'm trying to work, you know, right now without having to like excessively push up. I don't have to increase the volume. I don't have to increase the intensity of my workouts. I can add It's easy to add in. Sure, it's not always fun, but it's not it's not a big time commitment either, you know. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It it makes sense for lots of reasons. Guys, let's talk about intraworkout carbs and saving money. So, like the past 10-15 years, intra workouts become super popular. It's a great way to support pre-workout insulin use. It's great for recovery and it's great for endurance in those long workouts. Here's the thing, it's really expensive. It's not only expensive for us, it's expensive for supplement companies. They really don't make a lot of money off of it. That's where True Nutrition comes in. So, True Nutrition, they're not only a retailer, they're also a manufacturer. They're actually making a lot of the products that you guys are already buying from other companies. So, just think about it. You're going to cut out the middleman. The only thing you're going to miss out on is the fancy labels and and the branding. Outside of that, you're getting the exact same highquality products, but you're getting it directly from the source. If you're going to pay for the price of highly branched cyclic dextrin, ensure that you're getting 25 grams per scoop, not of a mix of carbs, but just of highly branched cyclic dextrin. We can mix the other stuff in later. You know, use our code think get some savings. Plus, it's like voting for us. It lets them know that you support what we're doing. So, hey, what about this one, Scott? This So, I believe he's referring to one of the podcasts we did with Kuba. Guy named Stephen. He's from Patreon, by the way. Thank you guys, everybody who's supporting the show on Patreon. He said, "Uh, I saw an interview possibly on this channel." Uh, and it was, "Could you talk about adjusting training as you go on and off cycle and move between bulk and cut?" The en general idea was that if you're higher volume, you that you did higher volume, lower weight during one phase, it may be beneficial to go uh lower volume, higher weight for the next or vice versa. Um, what are your thoughts on that? So that's like you could do like three hours of lecture on this idea. Really? Oh yeah. Because there's so there's three there's three topics there basically. On versus off cycle, offseason versus pre-contest, and then changing your program to create a novel stimulus. Oh, I didn't even think of the third. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, that's basically what what he was getting at, you know. Um, so see where do we start? So on on versus off cycle, obviously when you're if you've been on and you've made gains and now you come off, you no longer have that support for your recovery. You no longer have that anabolic drive. Your goal there to some degree is is going to be to hold on to what you had as much as you possibly can. And you're going to have to acco this is the way I see it at least. This is going to h you're going to have to accommodate um a diminished recovery ability, right? And but let's say someone got to where they're squatting 500 lbs for for 10 reps and they did that over the course of several years and by psy taking in using cycles maybe progressively increasing the cycles and this is where they end up that's their strength level right and then they come off and they go to HRT you know just minimal true clinical HRT they're not going to hold that strength you know for three more years right that kind of clearly makes it they see like they're they're going to have to do something you want to hold it as best they can Right? But you're losing that anabolism. So, how you adjust your training is also going to be a it's going to be a temporal issue as well because if you're just trying to hold for 3 months, that's not a big deal. You see guys, you know, I've seen people say this like, "Yeah, you know, I'm not haven't been haven't done a cycle now. I'm in my, you know, I've retired, whatever." It's like, yeah, you just competed two months ago, right? It's like you've still got these residual gains that are there, so you could get away with that. So, it depends on how much you adjust your training depends on how long you you plan to be off. Um, and how soon you're going to compete, which is going to allow you to to adjust what you're going to do with your diet. So someone who who had some fat um that they could have added comfortably um when they came off might try to substitute or at least provide somewhat of a surrogate for the nabism from the gear by eating more and even letting themselves get a little more fluffy than they would. So they're can fight tooth and nail and make sure their nutrition in particularly is is dead on to allow them to recover and have an anabolic drive from the food. Make make food your anabolic so to speak. This is something that Dante has talked about u many many times over. I love to give him credit for this because this is how he's had people actually do a lot of people he's that he's when he's talked about at least people that follow his sort of ideas is that in your offseason your food is your anabolic and then you would add stuff in in your pre-contest and you can actually recmp as you as you go into your show. But so someone who is in a good position body fatwise and can then afford to maybe gain some body fat given when their next show is coming up. They don't not trying to do a show in five months, maybe in a year. They can add food to replace the gear and probably be able to hold on to their strength levels really well. I think as long as you can keep their best performances in place, this is sort of the contention I've had for a while is that there's some uh association between um how you look, form and function. So, as long as the function you can maintain the function, you're going to maintain the form. So, if you can still do the 500 for, let's say, eight reps, five months later, you probably kept a good deal of that muscle. You may need to basically add food in a way that allows you to you actually gain some body fat in order to keep that in place. under under circumstances where you didn't have the gear coming in and out, adding that food and having that caloric excess might have produced gains, but now what you're doing is for stalling and preventing the loss of gains that would have come from coming off the gear. So, that's one way to go about it. Um, generally speaking, you're going to have to accommodate the lack of ability to recover and have to be smart about your auto regulation. But I think um and this segus us into the pre-concious idea is that if you can again a Danteism if you can dance with the one who br you and keep those loads as high keep the performance side however it is that you train and just have know use that as a metric for whether your form or your function is staying in place I can still do the stuff I did in my offseason or when I was on during my pre-contest or when I'm off. then you're going to be able to maintain that muscle because it had that ability before and it still has that ability, but you simply can't train with as much volume. And your goal then is to maintain, not necessarily to gain so much. Although that can be had potentially over a long haul, but all in all, when you go from full bore, a gram, gram and a half half of stuff down to TRT, you're most people are going to lose something quite a bit unless they've just started with training and they've still got a lot of gains to be had. So the same principle applies in both those situations is um coming off gear if you can eat more food that will help when you diet in now you'll no longer have the food available because you're in a caloric deficit right so you lost the anabolism in both cases you're losing anabolism from gear in the first case and from food in the second case and your training needs to be adjusted based on how you recover and that's going to be highly individual I think depending on the you know what their training was before so then the next the Next question. This actually kind of fits in pretty well. You know, vacasillating between a higher volume approach and a heavier load, maybe lower volume approach. And I've always sort of thought a good approach that many people have success with if they like training this way, if they find that they can make gains with all these ways of training is DC training, fortitude training, of course, because I like fortitude training. If you don't like it, then don't do it for sure. and then one of John's programs, mountain dog training of some sort. And he's and he's got a whole subset of of approaches in there. So, pick the programs that you like. And um so, one thing that could be had in that in that context, for instance, is one way someone could do this is maybe they made their gains during their offseason or while they're on doing mountain dog training, which tends to be higher volume and they did that. And then if they know that fortitude, there's a couple ways you can do. If they know that fortitude training works for them and they've got experience with it and they know how to autoregulate it, they could switch to that. And because built into fortitude training are the different volume tiers and they would then accommodate their volume tier based on their recovery ability and autoregulate it as the effects of the gear wear off um over time. If someone doesn't have experience with his other programs, I would not just jump ship. I would dance with the one that brought that br you. And if mountain dog training was the one who br you, John oftentimes in his programs has like three core training days or four core and then some accessory days that you could add. And you might just take John's program. I'm sure John wouldn't roll over, you know, thinking, "Oh my god, he's bastardized my program." and you just drop off some of the exercises and stick with the core program that rung you there and just do two sets instead of three sets or leave a set off um or leave an exercise off or what have you and stick with that. Um there's there's a guy um um Dennis Ana a guy um who I'm communicating with a German guy who um I'm not sure exactly where he stands with this but he's been doing fortitude training for quite a while. He had a little injury issue and but he plans to diet down again. He's made good gains with that. He's very happy with that and he knows because he's been training for decades. He knows that he does really well with volume training actually not taking everything to fail. He knows how to autore his autoregulate his volume training when he diets down. And he's like, I'm going to do volume training when I diet down because I know it works. He's done it, you know, 30 times or something, right? So, he knows that system. If he if he didn't have that in place, fortitude training has the possibility of just going down a volume tier because it worked for him and he would dance with the one who brung him most recently in this last offseason. But he knows volume training. He knows his body. He's been doing this. So, he's not going to jump ship. He's just going to go to another program that he knows works for him. So, there's two ways you can do that. you just transition and drop your volume with the same program as you go from on to off or off seasonason to pre-contest or you switch to another program that you know works for that change. So he might I don't know what he would do on versus off. He pro I'm sure he trains differently but someone who has that experience obviously use what they know already works. If it ain't broke don't fix it is another another uh worthy saying I hear. So um I think that covers all three domains of that question. I like that. That's interesting. And Kuba did bring some he explained basically he applied it to himself. He talked about his own training. He talked about you know one of the first things he did and I'm just trying to think back to myself. He in in the offseason when food was extremely high supplementation was there he was completely able to you know support going hard. It's when he would do the most intensifiers, things like rest, pause, and whatever else, you know, and then as he went into a health phase, he'd pair everything back, you know, do the do basically pay pair it back so that he could stay strong. Y and and then from there work at maintaining that strength into the contest, you know, which makes a lot of sense to me, you know. Same thing. Yeah, that's another way. volume is one way to drop down the stimulus. Taking out the intensifiers is one way to do it. There's numerous things you can do. But I think I mean so often now people are looking for the easiest way, right? And this whole idea of dancing with the one who br you. It's not the easiest. Yeah, it's not the easiest way. So like like the an old school way and I you know used to get tons of questions on this is people would you know they they're in their offseason when they're feeling strong they're doing lots of barbell compound exercises the things that are hard the things that got them the muscle mass to some degree and then they want to switch to like all cable and unilateral stuff and and pumping things and they like I'll just you know do that and um I think to some degree that that perspective or that approach is probably has a historical roots in that if you were not like old school bodybuilders who wouldn't be using anything in the offse typically perhaps once they go on they can do that right because they got the gear you know and then like they're going pump workouts are getting bigger yeah they're getting bigger so it's working for them right I mean would they have looked better who knows right had they had they kept with the the big compound exercises the ones that they actually probably gained some size with in the offseason because those guys were were much more conservative what they did Right. Yeah. So that's I think somewhere where that comes from. Sorry. Go ahead. Another aspect I remember Koopa saying was that he would go to more machines in the diet phase because that way he wouldn't have to say uh support and and and get a dumbbell uh press into place, you know, and and and work on stabilizing that. He could just simply work on pushing as absolute much weight as he could, right? You know, the machine itself is going to do the stabilizing for him. Yeah. You need to do it like Dennis James did in his videos when he was in Thailand. You get a plate boy, right? You have someone you hire on to move all your plates around because there's something to say for that, right? And that makes sense. But I think I would add and and I don't think Kuba would would argue against this is that I'm sure he kept some of those big lifts in there, right? Oh, yeah. And all of it's still really heavy. You know what I'm saying? It's not like he was doing pump workouts. Yeah. Yeah. Sure. So yeah, that's part of this fatigue that is acred is like, you know, do you go to a hack squat, you know, or do you stick with the with the with the the squat and you know, if the hack, let's say you're doing both in your offseason and you use the hack squat as your as your measure of whether you maintain function, that's okay. That makes sense. Drop the squat because it wrecks your back or whatever. Um, but some dance with the, you know, the ones who rung you, so to speak. some of them that are the big ones that are that really are the best tests of your overall strength. So, yeah. Um I think we we knocked that one out of the park. All right, great. Well, listen, we are also out of time. I know you got stuff to do. Yeah, we got a roll, man. I think this is Natalia with us here. Yep, it sure is. I couldn't see your full name. Hey, Natalyia, thanks for joining us. We got uh Miss Olympia here on the show. Um, and of course guys, go to uh by OBBcoach.com. You get Scott's book there. I'll have a link for the hard cover autographed by Scott. He's got those up on eBay right now. You get the best price. Plus, some of that money goes to the ASPCA to help support animals. Of course, true nutrition.com. Use our code think over there to get some additional savings on all the supplements that Dante and his partner put out. They have great stuff and they've been doing it for a long time. Their goal is to be able to put out high quality uh products for bodybuilders at the best prices that they can. So definitely a great place to go for anybody who's hardcore looking to grow as much muscle as possible. Use our code think of course supplements.ca for Canadians and uh they've got great deals week to week plus guys. Patreon. Thank everybody from Patreon. You guys really are helping to make this thing happen. So thank you very much. And Scott for another episode of Muscle Minds. Thank you sir. How bid you do. Thanks for joining us man. Did you do as well?