How about this one though? We get you in the best shape you can be and then that last 10 weeks provron 50 milligrams every day. I I like it. I don't disagree with that at all. How much hardener How much hardening do you think you get from Pervyon? Uh when you're already in shape um a good 12 to 15% of the So like you could kind of get the details mast like look you know. Yeah that's a really good point actually. I mean, there's a reason why we add uh Pviron in over the last 3, four weeks of a contest prep to just get those finishing touches, the the detail level out. What's up, guys? Welcome back to Blood, Sweat, and Gear with Coaches, Andrew Barry, and myself, Scott McNell. All of our programming is brought to you by, of course, true nutrition.com. Use our code, think over there. I just placed an order for the cookie butter weight isolate. Oh my god, I'm loving that flavor. Uh, we are also use our code think over there. Forgot if I plugged that or not. I just got sidetracked with that flavor. We're also brought to you by supplements.ca for Canadians. Great deals that do change week to week. So, keep checking the site back for good deals. And of course, Patreon. We have uh a couple of physique critiques from Patreon. Today we've got your listener questions, but we're going to start up with like one of those blowout grabber attention getting questions. And we did talk about this maybe 6 weeks ago, Andrew, on uh BSG or excuse me, on uh uh drugs and stuff. And that was um now that mast and primo aren't available, how do we get the same effect with other compounds? Yeah. I mean, I think we're all running into a little bit of shortage with that with our clients or, you know, at least myself, I I stocked up on some of that stuff. I I tell all my clients like, keep a pharmacy on hand. You just never know when you're going to want this or that, you know, or when I'm going to want you to have this or that. Yeah. But, um, you know, to answer the question, how do we get around getting achieving a look that we're getting from DHT like compounds like Primobolan and Masteron when we're we're out of them? And I think the simple act simple answer is you're gonna have to include some form of DHT drug like an Anavar or Winstrol. Y um maybe both actually and and my answer would probably be a testosterone base like you would be using with either one of those uh Masteron or Primable and uh I would probably stick with EQ and then I would probably run both Anavar and Windstrol. I feel like an anavar gives me a little bit more of a pump look whereas the winstrol is going to give a little bit more of that drier look. Kind of what you would get with a priabolan master combo if you know what I mean. Yeah. In terms of doses, you know, let's say someone's running a contest prep stack where they're doing something like um let's just say an average of 600 milligrams of testosterone and maybe, you know, 300 mass, 300 um primabolan. Okay, maybe a little bit higher in the Primo and Master. We'll say 400 of each just for for giggles. I would probably run the EQ equal to my testosterone. So like a 600 600 there. And then I would be doing probably a 5050 50 milligrams of both um Winstrol and Anavar. And I think you're going to be able to achieve a very similar look with uh with with with running those compounds. What do you think? Yeah. So I guess here's a a thought. You know, I I know that, you know, Primo and Mast have gotten so popular because in part people are running them year round. You know, there's the estrogen control element that everybody wants to get and I think we get that more from Primo than we do from mast and uh you know, I think we can get that from EQ, but I don't think it's across the board for everyone. But I you know, I am seeing it to a degree and I think part of it too has to do with the ratio. Like are you on 700 test, 300 EQ? Well, there's that. I I don't think it has as strong of an effect as a lesser primo might. Um, of course, everybody's different. So, from that regard, especially like offseason, then, you know, just to get the estrogen control effect, I would look at equipoise for sure. um in the and and really here's the other thing is that years back when I started and it makes me sound old which I am getting old now that like but man back then we didn't look at the DHTs until the contest prep and it was really like the last eight weeks that we started adding them in anyway and maybe we just have to go back to that old school kind of bubblier rounder look in the offseason you know yeah I would agree and I don't think that might be a bad thing what if we find this Andrew. Mast and Primor are gone and everybody freaking explodes. They're taking more test and EQ and other compounds now and all of a sudden they start uh I don't know start going really crazy. I'll say this though, last eight weeks that's that's I would probably pick Winstro would be my route and I might do I mean honestly if we were going to use Tren then we're going to work Tren in the way we'd work it in regardless which is generally for me eight weeks out on average trend ace and usually we can go with no more than 200 per week and that's for really almost any level of contest prep you know competitor I I've found that you don't need to go crazy high with it. And maybe we even do a little bit less if you wanted to. Um, if we're talking if we're talking just somebody who hold on a second, I'm interrupting myself. And if we did that, then at maybe four to five weeks out, we could add that Winster in at 50 and maybe even for the last week or two, maybe even go to a little higher, 75, even 100. Mhm. Um you know and if you're if my other thought would be I think a lot of our guys are non-competitors. So in that case I mean what what would we do for that? Yeah I mean I think in that case like a lot of situations whether it's primabol and master or any any peed uh the dosing is going to be a little bit lower. So, let's say you're, you know, you're 40 years old like I am, right? And you want to achieve a a nice, let's say, an 8 to 10 week outlook and and that's where you like to stay for the most part, right? Um, I I I I still I like your option. I like my option, but I would just say the doses probably don't need to be as high. You know, you're not getting competitively on stage. You don't need to be, you know, 225 pounds shredded. So, why use those doses? So, give you a number. Let's let's say, you know, I mean, as someone that's doing really well with a really low dose of test, just injections daily. Yeah. I would say, you know, maybe an average of 30 milligrams of testosterone a day. Okay. So, what's that? Three times that's 210 milligrams a week, right? Something somewhere in that ballpark. And then, um, I would probably in that situation, I would probably just stick with Windstrol and Anavar. So, maybe 25 and 25 of each. and then maybe titrate in just a little bit of trend 15 to 20 milligrams a day. That's one, you know, that one maybe I'd probably run for six weeks at a time and then I'd pull some back out. though, you know, cuz my mindset here is like, okay, you want to achieve a certain look, but you don't want to take the inherent risks that come with taking massive doses of peeds. That people that are in contest prep, they know that, you know, when they're doing those things, I'm at risk for taking minutes off my life at at the back end in some way, shape, or form if I'm not properly you have an end date in sight. It's a short term, you know. Yeah. But if we're talking about a sustainable thing, I would probably bring the trend in and I'd bring it back out. bring it back in maybe a four weeks on, four weeks off, like every other month, you know. Um, and I would advise people if they're going to try to do that, get your labs done, you know, at least, you know, every other month for the first three months to see if you can get a pattern of health, you know, maintaining health and then or maybe gets a little bit salty and then you bring it back to to baseline, you know. Um, I got one I I got one that I didn't think about when when I talked about this with Dave either. So yeah, you know, off or excuse me, non-competitor, he's I I generally look at that as being we want to get you looking good and then say keep you looking good for the summer, you know, so we're not looking to peak for one hour of one day. We're trying to think of what is more sustainable. How about this? So number one, you and I both know and our audience knows too if they've gotten in shape that condition is everything. If you get in really good shape, if you're just even on a modest dose to test, you're going to look nasty. In fact, I have a client I I if I would have asked him, he probably would have let me put his pictures up. And you would ask me like, "Well, how much DHT is he taking?" He's taking just TRT. And he is going to look harder than some guys on stage that are that are, you know, juiced up. So, how about this one though? We get you in the best shape you can be. And then that last 10 weeks, Proviron 50 milligrams every day. I I like it. I don't disagree with that at all. How much hardener how much hardening do you think you get from per vyron uh when you're already in shape? Um a good 12 to 15%. Yeah. So like you could kind of get themetails mast like look you know. Yeah that's a really good point actually. I mean there's a reason why we add uh Pviron in over the last 3 four weeks of a contest prep to just get those finishing touches the the detail level out. Um, on that note, what's as high as you go on like Proviron over the last, let's say, 8 to 10 days? Dude, I honestly, man, I haven't gone I haven't used a lot of it. I feel like it's And I was going to ask you, do you feel like it's falling by the wayside to a degree, but I would go up to 100? Okay. Um, yeah. So, I used to only go as high as 100, but more prevalently now I'm bringing it as high as 150. And I'll be honest, I'll do the same thing with Windstrol over the last four to five days. So, I'm just, you know, take-home point. I'm not talking for when you start windstall you're running 150 milligrams a day for six, eight weeks. I'm saying for the last four to five days, I do drive that up. But keep in mind, we're also pulling injectables out usually about a week out. So, yeah, you know, your actual total load of peeds is going down in that final week. Yeah. Yeah. I think my big limiting factor with P pervy is cost, you know, cuz the the more so I'm kind of like how much can we take, but then how much do you have too, you know, and then we try to figure out, okay, well, you can do this many per day for the next whatever weeks. I I'll say this also too because it's a it's an issue I run into a lot with clients and I know other coaches do too and and coaches are always scrambling, calling each other, texting each other, hey, do you have any clients locally that have this or that? guys, when you set up your contest prep, pretend like your show is actually like three weeks after the date that you set up because you you might actually want to do another show the following weekend or two weeks later. But you just never know. I I would rather have someone have half a bottle of this left over than to be half a bottle short and be scrambling, you know, counting down the pills and begging buddies, hey, can I get three tabs of you for Thursday and then can I get three tabs from someone else for Friday? That's that's always stressful to a coach when it's like, "Dude, you knew we were doing the show and you you you you can count the the how many pills you have and roughly I give you an outline at the beginning of prep of what to expect. You didn't even get the amount that's going to cover what to expect. It's kind of annoying. You know what I mean? Yeah. And and I think too, this is it's a hard conversation to explain, but if you know like, okay, so I need, you know, 30 doses. I have three vials." You assume that's 30 milliliters, but then you draw to the one and there's that little dead space in the syringe where you, you know, the first couple cycles I did, I was like, man, they're shortening me. I only got eight ms out of this, you know? Yeah, that's a good point, too. It's like, what how how would you counteract that? I'd tell people like draw to the eight. You know what I mean? My thing is always have extra bottles. Like just just have buy an extra bottle. Yeah, that's probably easier. Yeah. And I know our sport's expensive and and and our, you know, our coaching fees and the travel and everything that goes into competing, but at the end of the day, for you to achieve your absolute best look, you're not going to spend an extra 250 bucks. You just spent 2,000 or whatever on this whole prep or 5,000, whatever it might be. You're not going to spend an extra 250 to make sure you have one extra bottle of three or four of these things to make sure you're covered through the end of your prep, you know? Yeah. Um that that that that always gets me, oh, I didn't want to have stuff laying around. And it's like, well, you're going to prep again. You told me you wanted to do nationals the year after. It's not going to expire in six or eight months. So, you already got a jump start on your stash for next time. You know, that's how I ended up with my box that Dave has talked about. Dave Dave's like, every time you've run anything over the past several years, you just happen to have a little bit of this. It's that was my extras. You know, he he is so right about that because I I can see my box right now. Actually, my box is pretty empty now at this point. I'll be honest. Yeah, I've used it mostly up except for the trend, you know, and and that way if you're buying a fresh amount of stuff for your stack for this next contest prep or this next offseason and you have half a bottle of Winstrol and half a bottle of Vanavar and half a bottle of previron or maybe you have three of them because you did three preps over the last six years. So, you actually have probably enough for your whole contest prep, but still order your stack. Yeah. Well, I think we gave him some good take-home points on that one. What do you think? I do. All right. If you're in the market for protein powder, check out truen nutrition.com. They literally have like every protein powder under the sun. I go with their cold filtered whey isolate or their team skip blend. I prefer the chocolate peanut butter cup, but there's a few flavors that I like. Let me know if you have any questions about that. Victoria, my wife, she gets the pea protein isolate. It's rare to find a pea isolate. Most of them are concentrate. So, the isolate is super low in carbs. regardless of your diet, they they will have a protein powder for you and you get to flavor it how you want and buy it by how many pounds you want. So check them out. True nutrition.com. They're the first company that ever supported our podcasting. So we support them. You can support us by shopping with True Nutrition and using our code think. So we had a bunch of we have two physique critiques. Um, I'm going to start with one of these and and bear with me a little bit because this is they're not going to be in perfect order here. Um, and I'm still getting used to doing the screen share on this particular program. U, but he is a new Patreon member, so I want to say thank you to him very much. And it's Marino is his name. Okay. And he says, "Uh, what's up, guys? Uh, listen to the show for two years." I absolutely love it. Okay, physique critique. Let me see if he gives me any any information. He says, um, I'd be interested to hear your honest opinions on my potential in bodybuilding. I've competed in one show in 2023 as a middleweight. Since then, I've battled injuries, including a pec tear, but now my am back in full swing. Uh, my goal is to grow uh into the light heavies and try to get a pro card. I'm currently five weeks into a grow phase at 188 pounds uh for my current checkin. Okay. I don't see the pec tear. Do you? So I I really squinted right in here and this is the best pec tear I've ever seen. Um yeah, I know, right? I there's no deformity. So I would say I would also ask him when did he tear his pec and how did he do And I bet it was after his contest prep when he felt really strong and he'd h you know the muscles are um you know full of fluid and glycogen again, but the joints are just a month or two behind. Uh cuz I've had clients do that. I've I've had partial tears myself not even doing your typical bench press exercises uh just from getting strong very quickly. Yeah. But um I think he's got a good physique. He's got a nice taper. Uh his shoulders tie into his waist really well. He's got a nice taper there. um from the front. You know what I'm seeing is he just needs more. You know, he's he's got a good structure. I think he just needs more of everything, you know. Let's see. Good shape there in that front double, right? And look at those. I mean, and he to think he's only I wouldn't I don't know how tall he is, but he I wouldn't peg him as 180 something pounds right now. You know what I mean? I would already said he looked like a a light heavy to me. Yeah, I would agree with that. Like if you would have said he was floating at 215 or something like that, I would have been I totally believe in that. Um it looks like, you know, when he gets lean, his legs probably look really nice because you can still see his stoal lines coming through uh at this body weight. Yeah. Let's see the back shot. All right. Here's rear relaxed. I think he had something too with the hamstring. Uh I didn't read all of it here. Um but he said, uh what was it? Um, September 2023, I was doing uh barbell rows. Went down for rep seven and felt a pop come up to find out it was a partial tear of my PSL. Um, all the pain I felt was right behind my knee and in the hamstring. Um, I think we've all had those. Yeah. Yeah. So, it doesn't look like it was Yeah. You if you've had some tears and injuries, man, like you you've you've got the best recovery uh possible. Yeah. Um, I'm going to stick with what I said. He just needs to keep growing and needs he needs more of everything. Um, like I don't see a major structural weakness. I don't see a major muscle deficiency. If I had to nitpick, I would say maybe the back does need more than the others, I guess. But, um, let's see the front lat spread. Let's see. Here's the front L spread. Yeah, just more. I mean, I wish I could give him some more concrete. Uh, I got one for him. What do you got? So, and he probably already knows this. If he popped a hamstring fiber and, you know, tore tore something down there and and he's a little bit scared. Here's the deal, man. I feel like when you have a strong muscle part like quads, then the opposing muscle part needs to be that much better to not look weak. You know what I mean? So when he turns around, I feel like the hams could be stronger. Let's see a side shot. See how the side leg looks. I mean, he's got a hamstring drop. So yeah, you know, that is there. But I I would like to see maybe more hams and glutes. Yep. But more, you know, more back work if especially if you can do deadlifts. I feel like th those things are probably like you said, man, just keep growing and it's going to come, you know? Yeah. I I would just take your time. I I wouldn't I wouldn't say off these pictures that I would, you know, if I had an athlete like this that I'd be like, "Oh, we're definitely going to get a pro card." But I would say everything happens the right way. You know, you could land in a first call out for sure. And then it's just about whoever shows up, you know. Yeah. Um you know, and I don't say that as like a to throw any shade or to to dampen anyone's um you know, dreams or goals, but could he absolutely turn pro? Yes. um with with just more time and volume volumization of his tissue. Absolutely. He's got he's got a good structure, you know. Yeah, I'm with you 100%, man. All right, I'll bring up the other one here. Give me just a minute. We uh you can you can fill for me, Andrew. Yeah, for sure. Absolutely. Um let's see what we got in the comments right now. Thanks for the reply to the email, Scott. This is from Sharp Matt Sharp. He's just Matt Start Sharp started a podcast. Oh, cool. Okay. What he does is he coaches himself himself. He always buys significantly more than he needs. In reference to the last topic that we talked about, he says he's got drawers full. See, that's what I'm talking about. See, so now he doesn't have to get mad at himself for not having stuff ahead of time. All right. I got us got us here. Oh, cool. All right. So, hold on just a second here. Mhm. And I want to bring her email up. Let's see. Um I thought I was all set. Okay. So, this is Chelsea and uh this is her actual this is her reminder email. So, I know I can tell you offhand while you look at this front shot that um she's been competing in both figure and women's physique. Uh here's her email. Um she says she's competed twice now. My first show I got first place in women's physique the and second in figure. Went to nationals got third place in women's physique and fourth in figure. I love both divisions. I would love to do women's physique and not have to hold myself back um in doing figure. However, I'm not sure about chasing the dragon. definitely want to keep my femininity and I uh and I continue to have feelings around the lack of separation between women's physique and women's bodybuilding. Any thoughts are appreciated. Absolutely. Love your show. All of them. Um especially being uh you know uh a hardcore bodybuilder. All right. I'm sorry. I was just reading the com. I just realized who Matt had emailed me as well and I completely just blanked on that. I missed his as well too, man. Well, no, I responded to him about several um good good ideas of people he should have on his show. He wants it to be a little different than just bodybuilding talk. A little bit more, we'll say cerebral than than what you and I do, Scott. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, okay. So, here's a front shot. Here's a back shot. I I'll run through a few more of these. Check this stage shot out. Yeah. I want to see what she looks like. Oh, wow. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. The only problem I see the only thing I see is you got to work on the on the lower abdominal um detention. And a lot of times with our athletes that we'll say aren't in their young 20s or early 30s, a lot of that just has to do with muscle memory and getting after those vacuums over and over and over again and retraining the muscles. Um let's see the top picture. Do you ever have people do um planks? Yeah. So, I've had people that I found, we started doing vacuums and like we saw some improvement and then we added planks in and we don't have to go crazy with them. Like 30 second low plank three times, you know, at the end of your workout and then 30 second low plank, 30 second high plank rest three times. And just through doing that alone, I found that it it has made a difference. Wait, what are you saying is a low plank versus a high plank? Down on the elbows versus up on the hands. I Okay, I got you know, so it's more of just a transition in a slightly different angle. And I feel like when you've been down on your hands or on your elbows, you know, for 30 seconds, then going up on your hands feels different and allows you to extend it, you know? Yeah, that makes sense. And then I I've started looking into reverse planks like off of a bench. What's a reverse like a hang? No, you you would keep your body straight, but your low like your lower back kind of would be on the bench and you just make like a straight line. You'd be like a 45 degree angle kind of thing. I never thought of that, but that makes sense. Yeah. Yeah. Maybe not 45, you know, 30° angle, whatever. No one's bringing a protractor out. Yeah. What's that picture of her on stage with like several other women? All right. In the in the lineup. Yeah. That's her second from the left. Is that right? Uh I'm trying to tell right now. I think yes. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. I'm going to say um conditioning needs to come up especially in the legs. Um and then I'm going to stick with what I said about the uh the midsection. Like you see the woman next to her in the middle. Yeah. The reason why she's in the middle there and the girl next to her that girl next to her in the lighter purple. Yep. Look at that. Yeah. They're taper. They're they're pulling. They're able to pull their abs in. You don't have to be able to do a full vacuum. No one's asking you to do a bumstead um in your figure shot, but you should be able to pull them in a little little bit harder to create that nice Vshape. The other thing I'm seeing with her, and this is just a simple thing, she's got to be able to pull her trunk or her bottoms up a little bit more and she can create more of a Vtaper. Can you blow that up a little bit? Yeah. Um, do you see how like just to give an example, you can tell this woman in the middle is probably very experienced. She's probably done multiple national shows. She's tapered her suit to give her that that nice V taper, and it's creating more of an optical illusion to us that she has more of a taper than she really does. That's a great point, man. Huge point. Yeah. Yeah. So, if Chelsea were to do that, um, it would increase her taper. I see why she's in, you know, in the mix here. She's got the muscularity. She's got as much muscle, if not I think she has more muscle than any of these girls. Look at those legs she has compared to the rest of them. You know, she just needs like another probably three or four weeks to really get crazy conditioning to where she walks out there and and it's a done deal. Yeah, 100%, man. I'm with you. Now, what's funny is her midsection looks better here than it did on stage. So maybe it's an issue of the the carb up the loading. Yeah. Yeah. What they did with um with food leading into the show because she's showing or maybe she's really worked on it since that show. She's showing better abdominal uh control. Yeah. Here is a a slight posing thing. See how she's leaning forward a little bit. I sure do. Yeah. She she she's not showing us how how big she really is um by leaning forward like that. So if she just I always do this like I'm the one doing it like I'm I'm the one posing. Yeah. But she just needs to arch her chest a little bit more. Yeah. And um she's going to look bigger and her taper and structure are just going to improve with I totally see that, man. Look at those calves, too. You know, she's got some some calves on her wheels in general, right? You should see my training partner's calves, dude. Oh, yeah. She's got ridiculous calves. Like, yeah. Way better than mine. Yeah. Almost probably almost as good as yours. Oh, mine are shrinking, man. I mean, yours in your prime. You should have seen me when I was my best. Yeah. Yeah. Um All right. So, we do have a bunch of listener questions and oh, I didn't mention it. If you're new to our content and you enjoy our shows, we'd love to have you along. Hit the subscribe button, hit the bell. The bell will let you know that uh when our stuff comes out. We do have several shows that come out each week. Um only if you really like it, though. Like, you don't have to do us any favors. We want to have people here that enjoy our stuff and are learning. And we love teaching you guys' stuff, too. Andrew, somebody replied from your IGF comment or topic last episode, a couple episodes ago says, "I've taken IGF on three cycles. The first time was the craziest experience. Crazy full pumps with that insulin-like response that shuttles carbs correctly, and I gained a new level of vascularity at the same body fat that last um that lasted for months after I stopped taking the cycle. Unfortunately, that source went away and I could never find IGF like that again. That sounds like my story, man. Yeah. I mean, I think the reason why IGF Des and LR3 are still fairly popular or still being sold is because everyone knows someone that had results like that while using it and they're like, "Okay, well, maybe I was just dosing it wrong. Maybe I I was I wasn't taking it bilaterally or I wasn't using enough or maybe my source wasn't as good as this person's source." So, I I do think I'm not saying they don't work. I'm just saying the the multiple times I've tried it, I didn't really see anything. But I keep obviously trying every couple years because I know someone that is responding from it. And did you get it from the same place, too? Uh I can't remember now. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. I do remember though, man. I'd get really good fullness from it. And I I ended up saying to myself, you know what? I just need more shoulders. I'm just going to put it in my shoulders every day, you know? And I put it in left one one day, right one the next day in the bathroom at powerhouse right before I stepped out onto the gym floor while staring at the sign that says any use of illegal compounds will have your membership taken away immediately. No, I never saw that sign. Never noticed it once. Okay. Um Oh, I got to tell you, too. I got to give you an update, man. He says, "Scott, I agree. I have tried both with Rea and I find that once weekly doses um does more than smaller more frequently. I'm going back to twice a week and I get it. But you know, and I talked to Victoria about this because she had been using semiglutide or yeah, semiglutide for since 2016, I think. But anyway, uh she had said that, you know, you do notice that it's not as strong by the end of the week, but she does like the fact that you do get that big spike. You know, you are going to get a bigger spike, bigger overall spike from it. And it does have, you know, decent halflife, but I am finding that I do better overall with having the more consistent hum controlling my hunger and keeping things stable with two shots per week of reetta. Yeah. So, I tried it. I tried it. Um, all right. Could the fact that I've been taking 50 milligrams of Winstro 30 anavar and 80 mics a day of clenbuterol for 32 days now plus micro doing retatriide for 12 days at 1.6 six milligrams per week. Um, by the result of experiencing severe acid reflux for the last two days, hiccups that won't stop for hours after eating my meals. And so now I have to throw up. Um, could all of this be the result of acid reflux and indigestion? I have managed to lose 25 pounds on this cycle while doing three hours of stair master a day. um 90 in the morning, 90 to 100 minutes at night. Should I stop taking the orals and continue with the rea um along with my 500 test per week? Three hours of cardio a day on the stairs. That's a lot of that's dedication, man. That's Yeah, you climbing the Statue of Liberty. Like that's wild. Um I would say I think his question is he's asking why is he having the um indigestion? The indigestion. Yeah. I mean, it it could be a combination of both, but my first thought would be the rea um with the the delayed gastric emptying. I would imagine what you're probably experiencing is a um probably a delay in or or food backing up and compounding bacteria feeding off some of that food and then creating gas and and whatnot. Um and you might be running into a problem where you're going to give yourself SIBO eventually. So, what my first move is I would cut the rea and I would um it sounds like you've taken a good chunk of fat right off and and and you're maintaining pretty well. So, I would pull the rea but be cognizant that you're going to probably get hit with a wave of hunger pretty quickly. So, have a plan to deal with that whether it's, you know, um warm tea, which is usually my go-to with athletes is, you know, make sure you're drinking like warm teas or maybe even some decaf coffee if it's later in the day. Um, but that would be my first move. Pull the rea for two weeks and see how you do and if it clears up. If it doesn't, then you know it's not the rea and you know it's probably the compounded orals that you're taking. Yeah. And I kind of get it. So he's been on he said the rea for just 12 days now. Listen, if you're already taking two different I don't now let me say this. I'd put it in this order. Reddit true tide first then the clen and wind or excuse me then the Windstrel and Anavar. And the Clen has probably nothing to do with any of this, you know. So it's the least of it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So my thought would be I agree 100%. Pull the rea out and get your digestion back on track. I would also add a digestive enzyme in if he's not using one already. I really like the now food super enzymes that has all your basic amalayise lipase everything. Plus it has like papaya extract and some other things that may or may not be additionally helpful. But it also has a low dose of HCL and it also contain hydrochloride. Yeah. And it has a low dose of um it has that in it too, but it has a low dose of ox bile in it as well if he's got any fats in there. So, it kind of hits everything from, you know, those three different angles. And I find it to work really well for people, just one cap, you know, with a meal. And I'd start with just maybe a couple meals, your two largest meals and then from there maybe build up just to kind of get that food moving better overall and help that digestion. But yeah, uh I would take the CAP uh the digestive agent midmeal too. You mentioned that before. You talked to uh somebody who specialized in this, right? Yeah, I did. and I can't remember who now, but it was a digestive expert um who specializes not in bodybuilding but in digestion in general with people who have issues with gastric motility and whatnot. And um their advice and what their protocol is to take it midmeal because you want to get the initial release of the enzymes. You you want the pancreas to release the enzymes that it should release. You don't want to like trick the pancreas into not releasing them. So you want to get the release, but then you want to supplement it with what it's probably lacking to help with the further digestion of the food. Um, and then the other thing I was going to say is, uh, to help with the gastric motility, definitely try some magnesium citrate. Um, you know, maybe 300 milligrams in the morning with meal one and then another 300 milligrams with like your evening or or later afternoon meal and see if that will help as well with with pushing and moving food along. And and lastly, staying hydrated and and hydrated meaning not just water, but with electrolytes. Dude, we probably should have I mean besides taking the rea out, I think you that's probably we should have started there, you know, that's like huge is making sure But it sounds like you said that it start you started noticing the this side effect shortly after starting the rea. Yeah. No, I mean take the rea out and then like I mentioned enzymes and HCL and I think you're you know your suggestion of water is probably like remove the rea make sure your water's good, you know. Yeah. Yeah. For sure. For sure. Yeah. And uh and let me ask you this then. Let's say he gets everything back on track after, you know, everything's better within one week. He says, "Hey, I'm feeling good." What would you do with the rea then? Um well, I would say what's your goal? Like do you do you are you using it for the appetite suppressing effect or are you using it to help continue to get leaner or improve uh some impaired glucose insensitivity, insulin sensitivity? So my answer would be based on that. if he's at the conditioning that he that he's happy with, then I would say leave it out. You don't know. We don't need to stay on these compounds forever, um, take it out. And then, um, but if he if he still wants to continue to lose and he still, you know, I mean, three hours of cardio a day, that's that's that's a lot, especially if you're not getting on stage, you know, that's that's dedication, you know. Yeah. Um, yeah, I would add it back in, but I probably wouldn't go right back to the same dose. I would probably start at, you know, maybe half the dose he was taking and see if you can get Yeah. get the benefits out of it without the side effects, you know. And I think as far as like what I would do coaching, I wouldn't have somebody running, you know, Winstro and Anavar and Clen at 80 long term. I' I'd want a better overall plan than that. And you know, we've talked about how I run Clen. And I learned it from my coach who learned it from Dave Palumbo. Starting at I start lower now. He would start at 40. I start at 20. And then a couple weeks later when we need to make another change, go to 40. You know, maybe it's two, maybe it's 3 weeks, go to 60, go to 80. I get up to about 100, maybe 120, and then we take a break. But 32 days in to 80 micrograms of Clint doesn't sound like something I would do. What do you think? Depends on the situation. So, like when I'm starting someone out like an early in prep, I'm probably going to hit them hard for like 20 days. Meaning, we're going to start with 40 and then every 5 days we're going to bump it up 20. Okay. Uh until we get to about 100 or 120. Yeah. And and and I say that the situation I should let icate on like the situation would be like they're not coming to me super insulin sensitive and like dieted before we start the diet. You need to give them a shove to get it moving. We need that's a great way to put it. we need to give them a shove into the hole and then we and then we'll pull it back out and we'll we'll rely just on conventional dieting methods to you know maybe till about 10 weeks out and then we'll throw the clen back in. Uh then the other thing is okay let's say we're four weeks out we're behind or we're four weeks out and a and a client's like I really want to jump into this show you know 3 weeks out instead of four weeks out. Yeah. Okay. We're probably going to hit hard. I'm probably going to skip 20 and 40 mics. I'll probably just jump to 60 and we'll we'll we'll titrate it up from there. Uh, but Clint is funny because everyone has their system or everyone has their way in a million different ways work. You know, what you're describing works taking 20 mics, you know, I think Dave does 20 mics with like several meals throughout the day, I believe, if I'm not wrong. Um, versus one like bullis dose in the morning or two bullis doses throughout the day. I he might now. I don't think he did back then, but that was a long time ago. I've seen so many protocols work with Clen that I think as a coach you need to try something that makes sense and then see if that's working and then replicate that again like every couple weeks. Meaning I might run Clen for 10 to 15 days and then pull it out for 7 to 10 days before adding it back in. That that's typically what I'll do. And then um and then okay, maybe the way I'm running it is not working. So I need to change a different strategy with how I'm utilizing it. Maybe I need to hit them harder with it and run it for just like four days at a time with four days off. Or I know a lot of people do a client came to me today. She's doing, you know, two days on, one day off and then every like 3 weeks she'll take a five day stretch off to give the the receptors a break. So there's a million ways to cut it. I don't know if anyone's right or anyone's completely wrong. I just think you need to look at how your client's reacting to it and and and you know, keep programming appropriately. Yeah. Yeah. I'm I'm with you on that 100%. I think for him too, it's like if he is doing that much cardio, like what and I'm not saying like but what is going on with the diet is it sounds like he's really having to like force his body to make the progress, you know? I I just wonder if if there's something else up like, you know, where's your thyroid at and stuff like that? To me, if someone's doing three hours of cardio and they're not just like at that last like, you know, 10 days just to get that last bit off to be just completely peeled, the answer isn't to keep push harder. The answer is pull back, right? I I would imagine, and he can try this, I would give yourself a full five days off of cardio, and I would bump your carbs up probably double what you're eating. So, let's just pretend like he's eating two 50 gram carb meals a day out of his six meals. I would say add another 50 grams to two other meals and just monitor for that four or five days. Maybe pull back on your training even. I would actually insist that two of those days are are non-training days at the minimum, if not three out of the five that were taken off. And I'm going to probably push KSM66 at you. I'm not even going to I'm not even going to have you stick to your step goal. You know, if your step goal is 10K a day, I'm probably going to say, "Let's pull it back to five and don't even really keep track." Yeah. And I want you to sleep in and get to bed early. So that's I want to give the adrenal adrenals a break. I think that could be possibly I mean, it depends on how long he's been doing this, too. But I think that could be a really good move. It's hard sometimes for somebody to take that advice when they know like I'm afraid I'm going to get fat, you know, but I something along those lines I think could probably be a good move. I can give you an example like I get lots of women that have been pushing pushing pushing, you know, hour and a half of cardio a day, you know, 30 to 50 grams of carbs total, and they've been stuck gaining and losing the same one pound for two, three, four, five weeks, right? And I'm like, my my first move is pull all the cardio out. we're going to pull your training to three very low intensity sessions this week. Uh, no step goals, but I do want you to go outside and get a walk in the sunlight. And, you know, by the end of the week, they're down two and a half pounds. And that just boggles them because it never crossed their mind that doing less and pulling back and resting the adrenals was what was needed. You know, and you got to admire that their mindset was, "No, I'll just work harder. I got to work harder." You know, they're willing to do the work, but sometimes the work isn't the answer. Sometimes pulling back is the answer. Yep. I'm with you 100% on that, man. All right. My girlfriend was stuck at 135 for weeks. Clean diet and exercise. Goal was 128. Gave her 1 milligram of reetta. Another redda question per week. And in two weeks, boom, six pounds off. Oh, shoot. I lost my question. Hold on just a second. I'm coming back. I'm coming back here. So, she lost six pounds. She's a couple So, she's she's exceeded her goal basically. Yeah. Six pounds off. And from there, what does she say? Um, uh, stuff is crazy. Uh, she didn't like the way she felt though. Very tired and sleeping more. 120 ounces of water per day, electrolytes, and collagen. Did you say anything about uh peeds? Nothing about peeds. Nothing about other than reto. Yeah. No, nothing about diet either or anything else. Well, I mean, but just eating clean, I think. Yeah, clean diet and exercise. Well, just the very nature of prep and you got to think I I try to use this u metaphor of the day, right? We're up for 17 16 17 hours out of the day and then we got to sleep for six, seven hours, eight hours if if if we can to regenerate for the next day. And if we break our time of dieting into like these little like let's say three or four week uh mess cycles where okay we're going to we can push hard for three out of those weeks but we got to kind of pull back at some point for at least an a slightly extended period of time to uh to to allow the adrenals to rest to be able to have another push again. You know, I mean, all of our diets are really contest prep is just a series of, you know, digging deep and then pulling back, digging deep and pulling back. And we're pulling back to confuse the brain into thinking that we're not doing all this work, right? That's essentially what we're trying to do is confuse the the brain and the body into thinking, okay, it's safe now. We we we could liberate some energy. He's not just storing all this energy and and and pushing pushing pushing, you know? Yeah. Um, so that's what I think. All right. I missed the question. Is she stalling? What? Oh, I just reading Matt Sharp's question. I missed the question. Is she stalling? But it sounds like she didn't stall. She's she she dropped six pounds and now she's just kind of fatigued out of it. Yeah, I think that's our main concern is the fatigue. Oh, this might get you started. I don't want to get you uh started on the pharmaceutical industry, but I think you're going to find this one interesting, man. Probably. in reference to Janoshik and testing gear. Um, I've used him with a lot I've used him a lot uh with the business that I'm in and as an experiment just to check Jano's accuracy. I sent in Walgreens Pharma brand Watson test sip 200 milligrams. I was assuming that it would be a great benchmark but to my surprise it came back at 189 milligrams. And I know that legally FDA has allowed 5% margin of era error um to be above or below claims, but just to make sure it wasn't a one-off inaccuracy uh in the lab measurements, I sent in three samples from three different bottles of Watson. All three of the 200 mgram sip came back at 189 to 191 milligrams. and knowing they're allowed a 5% margin of error. Um, uh, the conclusion I drew is that it's far too much of a coincidence that they are consistently 5% under. It seems to be rather deliberate. And when you're dealing with millions of bottles, that could little bit could add up. Sounds like pharma's getting greedy in that situation. Just saving a penny a bottle times a million. Um, not not necessarily. And I'll tell you what I think is because you know when you get a 200 mill milligram bottle of per cc bottle of test sip it's not 200 milligrams of testosterone. It'sund I think they're actually accurately dose for what what you're getting right like when you when you say oh I'm taking 900 milligrams of test a week. You're not actually injecting 900 milligrams of testosterone because you're taking into account the oils you're injecting as well the estster weight. Exactly. So so they're expected to be a little bit lower. Are they? Yeah. And the fact that every single bottle came back at 189 tells me that they're very that the precision is there. So yeah, I I I don't think that um I don't think they're doing anything wrong. Yeah. Like you know what I found too is that sometimes not sometimes I not sure what brand I have here but it's pharma and 2 milll vials or 1 mill 1 milll vials and they're all like 1.2 almost. It's like 1 point one, you know, 1.15. There's a little bit more than a mill in each bottle. Okay. Like, do we know what type of testosterone it is, you said? But is it is there are they sipping? Yeah. Yeah. Test it. All right. um just because I couldn't remember the exact number but um I just did a quick search and a if you're asking about a this is for an a 250 mgram bottle of testosterone anth contains approximately 180 milligrams of actual testosterone this is because the testosterone molecule includes the ananthester attached to the tesone molecule the esther adds weight so a 250 milligram dose of testosterone E contains a lower amount of active substance so so it's the the raw test is that but I'm I I would figure that you were testing for how much testee is in there. That's what I assumed. You know what I mean? Well, so yeah, but so so what I'm saying is I bet if you look at the packaging on uh Watson's 200 milligram testosterone, it'll say active ingredient 189 or somewhere around that doubt 180 something milligrams of testosterone and then it'll also say the Yeah. Okay. Okay. So I don't I don't think they're cheating. I I would love to say they are. I trust me, like I I think that they're all scumbags, but but I I don't think in this case um they're doing anything faulty here, you know? It's like uh it's like, okay, when I go and get my green tea supplement and it says it's 600 milligrams of green tea, but then it'll say like, you know, 180 milligrams of actual katakin, which is the the the active ingredient, right? I get what you mean. Yeah. Yeah. All right. I've got one another one for you. Has anyone tried injectable SLU PP332 yet? I have not because I've just been so pleased with the oral. I thought you started with the injectable. I I'm so I was going to so I found a company before I I I found parabolic peptides I think through you. Um where I was going to buy a bunch of raw powder uh because you can just buy it and I was just going to make my own preparations and sterilize it and then inject it. Okay. I thought you ended up still getting the his in injectable version. All right. Well, the and the issue is though and I know people are doing experiments online. Yeah. The to to use the same amounts that are done in rat studies, it ends up being quite a bit. Oh, yeah. And my fear is that I don't need my mitochondria to run wild. You know, I want them efficient. Yeah. I don't need them, you know, I don't need to run myself into metabolic disease and I don't want to be the one that does that. and, you know, teach the rest of us, you know. Exactly. You know, I I'm AI'm a don't get greedy, take what you can get, but don't get greedy about it, you know. And I've been very pleased with the SLU oral. I took a break from it. I had been running it since uh, you know, I discovered it back in January, February, January, and I was doing really, really well, and then I just felt like I just wasn't getting the same bump out of it anymore. I wasn't getting the same benefit and the same cognitive boost. So, I took a break and while I was taking a break, I tried five amino mq. I honestly, man, I doeds this stuff up to a relatively high dose. Um, I didn't get anything anything at all out of it, I don't think. So, I know that people some people have, but hey, it just goes to show that I guess everybody's different. Uh, have you had any experience with the five amino? Uh, I have not taken it, but I have many clients that have taken it and not a zilch. Okay. I I think I think the 5MQ and some of these other compounds are more hype and more in lab rats, more in theory this will happen, but I don't think it I I don't think they pan out in in actual human um studies on themselves. Yeah, I've heard people talking about it like crazy, you know, like it's this new great thing and have you tried it and all that. So, I was saving it and um I didn't find I got much much from it. One I have gotten a lot from is dada though and I found that one seems more appealing. Yeah, I I like it and I've used it intermittently and I found some really good benefit from it. Um I was going to try another experiment. Uh I got some MK-677. I hadn't used it in years, Andrew, like years, right? And my thought was so after, you know, Scott and I talked about it years back, a few years ago, and we found that in in some studies, it showed that you would, you know, definitely get benefit after a day. A lot of people would, but then after a week, some people were getting nothing from it. And this new podcast we did, we discovered that you may get more benefit if you're older and not producing as much growth. So I thought, huh, okay, maybe that could be beneficial to me. And some of these people who were older were getting great benefits for like a year off five milligrams. And I thought, well, if I know it's going to work hopefully like after one dose, what if I were to use this just intermittently to get like an additional GH boost on say an extra hard training day, right? So, I have the stuff and I save it and I wait and I take it and uh then uh I woke up five times that night because I was starving, man. I forgot how much the appetite would increase. Dude, I like man, I'm going to go back to that. You know, we've have so many people that ask us like, "What should I take for appetite?" Yeah. And I when I used it in the past, man, it was way back in the day, like when I was eating a ton of food already. So, maybe I didn't notice the difference, but yeah, dude. Dieting and trying to take a tab of MK. Oh my god, man. I was like, "Okay, I'll just eat a half a rice cake so I can get back to sleep, you know? Oh, have a scoop of protein so I can get back to sleep. I probably had like, you know, additional freaking 300 calories by the time I went to bed and got up. For me, it was always um do a little bit of fat when you wake up starving because, you know, it's going to cause you to release CCK, choleiccyinine, which is going to interfere with the appetite signaling and shut down your appetite a little bit better. Yeah. But, um, with the MK, me and Scott did a we did a call I want to say maybe six or seven years ago. Okay. and maybe a little bit less maybe 5 years ago and we we jumped on Zoom and we were going through studies together like we do sometimes like we have done in the past about a few things and um or maybe it was a phone call and we were looking at studies together but either way I think what we settled on was the best way to dose MK was every other day. Yeah. And maybe he's changed his opinion since then, but uh due to like I think like the overlapping and and like receptor desensitization, we thought that if you're dosing it every other day and probably a little bit lower than people typically dose it. Yeah. You're going to get a you're going to get more of an additive benefit than if you're to take like 25 or 40 milligrams every day, maybe 10 milligrams every other day is going to allow for a bigger boost. Yeah. Yeah. And I, like I said, man, we saw the study that was even five milligrams, but uh Modern Amino had the standard 25 milligram cap, so that's what I got. And I wasn't going to like break it open in the middle, you know, at night. And that's just like I'm going to take 25 whatever, go to sleep. I did wake up feeling like a million bucks, though. Like every time I've taken MK man, I wake up feeling just amazing. I get the best rest. Even though I woke up five times, I felt good. I felt that good like like I took GABA the night before sleep where you feel super like it was a deep restful sleep you know that's the best you ever use gabapentin oh yeah I was prescri I've been prescribed you hear that oh yeah I heard that the skies are open the lord coming for you yeah it is hurricane season I was going to ask have you have you ever tried uh mirror begrren no I have one client that's running it though what do you think about it uh I like it. Um, and I'm not someone that gets upset about waking up to Oh, my power just went out. I hopefully my internet stays on. If we lose Andrew, guys, you know what happened. Tai's with us. He's He might be using it. But, um, it does help with not waking up to you to have to go to the bathroom. Oh, for sure. Multiple times a night. Like I don't I don't wake up like I actually last night I slept the whole night through which is crazy. It's an incontinence medication, right? Yeah. it uh uh relaxes smooth muscle tissues like the bladder to allow more urine to build up versus giving you that that signaling of oh I got to go I got to go um so yeah you know what I just realized I am so happy last week I think I told you I switched to fiber optic and that's why my why my internet didn't go out my power went out but my internet is still working perfectly holy crap your internet's working perfect and you're on a laptop so you didn't lose the power that's yeah that's that Wow so I'm very happy thank Thank you, Frontier, uh, for coming to my house and soliciting me because usually I Well, I usually chase them out the door for coming to my doorstep. But yeah, we're going to get one of those no soliciting signs for that very reason, right? The other thing about Mirror Begron is that um it also hits um your brown atapost tissue. So, there's some fat loss pathways there, too. Yeah. Yeah. And that's why I think it's, you know, been used lately as for fat loss, but I didn't realize it was specifically focused on brown fat, I believe. believe so if I'm not mistaken and honestly zero side effects you know I've been using it for two weeks now and zero side effects and one more thing I want to say about the Slooh I do like a 5 days on two days off um I feel like you're going to get a longer use out of it I haven't stopped taking it because it's not like I'm seeing like these additive benefits still but I'm maintaining a really lean look on next to no other peeds and I have to attribute a lot of that to to the Slooh you know yeah I'm seeing really good results with right now I have three guys that are going to be competing later in the season and that they're off cycle right now um preparing to get into their contest cycle and we've started it already you know during this phase of TRT I think it gives them a mental boost to have that in you know you definitely they're getting endurance from it they're they're getting positive benefits and I feel like that's just creating this really great momentum and we haven't even added anabolics you know I think I mentioned that a few weeks back. But it's a it's a good place to be, man. It's a great place to be when you're looking good and you don't have a lot of gear in you. Yeah. And because you just know, you know, the fullness is going to come back even stronger. The hardness, the round, your training is going to get better, all of it, you know. Uh and then and I think you do the same thing where you just you really try to encourage your clients to get the most out of the least for as long as they can and then we add the PEDs in. Yeah. When when when variables stop improving and you're like, "Wow, that's where the synergy really happens." I agree 100%. Hey, on the mirror bag, how are you dosing that? Uh 50 megs a day. Okay. And do you just take that all at once in the morning or how does that work? Um I take it when I remember. Okay. So it it has been in the morning but you know for a while there when I try something new for some reason I leave it right here by my desk. So I don't end up taking it consistently at the same exact time. I take it when I look up and I see it. Oh yeah. Yeah. That's me. But now Yeah. Yeah. Exact. Yeah. Exactly. It's it's one of those things where I I don't know when it's a new compound, I feel like I want to be able to look at it and and oh, I'm going to do some more research on it, you know, as I'm as I'm testing it, you know. Yep. I'm with you on that 100%, man. Hey, did you have another question? We had a uh actually it was a another shout out, too, wasn't it? And we had a question. Let me grab this this photo here. Question about HDL. Okay. And I'm going to open this photo up so we've got it. But yeah, we can go to the HDL question. What was it here? Um, question about lipids. I have fixed my LDL, but my HDL is in the 20s. Um, what have you guys done to raise it that actually worked? I'm already maxed out on uh cardio deep in a cut. Okay. Um, well, first, if he's saying he's maxed out on cardio, what I would do is I would definitely switch to HIT if he's not doing any HIT because that's going to get your HDL boosted more than steady state even. Okay. Yeah. Um, but do you have my picture that I showed you in my labs? Yeah. Give me just a minute here. I'm going to pull that up. So guys, you know, not that I I'm a heavy user, but you know, I think I was running probably about a thousand uh milligrams total peed for, you know, probably several months before this. And then I found out that I needed to get some some labs done for disability and a new life insurance policy. So obviously, I wanted to clean them up and and and get them as good as possible because your rate is determined on on your health status, right? Yeah. So, if you look at the uh top, there's two pictures here. I should have put a line in there, but the the first picture is from 421 2025. So, April 21st, my HDL was 25, my LDL was 143. So, not what you want to see, right? And then if you look at the bottom date, 62 2025. So, about 5 and a half weeks later, my HDL was back up to 46 and my LDL was cut down to 73. What did I do different? you know, crap. I didn't add any different cardio strategies because I was already doing 30 minutes of cardio 5 days a week and I've just been maintaining that. And with the Slooh that I'm taking and the way I diet, I'm able to maintain um a nice a fairly lean look that way. But I was already using some of your supplements like, you know, uh citrus bergamont. Um dude, I found citrus bergamont to be a have a really positive impact since I'm haven't run a lot of gear. I I've been running it long term and my HDLs just sits in like the 40s now. No problem. I mean, years ago it used to be like, you know, 25 and struggling. Yeah. Whenever I use anything above, let's say 300 milligrams of testosterone, my HDL is what slides, you know, it so for me to see a 25 after maybe 10 to 12 weeks of of, you know, around 1,000 milligrams total of peed. Yeah. Um that that that was normal for me. You know, in contest prep with everything going on, I I could I think I got it as low as 13 one time, you know, a lot of orals. We'll do that to you real quick, too. Orals and some some AIs and and all the good stuff, you know. Yeah. But um in terms of like I have a stack that I use and a lot of my clients will use this when we see poor labs like this. Uh citrus bergammont, 1200 milligrams, AM and PM. Okay. Fish oil three grams AM and PM. Are you when you say AM and PM, are you saying you'll do three grams in the AM and three in the PM or three split? Okay, just double check. Yeah, sorry. So, so three grams with like meal one, three grams with u meal five or six. Okay, great. Um, same thing with the citrus bergammont. 1,200 with my first meal, 1,200 with a later meal. Okay. Um, carterine I hit fairly hard at 20 milligrams in AM and 10 milligrams PM. Okay. Uh, picoginal I added 100 milligrams both AM and PM. I don't know that one. Uh uh French maritime bark you might know it as. Okay. Okay. Okay. Um I can't remember exactly what the It's something similar to like green tea like the proanthocyins that are in it. Yeah. Okay. Um kyolic aged garlic 600 milligrams am and pm. Uh green tea two cups a day. And then green tea extract another 400 milligrams a day. uh cortisol QR which is a patented form of bubiquinol 600 milligrams a day and then bourberine 500 milligrams amm and that was so that's my stack that I used to uh basically double my almost double my um HDL and cut my L LDL in half in about five and a half weeks now I I don't want to take away anything from the other supplements but I would be just very curious if you just did the carterine on its own compared to that and you know what I mean I would just curious because I've seen carterian on its own like really ramp it up fast for me. So I can tell you for me personally carterine on its own does not um it it works but not like that it would have brought me back up to like maybe 36 okay instead of 46 you know. Yeah. Um but this is a similar stack that I've ran several times when like I really wanted to fix something fast like I wanted to get it done in five because I remember I did a cycle I think I told you guys about when I combined uh like test deca and tren in the same cycle. Oh, yeah. And that one really tanked my my HDL. So, I did something similar, but I updated the protocol a little bit to um to what I just mentioned a second ago. Nice, man. Well, that's that's like literally literally like nearly doubled, you know? I mean, that's incredible. I can only imagine because I'm going to get my labs done in I think 10 days is when I'm scheduled and I'm going to be I I I would love to see if it gets to 50. That'd be cool, man. All right, we got one more thing here and it is a shout out to Is this one of the guys in the group? I'm sorry. Oh, the bodybuilder. Yeah. Yeah. Uh I saw his pictures in the in the post. This was actually earlier than when he competed. He competed this last weekend. Um his name is Anthony James. He's a good bodybuilder in the Northeast. Yeah, he won. Yeah, he won one of the New York shows and I'm sorry if I'm not remembering the name, but he beat another good athlete who's a former client of mine who also is coached by a friend of mine, Mike Nif. Um, he beat him in the overall in bodybuilding, uh, Josh Matusk, who's also a listener. So, both gentlemen looked amazing on stage. They were both in condition. They were both, uh, so this picture, I believe, was taken like three or four weeks before the show, really. Um, so yeah, so he came in nice and if you read the caption, he's he's uh he's doing North Americans this year and I think he's got a good shot. Um, the Lord's on his side. He just cheered for him. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. The Lord just [\h__\h] g gave you or gave you some uh some thunder, buddy. So um and I believe he's coached by Justin Justin Jacobe. So they did a great job. Okay. Yeah. His conditioning is outstanding, especially considering like he could go into the show with this no problem. But three weeks out, man, you know that those glutes got even harder. And yeah, you know, look, look at the look at the way his lumbars are sticking out. I know. That's pretty wild. That's pretty cool. If he wants a critique and wants my two cents, you know, I would say he needs a little bit more in that upper back and and like the the Terry's region just to to match the poppiness that he has in the rest of his physique. I'm nitpicking though because Yeah. You know, when when he's dried out that they probably stick out, you know, the the muscles probably pop out at you even more. Yeah, there's another good one. Yeah, man. This is this is interesting that uh we were literally getting to witness a Florida hurricane right now. What's crazy is it's not even raining yet. Really? No. Go outside and hold your laptop up and uh Should I put on my uh my my tin hat, too? My Yeah. Yeah. All that. It'll be, you know, we'll get a good thumbnail for the uh Yeah, that would be sick. That would be sick, man. We appreciate you guys tuning in. Um, Andrew, do you have a space for uh coaching right now still? Um, yeah. I mean, if it's the right fit, I'm I'm always open to entertaining conversations with people. It's been crazy busy. I mean, I think I I've added I've lost like probably three clients, but I added like seven in the last 10 days. So, trying to stay on top of getting new programs. So, if I've told you I'm going to get you a program by this weekend, I promise I will. I'm working very hard and diligently. I do have to stop at times to chat with my friend Scott here and give you guys some great information. So, I appreciate that. You know, I used to try to like get somebody's program out to them like same day, you know, because I know like Shelby will do that, but yeah, honestly, I tell people now that I can get you set up in about a week. I usually take Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday. I'll have one of those days is usually going to be pretty light for me. And that's the day I want to do it because I get to like sit back and relax and I get to have fun with it. I I think that I'm not taking as many clients as you on. You know what I mean? So, it's like I'm trying to keep it fun, but I I do tell them it'll be like about a week. How long do you usually take turnaround time to get somebody started? Oh man, it depends. So, if if someone's like in a prep and they're like, let's say they're in an issue with a coach and they're four four weeks out, that's different. Yeah. So, I got I had one of those today that I did. And usually I do ask for a premium on that. I do ask for a little extra. Um because it means I'm probably pushing off some of my check-ins and and I'm working till 11:00. So, it's it is like a it's not like I'm just being lazy or I'm just I I just want more money. It's like I'm going to be burning the candle at both ends for this and probably my cardio or my training is going to suffer in some way. Yep. But um usually I I I tell people, you know, within a week you're going to get a plan from me, you know. And a lot of times I start with just like an intro of like, okay, let me just quickly look at what you're doing. Okay, do this, but change these two things and then I'm going to give you a more in-depth plan that we can really work with going forward. Yeah. or sometimes if they're already doing something pretty good, you know, you you might just need to make those small adjustments or maybe we change a few carb sources out or something, you know, but if somebody has a good structure to their plan already, I'm not going to come in and especially if they already have a good physique, like, you know, inexperienced bodybuilder, I'm not going to tell them like, hey, we need to reinvent this whole thing, you know? I mean, it's that's an easy case. It's also a really easy situation when someone has been eating three meals a day of like Chipotle, McDonald's, and and Wendy's. So, you're like, "Oh, this is easy. let's go four clean meals a day and start there and add a couple steps in. You're going to see progress. The hard ones are where someone comes to you and they're eating chicken and vegetables only and they're on 85 or 100 mics of T3 and 100 mics of Clen and they're like, "My body stalled and like, you know, and my show's in four weeks. What do I do?" You know, you get those situations and um you got to and like we said earlier in the episode, a lot of times it's a matter of we got to pull back and hopefully we have enough time to pull back and then hit you hard again before the show. Yeah. Or sometimes we just got to pick a different show. Yeah, that's sometimes the case, too. Guys, reach out to Andrewbody.com. Skip's not with us because we record a couple episodes at once, so he was still at the dentist probably. Uh, you can reach out to him, though, at teamskip.com. And you can hit me up at mcnal diets@gmail.com. We'd all be happy to talk. And of course, uh, trnutrition.com, use our code of think over there, supplements.ca for Canadians. Uh, thank you to everybody from Patreon and glad we could get those uh those listener critiques up from Patreon. You guys are freaking awesome. Thank you for giving to us, I'm glad we could give something back to you and for another episode of Blood, Sweat, and Gear. We'll see you soon. Thanks as always, Andrew. Thank you. And I got to tell you too, man, as much as I love when we have the the group together, I like the one-on-one conversation. And I do it's I it's fun because I can kind of pick your brain a little bit more. And like even the cle thing, I might do not change what I'm doing, but I still love hearing how you do it. I agree. You know, kind of gets me thinking, you know, for for lack of a gay term, it's it's a little more intimate, you know? It's where you can have more of a real discussion. And um I mean, I like all of it. I like the group. I like one-on- ones. I I like it all. So, I I look like I'm literally dead. Like the lighting. Yeah. The lighting is set up to make me look like dead. Hold on just a second there. All right. Like I'm like