 What did he say? The cheat one? Yeah, the cheat one. Yeah, the cheat one. He was like, is this channel for PED users slash cheats? Yep, so you're all cheats, lot of ya. What's up guys, welcome back to the podcast with Dave Crosland, I'm Scott McNally, and all of our programming is brought to you by you, the people of Patreon. Thank you guys very much for your support. We're brought to you by EvalBloodBloodAnalysis.com. We're brought to you by EvalBloodAnalysis.com. We're brought to you by EvalBloodAnalysis.com. You can get your labs done by Dave if you're in the UK. We're brought to you by Strum Sports Nutrition, available in both the US and the UK. They have great health stacks, especially if you're on cycle, great cycle support. We're brought to you by TrueNutrition.com. Use our code THINKOVERTHER for 10% off all your basic bodybuilding supplements like protein, creatine, intro workout. Everything is third party and in-house tested. It's super high quality stuff. We've been doing for 20 years and we're brought to you by SupplementSource.ca for Canadians. They have great deals that change week to week on short dated and label change products, stuff like that. Dave, we got a lot of feedback on the last show, man. A lot of feedback. We've got like, oh God, we're probably not going to be able to do all the questions. You know, we probably have 40 questions. We won't be able to get to all of them today, man. Well, what we'll have to start doing now is if you want a question answering, you must donate $10 to the ProCharger Fund. You'd get your ProCharger in no time. It'd be quick. And here's the thing, guys. Dave is an expert witness for the UK court system. He's been an educator for PEDs, for police, military, and of course, average people just like you and me for years over in England. And I've been coaching for the past decade full time. All the other about 15 years I've been coaching. So we're just here to freely share our education with you. Dave was also featured in the documentary Under Construction if you want to go see him at 400 pounds. Also, I'm doing an interview with ITV on Friday in London. What's ITV? Oh, it's a TV channel. It's probably not that good. No, it'll be shit. It's probably shit. Well, you've got to look at where they stretch their budget for the people that they get to talk on the show. And that gives you an indication of how crap it's going to be, doesn't it? Because they've got me there. How much are they paying you? They're not. That's the point. What are you guys going to talk about? I'm not sure, to be honest. So they interviewed me briefly at FitX. And then he went off and he's seen a few other people in the industry. More the research side of stuff. So I think he spoke to Jim. He definitely had an interview with Joe Keane, who runs Bloodworks for you. And some other bits and bats. And then he's come back to me and said, would you be willing to do an interview? Yeah, fine. Whatever. So they've sorted me a train down to London on Friday. Oh! They're actually paying for your train. Oh, I won't be paying for it for myself. I mean, there's limits. I don't mind doing it for free. I guess that's... Yeah, that makes sense. I'm not paying to do it, you know. Do they get you a first class ticket or do they put you in the back? No, they put me in with a cow. Postage bags. I use Seatfrog. So it's not actually expensive to just upgrade anyway, to be honest. Oh! You told me about that when I was in England. No, no, no. When Victoria went to England, we used that app. And it worked out really good. So listen, you guys help to drive our programming. We take your listener questions through the episodes. And if you want to ask any questions on the next one, then definitely comment here. Plus, comments, likes, all that stuff, it helps to boost our show on the algorithm. And if you are new here, let me encourage you to subscribe, hit the bell, all that stuff. And share this with a friend. You don't have to be embarrassed that you watch the show. It's okay. I would be, though. We did get comments. There were some people that found our show, Dave, that hadn't seen it before. One guy was like, what the F am I watching right now? And another guy asked us, remember that comment I sent you? What did he say? The cheat one. He was something. Yeah, the cheat one. He was like, is this channel for PED users slash cheats? Yep. So you're all cheats. Lots of you. I love it, man. I freaking love it. So we had a question about, it was, the question was for a guy who's over 50. He was like, hey, what do you guys think about me using anabolic steroids over 50 years old? His goal is to grow as much muscle as possible. And if we were to just use that question as it is, I feel like it would be kind of limiting because then it's going to alienate most of our audience. You know what I mean? Anybody under 50 years old is going to be like, yeah, this is for me. But I'm going to say this, man. How about anabolic steroids for the aging person? Somebody who's maybe not in their peak anymore. Over 35 years old, all our hormones start to decrease. Things start going downhill, man. So what about gear for older guys? Let's hash that out, and then we'll get into all our listener questions. What about gear for older guys? I think a lot depends on where the individual's coming from. There are a lot of guys, as they get older, may not have lived the healthiest lives prior, may not have exercised and get to this sort of midlife crisis point where they think, shit, I need to solve myself. And once you get over 35, and particularly when you start getting over 40 and 50, health becomes more important to you because you do feel it. You do feel tired. You do get the aches and pains in the morning. You don't bounce back like you used to, and you definitely start to feel the increasing years and age creeping in on you. Now, often guys will look to TRT for legit reasons, i.e. test is genuinely low. Some will look to TRT just because they're trying to recapture youth, and they're trying to start to fight the aging process. They may not necessarily clinically be in need of TRT, but it doesn't mean that it can't add an improvement to the quality of their life. That TRT then starts to move to TRT+, then cycles, and there is a little bit of a progression there. If someone's lived a relatively healthy life, then getting into anabolics at 40 or 50 is not necessarily going to be any riskier than doing it at a younger age. And definitely from a TRT point of view, it actually might be health beneficial. Yeah. But if they've lived an abusive life, you know, that damage isn't suddenly undone because you've decided to start going to the gym three times a week and take TRT. Yeah. And so there is that background that can have a massive influence on how risky getting into anabolics is in later years. The biggest single organ that we need to be concerned about is obviously our heart. And, you know, not even an abusive, but an unhealthy lifestyle leading up to 40, 45 years old can significantly enrich cardiovascular risk. Then adding anabolics on top of that can actually be a bit of a recipe for disaster. So you just need to be honest with yourself. You know, how have I been in my life? Have I eaten a bad diet, drunk shit, loads of alcohol, not really taking care of myself? If that's a scenario, then I would invest in doing some reasonable heart work before going down the anabolic route. TRT maybe not so much if you're going to run it legit, but if you're going to want to start pushing into higher doses, then I think it's well worth the time just to spend a little bit of time and be seeing where are my heart felt, where are my cardiovascular wise, because I am going to increase the risk by going on above range anabolic levels. And if that background is already there, I could run into problems actually quite quickly in my usage life. If we're all clear though, I see some aging guys that start pushing into two grand plus cycles because they're not seeing the results that they used to see. And it's like, yeah, you know, even if your hormones are you for the rest of you isn't. And there's not a lot you can do to offset that. Yes, there's a wealth of peptides now and very other supplements that may help to an extent, but they can't fully reverse the aging process. So growth at 50 is not going to be as substantial as growth at 25 and 30, as in muscular growth. Yeah. So, and you can't going down the line of trying to super compensate for that by running more and more drugs is definitely a bad avenue to run down. So you need to be realistic about that. Getting to anabolics in the later years isn't necessarily a bad thing. And like I said, TRT stuff can actually be health beneficial, but you are not going to see the youthful responses that you would if you got into anabolics at 22. I think that a lot of these guys too, with the popularity of TRT in the last decade, you know, it's, it's just blowing up at least here in the States. Um, I think that's where a lot of like, we've talked a lot about the TRT plus type cycles. And I think it's a lot of those guys, the guys who are maybe prescribed TRT. And then they ask themselves, like you mentioned, you know, that next step is, well, what else can I do? A little TRT plus, I think you can make a lot of progress with a little, you know, especially for a guy who's in a position, let's say that I run into a lot of guys who maybe didn't lift through their younger years, right? Now they're 45 years old or 40 years old. Excuse me. They've started TRT up. And you know what? They're, they're making great progress in the gym. Like you can still grow a lot of muscle. I understand. I'm with you a hundred percent that like, you're not going to grow at 40 the way you did when you were 20. But, you know, especially for somebody who maybe doesn't have, you know, a ton, 20 years of gym experience, like you could do probably a lot more than, than, than you realize, you know what I'm saying? Yeah, no, I agree. So let's talk a little bit about cycles then TRT, TRT plus type cycles into going into like legit full on cycles. I mean, we've talked all about the, Hey, can I add 10 milligrams of Anivar, you know, and is it going to give you a little bit more? Absolutely. I mean, what do you think, Dave, somebody who's just running TRT and they want to do even better. I mean, what would be a low dose approach that you think would be beneficial? And I know we've talked about this before, but it hasn't been a main topic for the show. I think there's this, there's two things in the sense of there's increasing dose to get some real world, tangible physical gains. And then there's increasing dose to possibly get a performance edge or just feel a little bit better and stop that a little bit more. Sure. So like you're taking 10 milligrams of Anivar and stuff like that. I'll get to give you a little bit of a performance edge. You're going to feel something. It's not going to be particularly dramatic though, from a point of view of muscular progress. Yeah. So I do think you're going to have to push into a more robust cycle, but I would still say that a total anabolic loading of 400 milligrams is going to be adequate at that point. I'm with you. I don't see much point in pushing above sort of sevens. even if you, you know, you are getting into doing full blown cycles, unless you have the genetics to support. And you'll know that very early on. I mean, there are people that get into training in the mid forties into early fifties and grow like weeds because they've always had that genetic potential. They've just never explored it. Yeah. But if you're not getting that sort of good quality responses in those lower doses, I wouldn't then start looking down the lines. Well, let's take more. Let's take more. Because I don't think the, the juice is going to be worse. The squeeze in the sense of what you're going to get in returns for what the risk is in running, you know, one gram plus cycles when you're already in your fifties. Here would be my thought. So step one, let's say he's on 150 milligrams of doctor prescribed testosterone, and he wants to turn that into a cycle. I go with 300 tests. I think that would be a fantastic start. 300 tests for 12 weeks. See what you get out of that. You could take it a step further next time. Maybe it's 300 tests, 25 anivar, maybe following cycle might be, I don't know, 300 tests, 300 mast. You know, for a cut, like, like any, I'm with you, man. I think that three, 300 to 700 milligram range, you can do an awful lot with, especially for the guys that we are talking about. I think that just becomes a point very quickly with, with all the gentlemen, because of the fact that, you know, every cell in their body is aged. Yeah. Where if you're not getting the responses, sub one gram going above it, isn't really going to be beneficial. And the health risks are going to increase quite significantly. With you. Yeah. How about, how about, I think that growth hormone could be a great tool here. A lot of times we're talking about growth hormone just for like full on, how anabolic, how much muscle are you going to gain from growth type of thing. But I think in a case like this, from a wellbeing point of view, right. General health wellbeing point of view. Yeah. The only thing I would say is just check your HBA one C before. Okay. Yeah. Let's make sure that we're not already kicking on the door of type two before you start throwing growth into the mix. You know, as long as, as long as your HBA is in a good place, then, then I have no issue with that and GH in at all. And like I say, I think the older gentleman would, at a lower dose would actually get more out of it. Yeah. Then, right. Then say someone in their twenties at a lower dose. I think, I think the, the, the, the reward is going to be much, much more significant when you, when you're north of 40. Yeah. I I'm with you a hundred percent on that. Let me ask you. So running eval, your, your lab company, seeing a lot of blood work from PED users every day. How frequently do you see blood sugar complications from growth hormone use? I wouldn't say we see complications, but we start to see HBA. creeping up to those high thirties, which does have an impact on progression without doubt. Um, if you can get your, your HBA one, see sort of high twenties, low thirties, you'll be surprised how much better your progress is going to be. Then trying to struggle through at higher levels. Um, and obviously what's the common, the threshold, what's the range? So the threshold UK wide pre, pre-diabetic is 42. Okay. So anything 37 or above, I would class as being insulin resistant. Okay. Okay. And for us, it's more like, I think what's the normal is below five, seven. So yeah, you look at a slightly different cell. Yeah. Yeah. So, so yeah, I want to see below that easily. Yeah. I'd say is common. the, the, the, the difference in people's progress when you get your insulin response in a good place is, is, is surprisingly significant, not just from a point of view of, of less fat accumulation in a push, but also from a point of view of fullness, pumps, energy in the workout, just general wellbeing. Um, so I think insulin sensitivity is something that maybe we don't pay as much attention to as we should. Um, and I think for a lot of people, it's probably overlooked. Um, I mean, we do see a high percentage of bloods with their insulin sensitivity, not in the greatest of places. Um, and when I've, when I've worked on it with clients and we've worked on improving it, it has made significant improvements in their progress. Oh yeah. Yeah. I mean, if you, if you don't have your insulin sensitivity, you're not going to be able to store nutrients properly. You're, you're not going to be able to grow muscle as well. You're going to better store fat. Um, it's the foundation, you know, I know we've talked before about, you know, offseason cycles and growing. You've mentioned it countless times and I'm right there with you that in order to start a bulk cycle, you need to, you need to be able to demonstrate that you can get lean first, you know, and being able to kind of tighten up before you push the calories up is going to be beneficial. And it's for that very reason, right? Yeah. You, I think, you know, I think one of the reasons why we've talked about this, why secondary books don't always work very well is because that insulin response is blunted because of the calorie push. Yeah. If you can keep that tight and fresh, um, then, you know, I think that the potential for continued growth is massive. And what a lot of, not a lot, it's probably the wrong term. What some guys will do is they'll turn to increasing insulin levels rather than improving insulin response, which will give you some short term game, but won't long term. All it will do is worsen the insulin response long term because you're just going to add to that resistance. 100%. But it will get you out of the hole if you're, if you're in a jam where you need to, to get it moving and you don't have the time to work on. But yeah, it's a short term goal, a short term game, should I say, but, but usually creating more long term problems. I'll tell you what, Dave, this is, this exact topic is where I've found Redda, um, and really all the GLPs to be extremely beneficial is getting somebody ready for a growth phase because we can get that fast. And insulin level down rapidly. You know what I'm saying? Like if we need to get you in a position where it's like a lot of times, man, it takes a good month of just through diet alone to be able to start to see the movement we're looking for. Whereas you can, and then from there, it's going to take another month to kind of get that fat off. Whereas I feel like we can really fast track that with the use of the GLPs to get somebody prepared to better grow muscle. Hmm. I'd agree. I'd agree. It's, it's showing to be a very useful compound. Um, interesting to see what the next gen are going to be. Cause there's a few coming through, isn't there? That's what I hear, man. Have you heard anything in particular? No, no detail. Just that there are a couple of, of new ones that there's apparently a reinvention of summer. Um, and then there's, there's a, another development on top of Retta, um, which I believe has a four faction. Okay. Um, what I, I had seen was some interesting research around, um, addiction is probably too strong a word, but things like smoking and, and, and drinking that Retta had actually had a very positive impact on. Which is interesting. Managing people's addictions. Uh, and, and then, but just by chance, I was speaking to a friend of mine and he said that since he started Retta, he stopped smoking. Huh. And he's tried before and never managed it. Yeah. Um, and he's actually found it quite easy and he got some cigarettes over Christmas, just one packet. And he said, now normally that would have been, you know, gates open, balls are fucking gone. Off to the races. Off we go. And he said, no, not at all. He said, he quite happily stopped again. No problem. No real issues with it. And someone else was saying the same situation around alcohol. They've, they've very easily managed to just say, you know what? I'm, I'm just not interested. so that's, that's quite interesting as well, that, that it seems to be, uh, very supportive in those sort of areas. That's wild, man. Well, Hey, listen, we have a bunch of listener questions and you know what, if there's any aspect of this that we haven't covered, uh, definitely let us know. Like if there's questions that you have or there's, you know, aspects to, uh, growing as you're aging that we didn't talk about, comment below, let everybody else know and remind us. Um, plus comment with questions for the next show. Like we're going to knock out a ton of listener questions here. Let's try to rapid fire them. And if you guys want to take part in the next show, then definitely, uh, leave us questions for that. After 20 years of bodybuilding experience, plus coaching countless athletes, I have tried all sorts of protein shakes from thin to thick, to gritty, to dry wall paste consistency. So when I say that I trust true nutrition, I mean it, what makes true nutrition different. You get to pick your base. I'm a big fan of the way. I, so you get to pick your flavor. I like the cookie butter lately. You can choose how thick you want it and you can add boosts. It's basically like the supplement version of Qdoba, uh, minus the chance of getting food poisoning. Oh my God. My insides are on. Plus they're also a manufacturer creating a lot of the supplements that you guys are using from other companies. You can cut off the middleman and go straight to the source. No proprietary blend nonsense. They're third party tested and in-house tested as well. There's no guessing game. It's literally just gains in a bag. If you want protein, you can trust, go to true nutrition.com and use our code. Think after 20 years of bodybuilding, coaching and mixing some absolute nightmares of protein shakes. Believe me when I say this is the good stuff. Dave, we had one. Somebody asked on the last episode, what did we think about using test? No ester occasionally while in a health phase as a pre-workout? Why? Why? I just, why? Well, because you're going to get stronger for that workout, Dave. I mean, which is true, right? Like, yeah, it is short acting. It is short acting. You're not getting the stress of it like an oral, you know, it's. So you do, you do test no esters. You do a test base. Um, as a, as a pre-workout injectable, what, every time? Well, then. He said infrequently. Yeah. And I just sort of don't see the point personally, but I don't know. Each to their own, I suppose. For me, just because you have medicine in a cabinet doesn't need to mean you need to take it. That's a good point. Um, and I, I do feel that we are very guilty as a community in whole. Yeah. In like, well, I've got this. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, we've even done, you know, cycle designs on what's left over in the box. You know, it's, so I do think, we, we, we can be a little bit better, but just, you know, taking it almost for the sake of taking it. Dude, I, there are so many times that I'll have a client who we're preparing to get on a cycle. Right. And I tell them, okay, this is like, we, we decide what we're going to do. I want them to get all these things ahead of time. And it's a smart idea to have your entire cycle on hand. That way, if anything goes sideways, you don't have to worry about getting more. You're not going to run out midway. And I, and we might be planning to do it in a month. Right. But the minute that their gear shows up, they're texting me and they're like, all right, can I start now? Can I start? I've got it. Well, it's on hand, you know, can I start now? Yeah. Yeah. And, and it's, it's going to, yes, it's going to improve your strength for that session. Yes. It's going to have an impact on your performance for that session. Is it going to have a huge impact overall? Yeah. On progress? Yeah, probably not. Yeah. Um, so, I mean, at the end of the day, it's all personal choice. I just sort of don't see the point sometimes. And I think there's also that, that risk of, so you start with that occasionally, and then you realize you're having much better workouts when you take it. So then that occasionally becomes two out of three sessions, then every session. And then it's like, well, I'm going to admit, we're not, we're not in this off cycle phase anymore. We're now in this really muddy war of, I'm off on my own. What am I doing? Yeah. All right. How about this one question for the next episode? How do you titrate up doses at the beginning of a cycle? For example, someone who's going from TRT to one gram or higher anabolics. So we've talked about not just jumping to that top end, but building to it. What would that look like? If you were to titrate up over time through a cycle, I think some of it depends on overall time allocated to cycle. How long is your cycle going to be? You know, what, what, what total doses are you going to? Yeah. The type of compounds you're going to use. But I would have said, if you were going from a TRT dose and of, of 100 to 150 milligrams a week, and you were then going to be going up to a total dose of a gram, I'd probably just do that in two steps. So I'd probably go 500 and then three weeks later, I'd go full ball. Yeah. I generally build cycles. If I'm doing a 12 week format, I generally put in two jumps. Okay. So jump at three weeks, jump at five to six weeks. And then that point, the last six weeks is all the last half of the cycle is the highest dose. And that might actually be slightly above what I would have done. If I'd have done a constant level dose throughout the whole cycle. Yeah. Cause we started that little bit lower. So it gives me a little bit of ceiling room. We don't want to, to push things a little bit higher in that last section. I think it's especially beneficial for, as you were mentioning, depends on total dose. I think it's especially beneficial for guys that are running like super high gear. Yeah. I mean, if you're in the three gram range, you're, you're going to have to, unfortunately you, you, well, you don't have to, but I would recommend a little bit of a buildup to that one because that's, that's a lot of gear to go from. Fuck all to everything. You know, you ever get test flu? Test flu. Oh yeah. All the time. Yeah. All of that. Um, pretty much every cycle I've ever done, I've ended up with test flu. Did you really? Yeah. Okay. I've never been, though I was very, very sort of tolerant of the negative impact from anabolics on a day to day basis. One thing, the one thing I wasn't was injections and things like that. An immune response. Those two things I, I, I got every time, but, uh, actual other stuff I was fine with. Didn't have big issues with, you know? Yeah. Uh, okay. Here's a comment. Um, he said, uh, so we were asked why the question was like, why do people not use aqua poise, bold non in contest preps? And my rebuttal was that I have no problem using it with, uh, people for contest prep. He said, use bold non sip and Nate instead. Um, if you can find it, EQ at the end of prep is tricky. If you drop the test because the EQ is then going to crash your E2, which I mean, that makes sense if you, but I don't drop test. Do you drop test with, I know that like contest prep isn't your biggest major wheelhouse, but you do. If I'm dropping test, I'm dropping everything. So the only scenario where I drop test is where I might be. Uh, if I had a client that was particularly prone to post injection swellings and lumps and all that sort of crap, and I was one of those people. So then I would probably drop all injectables, maybe 10 days out and running orals, but I wouldn't just drop test. I'd drop everything. But that was around the injection situation. I do find that if you dropped injectables, you can come in a little bit grainier, but you do tend to be this little bit flatter. Where if you keep injectables and you tend to come in just that little bit fuller, but you don't quite get that Dorian X granite grain that you can get. If you let the injectables drop out. Uh, but these are nuances that are not, you know, not enough to really weigh a decision. Yeah. I found, I don't usually ever drop test and I haven't had a problem getting that quality, but if I were, you know, I wouldn't be opposed to it if we were in a situation where it looked like it would make sense. Generally, I found that being able to manage electrolytes is critical. And of course, you know, through hydration and estrogen control. At the end of the day, condition is down to body fat and diet. Yeah. You know what I mean? And if you're dialed in, these things are going to make very little difference where these things can help is when you're not dialed in and you're trying to cheat a look because you haven't put the work in, in the first place. Yeah. All right. Here's one. I have zero experience with PT one 41. You mentioned it in the last episode as for the Valentine's day cycle. He says, um, uh, bought boxes of peptides from a Chinese lady and wasn't sure on the quality, but use the PT one 41. And it made me Barney AF. So it must be legit. Now here's the thing. Somebody else commented and said, PT one 41 made my skin dark as hell. You sure you didn't get empty too. Okay. That's what I was wondering, dude. Have you heard of PT one 41 causing skin darkening? No. So PT one 41 is, but saying that, so empty too makes you horny. The element in that that makes you horny is PT one 41. So they pulled it out and isolated it as an individual peptide. I'm not aware of the PT one 41 having any particular melatonin. Yeah. Interaction or drive, but I could definitely see someone ending up with empty to still getting horny and not realizing that they've got empty to them thinking. They've got PT one for one. I was wondering about that. Cause I haven't heard of people, you know, getting that skin darkening experience. Although I, like I said, I've never used PT one 41 personally. What is it used for? As far as I know, it's only use is to get your horny. I don't think there's any other use for it whatsoever. I mean, I might be completely wrong. It's it's one of those peptides. Guys that you know about that just never bothered with or had a need to, or anything else. Yeah. I want to just look up benefits of PT one for you. Yeah. Sexual dysfunction, libido, boosting satisfaction, dah, dah, dah for men, premenopausal women. Okay. Fair enough. All right. Moving on. Question. I don't think it's one of these compounds where it's a secondary action. That's manipulated. I think it is. That's just what it does. You know what I mean? Okay. A question for both of you guys. I was planning on running a cycle, which includes aqua poise for the first time. The cycle includes test aqua poise. And for four weeks of the cycle, I'm going to add in oral tyrinobal. I just wanted to know at what doses would you run at and how would you taper as you progress through the cycle? And just as added info, this isn't my first cycle. It's just the first time using EQ. So I just wanted advice on what to expect and how to dose it. Thanks for the great content, guys. You are both amazing. Thank you. That was very, very kind to him. You're amazing, Dave. Thank you. I feel all warm and fluffy now. I look fluffy as well, but that's another story. You can ask our listeners about that. They'll have plenty of comments for you. What about being fluffy? Yeah. Well, who is this guy? Well, apparently there was some comment about whether I still identify as a picnic blanket. Yes, I do. Yeah. Okay. You're not wearing your, uh, you're not wearing your snuggie today. No, no, I'm wearing my monster t-shirt today. That's very nice. All right. So, I mean, gosh, dude, it depends on how much, how does he dose his test? He's not as for a cycle, right? So how did those EQ in a cycle? It's like, are you a TRT plus cycle kind of guy? Are you doing 300 tasks? Cause if so, I'm not going to tell you to run 500 EQ. You know what I mean? Oh, yeah. I, I, it is looking, I would be timid and probably start the EQ low. Uh, if you're looking, uh, if you're looking, how strong was Dave in his prime? Okay. Uh, not very. If you're looking sort of ratios, I'd probably start at a two to one test to EQ and then run labs and, um, see if there's room for a tweak from that. But, uh, I would, I would definitely start the EQ low and then titrate it up if there's room to do so. But I'll tell those things going to depend on experience, what you've done in the past and where you are with that sort of stuff. Yeah. Let's say 500 tests. Let's say it's 500 tests, 500 tests. I go with 300 to 400 EQ. I'd start at three. I'd, I'd, I'd, I'd stay a little bit on the lower side and then get labs done. Get labs done and go from there. Yeah. How long in? Normally five weeks, but I would say you could probably get away with three because the ratio situation. So test plasma levels of testosterone are still going to be building at three weeks. They're not going to plateau yet, but EQ is going to be building fairly similar rate. So the anti-oestrogen effect of EQ at three weeks isn't, percentage wise, isn't going to be a great deal different when plasma, the peak occurs. So as a result, you'll have a good idea roughly where you're going to be in control against levels. And you can tweak at that point. All right. Hi, Scott. I tend to eat most of my food in the evening. I usually start eating around 5. 5. And I have little, uh, very little before then. Sometimes I'll eat as late as 1. AM. And then I go to bed around 2. AM. How problematic is this? Depends what time he wakes up. Yeah. I don't think there's, there's any issue with, with, I don't think there's a huge issue with eating late. I think, you know, there's this whole, whole time you get up. The eating late is going to cause you to gain more fat because you're not using the calories and all that sort of crap. Whereas we sort of know now that it's more the total intake versus the total output timing can have some sensitivities, but I don't see an issue with eating late as long as it's within a total balance of what you're doing. Yeah, I'd agree with you there. The, but I do see an issue. Let's say he gets up at 7. AM and he's not eating until five. Um, here's what I'll tell you. Cause I, I usually, so I usually try to spread meals out with my clients, five, six meals. Sometimes there's four meals. Uh, and, and a big part of that is you can only get so much food in five o'clock on. Um, that's part of it. Another part of it though, is blood sugar. Like we're going to, you're not going to feel your ultimate best, especially if you're trying like, man, I need two meals in me. And most people need at least a meal in them before they're going to get a good workout. And, you know, getting that blood sugar up, getting your electrolytes up and hydration, you're going to get, you're going to have a better performance experience with food in your system. So I don't like this. I feel like you can only squeeze so many meals in from five o'clock on. Ultimately it's going to expose limitations. You know, if you're trying to do anything, if you're trying to grow, it's going to expose limitations. If you're dieting down, you're going to get hungry. You're going to want to eat earlier. But here's the thing I was going to say, Dave, is that if you're not used to eating breakfast, if you're not used to eating first thing in the morning, but you do it for a few weeks in a row, you're going to start becoming hungry. It does just take time to train your metabolism. It's like train your body to do that. You will eventually want to eat in the morning. If you, if you stick with it, it's almost like a backloading protocol, isn't it? Yeah, it kind of is, isn't it? Oh, so last week we talked about that Paragon peptides place. Um, this guy said, uh, I got an email from the U S attorney since I bought from this company one time. Oh God. Yeah. Um, how about this one? Oh, Scott, when you come over to the UK, Arnold, please bring over some t-shirts. Um, I will, I will have a red think big shirt. And medium, not a tank yet. Medium. Do we have listeners that wear mediums? You're not coming, are you? I, I, it's a lot of money, Dave. I would love to. I thought you were going to blog, blog, blog, uh, mutant. Yeah, but I do this show with you. Like if I only had shows that were with like, yeah, but if just high class people, if just Ian and that's coming, cause they were there last time. Yeah. They're sponsored by mutant. And I'm not sponsored by mutant. You do the show with them. Yeah. Mutant likes. It's just bodybuilding. I don't think that mutant likes the other programs very much. Well, mutant, mutant pricks, but that's not the point. Oh, they're, they're actually really nice to be. No, I know they are. I know they are. Oh, I'll come back to that one. Um, where can we get the drugs and stuff? Snuggies. Uh, as, okay. A lot of comments here. I'm looking for a question. Um, comments from today. No comments from on the last episode. Great comments, but I wanted to get to questions. Is it normal to get joint pain with masteron, or do you think that I have a fake mast? I wouldn't say it's normal to get joint pain. It's possible. It would depend on where your total estrogen levels were, but it may just be your training. Uh, you know, you typically get stronger on a cycle, more load that, that is potentially going to lead to joint pain. If your estrogen is low and then you've got mass acting like a certain block in it on top of that as well, then a joint pain could be very, very viable. Okay. Yeah, that would make sense. Uh, another great one. Speaking of mast, mast for the wind vigorous. Steve mentioned that it dried the face out. How does that work? And I said, can you explain a little bit further? I'm not sure I understand. And he said, people say that masteron ages, you faster than other compounds. Mast ages you faster than other compounds. So there are, uh, here to be my two thoughts. There are increased there, or there's a high amount of, uh, androgen receptors in the skin. Number one. Um, so there's that, that high AR affinity there. And, uh, DHT would break down cholesterol or collagen. And with that process, yeah, I could see a breakdown of like the, yeah, absolutely. You know, I've heard, I've heard of that being potentially the issue with Winstrel. Hmm. Okay. Okay. I've not really seen anything real world though. Have you seen stuff real world? It's hard to say, man, because there's so many contributing factors. That's my point. Yeah. It's, I'm not sure how much of a single factor it would be. I mean, another potential factor would be with that increased AR affinity at the skin. We're seeing more, um, like sebaceous issues, clogged pores, you know, all that kind of stuff. Um, real world. Here's the thing. Like, let's say you go through a contest prep. I noticed that my skin aged more rapidly while competing. I was also using thyroid hormone. I was also tanning frequently. So it's like, what was it? Was it the mask? Well, you're also keeping estrogen low. Uh, there's a factor as well. So yeah, I mean, there's, there's, there's exactly. That's the, my point is these as a single item, I'm not so sure it eats that pronounced. Definitely. The, the, the science would support that it can do it, but I'm not sure how much the real world impacts are down to mass to now. Well, the impacts are down to everything. Yeah. And when you add it in, it is only going to contribute to that. Some of all factors. You know, like it's not going to make it any better. That's for sure. Not at all. Not at all. And obviously DHT from testosterone is going to have a bigger impact than DHT from masteron and, and DHT from Primo is probably going to have a lesser impact as well because both those development, those drugs were developed to lower the negative impacts that DHT presented. Uh, Primo being the, the better result of the two, the mass from that, that angle. Yeah. Sheffield lad here again, apologies for my spelling earlier. I ran HCG at 2,500. I you, then another 2,500 AU, uh, I you five, uh, days later. And then he started his PC tape tablets today. So he just took two massive doses of HCG. What size proceed, proceeded it? Well, he says, I'm coming off now because there's a chance that I might be going to jail for a few months. Um, yeah. Yeah. Oops. Yeah. Also, is it okay to run HCG after PCT? I heard Dave say there might be an issue. So, hey, question is why would you want to run HCG post PCT? Uh, HCG does aromatize. Yes, it would increase testosterone levels, but not, not super massively. Um, depending on what preceded the PCT would depend on whether that level of HCG exposure is going to be enough to reinvigorate lady cells or whether he needs longer or more. Uh, I wouldn't say he needs more from a single dosing, but he might need it repeated more frequently. I mean, you've got scallies at the far end of things at two, two and a thousand IU every other day for 14 days, um, which works well, but you could argue is overkill. Uh, I like it. I don't see a real negative in the overkill personally, but I wouldn't throw someone through a scallies if they just don't 400 mega test. It's definitely not necessary. Um, but I think the piece, the HCG exposure probably would need to be longer to give the lady cells time to recover better. Yeah. Um, I think that the two, the blast is high. I think you would probably be better. So say he's coming from a first cycle or, you know, a second, third cycle and we're, we're five, 600 total anabolics. I think you'd probably get away with a thousand, maybe 1500, but do it more frequently over a longer period. Yeah. Uh, uh, to allow those cells to recover. Um, but yeah, other than that, I, I don't, that the issue with using HCG post one, too much. You will desensitize the lady cells to, you're going to create some estrogen, though. It's probably not going to be super significant, but it would just be, why would you want to run it post? If your PCT works, you don't need to ACG. If your PCT doesn't work, then you're probably going to have to do something a little bit more substantial for a PCT point of view. If you still want to try and recover. Somebody said vigorous. Steve also hates masteron. So there's that. Does it? Uh, the next guy said Dalton said, I don't know if he hates the compound or just one person who absolutely adores the compound. So he just talks mad shit on it because of that. I don't know what that means. I don't know. I didn't, I've never heard Steve mentioned to me that he doesn't like mast. I know. I've, I've heard him mention. He's used it. Uh, but I don't know. I bet he likes Primo. I feel like I've heard Steve talk more about Primo than mast. And usually Dave, there's people who like Primo and people who like man. Yeah. I'm saying there's always going to be people that favor certain compounds over the other. I do. You do, you know, that's going to be the case. All right. How about this one question? If someone is balling on a budget, what's the maximum, what's the minimum labs that you would get pre mid and post cycle, assuming it probably depends on the specific compounds, but maybe some examples or generalities. Pre, I would go FBC lipids. I don't really think you need hormones, because they're going to change anyway. So what's the point? Right. Uh, if budget would extend that, then kidney. Um, and if budget would extend that than HbA1c, uh, liver, I put slightly low priority on, you wouldn't necessarily need bloods within the cycle, unless you, from a health point of view, but you may be interested in just having a look at, um, where estrogen is sort of mid cycle. So if you, if you've potentially got management issues there and then post again, now it would be along those sort of formats. Uh, if you were running heavy orals or something that was a bit more liver stressful, then, then potentially for a liver in at the end. Um, but, uh, other than that, I would focus around blood thickness, lipid values, insulin sensitivity, and kidneys. Uh, it's very rare. I see anyone with genuine liver problems from anabolic use. Yeah. I do see kidney problems. Oh, wow. Cornelius Parkinson says listing while doing delts, choosing this over EDM. Another retcon. Come on. And another, another, get it higher. Another. Right. Let's have three more now. All right. What else do we have here guys? Let's see. There's a bunch of stuff still, Dave. We have so much stuff. All right. How about this one? Um, I think a show about DMP would be extremely entertaining. Something new. DMP. Is anyone still using DMP? We did one a long time ago. I don't think that the YouTube likes it. I think it's gone off the channel. Dude, DMP. Do you remember back when we started this show, how popular it was at a time? everybody, everybody, everybody was on it. It was like the Reddit true tide of today. You know what I'm saying? Well, maybe not that big because there weren't hot. Well, maybe there was housewives using DMP. Well, that was it. It broke mainstream, didn't it? That was the problem. And then they had some fatalities and the whole, the social acceptability of DMP went down the toilet really, really, really rapidly. Um, but yeah, I mean, that was one of the early sort of hardcore bodybuilding drugs that broke into everyday people. I think Tony huge made it popular. We had a, we had a, a couple of cases of students over here that, that passed. There was old girl, right? Remember that, that girl, she, in fact, she wanted to start some sort of support group. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. There was a bit of an irony there. Yeah. And, and that, that hit the headlines and definitely changed the public's attitude around DMP. Uh, it became very negative very quickly. But other than that, prior to that, it was, I mean, DMP was at the time touted as the most powerful fat burner to ever exist. It just, and it kind of is. Yeah. And it's probably still true to this day. It just, unfortunately it has more negatives and things like retitutes and stuff like that. So if you look, there are, um, old, old, old advertisements for it as a fat loss agent, like back in the 1910s. Yeah. I say it was 1910, 1920s. Cause it was originally banned, I believe due to causing cataracts. Oh yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So I don't know if it was, was it banned for that? I think it was initially banned. I believe. Uh, I know it lost popularity once amphetamine was developed because then they started switching to that and they're like, Oh no, we have a much healthier, safer way to lose fat using fat. You know, that was, I gotta be careful. I don't want to actually say those words. I don't want that to get picked up by a bot, you know, something like I was actually saying you should use it, but yeah. Um, well, you want to make it. Yeah, that's true. Oh yeah. Just kind of a little philosophical question for you, Dave. And I'm first going to read this comment. Now I want to make it clear. I'm not hating at all. I love all these videos and I bodybuild it, but it's videos like these and all of the tick top tick tock that, uh, make the, the, all the tick tock that make them is the reason they're going to take away. He's talking about peptides. I mean, you said it out loud and clear how many millions they are losing. They're not going to let that slide. For very much longer. A hundred percent. No doubt about it. Yeah, but they're not losing millions because they're not, they don't have peptides. They don't do them. That's the government. Yeah. So, Oh, they're dude. They're totally tied to Eli Lilly. Eli Lilly owns the patent for red. And so far it's not even released yet. And there are so many people that are using it, but here's the thing. Here's the thing. Because you said that out loud, how many millions of people are using GLPs? Is it you that let the government know about that? And now that they're aware because they watched our show now, that's right. You know what I'm saying? Well, first of all, you're misquoting what I said. What I said was there are 20 million registered users. Oh, of summer in the USA alone. These are people that are registered with doctors buying farmer product. These are not people that are black market. I still think it's your fault, Dave, that red is now, but they're coming after it. I mean, farmer only gets interested when the black market takes profit out of their pocket. So when it comes to stuff like GLPs, yes, they do provide an alternative. And so therefore they will be interested in the black market. But when it comes to MOTC and the other peptide stuff, they don't give a shit because they don't do it. So that only comes into play on a public health argument. And that's where you see the other law driver is public health. Yeah. I think that here's another, I'll pose it as a question like this then. is the content about GLPs causing the problem or causing the awareness or is the content a result of the, of the popularity? You know, people wouldn't make the content if it wasn't popular already. It's already in mainstream press. So this is the thing. I mean, GLPs have been in mainstream press for, for probably 12 months plus, maybe longer. You've got various famous people that have used GLPs to lose weight. And that's been heavily reported on. And that's driven popularity. The fact that they work has driven popularity. And the fact that they're widespread available as a pharmaceutical product without needing a prescription, you know, you can buy them from your local shops. All right. You pay a price, but you can do that. So, so public awareness of the drug is, is huge. I don't think us talking about it has altered that. We don't have that level of reach. I mean, of the, the few thousand we get that watch this absolute garbage, there is, there is, you know, there ain't, I don't think there's any decision makers in there. But yeah, I mean, the, the, you know, the mainstream media have, have been very hot on, on the GLPs about their effects and what they do. And, and then there's been massive availability. And, and from the farmer's point of view, the news made them a hell of a lot of money, but yeah, they'll, they'll definitely not like the black market, um, contraband level of it, which, which we see this same drive around testosterone, you know, um, an investigation around, around fake tests and, and counterfeit tests and stuff like that. And the same around growth hormone, because there's a farmer alternative, but when it comes, I see, when you said peptides, I thought you were talking about the broader spectrum of peptides, not just the GLPs. Yeah. They're coming after the whole thing. Now they're coming after the, it, because, but the reason they're doing it is because of the redda, you know, and because of the GLPs, if it wasn't for that, they, they would have left it all alone. Well, to a degree. And I mean, there's also the, the, the public safety aspects of it, which has always been there. Yeah. You get the main drivers around enforce enforcement. Uh, money. Yeah. Money's a big one without doubt. You know, financial loss, uh, public safety, uh, and public health. And then you get these odd ones where there's a significant incident. So that, the, in fact, DMP is a great example. So we had the very high profile public death of the student. Um, now the number of deaths associated with DMP wasn't super high. There's, there's plenty of compound. Aspirin kills more people. And he, you know what I mean? It just wasn't that. Yeah. But that became very high profile and drove legislation. And that's, they change the laws where like you would get in super big trouble if you were selling it. They, they started to get much hotter on. Yeah. As soon as a, as soon as a drug has a fatality component to it, then sentencing does tend to ramp up. Yeah. So, so they're your drivers. It's financially driven. It's public safety driven in the fact that it's damaging to the public health and it has social impact, which is why previously you've never seen a huge amount. I'm talking UK now. You've never seen a big drive around steroid enforcement because there was no public safety margin. People weren't committing crime in order to buy steroids. The only crime involved around steroids was the sale of the drug. That was the only crime being committed. Whereas drugs like heroin and cocaine, there was other associated crime and there was a much greater public impact. So those drugs were always heavily policed. What the police then realized was that the steroid market actually had a lot of financial clout. And there was actually more money moving through the steroid market than they realized. Then they started to become more interested. Because on a proceeds of crime order seizure, they actually receive a percentage of the money that's returned. Yeah. Yeah. So it was self funding for them. So then they got a little bit more interested, but it never, ever got, and will never, ever get to the level of the enforcement around class one drugs like cocaine, because there isn't the social impact. There isn't the welfare impact. There isn't that side of things. Do you think that that's the reason, or do you think that's the excuse? You know what I'm saying? Like, oh, now we have a reason to like, why, why do we need to stomp this out so that we can make more money? Because it's a health risk. And this guy proved it because he, you know, Oh no, I mean, I, what I'm saying is that the, that there's been a, go back 15 years and the British police weren't interested in steroids whatsoever. There was no cause. Okay. Because it wasn't killing people. Grannies weren't getting mugged in order for someone to go buy drugs. Yeah. There was no organized crimes associated with it. So it wasn't on their radar. They had enough to deal with, with, with recreational drug use that they were, they were busy. Yeah. And obviously there was a financial incentive around recreational drug use as well. On top of that, but the laws were driven very much by social impact. Yeah. Fast forward 15 years. We still don't have the social impact, but now the police have realized that for me, there's some of these steroid dealers making millions a year. Okay. So now they get interested and that there's, that's not hidden in the slightest. Their motivation around anabolic enforcement in the UK is financially driven because they've realized this is actually a big market and there's money here, money that we can tap into. At the end of the day, it's still a criminal activity. It's still well within their, their rights. But as a, as a, say I'm boss running police force, I've got a budget to spend on enforcement. I'm not spending money on that enforcement unless I get something in return from it. Now taking out a drug line that has a huge social impact and is viewed as having huge social impact like recreational drugs. I'm going to get kudos because I'm saving the public from the harms of these drugs. And I'm going to get finances because we'll have a process of crime order in place that feeds back into my budget. So the money I spend on policing, I have a potential financial return, but I also have a status return because I've taken this massive drug deal off the, off the table. steroids. There's no status return. So why am I going to spend money on that? Yeah. Oh, hang on a minute. Now I've just realized that that fucker is making 500,000 pound a year. Now I've got a reason to invest budget in policing that. Yeah. Because I'm going to get it back. And that is literally the situation. I'm sure that, that adds, that tracks as the kids would say, Dave, that tracks. How about this one? This was actually, this was a comment. So last week I mentioned that. Don't forget that Reda could limit your gains. Like it's not just boom across the board. You're going to grow when you take Reda type thing. And somebody said, I think that's what this is in response to. He said, Reda will actually partition the nutrients to the muscle. That was his response. And I want to say, just throw this back out there. I think that the devil is in the dose that you're going to improve your insulin sensitivity with Reda. There's a lot of benefits to Reda. And that's generally what we hear talked about. But I promise you, absolutely promise you that you can also limit your gains by using Reda. You know, it's not, it's a double-edged sword, just like anything, man. And I mean, just a couple of things would be like that. You are going to reduce insulin signaling, right? You're going to have less overall insulin helping you to store nutrients into the muscle. Like, so yeah, maybe you're getting more insulin sensitive, but you're also reducing that signaling. And then you're going to reduce the signaling between that and like that synergy with GH and IGF. So reducing mTOR, like you're going to potentially like by reducing insulin, you are potentially going to limit your gains, just like we have seen with metformin. And some people can't get it through their heads. I've seen, I mean, gosh, Dave, you remember how popular metformin was 15, 10 years ago. I knew a high level coach. Well, I knew I worked with a guy locally. He was working with a high level coach that everyone here would know. And I don't want to blast the dude, but he had him running a pretty high level of metformin through his offseason. And he also had him running like in absolutely ridiculous amount of carbs. In the end, he didn't gain nearly what you would have expected out of this amount of carbs. Like it just, it, he was putting so much work in. And what I said last week was that you're spinning your wheels is, is what you can end up doing in a situation like that. Well, even on a much more simpler basis, reduce your appetite too much. You don't have the calorie intake and you don't realize it the same way because you're not interested in food. Sure. I mean, there is that. I mean, you could still be on a fixed plan. Yeah. But you know, really on a real, but yeah, but I mean, I've spoken to clients that now, right, we've got rhetoric for fat loss, but they're struggling to stick to the diet, not from point of cheating or anything, but just because I don't want to eat that much. It's like, yeah, but I don't want to pull the calories down any lower than they are. So let's manipulate the retina, you know? So you, you've got that situation, which is real one-on-one stuff with it. Sure. Great info. Scotty and Crosso. There was an eval labs here in Australia, an underground lab. Was possibly you guys? No. Just kidding. No. That's what he said. Uh, I've been taking serum or relin for about a month and I'm getting more shredded, um, than I've been in my life. It's been a good experience with peptides so far. I'm all, uh, so I'm just saying, I don't like, I don't like Sam and Rowan at all. It doesn't matter what you like, does it? Yeah. I mean, yeah, you're going to get results from it. We've talked about it before, Dave. It's a generation one secretagogue. It's over 20 years old. And guess why it's popular again? Like we used, I used this and somebody gave me bottles of it for free in 2009 that he got from his scripted TRT doctor. And the reason he got those scripts for it is because it was a lot cheaper. These TRT market companies are marketing secretagogues, including the crappiest Gen 1, Sarah Merrillan. Does it work? Yes. You know, the reason they're marketing it is because you're going to pay the $320, whatever it is, versus the 1200 for growth or 2000 for growth. You're not going to get a prescription for them. They're not going to make money off of you. My answer is take real growth hormone, save money. Um, watching under construction and by far the coolest thing in it is Dave's animal drawings. Does he still do them legitimately excellent drawings? And has he ever dabbled in painting, uh, any particular inst inspirations when he, when he draws? I have painted. Um, it's not a medium. I'm a fan of. Um, I have done two paintings. That is all one of a leopard's eye and the other one of an elephant, which is borderline life size, life size elephant. Not far off. Painting six foot by four foot. Okay. That sits in my house. Um, damn. I've seen that painting in your house. As a matter of fact, it is beautiful. Well, I'm not a fan, but other people seem to like it. So it has stayed around. Guys, look at this print. Pencil is my preferred. I like the detail and control that I get with pencil. Um, I don't say I'm particularly inspired. I like drawing animals, uh, particularly sort of the more, I suppose, exotic African. I don't know. Harder. Yeah. There's my rhino. I lined him up like he's talking in the mic. It's nice, Dave. This is beautiful. This is one of my favorites. It technically is one of my best. Yeah. Um, it's, it's one, it's not particularly big one, but it's one I, I, I personally do like a lot. Do you ever, um, I know you, you've cranked off prints before for sale. Do you still ever do that? I haven't done it in ages. Yeah, but I'd more than happy to, it's no hassle for me to do, but I just haven't done it in ages. Um, don't really do much with the, I haven't drawn for such a long time. They sort of dropped off my radar as, as something that I do. Yeah. You do. You only have so much time, right? Yeah. I'd love to start again, but I'm not a fast drawer. Um, I am a very slow drawer. Um, I can see the rest of me, I suppose. Uh, I can see that you would prefer, I see. So like everything you have in that drawing is so perfectly controlled and detailed. One would struggle to have that same level of control. Over paint. Yeah. I find paint too fluid. I find it too uncontrolled. Um, which I think would be a good challenge for you of letting go. You know what I mean? So very long story short, because I'm sure people haven't tuned in to listen to this crap. They've tuned in to listen to the other crap, but, uh, what the F am I listening to? Yeah. When I was in prison, uh, uh, shots prison, uh, opening Livingston in, in Scotland, the art teacher was a guy called Ronald McDonald. You're kidding me. That poor, poor man. Ron was an actually well-known, well-established fine art photographer. Very, very well accredited in his field. Um, and he was also as mad as a box of frogs, which in a good way, and he ran the art class. So Ron, Ron had, um, he liked the work, but he wanted to push me. So he turned up with this six by four canvas, uh, uh, and a fucking really big paintbrush and wouldn't allow me to use anything else. Okay. I see where you're going with this. I made me paint this elephant. And then when I'd done what I could with the base shades and groundwork, and basically what he was doing was teaching me to paint, but he did it in his, his own way. He then allowed me to go back into it and work on it more. And, you know, I had more detail and everything else. So I got more comfortable as it went along the line, but he was just teaching me about, putting down blocks of color and shadow and shape and, and building a painting that way, which I, I didn't know how to do. I had no experience with us. And that was what resulted in the elephant painting. And I don't personally like it. Uh, a lot of people do, um, which is, which is great. It's lovely. But, but I just, I find the pencil work therapeutic. Um, and, and I really enjoy the tightness of it and the detail of it. But, uh, unfortunately I am, I am slow. Uh, was Ronald McDonald, a landscape photographer? He did do landscape as well. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Believe it or not, it's really hard to find anybody else on the internet. If your name is Ronald McDonald, you know what I'm saying? And he, uh, you're going to struggle. He, um, did a lot of political pieces as well. Okay. So he'd build installations and, and things and then photograph them and create imagery with them. Huh? So like he built a rocket and, and then started doing some shots. He used these really old cameras that were thousands and thousands. Interesting. So I, uh, another question that came up when I searched Ronald McDonald is what happened to the Ronald McDonald guy? Of course, referring to McDonald's and it says the 2016 clown sightings and the, um, and the release of it, uh, of it, the movie impacted Ronald McDonald's reputation and led to his gradual withdrawal. Hmm. Hmm. But yeah, Ron says, Ron was a great guy. By reducing Ronald McDonald's presence, McDonald's aims to align with the evolving, societal attitudes and ethical marketing standards. All right. I kind of feel like that was a little bit of, uh, uncle Dave's wisdom today. Possibly. Did you have anything for us? Anything special that you've prepared? You put a lot of work into, you know, something you've been like journaling on and meditating on for the past week that you just had a burning desire to share with us now. I need to pay. Emmy. Emmy too. Yeah. We, we get to this stage every show. I don't think people realize. End of the show. We're both like, gotta go, gotta go. Run it off. Cause we both need peace. I'll be honest. I, I didn't pay any attention to anybody in the live stream for this episode, but I appreciate you guys being here. Sometimes I'm with it. Other times I was trying to focus on the 50 questions we had. Well, I'm actually going to answer a question. This is going to be my part of it. Cause someone's actually asked a question about my training. So, and that's not very often. So. Cause normally you say that you, you don't train. Oh, well, I don't, but they were asking about how strong I used to be. Oh, okay. Well, how strong did you used to be Dave? You were pretty strong, man. I saw you squatting pictures of you squatting some major weight. Bench was, this is all kilos before anyone says there's not a lot. Bench was two 20 kilos for five. Uh, squat was three 40 kilos for a leg. Press was 800 kilos for sets. Uh, I seen you behind the neck, press some serious poundage. I've done two 20 behind the neck on a Smiths. I've done two 20 kilo, two 20 kilo behind the neck on a Smith for reps. I've doubled 200 free bar behind the neck. Um, that's just waiting to hurt yourselves. Ben over row was two 60. Kilos. And no. And then, well, I don't think I was because I compared myself to the guys that were strong. So to me, I wasn't, but they were power. When you were at your biggest, how was your strength then compared to like when you were three 65, I was better at three 65, three 65, three 80. I was better when I hit 400. My strength wasn't great. It didn't go down hugely, but it wasn't progressing either. Uh, but, but yeah. So, so those are the sort of, I was weak on biceps, even though they were big, but I was strong on triceps. So I used to reverse bench for an hour place. Okay. That's a lot. The lateral raises. I was very strong on as well. I had strong, weird movements. I think we had, I think that was it, Dave. I was just trying to wreck my brain. I was like, I feel like we're missing, we're missing. I'm forgetting something. There was some important details here. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I guess that's it. Being unorganized and fucking is our benchmark. I really do. Like when we have those bigger episodes and we get pushed out to more people and then we kind of freak people out, like people comment and they're like, what the F is this? Or are you guys all steroid using cheaters? Is that what this channels? Like, I love that stuff. It cracks me up, man. We are. Yes. Without doubt. We are cheaters. Whatever guys. We're appreciate, you know, we're happy to have our, our cheating listeners with us. Well, they all get it. Guys, we appreciate you tuning in. Thanks for watching another episode. Go to a eval blood analysis.com. It's eval blood analysis.com. Get your labs done by Dave and strong sports nutrition. Get your health stacks. Get some great cycle support and supplementsource.ca. If you're in Canada, of course, true nutrition.com. Dave, they took one of my ads for true nutrition and they're going to release it as a post on, on the true nutrition website and like boost it all up as an ad. What do you think of that? Wow. At last. Can I have your autograph? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely, absolutely, man. I'll, I'll mail that out to you. Thank you. How's the supercharger coming along? How's your truck real quick? Uh, trucks. All right. Uh, brakes done. Uh, go get the fans on it. Um, and then, then that'll be it for a while. We'll have anything else to do there because it's got no pennies. Okay. Well guys, we appreciate you tuning in. Go to, are you, you have room for coaching right now? Yes. Okay. Reach out to Dave over on Instagram. Hit me up. The daily dies at gmail.com. And, uh, yeah, thank you for being here with us guys. Leave us questions for the next show. And, uh, if you wanted to hear about meant, let us know. We had one other guy. So we've got like three people that want to hear about meant so far. We'd be happy to talk about it and do a profile on it. If you guys want to hear it for another episode of the podcast, we'll see you soon. Thanks, Dave. Bye. Bye. Thank you.