Yeah. I I think most people and I would feel this way if I'm being completely transparent. If I didn't use trend, I would feel like I left something on the table. Yeah. So, that's more the re. But in my defense, too, I don't have those sleep problems on Trend that a lot of people have. So, uh I may not sleep as much, but the quality of sleep is still really good. So, I don't have to deal with that as much. But but I'm with you. It it can certainly be done. It's an individual thing, case by case basis. And if people want to leave it out, more power to them. Just like you said, I love DHB. I think if I wasn't to use Trent, I probably would use DHB. What's up, guys? Welcome back to Blood, Sweat, and Gear with Coaches. Scap Hill, Andrew Barry, and myself, Scott McN. We're brought to you by true nutrition.com. Use our code thinkover there. If you're in Canada, go to supplementsource.ca. They have great deals that change week to week and we are brought to you by you, the people of Patreon. Thank you guys very much for your support. Um, Stefan just came up for with a topic for us that I we thought we all thought would be fun. He said, "How about this one? What should modern bodybuilders be grateful for when compared to the old school preps of 20 plus years ago?" That's a fun topic. I like this. Yeah. We all give one and we keep going in order. So we don't just take all of each other's. Yeah, there you go. Go ahead, Skip. Oh, okay. Grateful for I remember the only the only diet soda really that was any good was diet right. So I'm grateful that there are numerous options. I'm AI'm a LCROY sparkling water guy. Yeah, you are. Uh, let's see what um the only thing that you could flavor and I remember when it came out flavor your food with that was supposed to be like oh this new cool butter buds when that came out man all of a sudden we got to have potatoes we're going to have baked potato we're going to put butter buds on it oh wait um the first ingredient is maltodextrin great great move there real smart anyway if you used watering you're okay it's a bunch of chemicals a bunch Bunch of crap. But anyway, that was the uh prepping in the prep in the early days. So grateful for He listed a bunch of things. I mean, well, hold on, hold on, hold on. Cuz we're What did you say, Andrew? You're like, list one and we'll go around. Yeah, we keep going around round circle. Okay, thing that I Well, you just throw us two, skip, I was just talking. Oh, wait. Those are things that go ahead. Well, yeah. I'm going down the wrong road. Go ahead, Andrew. Come. I'm just clogging it up here. All right. So, I want to say modern bodybuilders today have access to gear that a lot of guys back in the day just didn't have access to, at least on like the local NPC level or even like the gen pop level that that that want to pursue bodybuilding but maybe not even get on stage. I mean, we've all we've told stories before about how hard it was to actually acquire, you know, different peeds and a lot of cases you had to make them on your own and then it became hard to do that. And um so I'll just say having an Amazon.com like um effect of being able to put an order in and have gear on your doorstep two to three days later. I think that's helped a lot. So we've got modern uh condiments and and sugar-free sugar-free stuff diet foods that you can use. Those are I think that is huge and they have so many of them now. Availability to gear I think is huge. I'll add to that. I'll add to that. You know what? And it's something that we knock too. Not really knock, but as Skip, you've called it the giant sea of turds. There's so many coaches out there and a lot of them aren't the best, but we do have a lot of good coaches, too. So, I'll say the availability of coaching and education that I remember my first show. This is how I met my coach. I was posting on RX Muscle when it first came out or it might have been MD. And I said, uh, you know, I'm getting ready to do a show and I'm thinking about doing this show in, uh, Illinois. And I mentioned something about the posing there. And I said, but I'm from Michigan, you know, do I need to do this po hit the pose this way if I do the show in Illinois? And somebody commented back and he was like, oh, you're in Detroit. Do you need somebody to help you with the show or something? You know, we started talking on DM and he's like, "Yeah, man. Come on out to Farmington Hills Powerhouse. I'll take a look at you." So, because of bodybuilding, I met a guy that I only met online in a locker room and took off all my clothes in front of him within the first five minutes. Uh that was my experience with coaching was like meeting some random dude because I didn't have access to skip or anything like that. You know, at the time there were coaching was limited. Turned out to be a real good friend of mine to this day now. Rick Wetmore and he helped me out a ton and I learned a a ton from him. He was coached by Dave Palumbo at the time. So, and and of course he basically just did like the same stuff Dave did for him. You know what I mean? But I'll add that. I'll add coaching. What do you got, Skip? What's your next one? Well, let me add one more thing to Scott's point about like meeting some guy that you met on the internet. Take your clothes off of Well, because the cool thing about the internet is it allows you to vet people, right? Like, oh, this guy's got an Instagram. He coaches people now. You know, he know if he says he's a coach, you know, he's a coach because he's got a body of work to show it. Whereas because I'm thinking back to your point, I remember Scott, which could have gone the other way for you of um there was this guy who ran a thing called North American bodybuilding and I'm sure you guys have gotten emails from him too in the past like 20 years ago and his thing was he tried to get young up and cominging bodybuilders to send him posing pictures and then like so I you know I got an email and I was like oh someone's interested in my bodybuilding wants to feature me in a magazine and try to get me a supplement contract. That was his pitch, a supplement contract. So, I sent him like some pictures and stuff and he's like, "Okay, cool." Um, so for the artistic stuff, the guys want to know if you can do some nude photos. And I'm like, "What?" Like, there's no supplement company that's going to feature me nude in a magazine or something, you know? And so, my point being is that it was a lot easier to hide your true motives back then, I think. And now with the internet, you're able to kind of vet people on, oh, they this is who they say they are. So, because that could have gone the other way for you too, Scott, where he's like, "Oh, yeah, I'm a coach. I help people out with bodybuilding. Compose for me, buddy." Like, and you know, you can DM your nudes to anybody you want nowadays with modern body. No. Yeah, you're right. I did get lucky. I guess I'm going to stay on the I'm going to stay on the food um or in the food area. I think the quality of food and and I'm saying this because I'm older now. When I was younger, I really didn't care. I'd buy the cheapest chicken I could get. Like, if I can get it for a$17, I'll buy it. These days, I pay like 12 or $13 a pound for chicken and it just shows up at my front door and I don't have to spend the time to go get it. So, the advancements and technology, I think, for food are great, too. I mean, we have so much access to so much or I know people will say, "Oh, organic doesn't matter." If it doesn't matter to you, that's fine. but you're not 55 and you haven't been, I don't know, you know, taking compounds for 30 plus years that you want to make sure that your health is in good order so that you could continue to do what you're doing and enjoy your quality of life. So, I'm going to I'm going to stay in the food. I think the advancements, our availability to these types of things, and it's not just food, but I'm staying focused on food, uh, is just leaps and bounds. It's just so much. Now, at the same time, United States still lags behind a lot of other countries for our quality of food. We have to pay so much more through these Whole Foods and and to get this quality of food where in other countries it's pretty much like that at every grocery store you go to. You go to the UK, yeah, all of their grocery stores are expensive like Whole Foods and and places like that. So, here you just pay more and if you don't have the money to, then I guess you still get the crap food. Dude, Gus, my the friend of mine, friends of mine that were visiting from Australia and they came to uh do stuff at the Arnold Cage. I showed you their video, Gus and Sarah. So, they did a tour around the US or around the Midwest really. And um they they were fascinated by Walmart because Walmart you could buy like these super sized bags of cereal that were like XXXL and they're like, "Oh my god, yeah, Walmart's so crazy. we really want to check that out and we really want to try American fast food. They got such a terrible picture of what American food is because the only grocery store they went to was Walmart. Like over there all their beef is delicious. It's it's awesome meat, man. But you go to Walmart, dude, and you get the cheapest bottom of the H. And that's they're like, "Man, your guys' food isn't is terrible here." you know that because that's all they knew was that and fast food restaurants on the side of the highway in in in Ohio, you know. Yep. We have so many fast food and I wasn't even that aware of this until being in Florida all the time now. But whereas like Vermont, we have Burger King, McDonald's, KFC, Taco Bell, and Chipotle, right? Like those are like probably the main ones. You come down here and on my road alone, Kane's um never heard of it. Uh Carl's Jr. Yeah, I mean literally I've heard of it though. every single fast food place I feel like is on this strip and if not it's in Tampa or it's on the next highway over. It's in a way it kind of disgusts me to tell you the truth because you just see so many cars going there. But um but getting back to topic um I'm going to say the training equipment. I think some innovators have done a really good job with you know particularly pieces for back and leg training where well I'm just thinking you know way my body feels today and Skip probably you know you probably have more aches and pains than I do. um having to just do rely on squats and deadlifts and barbell rows and dumbbell rows and those types of things. Like I don't know if I'd still be able to to train regularly anymore if I wasn't able to get into machines that were chest supported and had all these different nice angles. And you could just tell a lot of guys have put some innovation, some well thoughtout processes into designing, you know, the equipment. And so I'm thankful for that for sure. You know, I'm thinking of what, you know, even brands like Hammer Strength, which has been around forever, a lot of their stuff is still good, but the newer brands like the New Tech, the Panata, um, Prime, you know, Prime, like all the stuff is just great stuff that we didn't have access to what, 20, 15, 10 years ago even. So yeah, modern bodybuilders in a way that might be it might hold some younger bodybuilders back that don't say build a base but don't get to build the base of doing the basics, you know, over and over again. But then again, maybe they're going to be their joints are going to be healthier when they're our age. So, who knows how about and I feel like I'm gonna run out of stuff real quick now, but I'm gonna throw in I'll say and and this is kind of I don't know. It's not as important, but there are some really good clothing brands in bodybuilding now. It's It's so much more mainstream that if you wanted cool bodybuilding clothes, you had like when I was younger, you had like Gasp or you bought like an animal brand t-shirt like Most of it was like just like oversized terrible m feeling material clothing, you know, in in the 2000, early 2000s. Whereas now it's like, man, these these sweats are like tailored to look good on you, no matter how much muscle you have, you know, and the material's real nice. Grant, you pay for it. They're like, you know, $120 for a pair of sweats, but not all of it, though. Like I've got some young young LA shorts that were like 30 bucks and the material, man, like would put my hands in my pockets. I'm like, man, these these shorts are like a nice that's kind of like that kind of like spongy cotton. Do you know what I'm talking about? Real kind of soft feeling. They're like 30 bucks or something. So yeah, I'll go with the new the new clothes. And I think part of it is just because the sport is so much more popular now that there's enough of a market that companies are, you know, making stuff like this. Well, I I saw an article like a month or so ago about the guy that started Gym Shark and he just started like stitching clothes together himself. He he he was going to do one business or the other and he had let's say 500 bucks or something like that and he just started making clothes and selling them to people and and now the company's worth like billions of dollars or something like that and he's just like and he still maintains control uh managerial control of the company. I mean that just to think like a a bodybuilder who just had an idea like I'm going to make some clothing and I know Gym Shark's not the most hardcore brand out there so it maybe doesn't appeal to hardcore bodybuilders but more so the general population but I I think it's more of a of a you know a credit to him for his business sense along with taking a passion of his and and developing it into a a a very um high earning brand. Pretty you know just I like those stories. which is funny because that's where I was going to go with my next one is I'm gonna speak for myself, not necessarily mo modern bodybuilders, but I am grateful for as much as I [\h__\h] about the internet and social media, without it, I'd have a regular job and my life would be dramatically different. That's true. So me being in the indust What's that? You'd be Ken. Yeah, I'd be Exactly. I'd be Ken. Me not being in the position that I am would have altered my life so much because of raising four kids and the convenience that it that it allowed me to be home, be more of a dad, almost arguably make my wife feel like she was the one missing from sports and things like that cuz she had a regular job and I'd have to remind her all the time. I'm just fortunate and we're fortunate as a family that I'm able to do that and get the kids to where they, you know, where they go and you have a professional job and you're very good at your job and you're revered. So, you know, we're in a pretty good spot. I am very grateful for that part of it. There's a lot of things I complain about, but without the technology, without the internet, without all the social media, have a pretty boring pretty boring uh average mediocre type of existence and income, quite frankly. Yeah, that's a great one, man. We should probably uh Andrew, if you've got one, throw it out. And I can think of some I started more. Okay. Yeah. I mean, we go back and forth on a Yeah. But I was going to say, you go cuz I mentioned the access to peeds in general, but I'm going to say the innovation with new peeds particularly to get people leaner like, you know, the retitue tide, the the SLUs, um, all the different peptides for healing, all these different things that we don't think of as just like your straight bodybuilding drugs, but in the game of bodybuilding really help people out, especially when they're dieting. You know, I mean, we all know we've done diets where it was you got your chicken and rice and sometimes it was just chicken and veggies five, six times a day. You did your cardio and you suffered through it and, you know, it was a test of wills on on not cheating. Whereas today, people have a lot of modalities they can use to make the hurt side of bodybuilding a little bit easier going into prep. And that goes with, you know, the sugar-free stuff and all the different I mean, a Ninja Creamy, you kidding me? You can make a your protein powder taste like ice cream. like like who ever heard of that, you know? Um so just the innovations with both peeds, food products, all that kind of stuff. Just making the dieting part a lot easier. All right, and we'll move on because I know we had some other stuff. Uh and we're on a a tight schedule today. I'll throw my last one in then as um and it ties into Andrew's first, which was the availability to gear. I'll say like availability to TRT. You know, good luck in 2006 getting a TRT prescription, especially if you were under 35 years old. Like, you'll really have to do some work to make that happen. All right, let's see. We got some other stuff here. Jussi Suma, I asked him to throw some questions out to us. And uh what does he say here? Oh, some of his own. He was listening. Yeah, things of his own. Uh good tasting protein powders, streaming music services. Yeah, I challenge everybody at home who's watching this to share yours. What are what are the things that you're grateful for in modern-day bodybuilding and it's really kind of a cool thing because uh you know, gratitude will make you feel you know it it it'll gratitude will change your attitude if you're feeling like crap. So, there's that. We all know that creatine is great for muscle building, but were you aware of its benefits for brain health? Uh I think it's pronounced creatine. No, it's definitely pronounced creatin. No, it's definitely creatine. I'm positive of it. Yeah, I that's pretty much what I said. Creatin. Creatine. Well, regardless of what you want to call it, creatine plays an important role in brain health. Research demonstrates that your brain needs a significant amount of ATP to perform difficult tasks. Supplementing with creatin will improve phosphocreatin stores, helping your brain produce more ATP. So, if you're not on creatin now, give it a try. Check out true nutrition.com. Use our code think over there. They got all your basic health supplements like creatin, protein powder, everything else you can think of. Use our code think to help support our programming. Get some additional savings and get a great supplement. Yeah, it's definitely creatin. How about this one? We had somebody ask us, is it possible, and I know we've talked about this before, is it possible to grow into a show? And if so, is there is there something that we do specifically to like can we like set that up, Skip? Like if I hired you as a coach, can I be like, Skip, I want to do this contest and I specifically want to grow into it. Can we make that happen? What would it take? I think on the one hand it's a bit of a misnomer and I'll explain why but there are some people who are just genetically gifted who can grow into shows and there there are reasons for that but it's you kind of have to be an outlier to do that. Here's the misnomer. A lot of times growing into show or growing into a show is actually getting peeled, getting your condition to be just insane, very low body fat. And then the last four, five, six weeks as calories increase, cardio uh decreases, caloric output decreases, we we call that growing into a show when in reality we're either maintaining or even slightly increasing our scale weight and our condition. We're getting fuller. We're not in as much of a depleted beat down. feet feel like cinder block uh type of situation and and that's more I think more common when we say growing into a show. So backing off those four, five, six weeks because you're ahead and you've done the bulk of the work to that point and and that's what we call or that's what we label uh growing into a show that happens far more frequently. Now, there's still it doesn't happen all the time. Sometimes you're racing the clock. Sometimes you're behind. Sometimes the body is just not responding and you have to diet it into the show. But I think that's you I'm curious what you guys think. But that's what I think of when I think of growing into a show. I feel like I grew into most shows because my propensity was always to be in shape really early and then, you know, three, four weeks out, five weeks out, start adding more food in. uh training got to be fun again. And it's also typically the highest peed load I'd be using for for most of the year or out of that year, you know. Um like my peed loads for contest prep was definitely more than my off seasonasons typically. Um, so more anabolics, more muscle protein synthesis, yeah, you're eating less calories, but I think when you structure the diet right and you structure the prep right, as Skip was pointing out, if you if you're ahead of the game and you're ready, you know, you're like, you know, 95% there at at five weeks out, you're going to have a great opportunity to grow into the show because you're basically reversing into the show and you're reducing fatigue because you're not doing nearly as much cardio, your output is down. So, I do think there's ample opportunities and I see a lot more guys programming their preps uh these days by starting their prep leaner to begin with uh versus get as big as you possibly could and then 12 or 15 weeks out, race to the clock to try to strip all the fat off, right? Um and that doesn't happen for everybody, you know. Some people do have to do two hours of cardio up until a week before the show to whether it's making a weight kind of thing or whether it's you just had a hard prep. You know, I remember my 2018 prep. I had one of those hard preps where two and a half hours of cardio a day, you know, no carbs for about a month straight. Um, I certainly was not growing into that show. And I would definitely say that my look on stage was more of a flatter side than it was in maybe previous or or years after that where I did have a little bit of a better approach and my body was just responding. I think a lot of that comes down to stressors though. You know, what what else is going on in your life? What else is going on at work? um all those different factors, you know, but um yeah, I do think you can grow into a show. I think it's based off structuring it the right way and of course being ahead of the game. And which one's more enjoyable those last few weeks, you're going to feel like a million bucks. And especially psychologically coming into a show going, man, I'm not I don't feel like death. I'm going to kill this. Well, it's like every day you go to the gym and you're wearing a tank top, you're like, I'm on stage today. like I look sick from I look 3D. I look sick from all angles, right? And it's like you're you're you're it's one of it's when you're not afraid to strip down at any point of the day and hit some poses for somebody. That's when you know you're ready early and and you kind of are growing and volumizing into the show when whether it's after one meal, whether it's fasted, whether it's at the gym, after training, you're like, I'll pose in front of anyone right now. I feel great. So yeah, that that's a million-dollar feeling and I I wish I could have that back right now. Like that's that was one of the best feelings in bodybuilding in the world. Yeah, I'll add this that um also like actually growing muscle, say from the time that you began prep to after the prep's over, you know, you've kind of filled back out. We're not saying like you did a big like reverse and you know, grew during that, but um I think the smaller you are to start, like the less muscle you have to start. And were you following a plan already? You know, if I reach out to Skip and I've been doing nothing for like the past two years, but then I start working with Skip for the next 22 weeks and I'm like nailing my protein every single meal. I'm hitting the gym. I'm training hard. Like Andrew, you said that like your peeds, you know, going to be up because I've seen that, you know, where somebody, especially like a men's physique guy who might not be completely focused year round, comes out the other side bigger and better than when he started it. You know, I and we we back when we had Dam Kuza on, we looked at that uh that information about even growing in a deficit that they were saying like 500 cal deficit, you can still grow muscle. Um and that's naturally, you know, I've seen uh one of my guys that I've worked with, local guy, a friend of mine, uh Vachce, small men's physique, natural guy. Even I saw him his pictures before the show and side by side with pictures after. I was like, "Oh my god, no question. He's bigger now than he was before he started, you know." So, I I think there's a a ceiling to that, you know, like the bigger you get, the less likely you're going to be able to continue like laying on new tissue. But I I definitely see it in people that are like in their earlier shows to keep getting better and better. You know, let me give you a quick example. And and it's funny because I actually crapped on these things in the previous episode about those inbody or those those scans that you know the gyms try to get you to do. But anyway, this woman that I have had done one at the beginning of her prep and right now she's like six weeks out from a show and it shows that she has put on two and a half pounds of muscle while dropping um I think it was like seven or eight% of her body fat. So take it for what you will, you know, if someone were to send me that. Is it okay when they tell us things we like? Yeah, I was just going to say I'm hedging my bets here on those machines a little bit, but you know, okay, let's just let's just put it this way. At least it's not showing that she lost muscle in the process. So, yeah. Yeah, we got a fun one. Uh, and this is Jussi Suma. It's a guy that I work with and to so his question is basically or topic is trendfree prep. And this is a conversation we just had. So, he's like 10 12 weeks out and I mentioned to you guys before the show, he's looking really good. Like I I would say that the last couple years we've really freaking nailed it with him and we figured out um how to really have successful off seasons. We set him up in a great position. Uh he's had a little bit of time off and we're just starting gear up now at around 12 weeks out. Like we haven't had to really push. Um, and and honestly, I feel like if we were to just manipulate a few factors, he could do a show. Might not be his best, but he could do a show in like 3, four weeks. Like, not kidding. Just get the skin to tighten up. So, we're going to have a lot of room. And he's saying, "You know what, man? Tren, I I I'm having a great time. I've been doing really good. Like, my mindset mood is awesome right now. What do you think about not using Tren for this prep? I mean, I wouldn't do it for myself. I know. Yeah. Exactly. But but I understand the situation if if the athletes like, "Hey, like and and the visuals and everything's coming together." I totally get it. Like, you know, cuz I think we all probably have some athletes that are like, "I can't use Trent for prep." And I'm I'm not like, "Well, we can't prep then, you know." I'm like, "Okay, we just won't use it. There's other compounds." You know, I'm like, "I got a guy who does really good with DHB and it gives him that same trend-like look and that's what we use instead of trend, you know." Okay. Um, but yeah, and I got a really good friend, uh, 212 pro, who one year just decided, I'm not using Tren. And he he did all the things that mo most bodybuilders, they would be no nos. And coaches would say, no, we can't do that. Like, he ran longest testosterone right through the show at like 900 milligrams a week and he relied on some Masteron and then I think some Winstrol and I think that was his total peed load. gave me uh some some GH but no tren no anavar I generally do long acting test all the way in believe it or not okay okay so all right so one coach would still I didn't think I was alone I didn't think I was alone I'm just you're not you're not I'm just saying and I'm not saying anyone's right with there's a million ways to to yeah make the sandwich right and it's not like my way is the one right way because every other coach that's good gets their athletes in shape looking the way they should too So, and maybe they do something completely different. So, I'm not trying to say I'm just saying I think we it's more traditional to use a fast or you know a test prop to use trend during prep and and I'm saying that's what I've always responded to. It's typically where I'm going to lean, but if a client is like like you see is saying, let's do this thing without prep at least for one show and see how it looks and if we want to add it in, we can always add it in for the second show. I think that's a great strategy. Yeah. Yeah. I I think most people and I would feel this way if I'm being completely transparent. If I didn't use trend, I would feel like I left something on the table. Yeah. So, that's more the re. But in my defense, too, I don't have those sleep problems on trend that a lot of people have. So, uh I may not sleep as much, but the quality of sleep is still really good. So, I don't have to deal with that as much, but but I'm with you. It it can certainly be done. It's an individual thing, case byase basis. And if people want to leave it out, more power to them. Just like you said, I love DHB. I think if I wasn't to use Tren, I probably would use DHB. We could try that if you want, Matt. We've never I don't think he's ever used it. I feel like I like DHB, too. The the and to be completely transparent, the year that I didn't use Tren, I used DHB. I looked like it was one of my favorite looks at the time as a middleweight. Um, I like trend though personally like I would want to use it. I feel like there's that thing that happens like let's say if everything's moving along and you add the trend in, you know that you're probably only going to be heavier and bigger. You know, you're going to be bigger basically next week. You know, it's just going to be better. Yeah. But doesn't mean, but listen, you could do it with nothing, right? Like we could do it with TRT if if the client wanted to. Yeah, I know. I'd be like the point one of those natty orgs or something. Quick little quick little um observation though. I went to the gym couple nights ago, starting to get depleted, looking at a high carb day a couple days later, which is today. And I just started using a supplement that kind of an old school fat burner. And I thought to myself when I started training back, I'm like, "Wow, I've not used this before." Um, this is like the contractions are just insane. Like where is this pump coming from? Then I realized I had changed Anavars and my other Anavar was underdosed and it hit me the first day. I'm like these contractions. Oh my god, I love Anavar. Love it in one day. Felt that difference in one day. We are seeing a live coaching change. I was going to say we're doing coaching right now. Right now. As Matt says, let's try DHB. I'll order it now. Um, if it doesn't work, we'll shift to Trend Ace uh for the second or third show. Here's a few uh What show are you doing, Matt? What's the What's that first one that's coming up? He's done the the uh same There's one that he really likes. So, we're He's a pro, right? No, no, no, no. He's amateur, but it's going to be August and then November and then we'll see what else happens because he's, like I said, he's in a good spot now. I like that you're seeing a live coaching happening at this moment. Yeah, we had a question for you, Andrew. Um, it had to do and we got to roll pretty soon here. So, let's answer this question and then talk about what we're going to do with uh insane set. But there was a question, Andrew, for you about uh hernia surgery. Do you remember what that was offand? Um, yeah. It was asking if I got if I got my subsequent hernas due to coming back like going back to training too quickly, I believe. Oh, yeah. Yeah. No. So, so my story is I went in for the hernia surgery and while I was under they found two more that they repaired at the same time. So, yeah. So, I actually had three hernas roughly in the same spot. One was just much more obvious than the other one. Um, but in terms of like recovery, and you know, I say this about everything bodybuilding related in terms of surgeries and stuff, take whatever the doctors say because they're telling you recovery times based off of general population people that are not going to be doing the stuff that we're doing in terms of, you know, BPC, TB, um, staying active, eating a lot of protein. Like I stayed on my bodybuilding diet, you know, I pulled carbs and calories overall down because I wasn't training for about uh about a week, actually. So the doctors told me I shouldn't be back in the gym for at least a month and a half, right? And I'm like, "Yeah, no." I waited till the clotting issue would have possibly been out of the way about a week to 10 days. And then I was back in the gym the first week after that doing treadmill, you know, walking at least 30 minutes a day, just getting some movement, blood flow. By the second week, I was in there doing some very, very light, you know, shoulder and arm exercises, making sure that I wasn't doing anything that was going to brace my core. Meaning like the opposite what we normally do with exercises, right? where you try to keep I tried to purposely just let everything relax and just focus on moving the muscle I was trying to move. So obviously weights were super low. By week three, four, you know, I was doing some light leg extensions, leg curls, um some more upper body stuff. And then by week like six or seven, I was doing leg press. Um you know, I I was back to squatting again. I think it was 10 weeks later because I remember I got a video on my Instagram. 10 weeks later, I walked in the gym. I'm like, let's see where I'm at. I did some ham curls and then I did squats and I just went one plate, two plate, three plate, four plate, five and I got five for 10 and I'm like I'm good. So yeah, I was actually kind of impressed that I kept all that strength. But I think it was because I got right back to movement, same protein, you know, uh recovery peptides and just not trying to feel like a victim of like, oh, I can't do anything. So, I was actually going to say something to Paul last episode like do everything you can and you're going to come back so much faster. But when someone's kind of in the mood and it's like h don't push them. If they're not ready to hear it, don't push them, you know? Yeah. So, um and Skip, we also I wanted to ask you about your prep. Somebody said, "How's things going?" Things are going great. Uh little more aggressive move because we're at that just under 11 weeks. So that 12 week to six week push is going to get I'm going to feel it, but I'll also be getting my cheekbones. So, you know, not nothing that isn't expected at this point, but it's going to be a grind. Um, and I'm looking forward to it. So, uh, cinder feet aren't cinder blocks. The cardio is tolerable, but it's going up quite a bit. I'm going to feel it here by next week. So, and then you get the compounds coming in at 10 weeks. So, you know, things are changing a little bit. The old school fat burners, those are kind of fun because I haven't haven't used some of that stuff in a while, but it's it's it's good. It's good. I'm excited. It's it's it's fun. It's good. It's and I don't have to stress, so I'm loving it. That's cool, man. So, for insane set, what do we want to set up for rules? Because basically, as I I mentioned it, I did a little blurb that I dropped in the last episode that we just like there was so many of them, you know, it was really hard to What do we want to do, Andrew? Like a one particular body part. Sure. Okay. What body part then I guess to start do we want to do for next week? Been a lot of leg stuff um of late. I mean, here's the thing. There's no insane bicep set, right? Like there's just like there's no insane tricep press down, you know, like it's because my idea of like an insane set. It it inquire it it incorporates, you know, both the strength and some type of endurance because you mentally have to override the fact that your body's running out of oxygen, your muscles are screaming stop and you keep going and going and going, you know. Um, so body part, man, it's hard to say. What do you What do you think, Skip? What body part you want to see? I want to see because there's been a lot of legs. I I I'd like to see back. The problem with back is there's a lot of gray area because then we can get into partials. Then we're going to get into form. But maybe because of those gray areas, that's where the judging, you know, criteria kind of comes into play. I think it's I think it's a good call because the other thing is in the same set at some point with some of these things especially back the form's going to break down because you're really just you're willing yourself to move that bar move that handle another repetition another when the muscles and your lungs are screaming. Um so it's it's hard to say you know it when you see it right it's like damn that was that was crazy set even if the form got a little loose at the end you're like that was a crazy set. Agreed. Um, so use those parameters, guys. The we can't define it, but we know it when we see it. One of those types of things. It's subjective, just like a physique judge, you know, judging your physique is. So, yeah. And are we going to continue judging this or do we want to let the people judge or I say we let the people judge. I do too. I'd rather let the people judge. We're we're a community, you know. Have people comment with who they want to win? Yeah. I think maybe Okay. What we do is the the maybe the Tuesday before our show, okay? Um we on on the on the think big page, we just put the names of the sets that have come in that twoe period and people can click down and look and see and then vote on who they want. Is it you can do a poll, right? You can do a poll. We can do a poll. All right. All right. Well, look for that in the group then. That'll be coming out then Tuesday before we record. Well, yeah. I guess it'll be after this show. So, just look for the poll. It'll be in the group when we're ready. And uh yeah, then we'll we'll take care of it from there. We'll figure it out. We appreciate you guys tuning in. Thank you for uh watching another episode and leave us questions for the next show. We're going to need a bunch of questions. Load us up over there and load us up with questions over at Patreon. Um we have had more people joining the Facebook group, which is freaking awesome. Bunch of people who have said, "I love Blood, Sweat, and Gear." I have one question just to keep the bots out and to keep the, you know, the gear dealers out and the fake deer dealer gear dealers. It's what's your favorite podcast on the network. You have to answer that. If you don't answer that, I literally will delete your entry to join the group. And a lot of people have said BSG. Love BSG. So, thank you guys for hanging out with us and following the show. Uh, of course, go to supplementsource.ca if you're in Canada because they do have great deals. you know, you like deals, go there supplement source there. And of course, uh, true nutrition.com in the US, use our code think over there. Get the team skip blend. And, uh, of course, uh, like I said, Patreon, load us up with questions, and go to bodybry.com to reach out to Andrew for coaching. You guys already know that. Go to teamskip.com to reach out to Skip. You know that as well. You know, you can hit me up at mcnal diets@gmail.com. And for another episode of Blood, Sweat, and Gear, guys, we'll see you soon. Thank you everybody in the live stream. And thank you to you gentlemen for hanging with me for the last couple hours recording these shows. This is always fun. Appreciate you. Tran and rear delts. Welcome back to Black Gear. Exactly. Um all right, we are live again. We may or may not have people find us. Uh because I I didn't say usually we keep going, but since we had Paul, I wanted to stop so that we could get those recordings. You know what I mean? Yeah. Um, if you joined back into the live stream, leave us a note. I've been married for 33 years. So, and I don't know if you guys do this with your wives, but I [\h__\h] with my wife so bad and do things that I know she can't stand. So, if I'm walking in front of her, I'll cough and I'll be like I'll have gum or like one of these pouches. Yeah. And it usually comes shooting out of my mouth that when it didn't. And she just [\h__\h] hates it because she thinks it's fleg because she doesn't know any different. Is that what she expected it to be fleg out of you? Huh? She's not very bright for a wife. You know, for AI can say all those things because she doesn't listen to [\h__\h] She'll be like, "Oh yeah, why just show them?" Like, "Really?" Because I trashed you pretty bad at the 17 minute. We have that question. Um, what about GHK copper? You guys used any of that yet? I haven't. Have you just started the facial uh application? And then I also have the injectable that I'm going to start today. I have some oral facials. GHK-Cu also for repairative collagen synthesis and whatnot. Gota, but it seems like you can use it forever. You can apply it topically, take it orally, you can put it in your hair, you can inject it, you can do a, you know, sublingual, you can do a uh suppository, you can um all that good stuff. All right. Well, let's talk. What else do we have? See if we have anything. I was going to say maybe Skip, read up on it and see what you think about it. Maybe we'll use it for a different show down the road and I'll have like a couple weeks of using it, but for next time. And Scott, you've been using it, right? For your hair or for No, I I have some I have some oral, but I haven't started it yet. So, I got you. I figured I'd do like one thing at a time. So, topic for today. Um drug related. Yeah, I'm trying to think drug related. Drugs are good. Drugs. It's contest season. Um what we did have a question. Um, can you grow into a show which we have kind of we have talked about like can you grow while dieting um you know so there is some something around that if there's a spin on that question. Yeah. Growing into a show. Growing into a show. What's up Stefan? What's some good questions for us? Trend shots in your rear delts. Esclean Skip. What's your experience so far working with a coach for prep? There's a question for Skip. Don't like him. Liked him until yesterday. Well, don't tell us. We'll ask you on the show. Coaches working with other coaches. Um Skip calls out Justin Harris on the next Sweat and Gear. Yeah. Uh the details of Skip's plan that Yeah. You must you must tune in. Yeah. Trappon. Trappon secrets. Skipp Hill versus Trapponent Nutrition. No longer dominates, destroys. Skipp Hill destroys. That's No need to pay Justin when you can get the information straight from Skip. There you go. There you go. [\h__\h] I like that. We were asked what's worse. Two to three beers a day or one to two anatrol a day. It's a topic for us. Jussi Suma, what's a topic for us, man? That might be a good topic or a good uh caption. Which one will pay faster? Which one will pass away more liberty? Yeah. Which one live you faster on live? Yeah. It's so funny. We got to dance around these words. Really? It is. Jussi Suma is looking incredible. By the way, guys, we figured out some stuff. He's a guy that if we try to push his body weight super hard in the offseason, then he's got to work really hard to get lean again, you know. And oh, that's how you say his name. Well, it's Matt. Matt is his name. I thought it was Oxima. Oxima. You also known as Oxima. But he's like 10 12 weeks out now and he's looking like he could just like drop some water. It's pretty cool. No [\h__\h] Yeah. I just want to point out that uh hypertrophy and hypertrophy uh there that hypertrophy is not incorrect. It's no different than saying frustrated or frustrated. Thank you. Could I call myself just wanna Could I call myself though the hype hypertrophy? Wait, I can't say it that way. Hypertrophy. Hypertrophy coach. The Yeah, I was gonna say that. Andrew, can I be the hyper trophy coach? Is that a different hyper trophy coach? That guy lives down here. It's not wrong. Oh, he does. Yeah. Yeah. See him at the gyms? Yeah, I see him in the gym sometimes. Oh, he's on your white white side of the state. Yeah, exactly. When is See, that's actually a good way to put it. I know, right? Pittsburgh Pro this weekend or next weekend? Next weekend. Next weekend. Yeah. And then we had asked we were asked our predictions uh by one of our Patreon people. What are you guys' predictions for that? Oh, I like Stephan's there right there. What's he got? That qu. What should modern bodybuilders be grateful for when compared to the old school preps of 20 years ago? Grocery delivery. I like that. Yeah. Liquid egg white. Okay, let's let's start with that one, you know. Let's come up with three. We have to come up with three things each. How about that? Three things, okay, a modern bodybuilder should be grateful for. Also, um I saw a topic. It had it was for something else like completely unBodybuilding related. And I wrote it down and it was like um and I if we could we could shift it to a bodybuilding topic being like five things you don't need in bodybuilding or like five things you don't need in your gym bag or you know what I mean? Five things that you don't need while you're dieting. Don't need like things. So things that we usually have that we don't need or things that people would expect you to need like oh I'm going to be doing a contest so I need to buy these items or like this. Do you need do you need a weight belt? Do you need lifting straps? Do you need knee sleeves? Do you know what I'm saying? Are there any of those items that people assume they need? So something like that or five five things in I don't know. I'm just trying to think of something. You know what I mean? There's something in there. I just don't think about what I don't need. I think about what I need. Yeah. You don't put the [\h__\h] you don't need in your bag. Yeah. But there are people who do, you know what I mean? Like if that's what I'm trying to get at and I can't think of it right now, but the top I think. Okay. Like um those those BFR straps that people spend like 80 bucks for when you could literally just use your knee wraps. Is that what you're talking about? Like Yeah. Yeah. Something like that. Something like that. Or are there things that like you get into bodybuilding and you buy it or it could be and then you realize down the road that it really was a waste that like you know I don't know. I don't know. I'm so chintzy that I don't buy [\h__\h] that Yeah. I get there aren't a lot of things cuz the things we buy we need. Trend mast and pros. Exactly. Yeah. Pins. You can never have enough pins. Got to have extra pins. Yeah. You can't have too many pins can you skip? because there's always the next cycle. That's right. Yeah. Okay. Never mind. Never mind. Yeah. We got to think on that a little bit. That's a harder one. Yeah. Let that one marinate. We'll let that one marinate. I get where you're going with like it sounds like a sexy topic of like if we could just nail it right though. Yeah. Right. We have three days figure it out. Yeah. Right. Right. Um Um All right. What's the topic we're doing? We're going to do um what modern bodybuilders should be grateful for when compared to Okay. Yeah. We'll just bring it in. Look at that. Stefan, you freaking created a show. How about that?