This is subq. Everything being the same. Nine I use total. And here is the subq value. This solid line. So this peaks out at about 15 16 maybe on average. That's subq. This peaks at like 37 or so for IM. That's a monstrous difference. It's like twice as much or more on average. All right. So if you look at area under the curve, which is a good way to to to see what is the exposure from the drug, how much is it going to affect your body? Obviously, if we filled in the area under this curve and figured out what that is, I think it's going to be smaller. It does come down more rapidly here. And I could go and look at this paper, but we definitely get a higher peak. What's up, guys? Welcome back to Blood, Sweat, and Gear with coaches Skipp Hill, Andrew Barry, myself, Scott McN, and we are joined by Mr. Muscle Minds himself, Scott Stevenson. What's going on, man? You guys, baby, it's all about you. The doctors for the ride. Tell me what I need to talk about. Thank you for being here with us, guys. All of our programming is brought to you by truenutrition.com. use our code think over there. You can get the team skit blend, which is a it's nicer than just an iso because it's got like a little bit of a thickness to it, a little bit of body to that protein shake. So, when you're hungry on diet, it's going to fill you up for a little bit longer. Uh, also check out supplements.ca for our Canadians. And thank you to everybody from Patreon. I've got a couple Patreon questions today. Uh, we were going to launch into this thing with Scott talking about GH, growth hormone. Um, and we can even screen share. I think you've got a a slide or two. Uh, that basically, you know, we talked about this the other week. Uh, the topic came up, you know, should you, and I asked it. I was like, should you IM growth hormone? You know, that's what I had done for years. I definitely felt like I got the benefit of growth as far as you can, as much as you can expect to get out of low dose. You know what I'm saying? Um, but yeah, I'd always used it. I am. and and and the thought was, hey, there's it's possible that the hormone could get damaged potentially by enzymes in the muscle, which that was something I hadn't heard before. Isn't that what what we were told or that's the topic that came up? Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah, that's true. I for Yeah, I Yeah, but I mean that's not a common thought. That's just I think I I think I've only heard that from one person. Have you guys heard that before? Well, regardless, we thought it'd be something cool to talk about, and I know that we had talked about it before on Muscle Minds. So, we were like, "Let's do a crossover and let's get Scott on." And then that topic just happened to come up. So, I figured, you know, I'm playing. You're just ignoring me. You're like, "Shut up, Skip. Let me get into this. Let's get rolling. People tune in for the content." So, Scott, where do we want to start with this, man? Should should we use our GH uh you know, subq? So you you tell me you there's two topics and you guys just kind of like we're going to do I I have a couple slides already for the IM versus subq because I heard the podcast so people I heard the podcast I'm like I got a couple studies and I have this monster database you know when I when I'm writing articles and stuff I throw I mean I know is that how you refer to your brain seriously datab I don't well my computer and my phone I don't know [\h__\h] like I I just when it and I get like 10 feet away I'm out of Bluetooth range from my computer I I just turned I just turned into a zombie basically. There's mine mine's like one megabyte of RAM. That's that's it. Oh, dude. Yeah, I've got like it's like a Timex Sinclair calculator that that's all I have left. So, but I have a PowerPoint presentation from years ago. Um I've given it a few times but there's a few slides on growth hormone and the kind of the question is like why does some people seem to think growth hormone is the the next coming and some people are like ah it's not that big of a deal. So we can go through that and then one of the factors the leadup would be that one of the factors could be substantially that some people are doing subq and some people are doing I am and it can be it can make a big ass difference. So, I can go into like what is growth hormone, how does it work, what's its role in the body, that sort of thing. I've got three slides. It'll take a few minutes or we can go right to the the [\h__\h] that people probably want to hear about is whether IQ subq or IM is better. Well, let's do both. But like you said, people, you know, it's a good it's a good lead topic. So if they're if they're clicking on this specifically to hear, you know, which is better, IM or subq, let's deliver on that first and then let's get into the other stuff which is also fascinating. Okay, I'm going to share my screen. Careful. I know, right? Yeah. Be careful. That's the one. I'll just share that. Okay. I just have a hard and fast rule. Never sharing my screen. No. Yeah. All right. So, I can't see I can't see you guys at all now. So, you guys see the growth hormone, the equalizer? Yep. All right. Cool. So, and I'm going to just go through this real quickly because people might get bored with this, but basically this is the idea. What What is growth hormone in the body? Where does it come from? It's released from a pituitary. The big thing we're worried about is that it stimulates lipolysis, right? People use it mainly for fat loss, but then some people find that they get some muscle growth from it. It does have an effect on protein synthesis and it increases IGF-1. This is why people and I'm going to I'm going to sort of uh shift this presentation for you guys for your for your viewers because they're they know I got to look at my IGF-1 that tells me how good my growth hormone's working. I wouldn't necessarily say that for a different audience. Um that comes from what's called the smatamine hypothesis. So this is the basic idea just so people know. Pituitary produces growth hormone. it makes its way to the liver and then the liver produces IGF-1. So um IGF-1 used to be known as somatiden meaning it mediates the somatrophic effects somatrofen being growth hormone. So those that's old school terminology and one way that one thing that elevate IGF-1 is more growth hormone. So that's what happens when people do exa use high amounts of exogenous growth hormone. You can also bring this down an old school way. Ken, I know you remember this. People would go and they would diet and get their IGF-1 down because that happens when you're dieting that reflects overall nutrient part nutrient balance and then you go and get a blood work done and you're low on IGF-1. It's like, oh, you need growth hormone and doctors would prescribe growth hormone for that reason. Um, but growth hormone has other direct effects on bone, on muscle, too. It actually increases IGF-1 production in muscle as well. So that's sort of the updated somatamed hypothesis um in individuals that are already reached their full adult height and we're not talking about people with acromegaly now um growth hormone bas it's it's it's main use here is for fuel so lipolysis if you go to sleep you're going to need to rely on fat unless you've had a giant meal or if you go hypo your blood sugar levels are low you're going to need to rely on fat for fuel. So those two things stimulate um growth hormone release. Exercise does it. Growth hormone releasing hormone does it. Grin from the gut does it. Um MK-677 we talked about that a few weeks back now on the on the muscle minds podcast. So um if uh carbs are elevated that will inhibit growth hormone. Somatastatin inhibits it. Glucaorticoids um will moderate release. There is a difference between men and women depending on DHT. male hormone obviously or a ma male produced from testosterone versus estrogen. So that modifies the growth hormone release differences that you see in men versus women. So the thing that most a lot of people would know there's two main isopforms of growth hormone. The one that people inject the one that you get prescribed or the one that you buy in the black market is a 22 kilodal molecular weight form of growth hormone. There's also a smaller somewhat smaller isoform 176 amino acids. Um this one also gets released depending on exercise for instance. So this can be 5 to 10% maybe more. It depends on the person only like half to 3/4 of the growth hormone that's floating around is actually this 22 kilodol inversion the stuff that people get. So um there's also active fragments. um there's dimers or multiple dimers or liodimer found in the blood that can have active um growth hormone activity. So there's a it's not just the one growth hormone molecule that gets um injected. There's actually a whole sort of family of growth hormone molecules. Um let me get this out of the way so I can see I can't see my move. There you go. Can see what I'm reading there. So anyway, there's growth hormones found in various forms and there's also a growth hormone binding protein that actually comes from the same gene that is responsible for the growth hormone receptor. So there's a chance of variability there. So looking at this big picture as far as what growth hormone does, let's say comes in exogenously, there's going to be variability in responsiveness to the um to the IGF-1 release. Some people get a lot of IGF-1 when they use X amount of growth hormone and some people don't. That's going to depend on to what their dietary state is. If someone's in an ose and they're eating a lot, their IGF-1 may already be elevated or could already be a ceiling effect there. They don't get much. Depends on how how much growth hormone they use. Someone starts growth hormone and they start dieting down at the same time. They give it some time for the IGF-1 levels to go up. Maybe doesn't go up so much because now they're in a caloric deficit which would lower it. growth hormone brings it back up, they don't see much of a change. They're like, "Oh, my growth hormone's fake." Right? Then the extent to which growth hormone is bound to this binding protein can make a difference. And there's also differences in the growth hormone receptor, um, which is in this next slide. So, there's polymorphisms here. Um, I'm not going to go into all this to be honest. It's not that important really. Um, there's some interesting stuff that the growth hormone gene does not seem to affect height. for instance in non-dwarf. So it doesn't matter as far as growth per se, but there are differences there um that matter when someone's got excess growth hormone acromegaly. So that's another thing that could play a role. Um there's two versions of this growth hormone binding protein and they have different affinity for the 20 versus 20 kilodolin growth hormone. The interesting thing here at least this is on I think on the previous slide is some people and we I don't think I mentioned this when we talked about um MK-677 but when you're stimul when you're using a a grlinin using a growth hormone secret peptide the growth hormone that comes out of the pituitary then is endogenously produced it's ph pharmacologically stimulated but it's produced by the body and that means you can get and I haven't seen this studied for for squat, but you can get different versions of these growth hormones. And if you're someone who, for instance, has a growth hormone receptor um isoform that's more has a higher affinity or more sensitive to one or or the other of these growth hormone um isoforms and you get one or more of the other from using a growth hormone secret peptide or an MK67. It's not a peptide. You could have a scenario where someone lucks out, they get more of one of the isoforms and they have the right receptor and those secretogs work splendidly for them which happens sometimes. Not to mention um the other stuff we talked about with MK67 just as one example. So this is some reasons why the secrets as well as exogenous growth hormone could make a difference. Um there's also growth hormone antibbody formation. It happens between like 0 and 60% of the time depending on the growth hormone in the studies with dwarves. So here are here is a table um children with detectable growth hormone up to two years of therapy at this dosage and using these forms of growth hormone for instance hummatrope didn't work out so well 10 out of 46 of the kids did using novonorisk none none none so this would be a 40 to 60 IUs per week for 100 kilogram bodybuilder so there's some differences depending on um the immunogenicity so to speak to what degree antibodies will form from the different forms of growth hormone. It's highly variable. Um, interestingly enough, it doesn't seem to affect growth of dwarfs. So, some dwarfs who have formed the antibodies think, okay, that's not good. Antibodies bind up the growth hormone. The growth hormone can't do its trick. Those dwarfs wouldn't grow as well when they get the exogenous growth hormone. It does has in the studies that I've seen, this slide's a little bit old, so maybe there's some newer stuff that I haven't seen, but it doesn't seem to matter. Does it matter to bodybuilders? I don't know. So I put importance there in the lower left. So then there's the other issue of um uh quantity and quality and black market products. And K can K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K Ken, I know you guys have talked about this here with your with GH as far as uh um pharmaceutical grade and that sort of thing, but Skip is sponsored by Serim. Now I I knew I knew that. Yeah. So you know, you can underdose growth hormone. Um, Kim, you probably remember back in the day that they would put HCG in because it looked like growth hormone. Sure. Oh, yeah. You know, that was they could go and get the pregnancy test at Walgreens like, "Ah, [\h__\h] I got bad stuff. I got scammed." Yeah, you got scammed. And or people would put CGC1295 with DAC in there and they get some growth hormone elevation from that. Um, and that would be cheaper than growth hormone itself. So, um, with the the quality can be an issue. You can have incomplete proteins or poor confirmation when these are made with recombinant DNA and there can be storage and production issues. So counterfeits um there can be oxidation particular the methionine amino acid um or deamidation cleavage. So you end up with fragments and you growth hormone molecules that that potentially aren't effective. They just don't bind to the growth hormone receptor. If they do they don't activate it very well. And then you can interaction factors. So things I've already mentioned here um growth hormone isopform sensitivity antibodies blah blah blah. So um this shows subcutaneous 9 IUs of growth hormone. This is this is a a time course. So somewhere I think this is maybe in male and female in these two but I'm not sure. So somewhere around the threeh hour mark is when you're getting a peak here. Um this is why people will go and they'll do inject nine or 10. I use a whole bottle. And they go in and get a growth hormone test about this time and they go and they compare with some of the online sources to see um uh where does my growth hormone stack up. Yeah, the issue could be there um potentially binding um or what we're going to talk about in the next two slides. So, I think I need to stop my screen sharing and go to the other slideshow. So, hold on. Let me do that. Guys, I got to take a break to do the whole like, share, subscribe thing. But I also want to say thank you to you. The internet's kind of a weird place in case you didn't know. And I I'm glad that we've put the community together that we have. I'm grateful to read your comments. In fact, I I know a lot of YouTubers that don't read comments. I read all of them and I try to get back to everybody. So, if you comment, I will see it and I'll try to get back to you. Also, the like button is absolutely free of charge. You don't have to pay anything to hit it and it does help us out a ton. It's not going to like push us into your algorithm, but it will help other people to hopefully find the show. So, if you like our stuff, please try to help us out. So, when this is what made me think about um I knew I had these papers when you guys brought this up on the other podcast, so I'm like there's a couple studies. I'm like, I figured I'd take a look at those things. So, one thing I I thought I'd mention, it's kind of important. Um, when you see graphs like this and you see these bars here, so like there is a there is a a dot that's a mean bar and this is a plus standard deviation bar. So they just drew them they drew them in in one direction just to make the graph less messy. But what this means is that for this time point two hours afterwards Mhm. this was the average, right? It peaked about three hours. So this was the average here. And then for instance for this peak this is the standard deviation. So that means if we look over here this is the normal curve the Gaussian distribution the bell curve basically and it shows what a standard deviation is. So if this was our our average, so this value here on the curve, and we went out one standard deviation either way, that would capture a little more than 2/ird of the people. If we're assuming we got this normal distribution, that's a pretty safe assumption. So if we go if we want to make sure we're not we're not we're missing only maybe 5% of people, we go out two standard deviations. So I'm going to draw a bottom line here. So if we twothirds of people here, if if this is like let's say this is 37 and this goes up to like 50. So that's like 13. And we go down here and we go down to like 24. So if we go from 24 to what did I say like 50 that captures twothirds of the people a little more than twothirds of the people in terms of their peak dose. So there's going to be there's going to be some people that are up here potentially a very few. Our bulk of our folks are going to be here, right? And there'll be people down here assuming this is normally dist distributed at this time point. So these are big standard deviation um markers here. So there's going to be some some super responder at least in terms of what happens to serum growth hormone concentration who's going to be up here after this dose and there's going to be some poor sod down here as well potentially um if you test in other people and for what it's worth just diving into this is about nine IUs for a 100 kilogram person. It's usually how I standardize things. So this is this is like the 10 IU bottle and what you see here is huge variation and we're just looking at this one curve one dotted curve. So that's another potential source. It's just there's just a lot of variety. There's a lot of variation terms of the binding of these things. Um degradation too could be a possibility. I don't know about the degradation of muscle being a possibility. I haven't seen that but it's you know it could possibly happen. Um but the main point here is that there's three conditions in this graph. The the dotted line with the open squares is IM and this is four I use. There's just a different concentration. So they compared a more concentrated inject date. So they had um more volume but it's every time they gave about nine IUs. This is 10 IUs per ml. It's just less concentrated. So we can we can just kind of ignore that. This is subq. Everything being the same, nine IUs total. And here is the subq value, this solid line. So this peaks out at about 15, 16 maybe on average. That's subq. This peaks at like 37 or so for IM. That's a monstrous difference. It's like twice as much or more on average. All right. So if you look at area under the curve, which is a good way to to to see what is the exposure from the drug, how much is it going to affect your body? Obviously, if we filled in the area under this curve and figured out what that is, I think it's going to be smaller. It does come down more rapidly here. And I could go and look at this paper, but we definitely get a higher peak. So there's a difference there in the pharmacocinetics. Big one. This is this paper from 92. And then here's another P. This one, this is a cool one because they compared men and women. These were actually trained subjects. These were athletes. So they were all trained. So this is pretty relevant to the people listening now. These were bodybuilders, but um probably their bodybuilders like you're giving me GH. Yeah, I'm coming in. They for sure. Um it's a same thing about 10 IUs for 100 kilogram person. Men versus women. And here's the subcutaneous scenario. And in this case, some people got up to like 30. Each of these little lines in this case is a different person. So there's no standard deviation bars in this because each of these plots is a different subject. And the thick plot is the average. It got up to like was close to 15 again. We'll go back a slide. Just about 15 here, right? Okay. So nine IUs. This is 10 IUs. Just about the same. And here's the IM version. The line is the average. We're up at like 40. We're up 37. So, not far off. So, that's nine IU's got 37. 10 IU's got about 40 here. But look at this dude. I want to be that guy. I want to be that guy. Everyone wants to be that guy, right? Um and then there's this poor guy. And this person had delayed peak, it looks like, if I'm reading that right. Yeah. Um, so these are the men and then things are are a little bit different for the w women. But here is a for instance, here's a woman and her peak was higher than sorry I didn't do that very well. Her peak was higher me just eyeballing it here than all but the the the guy that the Scott McN here who had the giant GH spike. And then on average though we we see less. And this is what you see with the women. This is in the other other PowerPoint. I'll spare you guys the trouble of going back and looking at. But you you see a different um dural pattern of growth hormone that's sort of more spread out with women. So it makes sense that things would be more spread out. They just manage growth hormone not only from a secretion standpoint, from a binding standpoint, degradation standpoint. So still getting higher peaks here on IM for women. But here's a sub. This is the woman with subcutaneous and hers hers was higher than these guys or any of the guys for subcutaneous. Now, is this the same person, the super responder? I don't know. They didn't number those folks. Um, but other people are getting, you know, they're getting inflections and some of this could be endogenous growth hormone. Yeah. I was going to ask you. I see all those little, you know, especially in the the women's side, the females, they have all those continual little spikes along the way. Yeah. So they they buffered the elevation, right? And they got and they and it see looks like they brought things back down. I'm guessing I can't really follow these plots, but these pro very very likely are just the normal um sporadic elevations that discontinuous elevation of growth hormone that you get. So that's the nice thing about in a way about growth hormone unlike using like a long acting acting test where you know it's going to take a while for your HPTA to recover. And uh in in this case growth hormone is normally pulsatile like this. So you have a big pulse and the body is used to seeing pulsatility. So and it's in and out much more rapidly than you know a testine intate what have you. Would you or could you postulate that the reason that females aren't as responsive is as you touched on before estrogen. And if that is the case, then couldn't it be argued that lower estrogen levels in males would be more productive while on growth hormone? I think I think there's just the factor of Let me get out of this PowerPoint so I can see you guys here. I got so much I got dual screens. Let's see here. There we go. Um I think bringing the estrogen down anyway is going to it could help and additionally because of that factor. Yes. Mhm. But the estrogen al having estrogen low or blocking the estrogen receptor helps with fat loss. Anyhow yeah that's you know so we kind of know that. So I don't know to tease that out maybe there's some data somewhere like if you want to really geek out I kind of figure out how to tease that out in some way. But yeah that's a good that's a good spec. It's another reason like an obvious implication. I just wasn't sure if there was something else where you go, "No, that's no, that's not No, no, that's that's very logically well thought out." Yeah, it totally makes sense to me for sure. So, anyway, that's like that's one of those things that I'm like like man, I don't want to just like look what I know. Look what I got in my database, right? I know this thing. But I I just look that stuff up. You can find on Google Scholar. I just I'm like there's got to be someone has to have done a study published on the pharmacocinetics. So it's just interesting that this is not that well known. It's interesting that everyone says we should always do IM that was cyizen and and humatrope. So it could be that there's some differences for other growth hormones depending on you know what they're what's in the in the bottle once they've been reconstituted. Um but it's just kind of an interesting factoid. So, especially if you're using those two, someone would be prescribed those or what have you, then it makes sense to go I am, I would think. I can't remember looking at the um labels on the stuff cuz who reads the labels their pharmaceutical GH where I can't remember what do they tell um patients to inject? Do they say subq or IM? I package inserts. Yeah, I believe it's subq. Yeah, I think that's that's where I was going with that because for some reason I recall reading the Serim, you know, the whole fold out which is like it opens up to a page like that saying subq. Um, now based on those studies, which like you said, you just pointed out they've been around since '92. Why haven't they updated their packaging or why haven't they updated their prescribing information? I this is what you think I know you don't know, but like what would you think? I mean, there's there's just strange stuff like there's and I'm going to get this wrong, but but there's a rule um that the FD it's involved with the FDA and the CDC, I believe, too, that when you have any drug that's been opened, it has to be disposed of in 30 days. So, you buy like a multi-use test bile, right? And you get prescribed one mill per week and like you just throw away the other six mills that you didn't use after a month. No. No, you don't. We don't. No, of course. And and and doctors, you know, wouldn't But that was been a problem for some doctors. So, I I suspect that once if it's tested with a subq, then it is it's meant for subq administration. And then there's no way around that unless they go through all the testing and they pay the money. Okay. And they don't want to do that. It's only prescribed for this particular mode of method of application. So, method of administration. Yeah. Route of administration. Route administration. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, you on that note also talking about, you know, uh peptide hormones and and and maintaining um their stability, you know, just for shits and giggles. One time I I noticed I had like an old bottle of melanitan, these guys know that was sitting in the back of the fridge for like two years and I was like, let's reconstituted, right? No, no, no, no. It was already constituted. Yeah, reconstituted. So, it was sitting there constituted. Yeah. Two years at least. And I'm like, let's just see. So I took like maybe 500 micrograms of it and within three or four minutes I got the extreme nausea and flushing. And so it made me I think when I realized I'm like everything they've said about prescribing and about GH insulin and throw it away is complete garbage at this point in my opinion because I've also noticed with insulin too that I've used insulin that was I don't know I probably opened it and used it for a month and then I went back and put it away and then used it again out of the fridge maybe four months later. Oh yeah. It was it was probably just as potent as it was because I had the same effect on blood sugar that I had when I first took it. Some insulin package inserts suggest you can just leave it at room temperature. I've seen that too. You know, diabetics all do that. They always just carry it around at room temperature. And and I would be the idiot 15, 20 years ago when I'd be personal training these people be like, you know, that really needs to be in the fridge. You know, like we as we understand peptides need to be, you know, somewhere around 40 degrees to maintain their potency. Right. Right. I I think some drugs, you know, they may break down differently and like you throw some stuff if you recon if something's in in um solution and you put it in the freezer, which might be okay for a powder, then then you can get a freeze fracture basically and then the protein gets degraded and then it's like, "Oh, I'll just make it extra cold so it'll degrade more slowly." It's like, no, you just broke it. You just done broke it. You just rendered that $700 kit worthless. Yeah. Do we know if this directly transfers to IGF spikes and increases as well? Um would be cool if they had IGF graphs too in the IGF binding proteins. Yeah, those were just acute studies like one time and it takes days for IGF-1 to respond. That's a much it'll be a much slower elevation. So they would have to have taken um like in order you'd have to have a rationale for doing that study. Um they probably wouldn't have done it with healthy subjects like this. They probably would have taken some population where elevation of IGF-1 is supposed to have some medicinal action and then they would have treated them and then they would have to follow them. So you know with dwarfs I would love to see it with dwarfs. I I I've looked and looked maybe there's something out there that I've missed. That's the thing. Like if you look and look and look and look and look, eventually you can find all sorts of [\h__\h] and I find stuff and it's like the 15th time I look for something and I find something else new. Some you and Dante you and Dante find all the studies. Yeah. It's just, you know, you keep digging there's there's so much like almost everything's been done or there's a there's like kind of a half answer that'll give you some idea. But yeah, IGF-1 I would expect that. Yeah. But I don't I don't know that's been done. Do you remember Scott last year? I think last year year before I called you cuz I just wanted to get your opinion on um remember I had a kid 10 units of GH a day and his IGF on testing came back at 821 and we were both like h does he have is he sick you know and obviously the answer is pulled the IG or pull the GH out and you know retest again in four to six weeks and let's see where he's at. And of course he went right back down to like 227 or some something very normal and kind of solved that up real quick. Now, I guess where I'm going with the question based off, you know, laying that little platform, would we consider him like a GH responder as far as IGF-1? Absolutely. He he could have been like that guy, you know, and very much so. Totally. Where he's getting like like twice the peak there in your curve is larger. And then on top, see that's kind of the idea if you imagine this is what happens I think happens with at least the majority of the factors for like the best IFBB probes, right? They they they may have like they've got various genes in place for muscle growth, right? They've got three or four of the important ones, ones we may don't know about. Then they've got the right there's a phosphodiestrase in the liver that determines how much biability you you get from an eststerified testosterone or nandrallone or whatever. So you get more drug per milligram of what you inject and then you have particular antigen receptor that's more sensitive, right? And so he takes one guy and he you put him on 400 or whatever and he blows up like the other guy would have on 1200 but that 400 is actually like 600 and because his and receptor is 50% more responsive then it becomes 900. Now he's pretty close to 1200 and then he just grows muscle better and he just is just so much better. So you take a multitude of those factors and start overlapping them and you get synergy and then you get this, you know, this person who's just got all the right genetics and to take it a different direction. Yeah. For people that are poor responders to androgens and they take 500 milligrams of something, but really it's more like 200 milligrams in a sense using that kind of scenario that you just painted. Yeah. Yeah, I mean I'm there's one study and there was like a if you had one particular isoform of this liver in the end this enzyme in the liver there was like a 60% greater area in the under the curve for a 200 mgram I think it was a test siponate injection right so so 200 milligrams becomes equivalent if you have the right gene to 320 right now maybe there's another gene that I don't know about but this is this is the enzyme I think that is the main one responsible for that cleaving of like an enthet away from test. But so maybe you just you you got the regular version of that, but then you have an antigen receptor that is on the low end because there's there's two different areas in the antigen receptor for instance um one in particular that they found like is it for in ele you have an elevated risk for prostate cancer um and and sensitivity. That's how they kind of figured this stuff out. But but if you for instance, you know, got the short end of the stick, then yeah, you don't have the good enzyme in the liver for getting more out of your injectable and then you have poor sensitivity, right? And there are enzymes in muscle too that break down androgens. So that's a possibility as well. Um, so you line all those things up and yeah, you could just, you know, you could really be pretty bad off as far as as far as making gains or you could be really well off, right? I mean, look like a simple one. Sorry. Can one It's like kids who get gyno. You know, some boys get gyno and it's really bad. They're not doing anything. That's just that's just like that's just variability without any pharmacological intervention. That's just and then some people don't not even close to being a problem. Right. So anyway, Ken, what were you going to say? Well, it just seems clear and correct me if I'm, you know, not understanding this correctly, but it seems clear that we can't take in this particular case say the IGF levels and go, "Oh, his progress is going to be so much better because he has a higher IGF level." there are so many variables and I posited this before but I can't explain it because my brain isn't very big that it's not directly related to that because there are so many other variables like you're saying a portion of that IGF is not going to be usable there are other receptor issues I think and this is what I touched on and this has been a few months but we only know this much we're learning these things from a scientific standpoint you relatively quickly, but I want to fast forward 10 years and I want to see more of an understanding of how and and this goes back to the pharmaceutical versus generic, how the IGF levels are so big and and this means I'm growing. That is to me way too black and white or Scott's guy who had, you know, 800 levels. How was he progressing? Was he progressing like he had 800 IGF levels or was he just progressing like anybody else would? Oh, he's Andrew's guy. Okay, fair enough. But that's what I'm but that's what I'm saying. I don't So I'm asking is it do is it always directly related? Obviously I would assume that the majority of the time it may be. But then there are other times where you have you know I want to see IGF levels of all the pros. I want to see if you know Keon or Keone, how do you say his name? Ke, you know, if does he have is his IGF chart or does he have an average Italian cousin is Ke? That's his name. And I'm usually pretty good with names, but I wasn't sure on that one. Uh, but the point is I want I'd like to see that just to see if across the board if those IGF levels are extremely elevated that all those people are crazy responders from a progress standpoint. not just from the IGF levels being higher but from the actual progress. So I could I could probably go and find I can't give any numbers now but um there's various lines of evidence looking at IGF-1 and for instance nitrogen balance and like growing animals or if like burn victims. So you remember remember Scott Connelly and metrics. Yeah. Oh yeah. All the metric like so a lot of stuff he used to talk about was metrics was somehow formulated in creating positive nitrogen balance or preventing the loss of muscle and nitrogen from from protein in burn victims which is a highly catabolic scenario. And so I always I always sort of laugh because I never saw those data but that's she always talked about that. So there's there's for instance data on burn victims where when IGF-1 goes down nitrogen balance goes down. When IGF-1 is up, nitrogen balance is up. So, growing animals have a high nitrogen balance. They're accumulating protein because more nitrogen is being stored. Nitrogen, it's like 16% of protein on average. That's what the nitrogen balance thing is about. It's not there's holes in the nitrogen balance. Like, you can have hydrogen nitrogen balance and not have not see actual measurable changes in body composition. I've seen that. There's a study out of Canada for instance that long ago they showed that it's like that nitrogen balance was really awesome with the high protein but it didn't the muscle growth didn't happen. Still though in general you can look at see there's a correlation between those they tend to happen in parallel. If you got this scenario with a bodybuilder, let's say you take two guys and somehow you had just hypothetically everything else was the same and one guy and they're all they're both eating in which the same amount you presume it's a caloric excess as far as you can tell. You've you've equalized all the variables, but one guy has IGF-1 that's twice the other guy. You're going to expect that his nitrogen balance is going to be better there, too. Um, so like you could look at a correlation and I don't know how strong it is between nitrogen balance for instance in growing animals where you know they're gaining muscle, you know they're getting bigger and IGF-1 and if that you can see behind that correlation let's say the correlation is um is uh 08 which is really really high like one would be perfect you can double that and 08 times 08 and you get 64 it would tell you like about 64% maybe like twothirds of the variation in growth, the variation in nitrogen balance would be explained by IGF-1. So like if you have a really high correlation, this is what I could try to find. I'll now I'm kind of curious. I'll probably do this with all my free time and see how strong those correlations are because I think they're pretty strong. And then the scientists would say, okay, like a correlation that high when we've just got that one variable that's changing, we presume there aren't too many other influences, no other other co co-variant, so to speak. That tells us that IGF-1 is important. But um you could have a scenario just to play the devil's advocate here where someone um is using GH and maybe they're like Andrew's guy and he gets they get lots of IGF-1 for for whatever reason, but their diet is [\h__\h] and they're they're they don't like to eat protein and they just like to eat like rice case all the time or whatever. They've they've got a great GH IGF-1 response. Sam Eden hypothesis was in that first slide is awesome, but all the other [\h__\h] is way out of whack and they're not training hard, their diet sucks, they're up late night, they don't sleep very well, blah blah blah. They could actually not be holding on to muscle very well at all despite a high IGF-1. Okay, you wouldn't expect that because it's such a it's just it's seen as like so many studies that IGF-1 is associated with positive nitrogen balance, but it could be way off like that. So you could have the one guy with a high IGF-1. He's nailing it, man. His training's on on point. He's got plenty of protein. He's got a good caloric excess. He's sleeping. He's he's doing everything perfectly. Other guys just happens to be a high growth hormone responder in terms of IGF-1. And he's totally dropping the ball, you know, he's using too many stems, blah blah blah, and his diet is crap. Their IGF-1 is the same of the one guy's doing really well and the other guy's doing shitty. I could totally see that, too. So, okay. Yeah, it's all over the It's hard to say, you know, but that scientific answer is like it depends. Didn't your guy uh test again when he was dieting and his numbers weren't as high. Um they were still elevated more than like than like mine would be, you know, even and I also want to point out he was using um generics, a very popular generic brand that everyone seems to use these days. So it wasn't using he wasn't using serim or sizen or you know nordies. Um yeah but yeah know when when he was dieting he um I want to say it was still like 481 or or 541 something like that which you know was still pretty elevated. Um, yeah, he wasn't losing muscle. He was He wasn't losing. No, like No, he Okay, so this is another thought that Sorry, they brought up. Um, I think that's why a lot of guys grow during prep is they're able to withstand the decrease in IGF-1 that comes with caloric restriction and get more out of it. Get get more out of what they are taking in terms of drugs, nitrogen retention, um, etc. So, what do you think about that, Scott? It's the interesting thing too is um so like from a muscle standpoint um and there's a whole kind of body a small body of literature looking at this but the IGF-1 that matters for muscle growth or stimulating hypertrophy is the locally produced IGF-1. Yeah. The stuff in the blood that you measure on blood work is basically it's kind of a it's a coralate of nitrogen balance. So it basically reflects the nitrogen balance, reflects the sort of anabolic catabolic ratio to use sort of bro terms for for the whole thing to some certain degree. So if someone is in that state where they're they're recmping during a prep, they're actually growing some muscle and dropping fat at the same time. Um simply being in that state, one of the ways in which all of that is mediated in a very global fashion is through IGF-1. Right? If you could get in to a take a muscle biopsy, which this is not going to happen anytime soon, right? And you compare a muscle biopsy of that guy with um someone who's not doing so well in prep, you'd probably see higher IGF-1 levels. um that som somatameden hypothesis who was like 2000 the first somatameden hypothesis like in the late 50s or late 60s that's the revamped version where growth hormone also causes local IGF-1 release I don't know for sure but it's the same growth hormone receptor in the liver and in muscle so it's possible if all the second messengers after the growth hormone binds to the receptor and then it does its magic that if if that guy responds in terms a blood IGF-1, he may also respond in terms of local muscle IGF-1. So when he's using GH, he could be the guy where GH, although the studies don't support this magical muscle growth effect like you see from Gear for instance, he could be a guy where at least it's very it's helping a lot, it's in his favor by far. So, that's the thing with IGF-1 like um like if you look and I'm trying to remember the numbers, but if if you look at how much IGF-1 is produced by the liver compared to what guys who use exogenous IGF-1, it's it's like several times more than what most people would use even at a high dose. But some people get really good effects. And I have a whole you may you probably saw it. It came out like a year or so ago on John's site on mountainogdiet.com. Um, so it's a pretty complex scenario, but there's like at least seven IGF-1 binding proteins, probably some more, right? So, you know, is it something where those guys who inject the IGF-1 just for a small period of time? The binding proteins can't do their work and kind of regulate this excessive um elevation of IGF-1 and then it has has its effect binds to the receptors and then all the downstream effects happen. any kind before the binding proteins can kind of take take care of the problem. Um, like relatedly, there's like something else that I wanted to look into. this a guy who I won't say who say who it is but he's um he's someone who's got a pretty deep level of knowledge on gear especially um and he's a high he's a IFBBB pro old school guy and he found from he's talked to a couple people now who were finding that injecting insulin in the muscle you don't hear about this a lot but injecting insulin lo will cause a local growth effect IM insulin and the one guy did it he was injecting his brachial radiialis just out of just like he's like whatever, you know, cuz he's got he's putting other things other places. He does whatever. And he just started doing that. He's not like doing all this grip work. He's not an arm wrestling like that. He's a bodybuilder. And all a sudden he noticed like his brachioraiialis was just monstrous really. So yeah. So like and I'm thinking like okay so what's going on here? Like is is there is there a local effect whereby that just transiently cuz you know insulin is water-based. You were just like saturating all the insulin receptors in that small area and causing a local anabolic effect. You don't necessarily go hypo from this, but it's cuz it's so localized and then the insulin stays bound to its receptor there for a while and you get, you know, for who knows how many it's just a number of hours a highly highly potent localized anabolic effect from insulin going in that one spot cuz you know most people do insulin subq you can do it I am it changes the pharmacocinetics but this guy was getting like all this growth from the brachioialis because that's where he just kept on putting put his insulin there. So the thought with me is like okay so like what if you what if you do you know if you're using insulin like multiple times a day like put it in exact put it in the weak muscle group you know if you're going to if you're going to do that just know that and this is another slide in that first presentation that you change the far you make a a rapid you make like a humulan R more like um a humalogue if you go yeah that's how I use it. Yeah, if you go I am it's much faster. So in and out which is which is good but um I if as long as you know what you're long as you know what you're doing but uh you change the pharmacocinetics we need to know that but anyway so you know it's kind of a mystery as the which way like the IGF-1 it's like you look at it it's like okay if it's up that's good what it's doing directly to create that you know it's just maybe it's just a global thing. Um I mean some guys use IGF-1 and they get leaner. Yeah, I saw that. I certainly saw that. Yeah. Yeah. So, um you know, like is is that because it's creating an anabolic effect and then create a caloric deficit and the calories are coming from the fat, it's not known to be lipolytic. It binds to the insulin receptor and that's lipogenic, anti-pipolytic. Yeah. But if you grow and it creates a caloric need and then creates a caloric deficit, then it comes somewhere. It's not going to come out of thin air. It's going to come from body fat. You get leaner because you're recmping because the IGF-1 does that. Yeah. So, it's the same argument with insulin too that that you know, so you know that I'm intrigued actually by the I I have been putting insulin and my growth hormone in the top of my rectus femurs high because they have been weak from my u injuries in 2020. M and it's funny because I've noticed as I've gotten leaner like man they're pronounced in that area like and and you know you kind of listen go man that's so as you're t I didn't think I thought well it's probably just localized you know a little bit of inflammation because I'm I'm always putting them there but now I'm like about them to pay attention to that. Yeah I'm intrigued. That's Don't put it in your dick, Ken. It's not going to work that way. Oh, you don't know it's I was going to be the one to say that I was going to wait for a pause and then I was Damn, he lobbed it up. Someone had to get out of the car. I was just waiting for the moment. I'm like, be right back for the moment. I next time you're looking down. I was like, I just went up a few inches here. I just accidentally put a little further. Oops. He's got a new protocol. Six times a day, 50 units of each. Yeah. No before and after pictures. Please leave them. Leave them to yourself. I I gotta this this might be too big of a segue. You can say yes or no. Okay. But so constantly get the questions of like IGF dez, IGF LR3. In your opinion, do they work? The the ones you could buy, we're not talking incre. We're talking about like the stuff you buy off the peptide sites. Would have you seen any positive effects from using those products? It's so variable. You know, I don't that's you're getting the same thing I'm getting. Some people love it, some people don't. Yeah, that that's the thing. Some people are like they swear by it, you know? Yeah. And then you have to question whether whether they're reading it, reading and assessing the feedback correctly or if they just feel that it's working. I want to see something. I've been around too long. I want to see that it's obvious. Like I either notice and I go in with there can't be a placebo effect because I'm going in basically going it's not going to work. Yeah. Yeah. You know, that's kind of my approach. So I do I question people's um you know it's kind of like along the lines of protein powder. People vast majority of people their favorite protein powder is the one that tastes the best. Yeah. Right. You know but they'll claim that oh it's because of this and it's because of Yeah. Exactly. because of this and while it doesn't do this to me. It's like you don't know. You're not even that good with fe you can't even you can't even assess the feedback to your training but you figured it out with your protein you know your protein powder. Come on. Yeah. Good point. you know, you see like all like almost everything like this like what should I do as far as should I use pea protein? Is that the new thing or should I use this or that and the other and people just say I like this and they don't like it flavor is really good. It's something like like not a um what's the word? Something um very unique like it's blueberry muffin pie crumble. It's like oh and you got it for you know 119 a pound. Uh that's the one you respond best to the best protein out there. What what about Can we talk a little bit about growth hormone and insulin? Um you know, we we we also talked about that a couple weeks ago, too. You know, I I think that there's a lot of confusion as to, you know, if your goal is going to be to grow muscle um on on how we would look at timing for growth hormone and excuse me, for growth hormone and insulin, would would it matter, you know, when we're taking each? Obviously, you know, a lot of us are using insulin preworkout, for instance, say, and and let's say you were using a fast acting insulin pre-workout. How would timing work with growth hormone based off of, you know, just what you've looked at in research, Scott, and what you've experienced over the years? You guys saw those plots. There was several plots in what we just looked at in the slide. So, you're getting when you inject growth hormone, you're elevating growth hormone for, you know, six, eight hours at least. There's variable, right? Different in women, too, we saw. So it's not like it's not like those old school protocols where you know 18 minutes out you start with you know four I use the GH and then 13 minutes out you know you drink your special concoction with six different ingredients in and then eight minutes out you do your insulin. It doesn't really matter that much. The main thing is you just keep yourself from going hypo if you're going to use the Perry workout for instance. You know don't kill yourself. Not that I'm suggesting anyone do it that way, but that's the main thing is just watch out because the the insulin could could kill you. Can get, you know, you can [\h__\h] you up if it doesn't kill you directly. It could make it so you can't drive your car and you get in a wreck and you have a worst case scenario. But the growth hormone has such a, you know, a long halflife that that's not a big deal. The thing I I know I've talked about this was I can't remember which podcast it was, but I've talked about it several times is that what I think part of why some people um find and we've already covered some of this that growth hormone helps them put on muscle mass is could be that if they're using with insulin um in particular that's going to help because of its anabolic effects when you're using it alongside when you're training your ass off and you got plenty of protein um uh in play and the growth growth hormone is going to offset the fat gains that you would get. And if you can offset fat gains, you leave more of that runway, so to speak, to allow you to keep moving upward. And then you avoid that psychological break that happens where you're starting to not like how you look. Yeah. Right. If you're staying leaner and you're staying extra full from the insulin, you just do more thing. You dot the eyes and cross the tees because you're digging how things are working. and the insulin or the the uh the growth hormone allows that to happen. Not necessarily per se because it's being directly anabolic, although that's that's a possibility with the local IGF-1 release, what have you, but it just allows you to eat more and have a greater caloric excess potentially and have more energy available for growing in a way you wouldn't and you're staying leaner. So it allows you to remp um in a certain sense because it's it's has the lipolytic effect which would otherwise be canceled just by having the um you pharmacologically you're causing fat burning that wouldn't typically be in place when you're eating all the calories that you're eating to grow. So it just makes the growth it seems like it's anabolic per se but it's allowing everything else to be more anabolic. your diet, your behavior, the insulin that you're using too because you're taking in more food and blah blah blah. All the other factors sort of synergize and that and the growth hormone keeps the fat gain at bay. So you're saying results be get more results. Yeah. Well, absolutely. Yeah. And then the placebo effect on top of that, you know. Yeah. Dude, if you like how you're looking, you're you're definitely want you're going to dot the eyes, cross the tees, make sure all your supplements in, you're going to stay on your cardio, your diet 100% more when things are moving the right way. Because how many of us know whether through clients or friends that when they're on cycle, all six meals are being eaten, everything's calculated, but as soon as they're cruising or they go off cycle, I got four meals in today. I only trained three times this week. And it's like, well, no [\h__\h] You're not getting the results. You're not doing all the the 90% stuff. You're worried about the 10% stuff that you're not putting in your body right now. Yeah. I I just had a thought. I it would be you could never really do this I don't think but imagine a study where you take take one group and you know maybe one group and and they never get to see what what they're looking like they don't get any there's no mirrors they don't get to see what's going on you know and they don't get any positive feedback and no one says hey you're looking bigger you know or you don't get any of that and the other group people are just they get googled in the gym and everyone's saying hey big guy and they're getting all the positive feedback right that would create this massive placebo effect and see what happens and the one group's like, "Geez, I've been doing everything. I haven't gotten a single compliment. I've got nothing. No one's paying attention to me." Yeah. For a lot of people, that would that would they just probably just stop because they're not getting all that that psychological positive feedback coming in. It's funny. That's my wife. That's why I'm not growing. And now it's her fault. That's why you're not pro. I'm gonna have to blame her. Yeah. She's the reason. It's well, it's funny you bring this up because I was talking to my my training partner today and she's um 12 weeks out from the Tampa Pro and you know, she's like at that point where like all the baby fat, all that preliminary fats off and now we're really getting some of the detail. Abs are really showing some glute lines and stuff and and she was like, "Man, I I just I just love like, you know, like everyone's telling me how I look and and everyone's like, you know, people walk up to her be like, "Wow, like you really changed in the last week." And you could really see cuz you know, I've been removed from contest prep. All of us have for a while now. Well, Skip's in it, so he's probably experiencing it. But the praise and the the affirmations like go a long way to making you go harder, go stronger, do more, uh, and affect your mood during prep, right? So, I think this is like a obviously it's not a real case study, but it's it's definitely like a um anecdotal report of because, you know, and and you guys have all been to or at least Scott, you've been to MI40. Yeah. How it's a bodybuilder gym. Someone's always in prep. People are always giving praise to whoever's in prep and they're watching them pose and and it's cool. It's a community, right? And you really see it because people that are getting that, they do have better preps. They're they're excited to go to the gym. They're kind of like forgetting that that that prep fog is in there. They're not dragging their feet as much. They're excited. Yeah, it definitely. And I was telling her today, I'm like, "Yeah, man. I remember I forget that boost." And I wish I still had it, you know? Like I wish I wish people were coming up to me being like, "Hey, you look pretty big today." Like you're getting tight, you know? So, I hope you're getting that, Skip. Yeah. And it is it is nice. You can be having a day where you're kind of in your head. Someone you don't know, maybe they're not even big. Someone says something and I always say the same [\h__\h] that I have said for 20 20ome years. I It'll never get old. I always appreciate someone any any compliment. And like I said, it's probably because I don't get any from my wife ever. I say I could walk around ripped to shreds naked with a carrot in my ass in front of the TV and she'd be like, "You're in the way." Like like she just doesn't know. And and I don't mean that bad. I'm just saying it's just she's so used to it that it's it's borderline apathetic. It she's it's like you're not going to impress me. I've seen it time and time again for 33 years. Yeah. Well, is that also though why the good pros continue to just get better and better because they're constantly whether offseason content, they're getting affirmations. I think it's why they go through girlfriends so quickly. I mean, I'm just saying there could be something there. Yeah. You know, it's f I do I do know one person that um someone as you asked Andrew Yes, about um IGF-1 LR3, etc. I do know one person that I talked with, not Jon, he's a a highle pro um and he was asking about IGF-1 and he has been I'm not sure I haven't talked to him for a while but I can get a hold of him and find out if how much he thinks his progress because his progress has been really really good came from using Inc. Um basically correct yeah the real deal. So, but can we even consider incorrect IGF? I mean, it's like two different animals, right? Yeah. Talking about inlex versus the IGF LR3 and Yep. Okay. Yeah. I mean, we're talking different stratus. One one costs, you know, $100 a unit. The other costs, you know, I'm not a big fan, but I'll take Incorrect if you get it for me. Yeah. Yeah. So, I Yeah, I may be just getting the answer we already know, but Yeah. Did you ever get to use Inklex, Scott? No, no, no. Yeah, no. I mean, I've talked to people who have, you know, I've talked to people if we we know somebody who did, Scott. They But they didn't really have a lot of it, so there it was hard to tell at that time. Uh that people who who had Yeah. who had Yeah, we know I know a couple people in common with you that you in fact, you may even been mentioning him earlier in another context of another anonymous pro. So, I I shall say no more. any of those people you're talking about taken it and felt they did not respond well to I'll tell you this if I spend that much money on it I'm going to convince myself that I'm responding very well to it I I know one guy who did and he he was not I have to go look at our message but he wasn't terribly impressed by it okay would you say the same way that some guys that jump on GH or like say they start using a farm grade GH and they're like h yeah I got something but but I'm not that impressed by it. Would you say kind of similar to that? Like they did get some results, but um not the the big jump they thought they were going to get out of. Yeah, he didn't I think I think that's where he was basically, but he had already maxed out a lot of other stuff. He was doing everything. He's like he just wanted and he didn't have the I mean there's probably genetic propensity like pretty much with everything that IGF-1 is going to is going to create another leap forward for you. Y and I mean this person if I remember it's been a while. This has been like five years ago or more, but he was already eating. So he was pushing so much so many other things. So gear will increase IGF-1, food will increase IGF-1. And then you may be that you've capped out on your particular IGF-1 ceiling, so to speak. And you add more, it's like you can't put more gas in the tank. It just spills out, right? There's nothing left for it to do. Yeah. So, but you take someone else who's got some some room in terms of IGF-1, then that person's going to respond. If he had done it earlier in his career, he might have gotten something out of it. But at this point, this guy was over 300 pounds, you know, and and pulled every lever he possibly could. And you probably get you get, like I said, IGF-1 goes along with growing in positive nitrogen balance, those sorts of things. So that lever is kind of getting pulled along the way. And then if you try to add more in, you can't pull the lever down anymore if it's already all the way down. So it Can I piggyback off that real quick? And I'll tell you why. Um, I get I get trolled and someone wants to bust my ass every now and then about me flexing about using, you know, Sarah Steim and, you know, you you you suck for as much Sarah Steim as you use. And I just want to point this out because this goes along with what you're saying, Scott. I'm 55 years old. I've been doing this [\h__\h] for 41 years. I have said more times than I could possibly even try to count that I am mediocre at best. And because I'm trying to kind of cross the finish line in this sport, so to speak, I want to pull all the levers. Yeah. And I want to leave nothing on the table. So if I'm spending a lot of money on Sarah Steim that someone else would be like, "Oh, that's crazy. You're not that good. You suck." The reason is just because when it's all said and done and the finish line is closer than it is for some clown who's trolling me at 30 years old and quite frankly doesn't have a very good physique himself or themselves. It's kind of an odd, you know, thing when you trash somebody and you're not all that good. But anyway, that's why. So before anybody, if they're listening, you're getting ready to troll troll the [\h__\h] out of me. I don't care. I'm not going to leave anything on the table and I want to make sure that the GH maybe I'm not responding any better. I think I am because I wouldn't spend that money if I didn't think that I that I was benefiting from it. But I can at least do that and know that I've pulled all the levers. Yeah. When it's all said and done. So I'd say eat a bag of dicks, but that's probably not politically correct. But that's why I do the things so that there's kind of no stone left unturned and at the end of the day I can say you know what I tried to do everything I could and I still sucked you know or or or you know okay I got a little you know I did get a little better and it's it's something that I was willing to do. I just I wanted to piggy back because it's just every now and then someone's got to jump in there and they have to, you know, remind you that you're you're just not very good. If you were to see the people who's it, like you said, it's, you know, they're usually not better than you. They're they're usually it's rare that somebody who's like a When's the last time you had like uh, you know, good pro that comes on and starts talking crap to somebody else that's trying to bodybuild? always somebody that's not sure. Well, I'm Cherilla. Yeah, good point. Good point. Because there are exceptions to the rule. I think he's a different animal. I think he's just kind of jealous of all the guys that compete today and and how they look. Exception to the rule. But in general, I think if we were to see those people, the people who were like, you suck. You know, you probably wouldn't even give them the time of day, you know. Well, they wouldn't even they wouldn't say [\h__\h] to him either. That's the thing. They wouldn't Yeah. But but still, I mean, it's just one of those things. I understand the lack of security. I understand why, you know, I get it. I totally get that. But it's still it it's still I don't want to say it it hurts. It doesn't hurt. But it's enough to sting to go, "Godamn like would you not if you had the means and the ability, would you not do what I'm doing?" Oh, maybe it's jealousy. you know, try it's like try to put your 30year-old self in my position at 55 and wanting to make sure you know what I got to a few healthy and when I say healthy, physically healthy like knees and back and Yeah. I'm just doing what I'm doing. [\h__\h] man. Leave me alone. I'm trying to do it the best I can like anybody else is doing. Yeah. Yeah. Couple thoughts on one, the empty cattle empty can rattles the most. Yeah. You know, and the other thing is is like it's a common thing people do this and some sometimes the things you say about others often times speak more about yourself. True. Um and it's an interesting thing this happens online just a phenomenon. But the way I sort of see that stepping back a ways is this person is framing your life choices through his his perspective and things that he wouldn't do. And when you sort of take that idea and look at it from other angles, it's like, so someone could say to me, it's like, dude, why do you spend so much money and time on your dogs just to waste? They're just dogs. They're just like whatever. What are you doing with that? Or like it's like, why do you have like you have a $80,000 car? You don't need an $80,000. Why are you driving that car around? Or like like play that game about anything? Like like you have this you can go to the grocery store and get fresh fruits and vegetables. Why do you have your own garden? Like what a waste of time. Like You go down the line about how people live their life. And for you, bodybuilding is your life in a certain sense. It's what you've done. It's what you love to do. It's what you want to do. And if you want to like some people want to go and they buy a Lamborghini and they're going to ride that thing. It's like you don't need Do you need a Lamborghini to get to the grocery store or in a faster? You don't. It's cuz you want the freaking Lamborghini. Do you need to do all these things? No. Is there a practical utility for someone else? Is that their their taste? No. But it's what you want to do. And it's unfortunate because the way what I see from that sometimes it's it's an online thing. But there's with that is sort of a lack of empathy to say, you know what, this is someone who lives differently than than me, and I need to criticize them instead of sit back and say, why would he? This guy just has a passion for bodybuilding and he wants to pull every frigin lever he can. This is what he does. And if you see someone else like say he's a rock climber, you know, people could say this like, "Oh, it's so dangerous, right? You're gonna fall and break your ass." But you see that guy who like tries to he wants to climb every freaking mountain and he want he trains his ass off and trains his fingers and he he maybe reduces his body weight so he's lighter. He goes all freaking in. That person might say, "That's the baddest freaking thing all I've ever seen. This guy's absolute animal." And he look at you doing the same thing in your domain and think, "Yeah, what are you doing? like you look like [\h__\h] It's like what doesn't make you know I feel like though people that are really into a skill or a lifestyle when they see someone else that's in like like let's say a really good like violinist or something like that maybe it's not my thing which it kind of is. I I really enjoy watching people that are really good at music but like I could never do that but I have a massive appreciation for the amount of time it must have taken to develop that skill. And I think like what what I'm saying is I think people maybe in that realm whether it's musicians or rock climbers or whatever we're talking about can see like okay that person's obviously dedicated a lot of their time and energy to research learn train eat whatever it takes to build that physique and I think they develop an appreciation too and it's always people that don't really have something that they're grounded in that like to throw these things out. They can't empathize. They just bingo. That's what I'm saying. the empathy of realizing how much time and energy it takes to be proficient and good at something. And maybe they could a little bit more if it was in real person, you know, like we if we were in person, maybe then they'd be a little bit able to connect if it was not just a, you know, this this kind of we're not real people, we're figures on the computer, you know what I mean? Kind of thing. It's easy to poke fun at people in that situation. Yeah, for sure. Yeah. Hey, I I thought of one other thing I just wanted to mention. I don't know if I ever told you this, Scott, but before I knew the inside of bodybuilding, I remembered hearing John Meadows talk on a podcast. And uh up until this point, most of my education had been in bodybuilding from people I knew or message boards. And if you go to the gear message boards, the source boards, they're going to promote a lot. The guys that really post a lot on those boards a lot of times are the guys who run the biggest cycles, you know. And I really had it in my head that you needed IGF. Everybody, all the pros, there was something they were I was at that point still. There's things that they're doing that I'm not doing. And I remember hearing John on a podcast. It was a moment that woke me up. He said, "Yeah, IGF. No, I never took that. Never took that stuff." And I was like, "Whoa, never took that stuff." I assumed he must have taken a lot to get the size he was at that time. You know what I mean? Yeah. Yeah. And to some degree it's it's just the opposite. It's the guys who become the best pros are the guys that just like you did what really. Not that they don't end up maybe using lots of stuff, but I know many people that's like you basically weren't even on a cycle. That was the stupidest thing ever and you still are, you know, almost got your pro card at a national level show. It's like if you if you started doing things right. So it's the ones that have really good not that John didn't work his ass off, right? But it's you have this perception. It's like the bigger they are, the more stuff they have to use. And there's that's one feature of it. But the bigger they are, the more responsive they are. And the better they probably did and probably look better than the average person. Way better with almost nothing. And that's the part that isn't immediately obvious. And like, do you need IGF-1 to look like John did? No. Nope. Yeah. Apparently not. Well, I think that's why back in the boards, you know, the board battle days that people struggled with Phil Heath not using what everybody else was using. They just were not going to accept that and they were never going to believe it. Yeah. Yeah. That whole that whole talk that I do, why you don't look like a pro, it's all about all the variability. It's like Sure. Yeah. People don't want It's just a hard pill to swallow. Yeah. To see all that. We saw that with today like all those GH graphs. Same thing. That's why I put the standard deviation. That's a little little sidebar on standard deviation. You see that with everything basically that that it's a basis of one statistical way of doing statistics in the biological sciences is that we have a normal curve and there's huge variability. And so Phil Heath's at one end of the spectrum. That's just all there is to it, right? No matter how hard you train, you're not going to be as fast as Usain Bolt. Doesn't matter how much stuff you use or whatever, he's just better genetically as a sprinter. So, we appreciate you hanging with us. End of the spectrum. Yeah, no kidding. We appreciate you hanging with us, Scott. We appreciate you coming on, man. Guys, of course, go to uh bybcoach.com. You can get Scott's book there. And I'll post the link in the description here because you can buy the hard cover. You get the hard cover of Scott's book autographed by Scott. We'll put that link down below. And a portion of that money goes to the ASPCA uh to help with animals. Of course, go to bodybry.com to reach out to Andrew. Teamskip.com to reach out to Skip. Go to uh mcnal diets@gmail.com if you want to email me about coaching. And of course, truer nutrition.com. Get your team skip over there with code think and supplementsource.ca for Canadians. Thank you guys for Patreon. Um oh, Scott, can we do a quick bonus question? Okay. Okay. We had that question that was for you and I didn't think it was going to be like but wait there's more. As long as I get some Ginsu and eyes with this question then then I'll um lipodmia remember that Chris's wife he says uh question from muscle minds and honestly it's probably not the kind of question that's going to be like oh everybody's going to want to tune in for this but there may be some people out there that could benefit from it. A lot of coaches that have that one client that has it that you know. So yeah, my wife has lip my wife has lipopademia and it stores a disproportionate amount of fat in her thighs and bum. Uh this fat does not come off like regular fat and has some uh quite uncomfortable hard nodules that cause her pain. Uh she gets very lean overall. um her body uh full abs, capped delts, very detailed back. Uh but the legs do not change much due to this condition. Uh do you have any experience with clients with this condition? Um and are there any medications that might help considering a low dose of GH? Happy to provide picks and more details to help. Um she is a savage trainer, incredibly meticulous with her diet. Cheers. So you I looked into that a little bit because you you sent that to me before we started recording and I loo looked at it. I actually I never forget there's a woman who competed in the shows in Arizona I did years ago who was shredded in her upper body and her lower body looked like it belonged to somebody else. It was really just kind of crazy. I I always feel kind of bad for her because you could tell she suffered man. She went hard. So um another term for lipadeema or lipoadeema there two ways it's some is also lipalgia so pain due to fat like palia algia means pain um like fibromyalgia for instance so there's pain that's involved as he noted in that um and one thing I found and this is just like this is this was an example of me getting in the Google Scholar and looking around and just I just it wasn't a deep dive at all I just like skimmed the surface But it looks like, and I would have to ask, this is where an intake with someone, a doctor in this case, would be important, but it looks like some of this can be brought on through estrogen. And he she may have noticed this when she went through puberty, um, potentially. And if it is an estrogen related phenomenon, which a couple papers seem to be insinuating, again, I didn't read them. Um, and there's a genetic factor here, too. like 60 to 80% of people have a family history of this of women. Um so there might be an estrogen related strategy that he could talk with his doctor about maybe trying a serum um as an in an off label use to block estrogen receptor the estrogen receptor and see if that's helpful because she has aside from bodybuilding it sounds like she has a need just because it hurts. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, she has this she has this these painful fatty nodules on her legs like that that needs to go if you can take care of that. So, um if someone came to me like doing a consultation like that, I would look into that and dig into that. Look at that idea. I can't prescribe anything of course. Um but that's the thing that we talked before about estrogen and fat. That's the thing that seems like it's related to this and as a thought without knowing what he would say, but if this is something she didn't have as a child, presume she doesn't. And then she noticed when because body composition in boys and girls is pretty similar up until puberty and then things go very different directions. So if she noticed when she gained body fat during puberty and that's when that happened. Um it's probably the estrogen would be implicated or maybe estrogen turned on those genes. It may be the blocking estrogen receptor won't do diddly. There may be a study out there that I haven't seen where they've done that and treat it in that way or maybe she'll find a doctor who'll say you know hey we can give it a go. you know, I don't know how old she is. She may not even I mean, it would be crazy to see that she does everything she can and then she becomes post-menopausal and then it goes away, right? She's like, "Oh [\h__\h] you know, I could have just blocked estrogen." Um or it gets much better. So, that would be my first thought, but that's just because I had like 10 minutes to look. Um I've also seen some stuff about um estrogen dominance in particular. So, high estrogen, very low progesterone levels. Um, so I I think along with what you're saying, Scott, maybe a serum of some sort, but then also um checking progesterone levels regularly and maybe progesterone therapy um could could help out. Yeah. Now, it's also depending on her age, you know, it might be one of those things where you know the the cake the cake is cake or the cake is baked and you know what I mean? It's but if it were attacked like in her 20s like like Scott was saying because you don't really see it in teenagers until they go through puberty, right? And then then what I see technically or typically is like when women start to gain a little bit more weight, you know, maybe go through their college years and and beyond because I I'm thinking back to two clients I had in personal training 20 years ago. And that's when it really kind of set on. And I'm wondering if maybe knowing what I know now if I would have said, "Hey, let's do labs." Because I didn't understand labs 20 years ago. Let's really look at your labs and let's attack estrogen and let's possibly look at bringing progesterone levels up. Maybe you need some support there. Mhm. Um, could could we have maybe we couldn't have reversed it, but could we have stopped it from accumulating and getting worse? Another thought too, I don't know if she's ever tried yohimine, but I've I've seen couple females that really did well with losing lower body fat with yohimine. Um, so the estrogen receptor upregulates um the alpha adrenal receptor and himine blocks that the alpha 2s in particular. So that's one reason why there's a lower body fat distribution tendency among women is because of what estrogen does in terms of the adrenal receptors there. So that'd be one thing. I mean it, you know, she could try just an over the counter and see what so what it does. It's not going to be magical, but then it like Andrew said endocrinologist would be the way to go. Um get a handle on. I'm wondering about an injectable um yohimine right to the right to the site. Oh yeah. Or a trans dermal. They were trans thermal. Y yeah. All right. Well, I appreciate you guys hanging to tackle that uh additional that was like a bonus question for everybody hanging out at the end of the show and for Chris, our Patreon subscriber and for another episode of I wanted to almost say muscle minds. I was getting ready to say muscle minds of blood, sweat, and gear. Guys, we'll see. Blood, sweat, and muscle minds. Muscle, sweat, and gear.