 This is the sample, and then I believe this is the cultured sample. This is the sample, and then I believe this is the cultured sample. Oh lovely. You know, I'll send you the rest of the product back, but I want my money back, which they're probably going to say F off. And be like, alright, well I'm going to post about it, tell my friends, tell my friends, tell all the other coaches I work with, and make sure that business for you goes down. You know, for a competitor, we're trying to get one look for one specific day versus, you know, this guy, he wants to look good all summer long. As much as, as much as, sometimes it's like, oh, I'm going to look for a day.! Oh, it makes me a little mad to hear people knock on the generation. It's also drives me a little bit, because it's like, it's not all of us. It's not all of us. Sure. Yeah. There's my little shout out to anybody else my age, that just because most of us are trying to look for that shortcutter, being called lazy or not sticking to plans, that doesn't mean it has to be you. What's up guys? Welcome back to Blood, Sweat & Gear with coaches Skipp Hill, Andrew Barry, myself, Scott McNally. Guys, the gang's back here. We've got the band back together. All of our programming is brought to you by truenutrition.com. Use our code THINK over there for additional savings on high quality third party tests and supplements. Supplementsource.ca for our Canadians. They have great deals that change week to week. And of course, Patreon. We've got some Patreon questions today. Thank you guys for all of your support over on Patreon. So here's the deal. We've got a bunch of listener questions before we got started with that. I wanted to jump in hot. I've got some lab reports here that I wanted to show you guys. So the first of all, we got this from one of our listeners. He said, hey, would you guys, you know, would you be interested in taking a look at this? Are you familiar with where? Which one is this? T-A-M-C and T-Y-M-C testing. This has to do with molds and yeasts. I mean, I've heard of it, but it's not something that I would refer to like another coach that deals with this stuff specifically. So he tested the product to see if there was mold or yeast in the bottle. Yeah. And apparently there is. And so here's the product. Oh, this is Geniza Pharmaceuticals. Phenylpropanate, nandrolone phenylpropanate, 100 milligram. And so I believe that what we're looking at here is the initial cultured sample. Or this is the sample. And then I believe this is the cultured sample. Oh, lovely. Yeah. So they grew that. You're putting that in your ass cheeks. Yeah. Or your delt, lat, right? Okay. Yeah. So, okay. Now, did this person do just NPP or are they looking at like their other products as well? Cause I'd be curious to see if this is a lab, a lab issue across the board, you know? Yeah. Now I know that there's a big company like Geniza has been around for a long time. I've used a lot of their products in the past. Yeah. Um, how much time with that? Did they do that? Like, are we talking? Yeah. Yeah. I don't know. I mean, it matters if it's a couple of days, right. Versus a couple of weeks. Yeah. 10 minutes. Yeah. Exactly. Yeah. If it's in there, man. And I, it makes me wonder, like, how do you know, you know what I'm saying? Like, how do you really know if, if that's in your body? Like, do you know, or do you just feel like, Hey man, I'm feeling a little bit, you know, a little bit down. Like my energy levels have been lower this week. I got to push through and try harder. A lot of brain fog, digestive issues, um, sleep issues. Yeah. I mean, like mold toxicity is a, is a major thing. Um, I've, I've had several clients over the years where, Oh, I've done a GI map. Oh shoot. We found high levels of mold. And we realized, you know, once they really started searching around their house that they had maybe a leak somewhere that was causing it. And obviously you got to remediate that before you're going to get better. Right. Cause you can fix the internal issues in your body. But if you're living in that environment, you're just putting it right back in. So, and it's like a 12 to 16 week process. It's not, you know, here, take, take an antibiotic and you're good in seven days. It's yeah, it's an, it's an issue. So, so I guess what did this person do with, um, this information that they contact, um, um, the company, I don't know. I, I, yeah, I'm not sure as a listener of the show sent this over to me, I just figured I'd throw it up here and, uh, let everybody know. And then on that note, um, I had also heard of some stuff that was basically, I guess the word on the street is, is that although there is some really good growth hormone coming out of China, we all know that there's been great generics nowadays. There's also some stuff that has not been testing out very well. So I believe it was, uh, which one was it that I had here? Do you guys hear a fire breathing dragon? Andrew? Yeah. I'm not even breathing. I don't see either one of you. I'm not even breathing. I'm like literally barely breathing. No, it's, there's a, there's a mic sensitivity issue going on, but I don't think it's recording. I think that we're okay. I think it's just hard to explain, but I think it's just, uh, um, an issue with the program. If it is a, you know, if Andrew was breathing into the mic guys, like, listen, we're not, you know, Fox, we're not, we're not CNN. We're, we're just a podcast. We're three dudes that love bodybuilding and been in this sport for a long time. We're here to hang out with you and share the stuff. We know if it's not absolutely like cable TV. Perfect. Right. Sorry, but we do our best. And the only reason I bring it up is because I wanted to bring it up before some clown in the comment section goes, what's going on over there. One of them's really, it's a good point. They're out of shape. And they, you know, that type of thing. So here's the deal. This was a 93% purity is what we're looking at on some, uh, I think the bigger question here, honestly, is did he get huge though? I mean, at the end of the day, what's a little mold. No, this is where I'm done with the new product. Purity is under 94%, which I'm going to say is piss for. Um, yeah, I would write to the company and be like, I want my money back. You know, I'll send you the rest of the product back, but I want my money back, which they're probably going to say F off and be like, all right, well, I'm going to post about it. Tell my friends, tell all the other coaches I work with and make sure that business for you goes down and fix this issue. And I don't know who this was from, but it's from one of the big name growth hormone companies on the boards. You know, they're obviously they're getting it from somebody in China and they're passing it on to you. Uh, they're most likely the guy on the board is not actually the guy who's making it. You know what I'm saying? So he's getting it from somebody and you know, he can't control the things that are being made. So there's that. And then there also is other stuff. Like here's an example of another product that tested out perfectly. You know, this is 99.76% purity. Like you really can't ask for, you know, much better than that. That's fricking awesome. That's like, that's better than what I've seen on some pharma grade stuff, honestly. You know, agreed. So that is who, who, who, who's, uh, who's the provider of this one? We should give them some shout out so that, um, uh, we can't, we, uh, Oh, duh. Okay. Yeah, we can't, I can't, uh, not even live stream. No, meaning that the person who gave this to me doesn't want me to be spreading their name around. It's their product. Gotcha. Yes. Exactly. Gotcha. Yeah. So anyway, I just figured I, like I said, I'd, uh, I'd share that with you guys. Um, you know, just to kind of throw it out there that the word on the street is, you know, that there is some, uh, some lower grade, uh, GH out there that said there still is high quality, you know, Chinese GH, but definitely it's one of those things where you probably want to check the products that you're buying. If you're buying a lot of it, you know, I got another thing about products, you know, does everyone, I don't know if you guys get all these pop-ups of like start your own peptide company where, you know, it's like made in China.com and they have a picture of 80 different vials of BPC or something like that. Right. Cause that's, you see a new peptide company popping up every day. Oh yeah. And I hope everyone realizes that that's just what it is. Right. And, and hopefully people that are retailing this stuff, they are, um, testing it, you know, through Janoshek or another provider before they're putting it on the market. But the other thing I was going to bring up, the more important thing was, did you guys buy any stock in Eli Lilly recently? No. So you, have you been following the phase three clinical trials? Oh yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Tell us what you know about that. Red a true tide, 28% weight loss, um, side effects, minimal, at least reported side effects, minimal, they probably excluded the real serious ones, but, um, there were like some massive fat losses in there too. Weren't there? 28% of body weight. Yeah. That's huge. Pretty solid. Huge. Um, you know, improvement of blood markers, you know, obviously blood pressure, um, with the weight loss, uh, blood glucose, et cetera. Um, and they're doing more, there's more, there's like two or three last phase three trials before I think they're going to be accepted and FDA approved. But I'm telling you, I think this is going to be like, this is like, I, I, I'm not banking retirement on it, but like, I'm going to get heavily, heavily. Oh, so you did or you did, I started to yeah. And then I'm going to do more. So it's not a bad move, man. That's not a bad move. Well, the other thing is I've heard that they are going to be going after specifically any retailer online pushing red up. So I just put out a thing about that, the, the day that that started, um, and there are, so here's the deal. It just to kind of restate what was said on that, that live stream, um, there have already been indictments by the federal government on a number, a few big name companies that have put themselves out there. I can't say those names, but basically there are companies that already literally have been indicted now. So with that has become a scare and a lot of the smaller companies are just pulling the products now. So you'll see companies. I, in fact, I got one today from one of our affiliates. They sent out a, like a, a group text that said, Hey, these products will be discontinued in 2026. Um, other companies, they just have quietly pulled them. So, you know, there will red, uh, go away from bodybuilding in the underground market. Absolutely not. If there's a demand, there's going to be a supply, but the way that we are getting it currently is probably going to definitely not probably, it is definitely going to change. And count on the prices way up. I don't know. I see it. I see it go in the way of the same way you get your PDs. It's going to be more of a secret, you know, email a guy, or I just don't think it's going to be like, you can pay with a credit card on a research peptide site. Right. I don't, but you know what, I'm going to be straight up and honest. I really don't care. I don't care if all GOPs disappeared tomorrow. Like I've gotten people in shape well before GOPs were a thing and I'm going to keep doing it, whether someone's using them or not. I don't really care. And you know what, if someone has to be hungry, I'm okay with that. Oh, dude. Imagine if that were to happen. Like imagine what that would do to like the way everybody's kind of gotten used to it. Now they're like, Oh yeah, everybody's getting like, would that change? But you know, we just had nationals now. Now everything's going to shut down. Would that change what we get from like junior USA is the first national show of the season next year. You know, I think, yeah, I think numbers might go down a little bit in terms of the competition scene. I do think so. Yeah. From a bodybuilding standpoint, yes, we can do without it, but honestly, and I know that we're, we're not doing a average Joe layman, you know, podcast. But it is disappointing that it's going to limit the, well, I say on the one hand, it's going to limit the access. But what I'm seeing from the medical community and things like that is it's getting very easy to get it. Oh, very easy and not very expensive. So, you know, here in Florida, like we can't drive by any city corner without a sign that says GLP is here or semiglutide shots here. So walk-ins welcome. Like it's almost like getting your haircut. Yeah. So I think it's one of those things where doctors are going to find a reason to write the script because they're probably integral part of the TRT market and TRT clinics and things of that nature. They're heavily incentivized to do it. And I mean, the general population walking around less fat, if that's going to help health outcomes long-term, which is going to lower insurance costs, lower medical costs. Exactly. I'm all for that too. That's why I say we benefit from it. I think that like our, our society is better for GLPs, you know? Yeah. I definitely do. I said early on, you guys tell me what you think. I don't know if I told you guys this. I think that the GLP market is, could be our generation's insulin. I think it's going to have that much of an impact on that. I think it's more than that. It may well be. You could be. I think it's going to be more than that. Because insulin is only for a small percentage of the population. Right. But it was at that time, at that time, it was this massive advancement. Groundbreaking. Exactly. And I see the potential for the GLP. I'm glad that you guys do too, but I said that early on. I think the potential is there and that's why I don't talk about my, you guys are a little more open with your finances and things like that. We are. We are. When we talk behind the scenes a little bit, there's more there than I say. Let's put it that way. And I guess I had to smile when you said that. Scott, what are we? I don't know. Skip's all like, you like my watch? Yeah. I'm like, I buy my shit at Walmart. That's not an investment. I literally shop at Walmart. That's just purely vanity. I have 26 pairs of the same sneaker. I believe that came up last week. Come on, you guys. Don't throw me under the... I'm saying, I typically, though, don't talk about that type of... I tried a 2011 car. I just sat here and smiled. I don't know if you need to give everybody all that information about Lilly, but whatever. It only helps. Like, if I got in... True. That's true. That is true. And not that I'm a pump and dumper, but like... But no, to your point, Skip, I think this is bigger than insulin. Because insulin, originally, there's a very small sect of the population that you could prescribe it for, right? Yeah. Like, people that absolutely needed it. And then as type 2 diabetes started to become more of a thing, okay, that population grew. Well, guess what? That type 2 diabetes population is freaking massive now. Right. Like, what are the statistics? I think it's like literally half of adolescents are overweight now. God. Like, 62% of adolescents. And like, 40-something percent are considered obese. That is ridiculous. You ever see the video of... Who was it? Oh, JFK. And he's like giving a speech. And there's video playing of kids in like the 1950s. Like boys. Like shirts off during, you know, recess. And they're doing like 20 pull-ups. And they're doing monkey bar drills. And they're doing dips. And they're like, they're just... They all look like little Hitler youth running around. Like in shape. Muscles everywhere. You know what I'm saying? And he's sitting there and he's like... You know, no one in our country likes a fat kid. He just like straight off... Oh, I have seen that. It's something Trump would say too, honestly. Like, no one wants a fat kid running around. And it's like, honestly, we need to kind of get more... Get back to that. Because those kids are going to be the next generation population. The way we're headed right now, it's unsustainable with our healthcare costs. To continue just producing fat people by the time they're 18. And now you're on a whole host of drugs the rest of your life. Yeah. All right, guys. So a bunch of you had asked for tank tops. So the day has finally come that we've got them. If you're interested in one of our tanks, check them out at the merch store. I'll have links below. Who knows? You might end up meeting somebody else that listens to the shows too. I've had that happen more than once. Somebody's like, hey, you listen to that podcast? I like those guys too. And before you know it, there's a budding bromance just waiting to happen. So if you want to look frickin' jacked and support the podcast, you guys can do that all at the same time. Just check out the shirts. Bam! There we go. Get the good light. All right. Well, listen, guys, we do have a bunch more stuff. And in fact, we've got listener questions. We also have a guest who's going to join us toward the end of the show. One of our listeners got his pro card at NPC Nationals. And I said, hey, dude, why don't you just jump on with us for 10 minutes? Introduce yourself to us in the audience and tell us a little bit about your show. So we're going to make sure to get him on. I had a lead question I wanted to jump straight into. And guys, everybody in the live stream, you're welcome to throw comments up too. So last week, Andrew, Skip and I talked about like the older demographic and basically how does gear change for somebody who's older and wants to run a cycle? Spoiler alert in case you want to go back and watch it, Andrew. Skip's answer was like 900 milligrams of trend. Not quite a gram. And it's like 900 milligrams of trend. You sleep like a baby. That was literally that is what he said in that conversation. He's taking it out of context. I am taking it out of context. But that was literally the doses he threw out there during that conversation. I said I was going further. I know, right? Kind of the except I said I was the outlier because I had increased my dosages so much over what I had always done in the past for this last year. But it was not meant to be the advice for the regular guy. The regular guy. And I admitted to I did on another show with you guys that it was ridiculously high. And and at the same time, I was surprised by the fact that I didn't have the negative symptoms outside of only my second case of gyno flare up, if you will, in my entire life. It's like, yeah, it's time to pull back. Remember, I don't have those sides like you guys, like, let's say you guys, average people. I slept like a baby. I didn't sweat through the sheets anymore than I normally do. I'm not on trend. How much trend did you do? Well, I didn't say that it was 900. Just under 900 over eight days. I think you did. Was it was it was it 100 days? It was. God, you guys are pinning me down. You know, I like to talk about people authenticity. Skip, let's be off. It was. Which I ran. I pushed it up to a gram before one time. Yeah, I wasn't at a gram. And I did say that I. I explained my dosages because I dose every other day as an eight day rotation. So I think it was if I said. I'm surprised if I did. But if I because I usually don't. But if I did, it was 900 over eight days. So anyway, I'm just giving you crap about that. No, I know the the topic. And one of our listeners said that, too. He's like, I tune in for, you know, doses for older guys and skip comes out with 900 trends. I must have them. I must have. So anyway, though, kind of a follow up question this guy had, he says, how do doses and compounds differ for regular gym bros that are trying to bulk versus much better idea? I like that a lot. But I can see the sound bite now. Skip takes 900 milligrams of trend every week under 900. No, every day is completely different thing. Yeah. Sorry. I almost spit it out. No shit, though. So, yeah. The how do doses and compounds differ for regular gym bros when they are bulking versus cutting? I feel like there's a couple of questions in there because he said doses and compounds. How do they differ for? Because one of the things the thing was is that Skip said, well, here's the deal. I may be an older guy, but I'm still trying to push. I'm still trying to compete. I'm still trying to do the absolute best I can. He said, so I might not fit quite, you know, in that demographic. So if we're going to the guys that maybe aren't in that position, maybe these guys are, you know, just on TRT, maybe running a little bit of gear here and there. How would we look at, first of all, picking compounds for them? And then from there, you know, it says regular gym bros differ for when they're bulking versus cutting. So, yeah. Compound wise, I feel like it's mostly the same. I'd avoid personally. I don't see a reason to go with like super harsh stuff. I generally try to avoid oral compounds. I feel like, you know, I've said it before. If a guy's going to do say an off, like a non-competitor wants to get in real good shape for the summer. I'm not going to put him on like, okay, we need to get halo in here and let's get the trend ace, you know, for a competitor, we're trying to get one look for one specific day versus, you know, this guy, he wants to look good all summer long. So if we could run, you know, test in a DHT compound, we could get him in good shape and he could hold that through, you know, maybe we start dieting in like April, May. He can hold that look through. We get on cycle in May, June, July, August. And it's not just one day. It's like every weekend he's looking freaking good. You know what I mean? Mm-hmm. You know, it's funny as though, you know, when someone goes to a doctor, you know, certain TRT clinics and whatnot. Orals are one of the first things besides a little bit of testosterone that they prescribe, like Anivar is what I'm thinking of. It's very common for guys to come to me and say, oh, I'm prescribed 25 mg of Anivar a day without any stop date either. Like it's just a take it every day kind of thing. Females too, you know, I think I told you guys a couple of years ago, I had a female HRT came to me, you know, let's just say something like eight milligrams of test a week. But then I was really surprised that she was also prescribed 20 mg of Anivar and 20 mg of Winstraw a day. Like I thought that was excessive to say the least, you know, like, cause she was already in great shape. That's the other thing. I'm like, how'd you pull this off? Like, you know what I mean? Like you're already, she looked really, really good. Jacked, muscular. And she had never even body-built it before. That was the crazy thing. She just had good genetics and wanted to improve even more. But to answer your question, to me, it always comes down to, do you have any experience and what drugs, which ones did you experience bad side effects with? Let's omit those and let's go with the ones that don't produce bad side effects for you. Whether it's EQ, you know, promoting some, some we'll call mental issues, or let's say, you know, Nandrolone's causing some type of sexual disturbance. You know, let's start with maybe Test and Primo. That's usually pretty innocuous. Lately, I've been really impressed with DHB. You know, Test and DHB, I feel like it's filling that void where you can't get Masteron and Primo. Dude, I'm loving it. We have a, we have a question about that. I'll get to that a little bit later too. I saw it in the live stream, whoever that was. Yeah. I'm a big, right now, especially for like a guy, 40s, 50s, I think a Test, DHB and NPP cycle is becoming a pretty solid way to go. You know, as someone that's been using that, my joints feel absolutely amazing. You know, I'm liking the DHB now, huh? I'm liking the, you know what, that source does not have any PIP. Yep. I haven't found any PIP out of it. And that's the one that you and I both had used, right? That you talked about, yeah. And I think it's interesting because I got a lot of pain from that, no matter what I did. I got zero. I'm telling you, like, zero. That's wild. Maybe it was the batch. I don't know. Maybe it was the batch. Maybe they put a little too much of the BA in it or, I don't know, but I have had zero. I'm telling you. I love that. How much are you taking per shot? 40 milligrams. Okay. Okay. Yeah. So 280 milligrams a week with 40 milligrams of NPP and then 60 milligrams, sorry, 90 milligrams of testosterone per day. Nice. So, yeah. And I'm going to get labs done in a couple of weeks because I haven't done this combination before. Okay. I don't know what's going on, but I'll tell you what, man, I know it's hard to say, like, oh, well, you feel healthy. Well, do you really know that you are? This is probably the healthiest I've felt on a cycle in long or recent memory. Okay. But let's be fair. Yeah. We have a lot of experience using a lot of compounds over a lot of years. So it could be argued that, I mean, you would agree probably that there's a pattern with your blood work versus how you feel before you ever do the panel. Sure. So it's easier for us to say, okay, yeah, I'm feeling pretty healthy. It would be pretty odd that your blood panel would come back bad versus someone who doesn't have that type of experience. And I do want to add one thing about the pain from, because I think it's important. I've said it before, but I'm going to say it again, about the DHB. And that is this. If you're using DHB, you absolutely need to check the vial every single time you go to draw from it, because it is easy to crash. It's a step in. And even if it's not crashed, if it's not clear and it's beginning to crash, I still think that that can, it's not the main reason that we deal with PIP, but I tell you, or PIP, but you can damn sure bet that it's starting to crash. It's a factor. You're asking for problems. Check it every single time you do it. Every single time you use it. If you would get your CRP levels checked. Every time. Every time. Okay. Okay. Good. Good. I do everything every time. Then in that case, then we'll be able to track, well, what did your, you know, did your inflammation markers come up at all? Because that's what I've been having got one of the markers I've been having guys check. I, it's one of the ones that I, I really want to see on you. Um, you know, and I'll just throw it up here since we're on the topic already. And we still do have a lot more to discuss on this. Um, somebody had said, uh, my DHB formulation is, uh, in ethyl-olate to prevent crashing and reduce PIP. No guicol, just EO. Uh, he said, uh, vigorous Steve says that EO is toxic. What are your thoughts on this? Um, I'm going to do 750 test for 50 EQ in 200 DHB for a bulk. I do think that there, it is a factor that if we're dealing with the compound that could lead to more pain, that if it is then suspended in one of the super solvents, you know, that you are, you know, more likely to get a, a shot that sits better, but we do know that the super solvents can raise inflammation markers. So that could be a factor that said, I don't believe that it was used. EO was used in the research studies years ago. You know what I mean? They weren't suspending it in ethyl-olate years ago when they were doing research studies. They had one, one study, I believe it was on rats that showed inflammation was, was raised. Yeah. I mean, the thing with like hs-CRP and any, like you could take a punch to the face and that could raise your CRP levels, right? Because any type of inflammation is going to cause that response. You could have obviously hard training could be contributing to that lack of sleep. For me, traditionally it's, it's, it comes down to sleep. If I'm not sleeping well, regardless of what I'm taking, my hs-CRP goes up. So I can be on next to zero drugs and I can go get my labs on and my CRP might be very elevated, you know, whereas I could be taking a bunch of drugs, but if I'm allotting the right amount of sleep and getting good quality sleep and all things being equal, I took two days off from training before I got the labs done. My CRP will be like 0.03. So, you know what I mean? I think there's, we, I think we used to, we used to think that drugs and CRP were so closely tied or like drugs were like the main factor with the CRP. And now I feel like there's so like when I see a high CRP, I really start to dive into what else is going on. You know, are you brutally sore all the time from your training? Well, you need a deload, you know, or how's your sleep? Well, I've only been getting four and a half hours because, you know, daylight savings are going to come in an hour earlier for work and I'm cutting an hour of sleep out and I just can't make it up the other, you know what I'm saying? So I feel like there's a lot of other factors with CRP than the drugs. But to your point though, if it's the inflammation from PIP could absolutely be contributed to it, not the drug itself. Sure. And there are studies to show that the change in time zones increases the risk of heart attack Really? By an hour. So if you think your sleep schedule doesn't matter, just look at that. That's the statistic. And it's a little alarming that an hour can throw so many people off that much. Ooh. I have one more thought too, on the super solvents. Now I'm not going to say I wouldn't want to plan like, so, you know, another one would be like any of the injectable orals, which you guys know I'm a huge fan of injectable D-ball. I think there's a cost to benefit that we weigh out anytime that we're doing a cycle. And I almost feel like in the last few years, there's been an attitude of, oh, well, if it has a super solvent, you can't use that product that we, we have to think of our health. We don't ever use that ever. I'm going to, you know, I'm going to say that it's a calculated, it's not a calculated risk, but it's a calculated decision that, you know, just like using an oral steroid, right? That's also going to have more detrimental effects on our health than using an injectable. But as long as you go in weighing that out and you're aware of what the potential issues could be, it doesn't mean that you can't use ethyl-olate. And in this case, he's using what looks like probably, you know, one and a half, two mils per week of this product. He's only using, I think it was 200 DHB. You know, it's going to be a smaller amount. And now if you were to say the entire cycle is all going to be EO, you know, then maybe, maybe it's going to be more of a concern for me than after 20 weeks of that. I think you're right. Yeah, I would agree with that. All right. What about back to our topic then guys? So, um, how do doses and compounds differ for regular gym bros when they are bulking versus cutting? Well, the most obvious one is the offseason. You have calories. So typically you don't, I did when I was younger, but now that I'm older and I see my doses, I mean, I was, I'm kind of the extreme, you know, 900 milligrams of trend prep, but then, Oh, I'm TRT for the next eight months until I come back around to a cycle. And I've been TRT since July. I'll be TRT until the beginning of February. And I've been, everything's been great. I feel awesome. Of course, sex drive is always better on TRT than cycle minus the first three weeks or so. But outside of that, no, I'll take TRT all day because of the additional calories. And I, and I think people kind of poo poo that they're like, well, I'm missing out on all this growth. If you haven't done it, you need to be able to compare the two. Now, when I was younger, I might not have taken that advice, but because I'm older and I want to be careful that I did read, I'm like, you know what? I'll, I'll play with this. I'll see what happens. And the offseason has been, it's been great. So if you haven't done it before you poo poo it, I don't want to try that. Not necessarily TRT, but lower doses, lower dose. Yeah. Lower dose for sure. So part of the question was what compounds, how they would differ from, from an offseason to a pre contest. I, I think it's the same thing as, as anyone else. You know what I mean? I don't, you're just doing less dose. You're doing a lower dose typically. And it kind of ties into Tanya's question about what have you guys been having females do AAS wise without Primo, you know, and I'll say the same thing. I'm having all my males save their Primo and Masteron for prep, like stock up on it when you can find it, hold onto it and put it in the cabinet. We'll save that for prep. And she brought up something like Nandrolone. And I agree with that. I have several females running Nandrolones in the offseason. Yeah. Some of them do well with dbol. Some of them do well with just sticking with the Anabar. Um, how have you done with females and, and aqua poise? I've had a couple of girls that actually had done well with it in the offseason. We didn't get any kind of additional fluid from it. And we said, well, what are we, what if we were to keep this in the prep too? And it actually worked fine running it all the way in. My policy with everybody is let's pick the compounds that don't produce the side effects, negative side effects. And it's even more of a policy with females. Okay. So I might have females that I run windstraw, provirin, a couple other things with towards the end of a prep. Other females, they'll throw windstraw in. And it, you would think that it was dbol in a male in terms of, and it's not dbol because I had it tested. Two different sources tested. Okay. It's windstraw. And one of my females, she put on like four pounds within three days. She was bloated. She didn't feel right. Okay. No harm, no foul, pull it out. We still have two weeks to get you in shape. We're just not going to use windstraw towards the end of this prep, you know? Right. So my point with that is there, to me, there's no, there's some traditional drugs, but there's no, there's no blueprint of exactly what a female or a male is going to do leading into a show. So, because we've all had guys, Scott, you had a great segment a couple of years, a couple of months ago where, Hey, we didn't want to use trend with, I believe UC sumo. Yeah. Yeah. The guy got in shape looking like he was using a bunch of trend. Yeah. Right. So he chased the look and he went after the compounds that didn't produce the side effects and he brought that awesome look on stage. So, you know, there's no compound that we absolutely need other than probably testosterone. I'm so glad that we have moved through the phase of these not necessarily reaction videos, but at least reaction posts on social media. Oh my God. This trader put a female on testosterone. What the hell was he thinking? I remember that phase and all I did was absolutely ignore it. Like this stupid shit will pass soon enough. I'm not even going to put myself, get myself into the mix of this. Now I don't think I have females without testosterone. Well, but that's what I'm saying. You guys remember that it was just almost a giant. And it's like, yeah, just let this, this will pass. And it did. Well, it just shows how little, here's the thing. I would say the education of coaches working with females has gone from here to here just in the last like six to seven years. Sure. And maybe there's some guys that were a little ahead of the curve years ago. I remember 15 years ago or whatever it was when some of my girls wanted to start using anivar. And it was like, they're crossing over to the deep side and they took 10 milligrams a day. And guess what? Nothing bad happened. You're going to have a mustache. Yeah. And it's like, so I kind of took a very, in my opinion, a sensible approach. I'm like, okay, have, have, have some rules, like have a, see something, say something attitude with your females. Try to only use a short esters so that if something bad happens, they can tell you and say, okay, let's cut the dose in half or let's pull it out and maybe start over again. I feel like that's the responsible thing to do because I never want a female to be like, he loaded me up and turned me into a man. Right. So it's like we reverse course. Let's try something. I have a girl right now where the same, well, I'm not going to give too much away, but where we started her with something and it was okay. She was getting the physical results, but mentally it wasn't very solid and she was not being very nice to me. And so we reverse course and went a different direction. I'm not talking about, I'm not talking about here. I'm not. I'm absolutely not. Absolutely not. I'm not. You just threw her under the bus. Oh, no, no, no, no. Anyone that sees her walking around, she's completely natural right now. And people think that she's two weeks out or a week out from a contest. I'm not even kidding. Uh, cause she's the same exact weight. She was the day of the show. Like the same way, man, food is through the roof. Cardio is zero. Like when I say that we did the best reverse I've ever done with somebody, I would sign my name to this as my career. Like this is the best I've ever done. Rachel Berry. We're talking about your wife. Right. Just for anybody who's not putting the pieces together. Yeah. Maximum benefit. I could be pro. You're, you being your trainer, you're going to have to marry Andrew. We would have gone with sleep with you, but I don't know where Rachel is. So I don't want to get on her bad side. Yeah. Well, yeah, we have, we take sister wives around here, but where was I going with all of my point was, is that, you know, three weeks into a compound, we switched it to something that's where we're using NPP with a very low dose of test. Everything's flourishing. She's got that nice full round. Look glutes are looking awesome. She's in one of those divisions where you need those. Uh, her attitudes nice or she's, she's, she's, she's, I see. She's nice to everyone at the gym again. I should say that. Okay. So it's not mistaken that I'm talking about Rachel. So I guess anything else I I'd want to say on this topic, um, you know, how do doses and compounds differ for regular gym bros? Yeah. Like I said at the beginning, it, you know, I would avoid anything that was going to be considered to be harsh. I'm with you, Andrew. I would definitely avoid anything that doesn't agree with you. Right? Like there's no sense in take. Yeah. I I'm working with a guy right now who we're doing fantastic on test and EQ and we're far enough along into the cycle and it just, it felt like the doses aren't crazy. And I felt like, you know what? We could add a little something more. We added in a small amount of NPP and three or so weeks in, he started getting mood issues. Like he started noticing that there is a change going on here and this isn't good. What did we do? We removed the NPP and he got, he's getting rid of it. You know, we're not figuring out like, well, how do we keep the NPP in? No, we're just going to scratch it. Cause we're doing better before. Yeah. So my thought is, is like, whatever agrees with you, I'm with you guys. Whatever agrees with you, you can do well on what enhances your life. Those are the compounds to leave in lean into. And, and even, you know, you mentioned like the doctors will prescribe a low dose oral. I mentioned this on one of the other shows. I've got another guy that we added just a small dose of anivar. We had like enough anivar leftover that we did like 25 milligrams. And this is a guy who's running like gram and a half right cycle offseason. We added in 25 anivar a day for the last like four or six weeks. And it completely like revitalized his progress and, you know, kind of gave him that new angle, gave him some good morale boost in the gym. He could feel it. You know what I'm saying? It's like, it kind of, we finished on a, on a high note. It, it really cost a benefit, man. 25 anivar. It's not like we destroyed his HDL with it. It's not that we destroyed his liver with it. You know, what can you do? You know, even longer term for some of these guys that are non competitors, you know, to be able to continue getting the good stuff out of it. I guess that would be my, where I want to go with that in just in general, you know, I want to make sure we address this because I just saw from Roan, Roan Ranger. Would you use wind straw the entire time around 16 weeks? Or would you add that in when the water retention starts? I would say probably neither. I, I, if you're having water retention towards the end of a prep, something else is up with the compounds or your liver or your kidneys. And I wouldn't be using wind straw for 16 weeks because maybe that would be the issue that it's causing. You know what I mean? You're just having your, your liver is, is, is, is messed up. I don't have a hard rule, but I would say the typical time that someone uses wind straw with me is somewhere around six or seven weeks total. Like in terms of if they're doing like, maybe if they're doing two shows, I might throw it in at four weeks out from the first one. And maybe their next show is three weeks after that first one. So they're on it for like seven, maybe eight weeks total, I guess. If they're bridging between shows and there's a long break, I'll probably pull it out for two or three weeks and then add it back in because, and you guys know, when you got someone doing a first show and let's say the next show is like five or six weeks away, it's a lot easier to maintain that look if they're mentally in the game and they're not cheating on their diet. Like you could pull all the orals, you can pull the trend, you can pull like pretty much all the hardners out and just go like test and a little bit of masteron. Sure. And they're going to maintain like 95% of that look. And then two to three weeks out, you just throw the goodies back in. It's almost like they get a second level or a second burst and they look better than they did the first. Absolutely. Yeah. Yeah. Hey, what's up guys. I got a commercial here for true nutrition. You've seen me talk about the cold filter way. I so before this is like the legit high quality stuff. A lot of times when you buy a protein powder from a national brand, it'll have some weight ISO in it. It'll have some weight concentrate. It'll have some cheap stuff in it. This is like just the pure best quality stuff. So if you ever deal with gas or bloating digestion issues, you go with this, you're going to be all right. I like the cookie butter flavor. I get the regular flavoring. You can get light or heavy or regular. I get the regular. And this one I'm trying an experiment because I want to try to save some money. I bought a pound of weight concentrate. So this is like the cheap protein, right? I'm going to see what happens if I do like a half a scoop of this to a scoop and a half of this. Can I get away with that? Does it bloat me? If not, if I don't get gas, if I don't get bloating, then I'm going to run with it and save some money. And you guys can save some money by using our code. Think that directly helps to support our programming to every day. Every time you guys use the code, I get an email that says, hey, one of your listeners used the code. Thank you. All of that stuff. It really does directly help to support our shows. And you guys get 10% off on stuff that you would have bought anyway. High quality protein, creatine, intra-workout. You guys know the drill. All right. I just finished training. I wanted to knock this out really quick. I have to go eat some food. Thank you guys for watching the programming. Let's get back to it. All right. Scott, one of our listeners just turned pro at nationals. I wanted to take this opportunity to welcome him on. So I will drop him a message and he is going to give us a call. And yeah, he's young too. He's like 21 years old. So I would figure we'd take a minute and hang out with him. You, you had some success at nationals this past weekend too, didn't you, man? And you were out there. Tell us a little bit about it. How'd it go? First off, the show was excellent. I was very impressed with bodybuilding as a whole. You can't say that at every single national show, but this one was excellent from all the class winners, pretty much all the second place class winners. It was still an excellent, excellent show. The super heavyweight was in my, you guys remember Bundy? Big bad Bundy? Big bad Bundy. He was like Bundy 2.0, but maybe a little bit better in terms of the super weight. The super. Oh, he's incredible, man. This guy was a super with a light heavyweight waist. I'm saying his midsection was so tight and small. It was just, you know, ransom and the heavies looked frigging amazing, but it was, I think it was very easy for the judges to give the super the overall. The classic winner, I forget this gentleman's name. He's, he's going to be an Olympian within two years, if not next year. Kid was amazing. And then, yeah, I had some success. I had two, two cards in figure. We won class a and we got the second place card in class E. I was more upset about my E girl getting second place because she was the most conditioned female on stage. And yeah, their feedback was you're too conditioned. And no, I don't know if you guys go to the pro. Have them talk to me. I'll tell them what's up. Well, here's the thing. So we just finished up our year with two really good pro shows here in Florida for figure where we had the Sarasota show Florida pro. And then we had the hurricane pro a few weeks later. And when I say the top 12 to 14 girls were all lights out, feel glutes in like tiny striations. That's what the look was. And that's the look we went after for this girl, Danielle, and she brought it. And so to say that you're too conditioned for an amateur show, if you want to say you could be fuller, that's, that's one thing. But to say you're too conditioned is, I think, setting someone up for, for failure on the program. Come back to that. You know, well, yeah, they're going to start thinking, I don't need to, I don't need to come in as conditioned ever again. And it's that's, that's not the case because to do well at the pro league in figure. Now you have to be that conditioned. Yeah. Well, congratulations. Nonetheless, man, it's a great job. And I know you worked your butt off for that too. And congratulations on just a great overall 2025 season, man. You've it's been a pleasure as a fan of bodybuilding and as your friend to watch everything you've done and to watch you progress, man. So it's cool to see. And I want to welcome Steven to the show. Steven, what's your full name? My full name, actually, it's in the process of being changed. It's Steven Cochran, but it's going to be Steven King. Okay. My mother's last name. So I'll be taking that. Okay. And also to Steven King, I feel like that. Well, there's the. It kind of works, right? I was going to say, it has a ring to it for some reason. It sounds familiar to me. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No, it's a, it always clicked. And I don't have a relationship with that side of the family. So it's always been something in my mind. And then now that this is kind of becoming the future, I just, it's the name I want to hear be called out and everything like that. I have pride in that name. So I'm in the process of getting it changed. Steven King. Right. That's a good sound to it, man. So do tell us a little bit about yourself. You're a listener of the show. You competed at nationals. What division were you in and, and tell us all about that. Yeah. So I've been bodybuilding for just three years now. Okay. I'm 21. I did my first show in 2023. During that prep. That's actually when my father passed. It's a long story. I don't have to go too far into that, but. I'm sorry. The prep itself and the lifestyle of bodybuilding, just getting up and checking all those boxes and everything. That's what I think made me really fall in love and fall this deeply into this sport so quick. I mean, it gave me a reason to get up every day and a reason to go to bed every night. Um, so that was my first prep and I did that completely naturally. And then I stepped on stage and I loved it. Then I didn't have any really guidance that show or anything. So then my next show, I found a coach. Uh, my coaches. I have BB pro big tone. Um, we went into Legion sports fest. We won our lightweight class and then we won novice overall. All right. And then, uh, 20, 25, we came into USA's as welterweights and we placed third. And then we were planning on coming in on welterweights in nationals, but, uh, overshot it by a good 20 pounds. Um, so we ended up going into middleweights. Um, we didn't really have any expectations. I looked back at these guys and I was like, well, they're a lot bigger than me, but I'll give it a shot. And well, we ended up doing it. So yeah, right there is, uh, that was July. That was when we were a welterweight. Okay. And that was replaced third there. That was my third show I've ever done. Oh, you're kidding me, man. How tall are you? I'm a key on tight. Exactly. Five, four, five, four. All right. Which ones do you have? Uh, is this the new show here? Yeah, this is, yeah, that would be nationals. That was, that was the, what we just did. Yeah. Oh yeah. That's the new show too, man. You look good in the other one, but I definitely see the, uh, the improvement here. Yeah. This is good. So what did you, what did you weigh here then? So a weigh in was about one 76. Um, we needed to be one, uh, weigh in was one 76 and three fours is what we need to make. Yeah. We were about one 75 and three fours. So we were about a pound under. How about on stage? How much did you weigh on stage? On stage, it was honestly about the same. As soon as we started, uh, pulling water a little bit and eating food, the, the weight didn't really change much. Okay. So we were still sitting under weight cap pretty much the entire time. Did you just keep getting better and better as your coach was kind of pulling some water, maybe filling out at the same time? Exactly. The food was just going exactly where we needed it to go. And, um, we didn't really see a need to push the weight any further because we had the look we wanted. So, I mean, talking to the guys backstage, it was kind of trippy because they were all telling me like, I'm one 86 and one 87. And I'm in the back of my head. I was like, I know I'm one 75, but I'm still going to give it all. All I got. So skip likes those rear delts. Don't you look at those. Don't skip rear delts are the indicator. There's not, there's not a pro out there that has four rear delts. That's true. Yeah. Heck yeah, man. This is incredible, dude. So how long you been listening to the podcast for, by the way? So, yeah. Um, essentially I've only been into bodybuilding three years and this is like the trippiest part for me is because I'm planning on doing Texas pro in August to 12. Okay. And, uh, I I'm telling you right now, I'm bringing a belt for all those guys to sign and I'm taking a picture of everybody back there. I've only been a fan for three years and I'm a, I'm a fan and I'm a nerd. So, I mean, I've watched your podcast, but I've also watched the episodes from five years ago. So I've done just about everything, but, um, I just, I'm, I'm, I'm a fan. I was a fan before I was competing and I, I didn't expect to be competing with the guys that I've been watching these last three years. So it's, it's really surreal. It definitely hasn't hit yet. Um, I have the pro card set up in the back there and I'll tell you the last two more, the last two mornings I woke up, I looked at and I go, that's not mine. That that's not real. I'll tell you what's also surreal. I want to stay, say Stephen Hawking just to be a jerk. Cause I think it's funny, but nonetheless, Stephen King, um, you're the same age as our youngest daughter. And the thought of you showing up at my front door, introducing yourself, it just kind of creeps me out. So it just makes me feel really old to see you being this successful at this age. It's cool. Don't get me wrong. It's very cool. And I know it takes me back to that age going, I can, I can respect that. That has to be very cool. You wouldn't do a backflip. If, if, if this gentleman showed up to court your daughter, you'd be like, you date a bodybuilder? I'm saying from an age standpoint, it's, it's kind of, yeah, it's like, I'll say right now. I mean, I love watching your guys' podcasts and a lot of podcasts out there, but a big talk right now is my generation. We're lazy. We don't want to stick to diets. We don't want to stick to plans. So a lot of the times when somebody sees a 21 year old like this, um, automatically I'm assuming they think, Oh, well he's just looking for what's the shortest way to get things done. What's the fastest way to get things done. What's the fastest way to get things done. But honestly, dude, this sport means everything to me. So I want to be in it as long as possible. I don't, I don't really care. You know, looking for, I never even, I didn't even care if I turned a pro here. I, I, in my back of my mind, it was, it was always not if, but when, um, I want to bodybuild for as long as possible. So I'm not about taking shortcuts or anything like that. Um, and it's been really helpful listening to you guys. I mean, as much as, as much as it, sometimes it's like, Oh, it makes me a little mad to hear people knock on the generation. It's also drives me a little bit. Cause it's like, it's not all of us. It's not all of us. So yeah, there's my little shout out to anybody else, my age that just because most of us are trying to look for that shortcut or, um, being called lazy or not sticking to plans. That doesn't mean it has to be you. And we need to be careful as well to not make those blanket statements because there are clearly exceptions. And it sounds like you're, you're clearly one of those. So, so you said Texas is when you're competing next, right? When, when is that show? How long do you have and what's the game plan between now and then with your coach? Yeah. So, um, I'm 21. So, unfortunately, blood work's going to come back good, no matter what. Um, so we're, we're taking a health phase just, just because we know it's the right thing to do. So we're going to do a six to eight week health phase here. And then we're going to go into our, uh, first really our first real offseason together. We've, uh, we've had one, but this is going to be like, like I said, I've only been bodybuilding three years. So, um, this is all kind of new territory. Um, we put on 40 pounds of muscle last year, so I'm not expecting anything like that, obviously, but this will be the longest offseason I've ever taken. And it is, uh, Texas pro will be August 14th. Um, that'll be a month before I turned 22. So I'll still be 21 by then as well. Okay. That's cool, man. That'll be fun. Yeah. You'll have to keep me posted too. I, I I'm sure that the listeners are, you know, they'd be interested to hear from you again, you know, as you get closed in on that, what is your, uh, one of our listeners asked us, what's your Instagram? Uh, and I'll be sure to, uh, to put that in the stream or excuse me to put that in the description as well. Yeah. I honestly, because I just changed it. Let me double check just to make sure I don't mess up. All right. It is. Okay. I F B D pro dot Stevie King, Stevie King, Stevie just comes from. That's what, uh, that's what all my friends and everything have called me growing up. I always pictured in the back of my head that I'd land myself in a nine to five and have to be called Steve or Steven one day. But now I'm like, Hey, Stevie's going to stick and it's, uh, it's going to work. So I love that, man. That's cool. And I got a chance to meet you out at the Olympia. Do you have a good time out there? Oh, it was awesome. I mean, like I said, I am fully into this sport. I'm, I'm a nerd about it and I'm a fan before I was even a competitor. So it's going to be hard to kind of flip that switch in the back of my brain, but yeah, it's, uh, I love it. I'm going to the fit expo in January. I'll be at Arnold's in March. Cool. Come see me over. Yeah. Oh, absolutely. I'll be there. So I'm, I'm, I'm excited that maybe my future is lining up to where this is what I'll be able to do for, for as long as I can and just be a part of this great community in this industry. I've never met, uh, people, a group where I feel like I belong like this. This is, this is a community unlike any other, honestly. Unfortunately, there's not a lot of people my age, but it doesn't matter. It honestly doesn't. Well, there's a lot of people your age. They just don't look like you. They just don't look like you yet. Yeah. Exactly. I mean, it's, it's, it's, but like lifestyle wise too. It's a lot of people don't relate to it. They look at my lifestyle and they don't understand it. They think it's boring. And they're, they think that like, it's like, yeah, I live in a cave and I, every day is groundhog day. I love the same day. So I'm going to live it every single day over and over and over again. Cause I love doing it. I feel like everyone's. Oh, go ahead, Scott. I was going to ask if you had any sponsors or anything yet. Um, no. So I've had nothing because, and honestly, this is again, from all the podcasts and stuff I've been watching. I really believe in, um, I want to wait till I find a brand that I want to stick with for essentially my whole career. Okay. So I want, I mean, I have brands that I wear and I have brands that I love and I know what those are. I've been reached out to brands that like, I haven't tried or honestly that I have looked at and. I just don't like see myself like wearing their clothing or promoting their stuff. And I, I appreciate the, the, the offers and the opportunities, but I think there really is. And I think we've lost a little bit of it. Um, an art of picking one company and just creating a relationship with that one company for essentially your whole career. And I think even people following me, um, as I post that, and as they realize that they'll believe what I'm saying and understand that what I'm promoting is not just because I'm getting paid. It's because I believe in this company. So I'm trying to just find a 21 year old. You're, you're slowly changing my mind. Do you guys hear, I mean, I hear maturity beyond your daughter's numbers. You want his daughter's numbers? Hey, I like Brandon, but this guy is, he's, he's working on it. He's working on it. No, I, I have, I have strict orders from, uh, my coach and my peers that right now in my life, I need to stay single. That's not bad advice. That's a good move. That's a good move. Yeah. But, um, honestly, it's, I think it's, it's genuinely, I mean, I'll give myself a little bit of credit, but I've, I'm surrounded by a really good group of people who are, who are driving me in the right direction. So it's, it's, uh, I know a lot of people's first experiences, they, they're in and out of bodybuilding and it's sad because they were stuck with somebody who didn't give them the right advice or something. So I'm really truly blessed to be given the opportunity to be put in with the right people. That's cool, man. Well, listen, we appreciate you taking the time to hang out with us and thank you for, you know, following the shows and thanks for stopping by over, uh, at the Olympia to say hi and everything. Um, it, it, it's always honestly a pleasure for me to meet people that listen to the shows, but especially people who are like truly fricking plugged in. Like you are, man, like you're the person that I make these shows for. So thank you for doing everything you do, man, because it's guys like you that get me excited to keep doing this stuff and, and really all of us. So thank you very much. No, absolutely. I was, I was very, uh, anxious and nervous to do this, but because I think I've watched the last five years of your guys's podcast. And I mean, Andrew, you're on Unwrecked and Skip, you have your own podcast. I'm watching all of those as well. So it's almost like I already knew you guys, so I didn't have any anxiety. Very cool. Yeah. Perfect, man. All right, brother. Well, we'll look forward to talking to you again soon. I really appreciate this opportunity. You guys take care. You got it, man. See ya. Take care as well. Bye. Yeah. Damn, that kid is likable. He's pretty freaking cool, man. Is he not? I like him. He's very well spoken too, isn't he? Yes, he is. Yeah. I didn't get that he was nervous. You know who he reminds me of? Who's that? A, like Hunter Labrata. Okay. Hunter, when he turned pro. Yeah. Yeah. There were crazy expectations on him when he turned pro. Like, he was the anointed one. And he did turn pro, obviously. He won the overall at 2018. I was in his class. And just the maturity that he had towards the industry. And obviously he had the pedigree. He had, you know, dad. He had, you know. Yeah. But just the way he talked about it sounded eerily similar to the way Stevie talks about it. So, and Hunter's had a nice career. Yeah. So, you know. That's cool. Yeah. I could, I could see that now that you say that, man. And excuse me, you know, he made a really good point too, that I feel like a lot of times people do end up coming into the sport and then getting a bad taste left in their mouth and they're gone just as quick. It could, you know, that could have happened to him too. Right? Like, had he gotten into the wrong position and had the wrong advices and, you know, like you could end up real quick in and out and doing something else. But, you know, there, there is something to be said about, I think it's our responsibility, all of ours to, to, to, you know, try to try to be the ambassadors to the sport, to keep people in it, you know, but he, he obviously loves it. And that, you know, he's, he's going to make this thing work. So I look forward to seeing what he does with this. It sounds like he's got confidence in the people in this corner, which I think is huge. You, you kind of gave the nice version, Scott. I say that the sport or industry, whatever you want to call it, has this ability to chew up people and spit out a completely different, not nefarious, but just a completely different, arguably negative person. Sure. And that's why you see them come in sometimes and they're solid. They're good. And you go, man, I, I hope you got your head on straight. And I think he does all in all by all indications. I think he does so far. So good for him. Well, we've got a bunch more stuff. We'll definitely tackle that on the next episode. We appreciate you guys tuning in for another episode of blood, sweat and gear. Go to bodyberry.com to reach out to Andrew for coaching and team skip.com to reach out to skip. Hit me up and valley diets at gmail.com. And of course, true nutrition.com. Check them out. Use our code thing to get additional savings as well as supplement source.ca. If you're in Canada, you can get great deals on short dated and label changed products, as well as all your basic, all your other bodybuilding supplements, like the, the full regular price stuff too. They've got it all, all for good prices. And of course, a Patreon, we didn't get to the Patreon questions, but guess what? We're going to do that in the next one. So for another episode of blood, sweat and gear guys, we'll see you soon. We'll see you soon. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye.