there. Maybe it's not spoken of enough how beneficial growth can be while not on anabolics. You know, I I'll let you in on a secret, mate, as well because that's something I actually leverage at higher dose in those phases with clients. Yeah. And I think psychologically people have a much easier time spending periods on lower anabolics without mentally getting affected quite as much. And you know what it's like, Scott, right? If someone gets affected to that degree mentally in those periods of time, they just don't stay off for long enough. Some of the new stuff like SLUPP 332, I'm a big fan of that now between cycles. My favorite place to put it is after the cycle is over, after somebody's completely stabilized, and then we add that in as we're moving toward the next phase. And if it's improving mitochondrial health and and number then uh you know then I think that we're just kind of tuning up to get the most out of you know where we're going next. What's up guys? Welcome back to Think Big Bodybuilding Media. I'm Scott Mcnal and we are back again with Kubachin. What's going on brother? Welcome back guys. I'm excited today. Today we've got some great topics. So, I'm looking forward to getting stuck in and sharing some insight and hopefully provide you with some value as always. Yes. Yes. What's this? So, we've got I know we have a few topics. We've got a couple listener questions that we're going to tack on at the end. And by the way, guys, if you are enjoying this show, then let us know. Comment, let us leave us questions for the next one. And of course, uh if you haven't subscribed to our content, we'd love to have you along. We have several bodybuilding podcasts that come out each week. Uh so Kuba I know the the big one that's been on your mind and your heart right now is and it's not a sexy topic. The sexy topic is like what are we going to do to go on cycle? Yes. But to the opposite of that preparing to basically mentally preparing to come off and the things that go along with that. It's a sad day but eventually every cycle has to end. Absolutely. Every cycle, every prep, every offseason, right? It all comes to an end. And then I do feel like you can experience almost a little bit of a a little bit of a a a bit of a tough time off the back of the of the of the other side. Right. Yeah. Now, I'm going to refer back to the party days, right? And uh back in the party days, you have to understand that whatever comes up must come down. So, when you Scott, you know yourself, right? when you get the up the the down is just as it's it's equally as bad as good the up that they actually reached if that makes sense. Yeah. So the same principle applies with anabolic steroids in my opinion and I am pretty sure you'll agree with me and this is something I have noticed this past couple of years myself with Meg having the year that she had last year and a number of clients that I'm working with and have worked with in past and as of recent I've actually had quite a lot of consultations with a fair few females that wanted me to review their entire cell the blood work, supplementation, what they're doing right now, what they're taking, how the training is looking, how the diet's looking, and pinpoint what could potentially be wrong. Like why do they feel like something is off and why do they feel like something is wrong, right? And the conclusion is this. When you are on cycle, in my opinion, you are constantly having a dopamine hit. You are making progress. Whether you are in prep or an offseason setting, it is still the same. You are stepping forward and you are making significant leaps in progression, right? That in itself is going to drive a lot of dopamine. True. Now adding anabolics on top, that is going to make that so much more intense. Oh yeah. So imagine this, right? You've got a 20we prep or 20 week offseason setting. You are constantly doing this. You're coming up, coming up, coming up, coming up, coming up. You will need to get to a point where you either enter a maintenance phase. When you get to a certain point where you maxed out in your offseason or when you get to the back end of a contest prep, you will need to enter a health phase. You cannot continue using the same anabolics you was using. And the worst thing that can happen off the back of a contest prep as well is the posture lose. You don't get the same traction on Instagram, which again is a massive massive kick for people. You don't get the same instant gratification out of looking at daily changes to your physique. And in fact, at that point, then it's the opposite because you are looking at your physique and you are losing the condition it was working for. You are you are slowly getting softer. You are slowly getting heavier. And then you get to a point where you are not seeing visual changes week to week. The body weight has come up and even the progression in the gym isn't quite as fast. So you have so much less input that is going to drive that energy, that dopamine and that happiness. Right. Absolutely. And this is where if you do not have the right coping strategies in place, if you do not have macro structure to your goals, you can have a really, really bad time. And I see this with a lot of clients that have immaculate blood work, both males and females. And I would argue it's much more severe in females. And we can get into that in a little bit, but generally what I notice is a massive, massive low off the back of a phase where anabolics were high. And then anabolics have to be brought down. And unfortunately, the way we periodize a season when anabolics are brought down, that period of time is also the least glamorous period that you can go through. Yeah. Because generally in that period of time, right, you're either going to be recovering after the show, so things are just not going to be the same. you're regaining body fat or you are entering a maintenance phase in offseason where your drugs are coming down and guess what? You're just getting softer because the drugs are coming down. The look isn't the same. You don't have the same intracellular fullness. So every week you look at yourself and you're getting softer. You're not as strong. You're not making the same progression in the gym. Mentally, I feel like bodybuilding can be extremely harsh in those situations on both males and females. One way to avoid this is setting some mini goals and having a structure in place where you are not just getting dopamine from bodybuilding. H Yeah. Yeah. I like that. I feel like the people that have nothing else that Watch the table. Watch the table. By the way, the we get we get the I know you you get I tell people you get passion like I tune in for Kuba to pound on the table. I'll keep my hands up. The generally the people that have have nothing but bodybuilding, right? Yeah. Yeah. They will always have a much harder time to be able to recover from these phases. So the best piece of advice and supplements aside, we can cover supplements in a little moment, but the best piece of advice I can give you when you do go through that phase where anabolics are lower or anabolics are seized. In in most female cases, you will come off anabolics and then the low is even worse, you have to find something else that is going to give you a similar amount of dopamine. And this is why I do believe that having other interests and hobbies can be extremely beneficial and helpful because then you are not sitting all day and thinking about your own process. Yeah. And this is coming from someone that can be extremely self-aware of my own thoughts, especially in the past few years. I can really be in my own head. If I'm not busy, Scott, it's the worst that could happen to me because if I'm not busy and I'm occupied with stuff that I I enjoy and I'm passionate about, again, for me, it's just a downhill spiral. And and it's the same. And it's funny enough, it must be something genetic because my mom is very much the same. If she isn't busy, if she isn't working, if she isn't constant engaged, like she will feel extremely low and down. Yeah. Yeah. I think that's common for a lot of us and especially like bodybuilding. We are so like goal focused. I wasn't prepared my first contest prep. Everybody talked about all the things you did for the show. Nobody talked about after the curtain closes and the lights go out. It it was something I had to figure out on my own that first year, but it quickly I I mean you're bringing a lot of that back, too, cuz some of that stuff I think I take for granted now. So, I think it's really good that we're talking about this. It's just a firm reminder, Scott, because sometimes we can get caught up in just taking action, doing all these things that we do, right? Yeah. And sometimes we can forget the impact something that we love can have on us. It's not necessarily always going to be positive. We have to accept that. Yeah. But there's strategies that we can actually put in place to have a much easier time to handle this. Where I think this situation is much more severe is females. And let me talk to you why. When males take anabolics, we will have a higher dose, a peak dose in the offseason, but then we actually come back down to a baseline dose. we still will get a bit of a dip, but it's not as big as a female will because if you are a female and you're not you're not you're not using any HRT, you're not using any FM test generally, you know, your testosterone is probably going to sit in like 0.8 to like 1.4 range. That's British range. I'm not sure it's American. Yeah. Taking something as little as 35 milligrams of any anabolic of choice per week, right? up to 70 and some females in bigger categories more 100 200 we see that quite often right now imagine what happens to someone's psychology dopamine and all the other feelings that they get when they're on cycle the second that is removed oh yeah combine that with a postshow phase for a female where they have to gain body fat And already that alone is something that can really have a negative impact on one's psychology. Combine that with removing the anabolics and if you are not mentally strong, you can experience an extremely extremely hard time. And this is where post show in my opinion is the most severe time for majority of assisted females. Yeah. And honestly, across the board, females and males both could. But I think that what you're speaking to right now is the number one reason that people end up not coming off, you know. Yeah, I agree. I agree. Especially especially with a lot of females. And look, if you're not coming off as a female, you're going to be in a world of trouble because even if you're losing a low dose, you are going to vitalize quite heavy. And and look, this is me speaking from experience. I'm not an expert and I don't claim to be an expert on on female health, right? But yeah, I have coached females for a long long time and I see a pattern of what happens when anabolics are used and when anabolics are seized and what we actually have to put into practice. A lot of athletes have no issues, but if you have an athlete that is mentally fragile or isn't as mentally strong, they are going to have even a harder time to be able to recover from a psychological perspective because I have reviewed so many different blood work panels, right? And blood work looks outstanding. Hm. But they continue to say something's wrong. Something's off. It is off. But I don't think it's necessarily blood work related. I think it's more so they had the high and now it's just a massive low and they are constantly at a baseline level when they have the feeling that they had back in prep or in offseason when they was using anabolics to compare to. Right. And it's just it doesn't compare. I know myself, Scott, when I'm taking two grams of anabolics, I know how I feel, right? As soon as that comes down to 400, 300 or 500, the difference is significant within a matter of weeks. But this is where I do have certain supplementation in place and I do have other hobbies and my days are extremely structured and busy. So, I don't have time to sit and be in my own head. That's the worst thing they can do. Tell us about some of the supplements you you were mentioning. Have you heard of saffron extract? Saffron. Saffron extract. Yeah. I No, I I haven't heard of it being used for anything. I don't think it's actually really really good. Okay. Really good. Um George Jeff actually posted some research on saffron extract. So, I'm going to give him a shout out because again, I don't claim to be a know-it-all and I don't claim to, you know, come up with all these things. Yeah. He posted about it and I actually used it. I did it myself and it has made a significant difference. Huh. One supplement that I feel like is extremely undervalued in combination of and both supplements really is omega at a very high dose. Omega high dose omega has actually been shown to improve some states of depression. I think it was I'm I'm pretty certain there was some research done where a highdosese omega actually improved people's well-being that was really in a bad way mentally. There's a so serotonin is produced in the gut and there's something to do with omega-3s that are responsible to improve or optimize that production. And the only reason I know that is there is or was a psychiatrist uh who was actually from Michigan that I heard talk on this. And uh he insisted that his patients all went to it was like 12 grams per day of an omega supplement uh before he would even treat them with an SSRI just to ensure that it wasn't something internally that they like that they couldn't fix themselves, you know. So, you actually nailed it because I was going to talk about dosing and ever since I've actually read that and look, I'm I'm not the one to to site research, but I have seen it posted by I believe it was Dr. William Wallace. Okay. And ever since I read that, I straight away took my omega dose up to 10 grams per day. So, 10 gram 10 gram of my fat actually comes from omega. And I have actually tried that with a lot of clients and the difference in my opinion is substantial. Especially when you have clients that have a lot of self-awareness and are already dialed in. When you make a small change like that, they notice it. Now, combining that with a high dose of uh D3 and K2, especially in UK, makes a massive difference. I feel like a lot of people, especially when you are using anabolics, we've spoke about this before, but anabolics will actually downregulate your D3 alone. Combining that with absolutely zero sunlight in UK 99% of the time, uh, you need a hefty dose of omega D, omega, omega, omega and D3 together. Now, yeah, another thing that I've read is taking omegas and D3 together actually improves the absorption of D3. Really? Okay. Yeah. Something to do with the fat inside. And you'll notice that some of the D3 products that you can buy as well are often combined with a lot of oil. Yeah. So some of them they'll actually come in like solid tablets. Some of them actually come like droplets they can be quite handy. Another thing that can actually help is sunbeds believe it or not utilizing a sunbed for low duration of time to again improve the absorption of D3 um that tends to really makes a massive difference. And final one that I really like is magnesium. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. at a very high dose. Again, um people often take like a th000 milligram of magnesium, but they they actually forget that out of a th00and milligram magnesium by glycinate, for example, you you only absorb around 10% of that. Yeah. So, you're only actually getting 100 milligrams of magnesium. So, essentially, you need to be taking at least 500 milligrams per day if you are active and you are training a lot. Personally, I'm actually up to around 700 milligrams per day. Okay? And the difference I've noticed in my energy and my recovery is huge. Okay? And as of recent, I'm not sure if you follow any any of the guys that put out a lot of research on Instagram and stuff, but I uh I've got a setting my Instagram, right, where you can star people and you only see the feed of the people that you start. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Okay. So, I basically got my favorite star, right? And that's all I can see. and they actually post a lot of research when it comes to magnesium D3 omegas creatine um and and the combination of it all like can actually lead to some fantastic results and ever since I've actually brought my magnesium to a very high dose I mean 7,000 milligram which gives me 10% of that so like 700 milligrams of magnesium per day is a lot to a lot of people but essentially it's not because RDA is around 400 milligrams and if you are training you are taking anabolics your needs for magnesium are going to be a higher, especially being a bigger male or female. Do you split that up or how do you take that? I split it with every single meal. So, I split my D3 all in the morning because I do find if you take it pre-bed or later in the day, it can actually disrupt your sleep. Sure. Then my omega and my magnesium are actually spread across each meal. Okay. Yeah, that that makes sense. And it makes it easy to do. I like that. With the Omega, throw out a brand for us. What's a brand you like? cuz I want to make sure. I don't know how it is over there, but over here we have a lot of real cheap omegas that are in the grocery store. Trained by JHP, he's got a good one. Train by JP Omega Farmer Pro. It's incredible. Yeah, it's really good, Scott. That Yeah. Right. Yeah. And I don't mean that even as like trying to plug his product, but just that there's a lot of like if you go to the grocery store, they have really crappy stuff that might even be rancid for all we know. You know, it it's really good. I I I I definitely stand by the products and and it does have potential ingredients and when you have these potential ingredients in it, you cannot mess around with what's actually inside it, right? So, it's definitely definitely what I use. And for yourself over that neck of woods and in America, I'm pretty sure True Nutrition will probably have some good amiggas. True Nutrition has one, but that's not really their wheelhouse, their fish oil. it it's okay, but I prefer the I think it's ultra omega by now foods and it's a 2 to one that I I I like a lot and I usually do about four grams per day but I have I will go up a little bit go up to maybe six or seven and I try not to go below four. Yeah. Now with color magnesium final one should we add another one and we can add creatine. Oh yeah. I mean, the research again is endless. And and do you know what? This is why I really like Instagram at times because when you're selective with what you follow, you get to see all these little things that are posted. And then for me, when I click on it, I get to see all the little research snippets that these doctors are posting. Yeah. And actually, I can actually read something that's going to bring value to me. Right. So, you've got to be selective of what you consume. Your diet isn't just what you eat. It's what you consume and what you look at. How much mate? I guess what I'm up to at the moment. 10 grams up. 20 up. I'll just keep going by tens. 30 30 30 grams a day at the moment. Hey, I saw research showing that 30 grams had I can't remember what the result was, but it was uh a a greatly improved cognitive function in sleepdeprived people. That's exactly what I That's exactly what I read. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Ever since I read that, I was like, "Right, I'm taking 30. Let's go." Okay. Yeah. Yeah. And look, I'm not sleep deprived. My sleep's excellent. Yeah. But generally, I'm very self-aware and in tune with making small changes and I know if something makes a difference. I do not have any caffeine first thing in the morning, Scott. But I do have 10 grams of creatine in my drink, in my morning drink. Okay. And I have my red light on, right? I drink my drink and I kid you not, the focus I can't reach mine. Mine's like 3T 3T over. The the focus that I have in the morning is incredible. And I very much attribute that to getting good sleep, magnesium, omegas, but also creatine in the morning. So all of these supplements that were just reeled out, guys, they are not only going to make you feel good, they will improve your recovery and sleep to a degree as well. So you're not just getting a value from a a mental health standpoint to a degree, but you are going to get value from a recovery standpoint as well. So these are extremely helpful. Now other ones that that can actually help is stuff like GABA pre-bed if you are having any uh anxious periods, right? I think GABA is actually really really good. But also 5HTP at high dose. Okay. Yeah. I mean if you've raved before, you know, 5HTP is a must. So, uh, do you have any do you have any, uh, any recommendations in terms of supplements? I like P5P before bed as well. I'll add that one in as part of my pre-bed stack. I have to be careful with highdose HP. Why before P Why before bed? Um, it helps to improve sleep. It helps you with Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's really good. Um, B6, B5P. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, I'll take that before bed and and I do feel more rested. Um, I've been taking in the morning. Okay. I mean, you can you can too. I it it doesn't um it does it never like knocks me out, but I notice that if I do 200 milligrams before bed, I wake up feeling more rested. Uh and I have to be careful with the 5http, but I do like that one as well. Pre-bed. I think you're nailing a lot of the a lot of the basic things that I try to hit. Yeah. Um I'm finding too, so you know, we talked before about uh some of the new stuff like SLU PP332. I'm a big fan of that now between cycles. I'm just just seeing a lot of people like a lot of my clients have wanted to try it and I'm finding that my favorite place to put it is after the cycle is over after somebody's completely stabilized and then we add that in as we're moving toward the next phase and if it's improving mitochondrial health and and number then uh you know then I think that we're just kind of tuning up to get the most out of you know where we're going Ed and I do think that there is a, you know, there's a psychological boost too to like adding something new. You know what I mean? So I think with that Yeah, exactly. It is. Yeah. I mean it gives someone an opportunity to really get stuck into something that's going to be let's see if this does anything, right? And and it's like almost like a little chance to to see well if it gives me like 1% it's always 1% better. Yeah. Would you use it post show? Man, I don't know. I honestly I you know, this is the first year that I've been experimenting with it and I'm almost thinking I would I I would consider running it into the show and if I were running it into the show, I might then and and I haven't had anybody compete yet this season, but they are going to be in the next 3 weeks now, so we'll see. And he is using SLU. Um and I I would think that I would then continue it on. Also, I want to throw this at you. So, I started at 400 micrograms, boosted it up to 500 and, you know, split twice a day. I'm finding that for, and this is just for myself, I get a really good boost from 250, like I'm finding if I don't take that second dose, I definitely notice it if I do personally. But if I don't, I'm almost kind of thinking to myself like, hey, I can I get more out of less is kind of my thought. So, I'm almost thinking that maybe if somebody has a strong response to it like I do, maybe just kind of starting low, leaving yourself room to maybe even increase later, you know, kind of coming at it from a different angle though with the the SLU. I think that Yeah, overall though, man, I'm I I hadn't thought too far ahead about this topic, but I I'm on board with everything you're saying. I I guess, you know, another one thing that I don't think is talked about enough, and I'm going to get into actual like compounds, actual gear now. Yeah, of course. So, you know, I used to cycle on and off, did PCT, recover, all of that. Horrible. When I Oh, God. Tell me about it. Horrible. So, the first time that I ran growth hormone, it's right when the original hygiens came out. Oh, and they were great, man. Great GH. And uh I continued on that at a low. I think I could afford like two units uh per day or three units per day. I continued on that after the cycle was over through the PCT and into that recovery period and I I really felt psychologically stronger. You know, I I did I I kind of felt like, hey, I'm still getting some benefits of recovery while my HBTA is is, you know, repairing. Um I I'm still getting like good pumps in the gym. I kind of feel like I'm still on. So I think there there maybe it's not spoken of enough how beneficial growth can be uh while not on anabolics. You know I I'll let you in a secret mate as well because that's something I shall leverage at higher dose in those phases with clients. Yeah. Especially client especially clients that have affordability. Again a lot of it will come down to affordability. Uh absolutely. But post show I do like to leverage a little bit more growth hormone especially when it comes to that post show recovery for extra sleep. But also in an offseason the reason why I like to leverage a little bit more growth hormone is because what happens within the first two three weeks when you stop the cycle you get flatter you lose that pop. Now leveraging more growth hormone you mitigate a lot of that. And I think psychologically people have a much easier time spending periods on lower anabolics without mentally getting affected quite as much. And you know what it's like Scott right if someone gets affected to that degree mentally in those periods of time they just don't stay off for long enough. And my goal is to make sure that and my go my goal is to make sure that they actually stick to the plan we have and stay off to recover the blood work and get back on point. Uh but guys, if you have any questions regarding this topic or any it's something you may have experienced yourself or you have experienced it with clients, um drop us a comment below and let us know, you know, let us know your experiences. Uh look, it's something that I've experienced myself a lot and Meg competed twice last year, but she spent entire year prepping, right? So, right, mentally, you can imagine how low she felt off the back of it at the very end. blood work, Scott. Amazing, right? With the blood work recovered real fast. The blood work actually recovered much faster than I actually anticipated, right? Especially after such a long season, but mentally, I think it took good five months for her to recover. She's still probably recovering now a little bit uh since um she's only just recently started to feel like herself mentally. So, you can imagine that's a long time since they limped last year, right? Hey, one more supplement. And it is one more supplement I I do want to throw in um during that phase is elyroine. I think that elyroine can be really beneficial uh for um uh help with regulation of thyroid number one. But number two there is an effect with um sensitizing this the receptor that dopamine would attach to. So you you'll make it's it's from what I understand elyrocine isn't as much of a stimulant as much as it is going to make your stimulants more effective and that includes things like norepinephrine and dopamine. So in a phase like that where those things are going to be lower in fact I know of a a a neuro neuroscientist who who works with people as a psychiatrist and elyroine is one of the compounds he uses. He doesn't just directly throw it at him right away, but it is something he does work in. Great point. One thing to mention as well is T3 when people using thyroid. I feel like I'm not sure what your take is on it, but when people remove thyroid prematurely post show and I've seen this happen as well. Um, when you're using thyroid, right, for me, the best way to actually come off is actually giving yourself time to recover and bring your body weight up and bring your calories up first. Your thyroid recovers much quicker when your carbohydrates are higher. And generally, you will notice this in blood work. Yeah. And people people understand that it's like the quickest way to recover your thyroid is bringing up your calories and body weight. That is how your thyroid recovers. If you are using hormone replacement, thyroid in prep. And personally, I never use anything above hormone replacement. So, I will always gauge thyroid juice based on blood work. And I generally want to keep the thyroid within range, not above it. I like that. Absolutely. One thing I've noticed and it always happens with a lot of clients and me myself included. When you come out of a show phase and you go through a recovery period, you increase your food, increase your body weight, all of a sudden you can be taking the same thyroid dose, but the thyroid readings you will get in your blood work will be much higher. Therefore, that almost gives you the green light to either remove some of the thyroid or lower the dose of thyroid. And the the biggest mistake I have seen people make is this. Post show comes around, they remove fire up prematurely and at the same time what they do is pull back on the food. That is prot. That is probably the worst thing that you can do because guess what happens then? As soon as you pull that food back down, your metabolism downregulates again. What happens when your metabolism downregulates? Your thyroid function slows down. Yeah, double whammy. And guess what? When your thyroid is low, you are going to feel low as well. Your energy will be low, sensitivity to to to to cold. Um, it's not it's not a great place to be. And a lot of natural athletes will experience that either way because you're naughty. Uh, but for assisted guys, there's no excuse, right? So, just one thing to wary of, just don't overcook your thyroid juice. If you are taking too much, your resting heart rate will be skyhigh and you're probably going to feel a little bit on edge as well. Um, but again, look, blood work is the best indicator to really gauge and fine-tune your thyroid use in prep and in offseason. Um, I like Yep. You go ahead. I was just going to say that's kind of a good segue. So, before I go to that, yeah, tell me tell me where you like. Absolutely. I like to sit at 150 T4 and 25 T3. And that puts me Okay. right in the right in the middle. Uh, but I do have clients that 37 T3 and 150 T4 like puts them like pretty much a bomb range. Then I have other clients that can get away with just taking T4. That's obviously whilst they're using growth hormone at literally 100 micrograms and that puts them in in the great range with both T4 and T3. Uh, I personally like to use T4 initially. Um, I don't like to use T3 alone. I feel like T3 alone doesn't yield as much of a great conversion. I feel like you always have to use more T3 uh when it's used alone. But again, that's just my that's just my take on that. Okay. All right. I was going to say yeah, segue. So, you we had a couple other topics and one of them was um what to consider uh Oh, no, excuse me. Um how your how to use your blood work to guide your stack design. So, I thought of that one because you're talking about uh you know, basically dosing T3 off of lab work. So, where where do we want to go with this one? How blood work can guide your stack design? I mean, I know for my age, I my macar's not uh what it used to be on cycle. So, that's a major consideration for me. Is that where we're going? Like that type of thing or what? Absolutely. Absolutely. I mean, look, we know different compounds will have different effects, right? and side effects. Realistically, an effect of a compound is to a degree a side effect, right? Absolutely. That's just a fact. So, we've covered thyroid, right? We I think we can all agree that the the most effective way to dose your thyroid is based on blood work. Now, when we look at drugs beyond that, I do feel like blood work can guide how much testosterone you can use without overcooking yourself. and having estrogen that's probably going to turn you into a hormonal girl and what compound selection you can get away with. If you are using EQ and you know that your hematocrit is already high, it's probably not the best drug for you. Let's face it. Yeah. So, you can always adjust your stat design based off what you see with your estrogen and even your red blood cell count to a degree. Personally, I do not actually like my estrogen sitting crazy crazy high. And the only time where I will let estrogen sit a little bit higher is for the guys that genuinely like to have it higher or feel good on it being higher. Yeah. What's what's your range? The UK range. And where do you like to sit then? In the UK range, I think is like 0.40 40 up to like 150 160. Okay. In an offse my sweet spot is around 180 to 200. Okay. So just outside just outside. And and another thing to consider is if you are using super physiological levels of testosterone, you should probably expect that estrogen to sit outside the norm because your testosterone is going to be much outside that norm. However, as much as blood work can guide our decision-m and give us a reference point, I definitely feel like it's often wise to actually ask your client or ask yourself, well, this is my estrogen. This is how much test I'm taking. How do I feel? Is my sex drive good? Do I feel energetic? Is my sleep good? How do my joints feel? How is my digestion? How is my water retention? How's my blood pressure? Right? If your blood pressure is too high, you're carrying a ton of water and your estrogen's elevated and you are bloated and you've got poor sleep, guess what? You probably need to lower testos and you might need to up whatever other anabolic you're taking to match that dose that you are taking overall. I feel like a lot of people are obsessed with taking high amounts of tests. And realistically, Scott, it doesn't really matter what you take. What matters the most is the total milligrams that you can tolerate with the least side effects. And what I mean by that is how much can you get away with taking to a degree for your needs and your level, right? Which that could be 500 migs or it could be 2,000 migs or 3,000 migs, but whilst keeping the side effects to an absolute minimum. So in an ideal world, you don't want your red blood cells or hematocrit sky high. You don't want your estrogen sky high, but at the same time, you don't want your estrogen too low. If you are using trembolone or deca, please always make sure that you have an estrogen sensitive test because if you are using tremolone or deca, that will give you a false reading in a normal estrogen test. I have had clients come to me so many times when they using tremolo or deca, they were like, "Mate, look at my estrogen. Oh my god, look at my estrogen. Like, you had a normal estrogen test on, didn't you? You were like, "Yes, well, it's that's not your estrogen, mate. Go go go back, have an estrogen sensitive test, and let's review it again." Um, but generally, you can always feel if your estrogen's too high or low. However, I do feel like your blood work can give you a good indication of what changes you need to make with your cycle. Would you agree? I agree. Yeah. I you know two decades ago getting lab work wasn't something we did on cycle. We were told two you know 20 years ago like get your lab work done twice a year you know make sure that your health markers are good. Now guys are getting on and I like I'll suggest people like hey you know we start a cycle let's check where you're at in four weeks. Let's see where your estrogen level is then and then we can decide what we're going to do as far as estrogen control. man, had we not done that in certain circumstances, I wouldn't have discovered that EQ was greatly impacting a guy's estrogen levels, you know, and and sometimes it can just be then, hey, maybe we in that situation, maybe we do want more test in order to to get that ratio higher than than say we were at a one one test to to EQ, you know, maybe when it say it was 300 and 300, maybe we want to go to 500 test to 300 EQ to get that into a better range. Um, I I we wouldn't be able to do that had we not checked to see what his estrogen levels were, you know, and and that will greatly affect your gains. If your estrogen is destroyed, you know, not just your gains, but the way you feel mentally. I mean, if your estrogen's through the bin, your energy is going to be through the floor. You're going to feel very, very low. And guess what? Your training performance will in the bin. You've made a fantastic point here with EQ. This is why I'm not that much of a fan of it because I have seen it crush people estrogens especially recently. There's trends that go around right and in UK I think recently quite a lot of people have been taking EQ again and I've had two consultations anymore. Yeah, I had two consultations now with guys with the estrogen like non-existent and there was taking a little bit more EQ than the test. So great point you've made Scott. If you are going to do test in EQ, make sure your test is higher than EQ initially. And and guess what? Even if you are higher romatizer, trust me, EQ will probably pull it down heavily. So just air on the side of caution if you are going to use it. Personally, I'll hold my hand up. I don't have that much experience with EQ because that's one drug I cannot tolerate. So I don't take it. Oh, that's right. Yeah. Yeah. Whenever whenever I have had clients run it though, it's always been a very low dose and it's been effective at a low dose, but it has always been combined with a slightly higher testosterone dose. And that has only been with clients like you that know they really get on well with EQ. And guess what? They have no issues with hematocrit. If I have a client that has issue of hematocrit and and and high high blood pressure, EQ and DECA is off the table, my friend. Yeah. Yeah. And I I you know, I think I intuitively kind of fixed it. I mean, my my peak dosing was around like 1.25 grams test, maybe 1.3 along with 800 EQ. And then I would also cycle in Debball. And I think that with you between the higher test and the dbol, I kind of was where I needed to be to make the gains I needed. But you know, that is very very smart. Very very smart. I didn't put that. You know what? Do you know what? Anyone listening to this, do you know the guys I've actually spoke to in the past month? If they actually did that, that would have literally saved them. Yeah. Because Yeah. I've actually had a few guys that got themselves in a really poor position with it, you know, really bad way. Like extremely low mood, sore joints, you know, all the usual signs of extremely low estrogen and really itchy skin as well. I'm not sure that it's like really dry, dry elbows, dry knees, itchy skin, itchy scalp as well. Uh but mate, that is so smart because the ball will would have given you that that kick of estrogen pretty much straight away, right? Yeah. Yeah. I've even seen we had a one. People need to people need to pay you. People need to pay you into Patreon here getting this info here because this is going to probably save people's cycles, you know. Thank you, Kuba. We had one guy who commented in the past and then he DM'd me. He said he had used actual exogenous estrogen in his cycles. Wow. Because he didn't aromatize. And I mentioned that and a couple other people said they've done that too. I can't believe that, you know, but hey, if it works, you need a good amount of estrogen to to feel good. You really do. I think it's a fine balance, though, Scott, because have you realized in the past year, we've had a lot of educators promote extremely high estrogen. It's like, no, you don't need extremely high estrogen. You need just the right amount of estrogen where you feel good. Not everyone's going to feel the same having the estrogen running wild. Yes, I might feel good with my estrogen sitting at 200, but Scott, guess what? Scott might feel like [\h__\h] sitting at that. Yeah, you might get gyno and feel like a water buffalo. So, yeah, definitely not. So, what So, in this topic then, what about uh where do orals play in? Because obviously orals are going to affect our health and a number of fashions. Um, what about considering orals when it comes to labs? I'll be honest, man. I uh I haven't seen orals really play that much of a havoc on blood work, especially when it's used at a low dose for not a long period of time. Um I I will I will admit though, Scott, I never use orals in offseason. And do you know what the the only way I would use oros in offseason I consider it is the way you've just mentioned with debol trying to save somebody estrogen, right? So if someone next time somebody comes to me and they're they're reel in a bad way, I'd probably suggest doing that to get them back up to a good start do you wouldn't need a lot, you know, and you know what, you probably need it for a couple of weeks and you'll be sweet again. Uh but generally offseason, I never use orals because I can't eat and I've noticed that with a lot of clients as well. You just if you cannot eat, you're not going to grow. Uh but with orals I think always air inside the side caution because with some people I do notice that LDL does tend to come up quite hard using orals and HDL gets cut in half instantly. And let's face it, most guys using anabolics, your HDL is already going to be low, right? Yeah. So if you can keep and save orals for special time in prep, definitely do so. And I'm not sure what your take on it is, but my favorite and I would argue the safest oil is probably probably Anavar if you can get real anavar. Yeah, I like it. Annavar is a good compound. And yeah, I I will admit though. I will admit a low dose of anadrol works incredibly well as well. Dave loves anadrol too. I I would say contest phase if I had one to pick it would be Winstro. Winstro would be my go-to for the last three weeks, four weeks of a show, something like that. Do you know what? I've actually uh consulted a guy. He I'm not gonna say his name. I would never do that, but he's a a very strong American bodybuilder. Is Peeled as well, big boy. And he actually loves a low dose of Winstrol and Anadrol together. Really? Anadrol just on training days. Okay. Is this during a diet phase or during a growth phase? No, that's just that's just in a prep. That's just in a prep. No offseason. Gotcha. Okay. Gotcha. You know what? I've never tried that and I would be keen on trying that this year. I'm not going to lie. Okay. I found with Anadrol, it's the same with Super Draw for me in a diet phase where it's like the timing like it's it's it I look fuller. You know, a guy looks better and then he doesn't. You know what I mean? And it's like a little bit too much. So I Yeah. you look further and better, but all of a sudden you look a little bit like mental candle, melted candle. The only reason why I think he he can get away with is because when he adds it in, his glutes already inside out. So when you are that lean, when you are that lean, I think a bit of anrol is just going to give you that extra bit of pop and fullness. Um, it's definitely Jay Cutler's Jay Cutler's most favorite favorite steroid, I think, because he's mentioned anodrol a fair few times on podcasts and I'm pretty sure he mentioned t Yeah. And you know, you know, it's like a lot of the old school guys always say that they used very low anabolics. And him and Mills was talking in one of the cutler casts and Jay said that he used 200 milligrams of anadrol at one point. And listen, you can actually find it and if I was if I had enough time on my hands, I'd probably find the podcast. But I'm pretty sure that he said he tried that. And that would not surprise me with how big and bubbly he was in prep. The only way you can retain that much fullness when you're dieting is with anrol, let me tell you. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I'd experimented with anadrol in a few different scenarios, including like just on a certain body part day, uh preworkout, you know, that type of thing. And I I never found like massive benefits, but that leading right in, you're right, like if a guy's already completely peeled. I'm trying to think, is there anything else uh that we should consider on this topic? uh before we moved on because I know we had some listener questions as well. I think we've we've blasted this through and through to be honest. It's super simple. Um I mean if people want to recap they can always rewind it but uh blood work will definitely give you an accurate gauge of your testosterone dosing and thyroid dosing. So just be mindful of that guys. If if you are struggling to pinpoint what kind of side effects you are feeling the safest bet is always to do blood work. Would you agree Scott? Oh, absolutely. There's no question about it. I actually do my blood work every six every six weeks year round. You know what Dave's mentioned that he said that you are extremely vigilant with your labs. That that's something that you always pay really close attention to. Massive shout out to Eval. They have been uh a godsend. I actually got my 20th blood work from Dave um the other week. So, no kidding. Yeah. 20th 20th set of bloods. All right, so we do have some listener questions. Guys, leave us questions for the next show. And uh let's see. How about I liked this one a lot. Uh Kuba, I might be asking too much of you to give away uh too much coaching advice. My question is after a certain point, it's tough to to progress on the log book. For me, being older, getting stronger is possible for some exercises, but tough. I'm sure at your level, it's also tough, but more possible with increasing peeds and bulking. So, do you like uh so do you uh let me say it this way? Um uh I So do you do a mess cycle um and start lighter and slowly increasing the weights and reps so forth? I guess he's asking how do you how do you continue getting getting stronger as you know an older person is the topic I guess I got him. I got him. Amazing question. Massive massive props to this guy because he clearly is a thinking thinking man's bodybuilder. The way I would structure this is is this a huge mistake people make going into a training block. Meocycle by the way Scott is a term for just a training block. So when I structure my training a mess cycle or a training block is going to be my weeks of training after a d lo need to take a dload every six to 10 weeks. Some people don't believe in dloads. They are the people that do not train hard enough. I'll just say that outright. If you train hard enough, you will need a break over time, either physically or mentally. Especially when you are actively trying to progress your lifts, you will need a period of of time where you need to scale back. Back to the point. In this case, the load is done. You've got your first week of training. So, week number one of the training cycle, messycle, whatever the [\h__\h] you want to call it. The cool kids, the nerds call it messycle. I just train it. I just call it a training block. Yeah. First two weeks, I would always reset my loading and I would always make a point of not even attempting any of the repetitions that are not there. So, I'm not training with reps in reserve, so to speak, Scott, because I never really want to call it reps in reserve. I'm training with a calm and calculated approach where I'm not leaving reps in the tank, but I'm also not taking any risky reps or not taking any extremely hard grinder reps. Yeah. Okay. Now, guess what? The first two to three weeks when you enter a training block and you have new movements, the first adaptation that happens is neurological adaptation. So your body gets better at the skill of that exercise. Your body gets better at actually performing the movements. So the progression within those exercises is almost gifted to you. It comes super easy. So the first two to three weeks, you do not need to actually push all that hard to see meaningful progression session to session. However, if you go into your first two weeks of training after a break, after a del lo when you are dtrained, people often forget that when you enter a training block, me cycle, whatever you want to call it, after a period away from training, you are drained. You need time to warm up your body. And I actually call it warming up the oven before I start cooking. That's the analogy I like to give. I like that. That makes sense. It's true. You You need the first two weeks to set baseline numbers across all of your sessions and then you progressively aim to progress your load and reps. It's going to get to a point where progression is going to be much harder to come by because the first adaptation you have is neurological. Then once you've adapted and once you are skillful at these exercises that is when the jumps in progression are much slower all the jumps in progression thereafter that is going to be a byproduct of adaptation where you actually grow muscle tissue. This process happens much quicker with some people and it's a process that actually happens much slower in others. So you have to be extremely patient with your progressions. Some weeks, guess what? You might be training for two, three weeks, and you might not see any progression. And some weeks, you might only be able to add one kilo up to the bar or add one repetition to that same load. So, you have to be mindful of that. And you have to really take your time coming up and progressing your lift steadily and be calculated with how you progress your lifts. My advice is being patient, taking small micro progressions for that training cycle. Then when you enter your peak, that is when you start to really ramp up your intensity and try to push the envelope for the last three to four weeks of that training block before you then delo. When you de lo, you look through your training. You look at any exercises that are harder to come by your progression, any exercises that you feel like have stalled and then you start on your training block and then you start that over and over again. Um, that is always the best way to go and the best way to approach it to be able to maximize that training cycle for you. I've just finished my tangent, Scott. Good. My internet went out. I'm back. Amazing. Well, it's it continues the recording, so I didn't stop a tangent. Anyway, I've covered I've covered the question in detail. Good. Excellent. Um, we've got another one then and then I've got a question for you, too. Uh, first of all, Bobby says, "Massive." So, we had so many people at the end of last episode, Kuba, you were like, "Comment massive." If you watched the whole thing, legends that commented massive, man. So, that's where Bobby starts. Amazing. and he says, "Have either of you experienced depression with running tren?" Listen, and this is me really speaking from a place of uh oh man, experience and stupidity. I I started anabolics fairly young, right? I was I mean, listen, I was in my teens when I started. I I was 18, 17, 18, right? when I started dabbling. Okay. I I think you can get the pressure from anabolic use in general. Like I I really do and it's something that was was spoke about earlier, but I can actually speak from my own experience. When I was a teenager, I felt like I was depressed very often. And it was a combination of anabolics, my environment, the way I live my life, my routine, and how immature I actually was back then. Yeah. Yeah. I I think anabolics enhanced all of these feelings. You have to remember if you are inclined to feel a certain way, if you already have a predisposition to be aggressive, what do you think anabolics will do? They will make you more aggressive. Yeah. If you have predisposition to potentially have depression, I think anabolics will enhance that massively. So if you are a male or a female considering anabolics, I urge you to work on yourself and I urge you to really make sure that your mental health is on point because anabolics will have an impact on your mental health. You will experience a massive high and then a massive low and then there are a lot the roller coaster of emotions that you'll experience is huge. And as a young man, I could not handle that because I wasn't mature enough and I didn't have the right environment, the right people around me to guide me and educate me on how to handle my emotions and how to even think straight. I learned the hard way. I learned the hard way and I wouldn't change it because it's made me the person I am today and it's made me a a happy man, an effective man, a focused man. But it was a a harsh experience back in the day, I'll be honest. And you know what? Do you know what kept me going? The love for the sport. It's like I loved it so [\h__\h] much. No matter how [\h__\h] I felt, I just continued on the path. Yeah, I think you you nailed it, man. It really does magnify. Gear magnifies what's already going on. And I I had I'd say uh less favorable experience the first time I used Tren compared to later. Like later I feel like I had things more figured out uh with my life meaning like everything was better, my balance was better, everything. Uh and I think that that that made a critical difference. It also made a difference in how I chose to dose. No, that's not true. I I did run trend pretty high at one point and and it really wasn't an issue, but it's it really was based off of where I was, you know, and I think that that thing kind that kind of thing can change from even year to year, cycle to cycle, you know, if if you know, Kuba, you came to me and you were like, "Hey, I just went through a divorce and this is what I've always done and I want to hit it hard and get back at my wife by getting jacked." I you know trend might have a diff literally it might affect you differently now than it did two years ago when everything was like cool and calm you know do you know what's changed as of late as well what's that everywhere you look you everywhere you look you have negativity everywhere you look you have people you have people spreading either anything that's happening in the world that isn't isn't positive or you have news that are extremely negative. Like literally everywhere you look, YouTube, Instagram, it's all riddled with negativity. And I think that's the biggest difference as of late. I think back then, nothing really affected us because we didn't have this and all these platforms that are just riddled with with people that are just saying it lightly, shitbags, you know. So yeah. Yeah. And you know what too, it's easy to get sucked into that stuff, right? you know, those channels, those channels do the best on YouTube. If we could uh they do, you know, but at the same time though, it's not going to serve us. And if somebody's this far into this podcast, I think they already know that. You know what I mean? Yeah. Absolutely. Absolutely. And listen, you've got to have some integrity. You've got to have some honor. You've got to have some uh respect. These these channels might do well, yes, but they're not respected. And people might you look at it as entertainment, but nobody's going to take these people seriously. That's true. That's true. Hey, I got one more question for you. I haven't talked to you in a minute. How's the diet going? How's your prep going? Absolutely fantastic. Actually, I'm 263 this morning. Nice. Okay. Conditions conditions pretty good. I am definitely getting leaner. You can tell the the face is uh is in a spot. So, it's it's definitely coming through very very well. Um, the cycle is moderate. It's not high. We don't have the sources stuff in yet. Uh, we've only just added CL neutral in this week. Okay. So, it's all going to get it's all going to be fun. I'm aiming to take off a little bit more body weight over the next four weeks, get within striking distance, uh, and then it gives me like 12 weeks of around a pound. a pound, maybe a little bit less to drop to be stage ready. So, my goal is to make sure that now we have a higher rate of loss, then we pull back and cruise into the show with a a very very small rate of loss. And that's something that I like to do with with a lot of my guys and girls, especially doing longer prep. That's the whole purpose of doing a longer prep, right? You can get bulk of your work done initially where you are fresher and you have more body fat. it's much harder to lose muscle. Where it's actually easier to lose muscle is when you get leaner. So, the whole idea of it is the last 10 to 12 weeks if you're only losing a pound a week. The likelihood of you losing any muscle is slim because you you are giving yourself times where you can refeed, you can have de los, you can have diet breaks, uh, and times where you actively reset. So, that's the plan, man. I'll be keeping you I'll be keeping you updated. The look will be much better this year. I'm gonna look less like a swimmer, and that's always a success, right? progression. Progression is always the goal, man. I love it, man. That's freaking awesome. And what do you have going on on YouTube and everything else right now? Stuff that uh you know, everybody else should be tuning into over there. I'm cranking out a lot of content. Actually, I'm doing three videos a week at the moment. And it's one vlog and then three videos. Okay. Three videos a week. So, for me, that's a lot. Uh three videos a week. And then I'm posting shorts, like free shorts on a daily basis as well. So if you are looking for training content, educational content, uh it's all going to be on YouTube. However, no podcast on my YouTube, just the training content and vlogs, podcasts is here and at Train byJP with Jordan as well. So you don't see me anywhere else apart from uh mostly here and with Jordan uh once a month as well. Hell yeah. We got to get you over. Yeah. Do you know what? I'm actually I should be free on Tuesday, so I think we'll we'll have a laugh on there. All right. Cool. Cool. All right. I look forward to that. If you've made it, if you've made it to this point, what what do you think they should comment, Scott? Well, it was massive last time. I don't know. Kuba, you nailed it with the word. What What have you got? What What you wearing? What you wearing? Hard ass. Oh, hard ass. Comment hard. Hard. Comment hard. If you've made it if you've made it to this point, you are hard. So, you've got to comment hard. So, get it. Cool. Kuba, thank you as always, man. Uh people have been freaking loving this show and I think that uh they're they're really connecting to your message and what you're doing. All right. Look at all the different variety of colors he has there. Absolutely, man. We've got prawns, wild salmon, spinach, peppers, mushroom, and pineapple with 10 grams of sweet papy sauce from Flavor Gang. Hell yeah. All right, guys. We appreciate you tuning in. We'll see you soon, guys. Thank you so much. Take care.