 And if you're going to get something out of growth hormone, I promise you it's not going to be too IU. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So there's that. If you really want to see what growth hormone could do to you, okay, plan on titrating up as quickly as you can tolerate the sides to get to 8, 10, 12 units IU. I mean, the rest of us have taken those doses and then some, and I can't say that I look back and went, I don't know if the ROI was that I was that. I was there based on the amount of money was that I was there based on the amount of money that I was there based on the amount of money that I spent. What's up guys. Welcome back to blood, sweat and gear with coaches. Andrew Barry, Skipp Hill, myself, Scott McNally, and all of our programming is brought to you by you, the people of Patreon. Thank you guys very much for your support. We're brought to you by truenutrition.com. Use our code THINK for additional savings and supplementsource.ca for Canadians. Guys, they have great deals that change week to week on short dated and label change products. What's up, gentlemen? I've got, uh, I've got a bunch of questions. Here for you. Um, guys on the live stream, you're welcome to chime in. If you're at home on YouTube guys, we've been coaching for a long time. Now the three of us have, and we're basically just freely here to help share our education with you guys and help you guys be better at this sport. So leave us questions for the next show. This one was from over at Patreon. He, he has a question, but I think I have a better question for him that I would prefer you guys to answer. That's kind of question. Question isn't good enough. So we're going to change it around. Well, here's what he says. He says, um, he's basically, he's been on TRT for a while now. Um, he's doing 200 milligrams. He's gone to daily administration for better estrogen control. Um, he says, I've also been running Nandrolone started at a hundred milligrams for the first four weeks, recently increased to 150. I plan to peak at 200 milligrams later in the cycle. Um, I'll be, uh, reads then starting Anovar at 25 milligrams a day shortly after, uh, and then with a structured on off approach. And then he tells me the various supplements he's taking. And he says, um, I've been reading more about growth hormone and I'm interested to know, uh, if it would be beneficial for me more for recovery, tissue quality, fat loss, and long-term health standpoint, rather than rapid size. Um, I know access and quality matters a lot here. So I wanted to get your honest take curious, what your thoughts are on GH in this context, whether you think it's worth it, typical dosing approaches, realistic benefits. And generally where people, I can't, we're not going to talk about where people source from on this particular topic, but Hey, maybe I'll DM you back over on Patreon because you are a Patreon member. Um, so here's the thing, guys, I made me think, here's my question to you. Yeah. He's not really running much of a cycle yet. Right. He's like 200 test. He's going up to possibly 200 DECA. I don't know about 200 test, 200 DECA, how that's going to work out for him. But what do you think low dose gear where he's at? Would there be a benefit of adding GH to a very low dose protocol like this? Or do you think he'd benefit more from taking more gear? How old is he? He didn't say, he didn't say. The only reason I asked because of the GH, I still stand firm and always have with age plays a part in how responsive I think you're going to be, especially when it comes to dosing. Yeah. So if he were older, then the GH might have more of an, more of an impact or might be more noticeable. But I, I mean, I don't want to speak for all of us, but I have a, I mean, do we not agree that more gear number one, I don't like the ratio of the, he's not going to like it either. I don't think that's, you talk about a peak there, there, there is one thing that's not going to peak. So there's that, or is not likely to peak. So I would say more, I would, I would increase testosterone if, especially if you're going to take the DECA up, I would do that before I would add growth hormone. What say you? No, no disagreement whatsoever. Sorry. I don't have anything different to add, but I think you nailed it because, well, the only thing I think what you're going to feel is when you start this cycle, you're going to feel great for four weeks. Some of that's going to be the placebo effect because the DECA is not really layered in yet, you know, but then you hit that four week point and you're going to wonder, why are you a little apathetic? Why are you not having sexual arousal the same way? Why? Or when you want to be sexually aroused, is it kind of like, Houston, you know, where are you? I think that's going to happen. So I agree with you. I think you need to increase, he needs to increase the testosterone. I would rather see like a 400, 200 testosterone to nandrolone. I think he's going to get more out of that than adding like two units growth hormone. Yeah. And it sounds like he's kind of coming at this from like, Hey, I'm not interested in like getting crazy gains, you know, that he's kind of got more of that approach. And he was saying, you know, like I'm looking for better recovery and you know, any other benefits that you, I feel like, I mean, steroids are good for recovery, right? Like what, what's going to improve, what's going to improve your recovery, recovery more, a low dose of growth hormone or, you know, going from 200 to 400 test. How about optimizing your training? And that's not, I'm not saying that being a dick. No. Yeah. Yeah. Optimize the training and balance out your training, you know, your training days versus your, you know, your rest days, your nutrition, your sleep, right? Exactly. And you know, I mean, let's be fair, whether you're taking gear, you're not taking gear, that should be happening anyway. And I think, and I'm not saying that the guy asking the question is doing this. I'm saying in general, most people will look to the gear to solve the recovery optimization problem when they're training and nutrition and sleep and stress should be optimized first. And then you add to that with the gear. So just to make sure that the guy asking the question, I'm saying, make sure you have the, everything in line and priorities. Can I add one thing with the growth? I don't know if this is what he means, but this is what I get from what he's asking. And I wonder if you guys do too. He said something about the, the quality of the muscle or something in reference to the GH. And I don't want anybody listening to think, well, somehow quality of muscle or, or the gains will be more higher quality. They'll be, they'll be solidified. They'll be better. It's, that is a, I don't, I don't know how to expect that. That is a build soft muscle, right? Builds hard muscle, right? You're not picking a grade a steak versus a subprime, you know? Right. That's a good point. And I don't think too, he may have the, there may be an implication there in the question that, that he's going to grow more with growth hormone than he thinks he is. I don't see growth hormone as this, with the exception of the very genetically gifted, that you're all of a sudden going to blow up and see steroid like gains. This is a long, this is like big picture, long-term type thing. It's not about getting huge with growth hormone. At least that's not how I want to portray it to 99% of the population that will use it. I don't think anybody ever goes, wow. Like when I started growth hormone, I got really huge. I, that, I don't see that happen. Well, if you did, when you stopped taking it, what happened? Yeah. But that could be argued about gear too. Yeah. Yeah. Well, here's the thing though. A guy who does gear and trains hard for 20 years, right? He stops the gear. He's still got a great base of muscle. If he continues to train and eat and all that kind of stuff, if a guy were to not use gear, but just use GH for even a high dose GH for any length of time, when he goes off, you're going to deflate big time and that you don't have the muscle to show for it. So I think, yeah, I think that's the disparity or that's the difference. Yeah. And I just don't see personally, I don't see him making any kind of, you know, here's the thing. I, I don't see him making big gains out of adding growth in. And so that's kind of what led me to taking the question in this direction. Cause I, like you said, Skip, I think he's kind of thinking that maybe this is going to be a, a next step, but honestly, I'd still just go back to, I'm with you guys a hundred percent, 400 test, leave that Deca at 200. And I think that that would be some, some incredible progress forward for him. And if you're going to get something out of growth hormone, I promise you, it's not going to be too IU. No. Yeah. So there's that. If you really want to see what growth hormone could do to you. Okay. The plan on titrating up as quickly as you can tolerate the sides to get to eight, 10, 12 units. I, you, I mean, the rest of us have taken those doses and then some, and I can't say that. I looked back and went, man, I don't know if the ROI was there based on the amount of money that I spent. So did you guys see the, the Russian guy taking a hundred units of GH a day? I heard about that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He won a show last year. Now I don't love his physique. I'll say that. Not very separated, not very good lines, but he's big. He's definitely a big guy. But also if you're using a hundred mig or a hundred, you know, it's a GH, you're probably someone that's using a lot of other stuff too. Like your, your testosterone is probably in the two to three grams here. Yeah. You know what I'm saying? Like you didn't just wake up and be like, let me just try a hundred units of GH. Right. I think he only did it for like five or six days, but he said he didn't notice or feel any different. So there might be a saturation point too. That would be a question for Dr. Scott. All right. Got one here in the, the live stream from a super physiological dad. He says, honest opinions on safer use of AAS. He says, anyone I've met using this style of, of gear use feels it's not, ah, shoot, somebody commented. There we go. Feels. It's not having the effects people are desiring. How often do you see people making real progress sub 700 milligram cycles? Unless they're genetically elite. Not very often. I mean, we're talking like you want to be a competition level bodybuilder. Like, like I do know some pros that can take very little and they get a lot of bang for their buck. Okay. Sure. So that's one out of every 10,000 guys that do this seriously. Those are usually like the best guys. Right. And those are the guys that are going to keep doing this for a long time. And then there's the rest of us that end up hammering the gear really hard to try to keep up with them for a few years and then go away, you know? Cause I see the other end of it too. Guys that are like, oh, well, this guy says that he's taking five grams and guess what? This guy isn't on stage anymore. You know, this guy's not with us anymore. Yeah. Yeah. There's that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So I think when I hear this safer use model, I think he's referring to a particular coach who has a whole platform of selling educational modules to people. And I got to say, I know a lot of these people that take his courses cause they put it in their, their bio on Instagram and all that kind of stuff. And all of them, I think, I don't want to be like too judgmental, but I think they walk away from it being like, I feel like I was kind of conned like, because I know he doesn't do that. He uses way more to put on his size and this whole safer use model thing. I'm just not getting what I thought I was going to get out of it. What I was promised or what I was told I was going to get out of it. So yeah, I think I'm not going to say it's a con job. I think it's, it's a wishful approach that maybe this could be the case, but I just don't think it's, it's, it's now I don't, I think 700 milligrams is probably a pretty good number actually to say that's a decent line to go above or beyond above or below. Like if you're trying to be a serious bodybuilder, I'm not talking about someone who wants to get in better shape, you know, keep their joints intact while maybe with a little NPP and some testosterone. I'm talking about people that want to be serious bodybuilders. It's funny. You say that. Because the gains are still there. I think we can agree with that, but it's not going to be next level stuff. Yeah. It's funny. You, you say that number too. And he said that number 700 because Dave and I were talking about recreational bodybuilding and the cycles that these guys use for that. And Dave had basically said that same thing. He was like, you know, 700 is a good total for your average guy that just wants to try to do better in the gym. You know, a guy who wants to use gear, he wants to be enhanced, but he also doesn't want to push it pretty too far. You know, 700 is 400 tests, 300 mast. I think that's a great cycle for somebody who's maybe not, it might be a great cycle, for instance, to our first guy that was talking about like, should I add GH to this cycle to get more out of it? You know, going, working your way up toward 700 as a top end level for someone like him. I think he'd probably save money doing cycles that end up building to that level over the next couple of years and never touch growth. Agreed. Do you guys agree, though, if I could just go off just a little bit, still same point. It's a good point. When a coach tells you to do something that they aren't doing or haven't done or that they don't believe it, kind of a do as I say, not as I do. Is that not, should that not be a huge red flag? Like, not saying they have to do it now, but I'm saying that they have done it at some point. Yeah. Versus, you know, I'm doing this, but never mind this over here. I want you to do that. Like, wait a minute. What the hell? Well, because you're paying a coach for his experience, right? And that experience shouldn't just be lab riding other people. That experience should be doing it. Like, okay, I could not be a bodybuilding coach and tell people to do two hours of cardio to take it that direction if I don't know what that feels like to be doing two hours of cardio and to be empty all the time and tired and hungry, right? Because you've got to have some level of empathy when you're kind of telling someone to do that. Like, hey, I'm going to push you for a little bit. So buckle up. Like, I've been there before. You're going to be okay. You're going to make it. You know what I'm saying? I think that helps you to understand how hard you can push somebody, too. Yeah. So then in the same realm, when it comes to PEDs, 100%. Like, I wouldn't want someone who, yeah, I wouldn't want someone who isn't using or hasn't used their model. And I'm not saying this person doesn't now, but I'm saying to build the appreciable size to get to where you are, there was a lot more PEDs taken to get there. Yeah. You know. Yeah, I can see that. If you're enjoying our show, let me ask you to please hit the like button. It doesn't cost you anything, and it definitely helps us out. Leave us a comment. We'd love to hear what you think. And if you're new here, let me encourage you to subscribe and hit the bell. We have lots of bodybuilding, education, and entertainment coming out each week. The bell will let you know when new stuff comes out. All right. Let me see what else we have here. And like I said, you guys are welcome to comment with questions. I'd love to get your take on this. What do you think about competitors? Okay. So I don't think I asked this question here. I think I asked it to Ron and Dusty, but I wanted to get your opinions. He posted it a while ago on Patreon. Stop me, though, if we did do this one. What do you think about competitors who enter multiple local shows in a single season, racking up several overall wins? Does that sound familiar? Did we do this one? If it did, I wouldn't hear. Okay. Okay. We might have touched on it, but if Skip didn't, then it'd be interesting to hear his take on it. Yeah. Basically never moving on to nationals. For example, there's a local athlete, actually a client of a well-known coach that you've had on the program who qualified. Okay. So I know exactly who he's talking about. Four times this year, including three overall titles in bodybuilding. It raises two questions. Why peak four separate times between May and November, and why not challenge yourself at the next level? Do you see this as dedication, strategy, or maybe just trophy hunting? Okay. So there's no strategy in just collecting four trophies to put on the wall, right? But the strategy is trying four different peak attempts or approaches, and that's exactly what this coach and athlete did, right? And it's because this coach who's super hot right now, because he's really good at what he does, he's extremely intelligent, and he's not going to over-push drugs. His guy just isn't ready to go and be top five at the national level. Well, who is it then? We're pumping him up. We can say his name then. Oh, okay. Well, no. He's one of my best friends, Chris Tuttle. Oh, okay. Tuttle. So Chris had a guy, and I'm sorry. I'm going to botch your name, man. I can't remember his name off the top of my head for some reason. But he did four shows spanning most of the year, and he won all four of those shows. Okay. I think he won the overall in every show, maybe except for one, but he won his class at every show. And I think it was their first year working together, and it was really to see, okay, which approach is going to be the best attempt or the best approach for you when we do do the big one, right? Yeah. And, you know, Chris was kind of like, ah, do I keep him going? Do I not keep him going? But he's not ready for a national show. I'm not going to throw him in North Americans. I'm not going to throw him in nationals this year, but I want to do it at the end of next year. So get the competing out of the way, figure out the best approach, and then go back and fix what needs to be fixed to continue to grow. Okay? When Chris explained it to me, I was like, oh, that makes a lot of sense, you know? Yeah. Yeah. And when I hear that, it makes a lot of sense. If you were to just tell me, great guy who's doing four state shows and cleaning up at all of them, then I'm kind of like, my first reaction is, did he need to do that? But when you explain it, I'm like, oh, yeah, why not? Yeah. Yeah. I just think, well, as you get to more and more pro shows, and you start to feel like the local shows are like, hey, I don't know how to put this. Like, it's not a big deal because there's so many amateur shows now. Do you remember, and Skip knows better than any of us, there was that one state show a year. Oh, yeah. Right? The Colorado or the Utah Cup or. Michigan State was huge, man. Oh, yeah. And every class had six guys or 17 guys or, you know, there were call outs, right? That's not the case anymore because if there's a show in Michigan tomorrow, well, guess what? Next weekend, there's a show in the west side of Michigan or in Wisconsin or a driving distance for you to compete in next weekend. Right? So there's just so many more opportunities. So it's like, I don't see this as taking titles away from people because there's like literally four to five times more shows today than there were in 2000. Maybe more, actually. I have a question to counter. Who would complain about that other than someone who was just getting beaten? Yeah. Someone who was like, oh, I'll go do the next show. I can see coaches complaining about it because their clients need to be handed trophies. Like, you're getting in the way of my client? Like, what the hell is that mentality? Yeah. I think of myself going to a show, and I've said it for a million years. I'll continue to say it. I'm mediocre at best. But I still want people to show up to the show to potentially kick my ass so I know where I stand. And especially as a Masters competitor. I can go into a Masters 50 over, and it's probably not going to be terribly challenging. I'd much rather go to Masters Nationals and get my ass kicked and at least know that I was competing with the best in the country in my age division. So, man, I kind of struggle with that. If he's good enough to – you know, the other part is too is you only have your competitive career for so long. So why would you – the other part of the equation is why would you want to jump to the – why would you not enjoy gaining the experience, learning about the peak, like you say, and going through this process and kind of mastering it when you can and enjoying the wins that you deserve? Because if you show up and you win, I don't care if it's 17 shows. I remember Shelby doing a lot of shows too. He went through three different divisions. I'm sure there were competitors going, brah. Like, could you just stay in your division? No. Beat me. I think he only did one state-level show though that year. Oh, I just know that – but he did go to like – didn't he do like three different divisions in one year? Like weight divisions? It was all at different national shows. Oh, okay. Fair enough. I can't recall. Yeah, because he did Central States and I remember that because he was posting on RX at the time. I didn't know him. That was the first day I met Shelby and he was competing. That's when he was like his most freaking dugout and he did Central States. Skip, did you ever go to the Redford Theater in Detroit? I actually competed at there. I did not compete at Redford. I competed in Flint. I have been to the Redford Theater. That was the Great Lakes. They did the Great Lakes Championships there for years. I met Lee Haney there and stuff. But the Redford Theater is a beautiful old – So this was Central States and he was like so dugout. And I walked over to him, sat next to him for a minute. I was like, hey, what's up, man? I talked to him. I was like, you look real peeled. And then he was like, leave me alone. Who are you? Yeah, exactly. He gave you like three words back then. Yeah, exactly. He wasn't very talkative. That's funny. No, he still isn't. Yeah, but let me take it into a slightly different direction. What if it – because here's what I envision. I envision the guy that maybe should know better, the guy that should move on, but he's just yucking it up, coming back to the state level to clean up. I'm going against you guys on this one. I really am. You know what? Kick everybody's ass. And that just ups the game for the people there who get their asses kicked. You know what I mean? I can see it on both sides, I guess is what I'm saying. What about this? I get your point. What about this? Let me pose it a little differently. What about every year coming back to the same state show in subsequent years and continuing? I mean, because I got a story about that with a guy named Nate Quinn who was a great New England bodybuilder. Might not have been all there mentally as time kind of showed. But he had won the Jay Cutler Classic, which at the time in New England was a ridiculous show. You know, like in my super class, I think we had nine or ten of us. For supers, that's big at a state show. Yeah, and I think three or four are pros now. You know what I'm saying? Wow. Oh, yeah. Like the show, I remember there was one year. It was either that or the New England's. It's one's in the fall, one's in the spring. There were literally like Nate Spear, Derek Oslin, Justin Randall. So, like every class winner in that show. Oh, Little John. Every class winner of that show is now an IFBB Pro. And they were pros within four years. It was like the most competitive show locally I've ever been to. But anyway, this guy Nate, which he showed up. And in 2015, it was his third year in the row doing it. And he's good. Like this guy was a really good heavyweight. And he probably would have been in the running for Pro Card, if not the top three that year, if he would have done Nationals. But he never took the next step. He never. He just wanted to be up there with Jay Cutler holding the three up to say, I got my third Jay Cutler championship. So, I don't know. Fear. Maybe it's fear to see how good you really are. I'll tell you what. It's not looked upon fondly by the community. You know, I remember if you are that guy that Andrew's talking about. So, you could do it all you want. But if you do it year after year. Because I remember there was one guy in Michigan. And he was like, I thought he was good. You know? But then people told me, they're like, oh, he's just a trophy hunter. He keeps coming back. And he's just cleaning up, you know, all these state-level shows. And he doesn't really ever push it. You know? But, hey, it is what it is. You know, maybe though also, because everyone's your fan. When, like, oh, wow, that guy won. He looked really good. Oh, wow, he's back again this year. Like, wow, he's improved. He looks amazing. Yeah. But then you start winning more and more. Everyone's kind of like, oh, they're kind of sick of you at that point. Sure. So, everyone's a fan. Die young, a hero. Or live long enough to be the villain. Yeah. I mean, they're always pushing you on the way up the mountain. But then they're kicking you on the way down. Yeah. I mean, actually, I'm thinking back to 2016. We had Nate Spear do three New England shows back-to-back-to-back, three weeks in a row. And he won all of them very easily. And I'm sure people were like, why are you having this guy do this? It's like, well, it's our first year working together. And he's good. And we need to figure out what's going to be his best look. Because we were going to go do, we did go and do Junior USA's that year. And back then, Junior USA's was still a very competitive bodybuilding show. No pro card given. But, I mean, he had multiple call-outs with good guys. And I can remember now, I think there's like eight or nine guys from that Junior USA's that are pros now. So, to give a little bit of credibility to the Junior USA's. Today, it's not competitive. But back in the day, it was. Because we were also trying to figure out, okay, what's going to be the best look for nationals at the end of this year? So, I can say it from a coaching perspective. Yeah, you want to win the trophy. But you're also really trying to figure out, what's the right peak? Are we going to go a little bit fuller? Do we bring a little bit of a flatter, drier look? Like, what's the best combination? And I think what I hear you saying is there are going to be extenuating circumstances or variables that we're not aware of that could be playing into why people are doing it. What if – I just throw this out here. And this is me in my older age becoming a bit more compassionate. What if someone is competing because their wife, like, is a quadriplegic and she struggles to travel because she has flight anxiety? Or what if she has an emotional support dog that doesn't fly well? There might be reasons. Maybe they don't have a lot of money. Maybe they can't afford to travel because they're not – there's a lot of things going on there. You want to make sure that that guy is seen and heard. Every what if you could possibly think of, huh? The look on Andrew's face is like, what the fuck? What if the guy committed to euthanasia at the end of this year but he wants to get as many trophies as he can? Right. What if his wife of 32 years says, I am not going outside of the state. I'm done traveling with bodybuilding. You can only compete locally. No. You know what? Actually, I do know a lot of guys where their wives have said, like, you can drive to a show. We're not flying to shows. Really? They put their foot down. I'm sorry that those wives exist. I got a cool one, man. I got a friend where he had to hide his gear in his shoes inside of his gym bag and keep it in the car all the time. Oh, God. I'll tell you what. Somebody who can get away with that can get away with having side chick, too. I'm just telling you. If you can pull off the gear, you can pull off the side chick. That's a good point. I appreciate it. All right. Hey, Scott, question for BSG. For a given exercise, what are your thoughts, opinions on pyramiding the weight up versus doing straight same weight working sets? Thanks for all you do. The podcast helps me stay locked in and enthusiastic about bodybuilding. What's your opinion, Scott? Well, I used to pyramid up, you know, and I think that we all did when we first started learning how to train. And I might have, say, pressed the 75-pound dumbbells for 10 reps and then the 85-pound dumbbells for 10 reps. And then I'd pick those 90s up and I'd be like, ooh, now is my heavy set. And I'd get those 90-pounders for like eight reps. And I'd feel pretty good and I worked pretty hard. But then I realized that if I could change my warm-up system to the point where I could warm up the muscle and get the central nervous system keyed up, queued up, ready to lift heavy weight, if I can get straight to those 90s, then I'm probably going to be able to grow bigger, faster. Because a stronger muscle is going to be a bigger muscle. So if I could press those – and I'm going to have more strength to press those 90s if I do it on my first set. So I'm going to try to get as many reps as I can with the 90s. And then I'm going to take a break. And then if I'm doing three sets, if I got whatever my rep range was, say 10 reps, then I'm going to do the 90s again. And if I got 10 reps, then I'm going to do the 90s again. And if I don't, then I'll back down a little bit. But my goal would ultimately be to get the 90-pound dumbbells for all three sets and then move up in weight versus two of those three sets being lighter. That's at least what I would prefer. And I found that to be the best way for me to move up in strength. Very good. I think – because I'm with you on this. I think the pyramid system was really effective until essentially the Dorian Yates era. Now hear me out. This is why I think this. Moving up at – let's say we're squatting and you're going to squat. These are arbitrary numbers to make a point. You're going to squat 405 is your top set. 135 for 8 to 10, 225 for 8 to 10, 315, 8 to 10. They're not failure sets. You know what I mean? It's probably a little more work than you need to do to be warm. But you're essentially warming up on the upward progression of the pyramid. Sure. And then you're hitting that top set and you're – okay, you're failing at 10 or you're failing at 9 or you have one rep in reserve when you hit 405 for 10. And then you could come back down. But the point is is the pyramid up was different then. Then we got into the Dorian era where – and I'm speaking for myself based on my experience and not only my own training but with training clients. Then we all started to train to failure. Yeah. So there was not this – as much of this warming up going up. We wanted to get to those top sets. So it became a warm-up on the pyramid up where we're kind of limiting the workload until we got to the top set. Then we're counting them as work sets and then we're usually factoring in fatigue and we're backing off a little bit. Or maybe if you take a long enough rest and you're not me, you can maintain reps or be very, very close to it at that same weight, which I cannot do. Mine looked like 10 and then like five. So we all have those individual differences. But I think that's where the pyramid – I don't think it was necessarily bad. I think it was the progression of times and the way that we changed our training became so much more intense that now the idea of doing sets of 10 up to that point pyramid, it's just like that's an antiquated. That doesn't work. I think it still works. I think we're so – it's so nuanced now that we're to the point where we want everything to be absolute – as optimal as possible. I'm not against that. I'm just saying I think that's kind of how it's going. So I don't think the pyramid system really was a bad thing. I think we have just – with the progression of the industry and the progression of what we have learned to be more optimal, it's just not the same thing. That's good. That's good. You know? This is not as good is what you're saying. Well, it's not as good based on how the progression of training has changed since the 90s, I think. Yeah. Scott did do – I talked about this with Scott and he had a bunch to say about benefits of the pyramid too. So I wouldn't say that it's completely obsolete. But I think that for me at least, I did get stronger by just getting – So did I. I'm with you on that. Yeah. Getting to that working set. Getting to that heavy weight and focusing on that. Agreed. I could argue both points. Like ad nauseum because they both make a lot of sense. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But so I think the big factor I look at is age and prevalence towards injury. Mm-hmm. Because the pyramid method, you're probably not going to get hurt. Whereas if you're doing, say, we'll call it like a top set back off DC, you know, very light warm-up. Not light warm-ups, but feeder sets versus pyramiding up with the same amount of reps to like your top set. I feel like that's good when you're younger. I really do. So when I'm programming guys 18 to, we'll say, 35, that's probably the method we're using. Unless they're like, hey, I like volume. Volume's working for me. Mm-hmm. Whereas if you're north of 40, I think maybe 40, 45, I think you switch back more to a pyramid style. More so out of safety. Like me, I'm not trying to get as strong anymore as my goals were, you know, 10 years ago. My goals were like, I want to press the 180s to 200-pound dumbbells. That's going to happen, you know? Now it's like, no, I'm going to try to stay in a safe range of motion. I don't want to get hurt ever again. That's my point. You know what I bet a factor is in that that you do too, that I would say here's one solution to that would be going to a higher rep range. I bet, and I bet that because you still are strong, you know, I bet that you are using higher reps. Like instead of, say, go up to that like first hard set being with eight reps or six to eight on the dumbbell press, what if it's 12 to 15, you know? Yeah. No, I mean, that's another good factor to bring up too. Are we still not pyramiding though? Feeder sets in and of themselves are pyramids. It's just not that black and white 10 reps, 10 reps, 10 reps. It's still a pyramid at the end of the day. I remember when I used to feel like you had to do, well, okay, I'm feeling warmed up, but I got to do the, you know, the 135 first and then the, you know, the 185 and now the 225. If it's like, yeah, you should have just gotten to it. I can tell you my progress. I remember going, we were on vacation in Florida real quick. We're on vacation in Florida. I go with my dad. My dad wants to train with me. I'm only like 16. So I go in with my string tank top and everything else. Yeah, I'm feeling it. And this is back when all the meatheads were there. So they wanted to give you advice and you wanted to listen to them. I know that's bizarre to some of the viewers, but it's true. So I go in and I start my first bench press set is 165. I'm going to do it 20 times because that's my warmup. I don't weigh 180 pounds. So anyway, I get at 165, 20, and then I would come down to, and it was 15 reps at 185. And then I would come down to 10 for 205 and I was six to eight for 225. I'm not kidding when I say, if I go in right now and try to do that, it's not happening. I'm like, where did I get energy like that? Yeah. Yeah. No, that wasn't, that can't happen today. It's just not going to happen. I kept my story short and I do have a banger for later. If you wanted a story, I got advice for the first time in the gym unsolicited. And the whole time I'm going, why did I open my fucking mouth? Because I invited it. And I stood there and tolerated it. I want to hear that one. Knuckled him, everything. Anyway, go ahead. Remind me. Andrew, remind us. We got to hear that story. I'll do my best. All right. Yeah, exactly. It's like, I don't want to hear this shit. After 20 years of bodybuilding experience, plus coaching countless athletes, I have tried all sorts of protein shakes from thin to thick to gritty to drywall paste consistency. So when I say that I trust true nutrition, I mean it. And trust in this industry. Well, it's about as common as a bodybuilder passing up the opportunity to talk about his prep. 60 grams of protein is kind of my sweet spot. Yeah. I see you out there. What makes true nutrition different? You get to pick your base. I'm a big fan of the way ISO. You get to pick your flavor. I like the cookie butter lately. You can choose how thick you want it and you can add boosts. It's basically like the supplement version of Qdoba minus the chance of getting food poisoning. Oh my God. My insides are on. Plus they're also a manufacturer creating a lot of the supplements that you guys are using from other companies. You can cut out the middleman and go straight to the source. No proprietary blend nonsense. They're third party tested and in-house tested as well. There's no guessing games. It's literally just gains in a bag. If you want protein, you can trust, go to true nutrition.com and use our code. Think after 20 years of bodybuilding, coaching, and mixing some absolute nightmares of protein shakes. Believe me when I say this is the good stuff. All right. How about this guy? He says, I'm about to have a orthoscopic shoulder surgery to fix a partial rotator cuff tear and also clean up some other stuff that's going on in there. Was told that I'll be in the sling for four weeks and a recovery time would be a four, three to four months that he'll have to be out of the gym. Wow. Okay. Talking recovering and healing protocols. What would you guys recommend keeping it just at TRT or maybe TRT plus to retain muscle while not working out? And then also, of course, BPC, GH, all that. Is there a name? Deathrattle. Okay. Fair enough. I just go TRT. I mean, you're not going to be needing the extra firepower for recovery if you're not training. So here's the thing. Whenever anyone who's a bodybuilder or who's a very hard trainer normally, when they get a surgery, I always, well, maybe I shouldn't say this on air, but I always say cut the recovery time they're telling you in half. Like your body heals faster than normal people because you're eating healthy. You're moving. You're going to be taking peptides. You're going to be doing this, that, and every other thing to get back in the gym as fast as possible. So does that mean he's going to be pressing and doing, you know, dumbbell presses and barbell presses for like his chest? No. But it's like, I'm not going to be out of the gym for four months and not able to train my legs because I had a surgery on my shoulder. Like, think about that. Right. And then it's like, okay, after the first month, you can go to the gym and you can do some very light controlled, more like isometric type work, like maybe some, some cable rows, right? Or some side laterals, some rear delts. There's things you're going to be able to do. I'm not going to give a prescription for what you should do, but it's one of those things where I would go to the gym. I would test out what I could do without any pain. And I mean, zero pain and zero. You don't want it to affect the healing that's going on. Okay. That's, that's the number one thing, but I think you can get some movement and some stimulus that's going to not hold you back. At least you're not going to lose as much as you think you are. And I think that the recommendations for recovery, let's be fair. When a doctor gives you those recommendations, they're for sedentary. The average, that's what I mean. That is not trained. That's what I'm saying. Keep that in mind, but I'm with you. I don't see any reason to remain on cycle. I understand that the logic behind it is that that's going to increase recovery. But so is good nutrition. And so is your sleep. And so is the TRT. Yeah. You could argue, okay, is your TRT still a few IUs of growth hormone? Mine is. Yeah. So, you know, it depends on, you know, what that would be. I, in my older age, I know if I was going to go through surgery, I don't think I'd cut my growth hormone to zero, but that's just me. You know, and I'm not saying for, you know, that you were saying that just so that, you know, people are clear on that. But I also wouldn't, you know, slam a, you know, 10, 12, 15 units of your IUs of GH as well, thinking the recovery was going to be dramatically better. No, you can only recover as fast as you can, but you can speed it up a little bit, but there's finite limits to that. And here's the other thing. Think of all the guys you've known, clients, friends, people in the gym that you just randomly know that train hard. They're out of the gym for two months or a month or whatever, because they had a surgery. Yeah. They're flat. They're small when they come back, but within two to three months of them getting back when they're healthy and going through their program, you're like, they didn't even skip a beat. Yeah. The what call it muscle memory, whatever you want to call it. It's real. Everyone I've known that's had a major surgery. Okay. Yeah. They're a little depressed. They're down. You know, maybe they're falling off their diet while they're, while they're not able to go to the gym. As soon as they lock back in again, you're like, oh man, you got a, you got a couple arm veins again. Oh wow. Your shoulders are kind of filling out your shirt again. And within like another month or two, you're like, you don't even look like you had the surgery. You know, age is a funny thing too, because I know I can go just a few weeks and I can look like dog shit and yet I can lose it quickly, but I can get it back real fast too. So it's like, oh, that's nice. Yeah. Yeah. I tell him to check out, uh, on the channel, we did an interview with Paul O'Neill about his double quad rupture and look at the way that he approached his recovery. I mean, I, I met him at Swiss, like, I think it was like 12 or 16 weeks after this dual quad rupture. And he's just walking around talking, you know, just walking around like normal. He's like, oh yeah, I'm back to squatting now. I've been at it, you know, for eight weeks. I'm like, what double quad rupture, you know, like times have changed though. Mice versus rice, you know, for a long time, it was all about rest. It was don't do anything. Just let rest. No, no, do something. Increase the blood flow. Even if it's, if there's very little resistance, increase the blood flow to that area, because it's huge when it comes to recovery. Do you guys remember like even maybe 15 years ago, if an NFL football player tore his ACL, even like a game for the season, all that season was over and like maybe even half of next season. Now guys will tear their ACL and preseason training camp. And then they're activated for like the playoffs because they healed and they're back, they're back a hundred percent. Yeah. So obviously technology in terms of peptides, healing methods, like you just said, movement, movement prep, all these things are playing big roles. And we just know so much more about it now. Even the surgeries are better. The surgeries are so much more advanced. I was in a wheelchair with both of my legs in splints for 30 days after my ACL. Now guys are getting ACL and they're on crutches walking out of the hospital the same day, you know? Yep. And think about it. There's a psychological component too. Once I think once athletes and trainers, especially at the high level NFL, major league baseball, hockey, things like that. Once they start to kick out these quicker returns and they start to see them coming back, there is that understanding that, okay, maybe this isn't like there needs to be that psychological like, okay, that can happen versus you're an outlier and you've come back, you know, like the first 10 guys to come back from an ACL tear real quick, probably weren't making everybody else go. Yeah, I can do that too. They were like, yeah, those guys are freaks versus now it's kind of accepted and understood. So there's not that mental block there. And I talk about the mental block because I know I battle with it big time. I still battle with it to some degree, which is part of that story where it's in the back of my mind, even four years later. Oh, oh crap. It's been longer than four years. That's terrible. But we build those mental blocks based on injuries too. So it's a, it's a big deal. Yeah. Uh, all right. What does he say here? Um, one followup question. Okay. So this was Chris who we did a physique critique for on the last episode. One followup question. Andrew mentioned techniques to improve the upper part of the quad sweep. Could he expand upon that a little bit? Trying to remember. Oh, I was, I think I was referring to some SEO. Oh, I'm all ears. Me too. Me too. Yeah. No, I'm referring to SEO. Um, because like if you've got a sweep that is, you know, like let's say the lower I'm pointing to the lower two thirds portion of my, my quad. Yeah. That part really, really comes out, but it's a little shallow closer to the waist. It creates a physical imbalance with what you're looking at visually. So there might be some things you can do with SEO, right? I mean, I know there are, um, to help fill in that tissue or encourage growth or the, the, the illusion of growth in that tissue in that area. And guess what? That's not where you're striated anyway. So, right. True. You know what I mean? So, yeah. Uh, question week eight of a bulk cycle, almost 2.7 grams of gear GH and test is pharma grade. The rest is real UGL. No gains whatsoever. I eaten a surplus first time that this is happening. What could this be? No gains whatsoever on almost three grams of gear in GH. Say it. I'm still trying to hear what happened. I'm trying to. Nothing. Nothing. No, no gains, no response, no nothing. So he has real underground gear. Yes. He has a, yeah. Real underground gear along with real fake underground gear. Real. Well, let's assume, let's assume that it actually is though. Cause it could happen. Okay. I mean, I can't say that. I mean, look, if you took your gear and you didn't like, you didn't see the scale weight move and you're not holding water, you don't have the typical response to taking gear. That's different. Let's assume that he does, but he's just not progressing. Okay. I mean, the first thing that I think of is I'm sure what you guys are thinking of. There's an insulin sensitivity issue of some sort that is either completely blocking it or playing an integral part in the fact that you're not progressing is. So then it begs the question, is it possible to be taken in that amount of gear and be so insulin sensitive or insulin resistant? insulin sensitive. I don't even like saying insulin resistant because I'd rather say not insulin sensitive. insulin sensitive. Yeah, exactly. I just, that insulin resistant to me just basically says that you, because it's a, it's a pendulum. It's, it's a constant moving pendulum. I have changed the way that I say that. It's a pendulum, not a pendulum. Pendulum. Yeah. Pendulum. Anyway. But the point is, is it's never one or the other. It's, it's kind of this constant move in, in, you know, you want it to be swinging as much as you can to the side of being more sensitive, but you're never going to be completely sensitive or completely resistant. You'd be completely resistant, I guess, if you're, you know, type one and you're battling with, you know, that type of thing, but that's different. Anyway, is it possible to do that? And I say it's absolutely insulin sensitivity could be just taking his progress and grinding it to a, you know, to a halt. Is it possible he trains like a pussy? Possible. Or he's over-trained. Over-trained or. Could be ridiculously over-trained. I just feel like you could have the worst training or you could not know how to train at all. And 2.7 grams of gear plus growth. Maybe that's what I missed. I'm sorry. I didn't hear the 2.7 grams of gear. That's a lot of gear, man. That's a lot of gear. Yeah. So I'm sorry. I didn't hear that part because my brain wasn't really working at that moment. So yeah, no, I would agree with skip then, but I would also be like, what's your training looking like? What's your split looking like? You know, how are you sleeping? How are you recovering? But even then 2.7 grams of gear, like something. And was he progressing, but now he's not. Yeah. Like, did he progress in the early part of the cycle, but he's not now? Or is he just not progressed at all for the eight weeks that he's been on? Were you progressing before you were on? Right. Does he have the physique more like an NFL lineman or does he have the physique more like an NFL middle linebacker or running back? You know what I mean? Because that would tell us a little bit about the sensitivity issue, you know, to some extent. How fat are you? Let me just put it in. Yeah. How fat are you? Are you 20% and you're not growing? Yeah. You know? But he's so is his physique changing? Like maybe the scale's not moving and he's just judging the scale. Has his physique changed since he started this protocol? Like maybe the scale's staying exactly the same, but his delts are getting rounder. Like he's just recomping, losing body fat. Is that happening? Like that might be another situation. I mean, you'd have to, we have to kind of assume that there's not progress in the gym because I think he would state that there was, but he's not visually changing. But that's, you know, that's our best guess based on, you know, the information game. Well, okay. So every now and then there is someone that is just a really poor responder to gear. There is just a really poor responder to all bodybuilding stimulus. You know, I've had a few people like that, you know, just like I've had people that are just super responders. I've had people on the other end of the spectrum where it's like, we've tried every drug combination, high, super high drugs. We've tried low drugs with different comp. Like we've tried everything you possibly can. And I think we've settled on a pretty good strategy right now. But which remains all around being a hundred percent insulin sensitive all the time to kind of back up your point, skip. Yeah, man, I don't know. 2.7 grams of gear and you're not, you don't feel like you're progressing. Like I keep going back to like, you sure your gear is real. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. If you're eating in a surplus and you're training hard, like you should be the scale. You should be able to make the scale go up. Like regardless of the gear, there is that just through the diet and lifting alone. Even if it's not perfect, if it's in a surplus, you would think the scale would move up. Yeah. Yeah. But it is possible to be in such an overtrained state and not accept that. It's almost like, you know, I can think of the first questions we would ask him. It's like, okay, when was the last, like if he said, I've been blasting, you know, my training for, you know, 18, 20, 22 weeks, that, that would send up a red flag for me. Like, okay. And then you get into, I mean, it, it, it could happen. Should I've got, look, I've trained long enough and I've taken enough gear over the years. There have been times where I've been on cycle where it has been not very impressive. I mean, you, you, if you reach, you even have to get into like, what, what's your financial situation? What's your, what's your relationship status? What's your career status? Is there, are there things, what's your sleep? Are you sleeping three or four hours a night? What do you do for your job? Where, what is, what are your cortisol levels? What do your insulin levels look like? You know, I'm kind of keep going back to 2.7 grams. I know, I know, I'm reaching here. I'm reaching. Yeah. I mean, like you would have to be in like a death state of, I'm overtraining every day. The only other thing I'm thinking of law diminishing returns, like, did he just jump to 2.7? I wonder. 5.5 grams a year. I was wondering that too. So it's just like, okay, any event you've been on a cycle for 30 weeks now, well, your changes are going to be like this compared to when you started a cycle like that. So that's the only other thing coming to mind, but he should probably just send some of his stuff out to get tested, honestly. Yeah. Yeah. All right. Let me see if we have anything else here for the episode. We've got one question for you, Scott. Okay. We've got a physique critique. We'll be sure to get to that on the next one. What's your, what's your question, Andrew? My question, I'm sure the listeners who might not have gotten a chance to watch the episode you did with, I believe, Dave on fake COAs. Yes. Can you run me, because I'm going to be honest, I don't have time to watch another episode. Oh, it was. Can you give me a little synopsis? Yeah. It was a peptide company, Paradigm Peptides. Okay. They got popped in 2025. Scheduling for their sentencing is supposed to be coming up. But I guess there was some sort of deal, some sort of $3 million deal that was basically like proceeds of crime paid back type thing. There was an affidavit that basically the owner of the company just flat out said, he was like, yeah. So I lied to my customers. I told them that number one, I told them that we were aligned with the FDA and that everything was approved. I told them that everything was made in the US. I told them that we were testing all of our stuff when in actuality, we didn't test any of our stuff. We were actually taking either I or people that worked for me were taking documents from other COAs and altering them and then showing them those. So my point is that, you know, I bet most of the people that listen to the podcast didn't shop at that place. But take it with a grain of salt when you see COAs that just because somebody says, hey, this is my product and here's the COA to back it, it's worth as much as that piece of paper printed on, you know. That's really sad. You know, I almost think there should be multiple charges, like charges as if you were selling illegal PEDs, but then also charges for defrauding customers to thinking they were getting real PEDs. So one of our listeners said that they got a letter from the attorney general because he was pegged as being a customer of that company. And they actually asked him, do you feel that you had been wronged or misled in any way? So they're digging. Like, I don't know what you're talking about, bro. Like, what company? What company? Yeah. What company? It's nice to know that the government is looking out for the people purchasing illegal compounds. I appreciate that. Yeah, that's what it's all about. So the whole ordeal. So I thought maybe it was Retta. Maybe that's what they got popped for because everybody's coming down on that. No, they were selling SARMs that were actually testosterone. So I don't know if it was an orally available, you know, like the oral ester of testosterone or what? But yeah, their YK-11 was actually testosterone. Their Osterane was actually testosterone. Their BPC was actually BPC. Hey, apparently it worked really well. So, you know, I mean, it reminds me of the Gasparri days, right? For Gasparri nutrition. Oh, yeah. You know, he ended up being quite a success in the supplement industry. So I don't know that he regrets that move. What was the move? I have an insider that he worked for Rich Gasparri. He was in charge of buying testosterone or T3 or clenbuterol from Chinese manufacturers and then putting them into their fat burners, putting them into their muscle, putting testosterone and stuff into their muscle builders. Yeah. Like, and he knew all about it. Like he's like, oh, yeah, no, do that. And then he fired. And he got busted for it. And he got busted for it. But I don't think they took a chunk out of him. I mean, the company's still doing okay. Yeah. From what I understand, he's in the, as far as celebrity bodybuilders, he's second to Arnold. Really? Really? They projected 90 to 100 million for his net worth. A quick Google search will show you that. I was actually really surprised by that. Uh, I feel like Jay Cutler and Chris Bumstead must, they're going to surpass both of them. Oh, yeah. At some point. I would think. No, so here's what their strategy was. At the trade shows back in the day, or like, you know, the Arnold Classic, they would put samples of this stuff out there and people would like take, you know, whatever their fat burner was called, you know, and they would like be like buzzing. They'd be like, whoa, like this is really good stuff. And so like they, they wouldn't necessarily put in all the bottles. Like once they were selling them at the, from the GNCs and from, but they got people hooked on this stuff. So like, I got to get more of that stuff. Like six hours ago, I felt amazing. Now I'm kind of down. Like, like, give me some more of that shit. Yeah. And it kind of got people hooked on it. Uh, but it's funny you said he's that wealthy because this person tells me he was the cheapest guy in the world. Like, like didn't pay the guy fired him out of the blue for kind of like asking some ethical questions and, and then still didn't pay him his last paycheck. So I'll just say that I'm not a fan. I don't think many people are. He was, um, when I was a teenager, he was all over my refrigerator. I looked at him as a, you know, a God in a sense. I mean, I, you know, this guy's a bad-ass. I could relate to him, you know, as far as he wasn't ridiculously massive, uh, you know, like today's standards, that sort. So it seemed attainable. I had no idea. I was a teenager, but, uh, some dealings with him and I'm not going to detail them publicly, but some dealings with him over the last few years, huh? Not a fan. I don't have much at all. Oh, I'll just say I've lost a massive amount of respect for him. Very, very little left at all. Huh? I don't think I've heard those stories. I thought I heard all the stories. Yeah. This one, I'll, I'll, I'll be happy to detail, but I won't say it publicly because I, I don't. You had the best story off the air, uh, after we recorded the last episode. That was honestly, man, one of your best stories ever. That's funny. I don't know if your story today is going to top that, but I want to hear it because somebody gave you gym advice. Oh yeah. Yeah. The gym advice thing. And I want to preface this with, cause I'm always careful. I know you guys are too. You don't know who listens to the show. He's listening. I'm not going to slam the guy. I'm not going to slam the guy because I understand his intentions and that's why I listened to him. But I, I was pendulum. Okay. Halfway through my quad session, I'm headed to the pendulum and I'm putting 35s on. And I see he's watching me. He's an older guy. He's, it says he's older. I'm older, but I knew he was my age. Come to find out he's 63 or 64. Super nice guy. So a little bit younger than you. Yeah, exactly. We both went through the depression. No. So I'm, I'm putting 35s on. I know he's watching me. So I'm like, I laughed and said, I stopped my music. I said, it's a mind thing. I don't want to put 45s on cause I'm not real strong on the pendulum. So I put 35s on, I can move the same weight, but it just plays in my head better. Bad move. Huge mistake. I opened the doors wide up and said, just come on in. I want all your advice. Yeah. So he proceeds to, to the point where I was literally losing my pump. And I said before, I don't have pump problems. So it was so much advice of, and he was, he was flattering. He was, you know, you're, you're a bad-ass, you know, that type of thing. And I don't like that because I'm not a bad-ass, but to some people you have to remember you are. So there is that. So he was very supportive of anything, but it was to the point where he was playing the alpha motivator. And I knew I was done when he pointed his finger at me and said, just get under the weight and don't be a fucking pussy. And it was, I'm biting my tongue off. Like I felt like there was blood in my mouth. I, I just, and you know, I'm knuckling in him. I'm trying to fucking just get him to just get out of the conversation. Leave me alone. Just, I can't because I don't want to say the wrong thing. I know that if I say something to him, I'm going to be an asshole to him for the rest of my existence and his. So I'm just biting my tongue. What it all came down to was I told him that because of my, you know, injuries, I was very careful. He didn't like that. I was being careful and that I didn't need to be careful that I just needed to get underneath it and kill it. And I'm trying to get him to come around and, and, and understand what I'm saying. I, one of my biggest pet peeves is I don't like it when you're, you're purposely talking over me purposely and I will, you get, and it's like, like nails on a chalkboard. So you don't want it. You don't want me to be able to explain it because you think what I'm explaining is bullshit. Yeah. So, you know, your advice is so much more important yet at the same time, his intention was to motivate me and to be that bro. So that's what made me hold back. It was this constant interpersonal battle that I was having with myself because I kept saying, and this is my old guy thing. You know, my, I've become this softer skip in my later years where I don't want to just take his feet out from underneath him when I know that I can and, and I want to, but I don't want to convey that. I don't want him to walk away thinking I'm an asshole, but I don't want to deal with him. So it was just that, that constant battle. And I finally asked him, I said, how many, how many injuries have you dealt? Oh, you know, I haven't dealt with any injuries. And I said, well, that's because you have 10 pounds on the squat machine and you're giving me. Oh, you said that. Hold on. I said it with a smile on my face. You know, you know how I am. I'm not, I'm not going to just come right. But I said, you have 10 pounds on the squat machine that's safe, but yet you're telling me to be unsafe. Yeah. And I'm running out of time. I can't avoid, I can't afford to have another injury like I had four years ago, which has been six now that we already talked about that, but nonetheless, my point is, is I can't, here's the thing that's important. And if he is listening or ever heard me say this, I hope he hears this part. It did make me think because I did get under that weight and I got four more reps than I normally would. There you go. So here's the bitch. I didn't want to hear it. He couldn't relate. Yeah. But I did internalize it and it made me think there's a point there, but it's not his point. His point is here. My point is here. There's a middle ground. He is right. He's just not all the way right. Hold on. Time out. What happens if in the quest to get that third or fourth extra rep, you messed your back up? No question. Because this conversation would be so different. I got bullied by this guy who painted me in the corner about being a pussy. I would have owned it. Yeah, you would have. You would have. It's true. But I get your point. You're right. But you know what I'm saying? You've been like, if I wouldn't have fucking listened to that ass. Yeah. It would have been a different conversation. I had a plan for that day. I was in the zone. He took me off my zone. And then I went a little. I did something unsafe that I had told myself I wasn't going to do anymore. Right. And I hurt myself. And now I'm learning the lesson for it. It's like, well, you should have been like, well, why don't you show me how it's done first? Yeah, exactly. Yeah. I mean, like. But there is that point there. And I'm just being honest with myself because it was difficult to. But it's hard to admit when there is a little bit of truth to what because I had sat at that weight for a while. We're talking about like I would struggle to get back to 10 reps. Maybe I'd get lucky and get 11. And I got four more. And I thought about it. I'm like, did I get to the point? Was I taking a risk that I otherwise shouldn't have? And I'm like, no, there is that block there. So what it did was it told me there is still some room, but continue to be careful. I can't take his advice because if I did, it's reckless in my brain. It's reckless. Yeah. But I did like the challenge. And I was here's the thing. At the end of the day, the silver lining was. I, I'm glad I heard it, even though I didn't want to hear it. It made me go a little bit farther, but still keep my head and still stay within the confines of being, being smart about my training. So it's going to be interesting to see how that plays in because it'll be on my brain. I'll remember it. Yeah. You know, I got the knuckles from him and everything. And he was my biggest supporter. Hey, you ever need a spot? Because I finally I'm like, just I said, I need you to stand here then. And I need you to pull me out of it if I fail. No, that's the thing. I got you, bro. That's the other thing, too, is like you need someone there who's a qualified spotter. For these to know, oh, one more rep and his back's going. One more rep, he's popping a knee. And so they just know, which would be like a good training partner, you know? And oddly enough, the injury was the knee. You guys know that. But it's the back. Once my knees start to fail and you guys know that your back ends up under so much more. And that's where that intrathecal or intra-abdominal pressure causes a huge potential for risk for me. And I've been injury free for 10 years. I want to remain that way. All I have to do in my brain, all I got to do is get through six or seven months. I'm going to continue to train hard after that. But it's not going to be at this level. It's going to be stay ripped, stay in great shape, do the old man Jack thing and, you know, get the compliment, you know, the occasional compliment when my wife's not around because she seems to get all the compliments when she doesn't train. It's so fucking bizarre. But whatever. That's the story of my life right there. I could be five weeks out from a show and she's getting compliments and hasn't had her ass in the gym for three months. It's a weird dynamic. Anyway, that's my story. No, it's not as good as the breakfast story. But, you know, it is what it is. Oh, that was so good. I wish we would have gotten that one recorded. Guys, we appreciate you tuning in. Thanks for watching another episode of Blood, Sweat & Gear with coaches Andrew Barry and myself, Scott McNally and Skipp Hill. And, of course, truenutrition.com. Use our code THINKSupplementSource.ca for our Canadians. And, of course, thank you to everybody from Patreon. We do have some more Patreon stuff. We're going to do another episode covering all of that stuff. We've got a physique critique. And, of course, go check these guys out. I've got links below if you want to reach out to any of us for coaching. And for another episode of Blood, Sweat & Gear, we'll see you soon. We'll see you soon. But I just keep thinking, what were those variables and why was that? It's like it's not settled in my brain clearly enough what really contributed to that distension. But I mean— You want my opinion on that? Yeah. I think you guys should have pulled the retta, like, at four weeks out. Like, I just think you had so much backup fecal matter and just inflammation in general that— But from the mass amounts of food, because you told us you were eating tons of food. Yeah. Right? Well, I was eating—oh, yeah. The volume of food was absolutely through the fucking roof. You can't do that and run the retta. But I did taper it. You know? What did you taper from, too? I started it because I had run 1.75 milligram from the first time I started back around Thanksgiving. So then we got into the prep and I started questioning. I'm like, man, maybe this is—God, could this be it? So we're deep. We're like—maybe I'm like 12 or 14 weeks out. And I'm like, I just, like, I don't know, man. And remember, I started questioning all that food, not only with the regular diet, but the massive carb days. No, no, no. Keep doing it. Keep doing it. I'm like, fuck, dude. Like, anyway, I started tapered down because this is how it—I can't give you the exact dose because it was how I reconstitute it. So I would reconstitute to the point where daily I was taking 10 units. Okay. Okay? And I know that sounds weird, but it was like— Yeah, that doesn't mean shit. I know. It really doesn't. But 10 times 7 equaled 1.75. Let's put it that way for the rest. Okay. So then what I did was I'm like, okay, I'll come down a unit every week. Okay. So I mean that, you know— So you went from 1.75 milligrams a week to somewhere around maybe .9, .8, something like that? Yeah, it ended up—I bottomed out at .3 units. So that's less than a third of the dose. So what is that? 17 divided by 3, 5, you know, roughly 5. .6, something like that. I mean, it's like literally, what, what, .5, maybe .6 milligrams? Yeah. Or you see what I'm saying? Yeah, no, I get what you're saying. It's not a big dose by any stretch of the word. No, not at all. So for guys like you, guys like you, you know, for guys that aren't blessed with like these tiny svelte midsections, right? Yeah. Anything that causes distension to me, it's out. So we're talking Retta. GH is one of those things where it's like maybe, maybe not, maybe pull it out for three weeks before the show, add it in the night before. And then even like eating the day of the show, like no food probably. Yeah. You know what I mean? We're over that. And eating on Friday is like more like eating like a little bird. So you're going to feel like maybe Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, I want you back on your normal plan, you know? I just think that's going to yield your best look. Okay, maybe you're not as broad in the shoulders. But your midsection's in a little bit tighter. And that's the whole point. It's such a horrible contrast. It's like I know that I have to get there in the past. I just literally would almost not eat anything the morning of the show. Yeah. I mean, you get yourself full enough earlier. You know, it's like one of those things where if you, the old school way would be, you know, stay depleted, keep pushing, keep grinding. Then like six days out, pull the cardio, start shoving food in and just crank it. And I think that that would be the exact opposite of what you needed. Oh, yeah. You know, I think that if you can be ready three weeks out and then start loading, deal with any distension then. Right. Get it out of the way and then just be full and cruising and not have to eat much on even Wednesday, Thursday, Friday. You know what I'm saying? We didn't really push it up that last week. It had already been high. Okay. So that's part of the problem too, in my opinion. It was long. To play Monday morning quarterback on his prep with you. Exactly. Which is tough. I agree. It's not fair to do. Right. But like, I don't, I've seen his other preps that are very similar. And here's the other thing. Were you ever hungry during your prep? Are you kidding me? Okay. So I think it's really bad if you're not hungry when you're trying to get fucking peeled. Like you should be fucking hungry. Yeah. Now there were times on the carb days where I would start to take in and it was like gas on a fire. Like I would be like, holy fuck, I'm ripping through this. Okay. But this isn't like, oh my God, I got to eat. Like, oh my God. Now the energy and shit like that, that was always prep stuff. Like I was always dragging. But then I'd go in and set PRs in the gym. I mean, there's a lot about it I liked. Yeah. If I was 30, 35, I could probably tolerate that volume of food without the distension. And the bitch really was, was I, this wasn't like it wouldn't go away. It would go away and I, my midsection would look great for a day or two. And then it was wrecked again for the next five days. So anyway, I don't, like I said, I don't want to, you know, dig on it. I don't want to pull information out of you guys as much as I wanted your thoughts on that because I really am thinking literally almost just completely pulling it. But then I thought, what is the benefit outside of a massive amount of money? But I, you know, whatever I've done it. You've done that for so long that I, what's one more run of six months. But I got two things. One, the first is like for guys like you, I would, I think a flatter look is going to be a better look for you because you're going to have more separation. Yeah. And Justin agreed afterwards, same thing. Okay. So, so then maybe he has one way of doing things until it fails. But the problem is you're failing at a pro qualifier. I know. Like, yeah, you might want to do that. With not much time left on the clock. You get what I'm saying, Justin? Yeah. And you might want to test that out two weeks prior. Be like, you know what? Well, and that's the plan is to not, my plan is not to go, well, it is, but on paper, it's not to go to Masters. Okay. It's to go to Milwaukee and compete in a show with my kids, you know, around my kids and my family. Yeah. And Goose might actually compete there too. That'd be fun. Finally. It would be. And then if I can say, okay, this light heavy package instead of the heavy package where I am, you know, pulled in and my waist is smaller. If this I feel is good enough and I want to represent this physique in Pittsburgh in three weeks, then I can do that. But I'm trying not to look at that. I'm trying to look at the show itself. The first. So maybe at the first one, you go completely the other way, like trying to come up with your flattest look, most separated dry look. And then you find out it, maybe that is the look for you. You're like, I fucking love it. The judges liked it. My midsection was great. Or maybe they're like, Hey, somewhere in the middle, like maybe, you know, more 30% towards full, but don't go 70 more percent. Like stop at 30% from where you were in that flattest point. And there's three and a half weeks in between. So it could be a relatively slow feed. It, you know, it's not like I'm just going to be emaciated and not full and not responding. So I don't know. Let me pose a question to you guys out of the various contributing factors here that we have brought up. So food was obviously one of them that was mentioned. And for anybody who didn't catch the beginning of this conversation, we're talking about like trying to bring in a package that isn't distended. So food being one factor, RETA or any GLP being another factor, RETA in your case, or growth hormone. If we were to look at the growth hormone, because I feel like out of those three things, the GH to me is like the, the least of, yeah, the least of my worries. But if it were to be a concern, where would you guys think it would become a concern? Because obviously if you took one unit of growth, I don't think one unit is going to be a problem. Right. So where, where would growth hormone actually play a role in all this? Because I don't, I don't really buy the GH gut thing so much. Well, and neither do I, but you know, then we get into the argument about insulin because the other factor is insulin. And I know that the listeners, I just fed them a, I mean, I hoisted by my own petard here, you know, it's, Oh, nevermind. It's, it's, it's just a, you know, I'm, I'm kind of opening myself up to that because they're like, Oh, it's, it's, it's, everybody's insulin gut. It's insulin. This has the potential for that. Sure. But when you look each week at what your midsection looks like while you're taking insulin and it's not there. Yeah. But it, you see what I'm saying? So, you know, the deduction is the, you don't have, it's not related directly or that would be an issue. Plus, you know, I ended up pulling insulin at some point and that ended up not, you know, playing it. We can argue about insulin sensitivity and everything else. So there's a, let me ask you though, because insulin is an inflammatory hormone. So just pulling it for three days before show, there's still some residual inflammation there on top of the stress of prep, the stress of training, all the stuff that goes. What about like five or six weeks? You pulled it five or six weeks out? Yeah. It wasn't. Yeah. That's what I'm saying. And it wasn't, and I should have been clear because I said pull like, oh yeah, that implies before the, you know, right before the show. But yeah. And then the other part was the retta because I thought to myself, the retta should be helping to lower inflammation. So I didn't see it as a contributor to it, but I think that says something. I think we might be missing, including myself that it's not just as given that, oh, well, now you don't have any inflammation. Like it's four bottles of, of, you know, BPC or something a day. Okay. I was going to just say that, that cause I run with a lot of my guys, especially bigger guys will do like a milligram of BPC throughout the day for like the last 10 days. I didn't do that either. That might be something to help, but I'll, let me just go back to the retta thing. I'm not convinced that retta on paper. Sure. But I'm not convinced in actuality. It's that anti-inflammatory because the proof is in the pudding when I'm seeing people with larger and larger guts on stage, not just talking about you. I'm just talking about, I mean, I can think of a top pro bodybuilder. Is it? Yeah. Yeah. Me too. But is that the inflammation, is that inflammation or is that related to like slower movement of the food? Which, which extra food sitting there in the colon, is that going to lead to more inflammation? Right. Exactly. Is it not inflammatory in its own? Yeah. Yeah. I agree with you. Now, maybe you get a colonic like the week before the show, you know, like Tony Freeman used to do, you know? Yeah. But the one other thing I was going to say, instead of GH, have you, cause I can get you, IGF, like, like legit IGF one, Incrolex. That might be something to try this time around. Well, thanks for finally letting us know that. Well, it just, it just popped into my lap. So. Oh, is that right? Yes. So I'm saying. I'm not one to go into your lap, Andrew, but you know what? Everybody's got a price now, don't they? Yeah, no. I'll pass. But it might be something, cause I assume it's probably a card you've never played before. No, no, I haven't. Play that card. Play that card. I'm curious as all hell, you know? Some people respond really well to it. Really well. I just hear about like absolutely mind blowing pumps. Yes. Like. On the bitches, I already have my mass. That's one thing I've never struggled with. I could be dead, depleted, and everything else, and I'm still going to get a damn good pump. It might only last two minutes. Yeah. Until I change body parts, but it's. Yeah. I never get a pump. Even, even when I've been like super depleted, at least when I'm in the gym, it might not be the best pump in the world, but like you still get a like crazy pump covered in veins. I don't care how flat you are. Even if it's fading by the time you're walking out of the gym. Mine are better when I'm fucking depleted. Like all I need is like a little bit of. Cause I'm drinking my water, my, my, my sodium and electrolytes and maybe a little bit inter carbs. I'm doing some, some, some volume work. That's the time when I get my best pumps. When I'm in like peeled shape, you know, insulin sensitivities all, all at a hundred. Yeah. Like to me, when people like, Oh, I'm not getting the pump. It's like, you're not hydrating enough or you're not doing electrolytes enough. Cause you're not getting the pump. That's what I was going to ask you guys, because don't you get those clients who are like, Oh yeah, I just never get a pump. I'm like, what? They just are asking. What do you mean you never get a, they're just asking for more food because they think carbs pump. Yeah. Yeah. Trust me. You could think about it. When you pull 50 grams of carbs from a guy's diet next day or three days later when they check in, Oh, you know, just harder to get a pump in the gym. You know, I'm definitely, I'm having some flat workouts. I don't have the energy to push the weights like I did last week. Really? You're a pussy. Sorry. I'll say it. Like I'll, I'll, I'll write that. I'm like, stop being a pussy dude. Well, and it's obviously it's relative to, and the mind plays a part on it, but I always think it's funny. I'm going to throw myself under the bus, make a joke, but two minutes of sex and you're pumped and you're not standing in front of the, you know, in front of the mirror going, Oh yeah, I look like a million bucks. I need to get, I always laugh and say I could have sex, have a tan and maybe, I don't know, run in place for a minute prior to going on stage. I'd feel like I, that was my best package ever. Maybe we'll figure out a way to set that up for you. I have something backstage or even like, uh, you know, they used to do with the hand dryers. You know, people would laugh about that, but I'm just telling you it works. If you see yourself when you get out of the tanner that it plays a part. Now, can you hold that until you go out? Cause you're staged for 10 minutes prior to going out. Probably not. Dave Polsonella took that hairdryer backstage. It was Dave. I couldn't remember who it was. I was like, who's it Raymond? I can't remember. He was back there with the hairdryer. He said, cause he found that out when he would. So back then, I don't think they really had a good grasp on electrolytes. Cause remember in the movies, he was getting like terrible cramps, like terrible cramps. And then he ended up talking to Dave Palumbo and Dave was like, take a glass of water, put a tablespoon of salt in that and drink that down. And that's what he did. And he was like, and it went away. But the year before he didn't. And he was just like trying to like, you know, white knuckle it through these cramps in his hotel room, like creeping up his legs. You know, we used to think like, they're going to your heart. You know, remember that? I said that more than once. He used the hairdryer. I'm sure you did. You were probably real dramatic about it too. I do not doubt. I was like, if they start in your calves, but if they get into your legs and that's getting closer to your heart. Yeah. It's almost funny. The things, you know, that we, that we hung on to are the things that we said. And at first I'm kind of embarrassed by it, but then I'm like, you know what? We were trying to figure things out. It is what it is. That's 25 years ago. I mean, come on, man. Yeah. But yeah, so Dave was in his hotel room with the hairdryer and just like, you know, on the leg. And it worked too. Cause then I ended up trying it myself. I'd get leg cramps and I was like, Oh, get the hairdryer. And I was like, damn, that actually works. Until you turn the hairdryer off. I was looking for a battery operate. This is like end of the two thousands, 2008, 2009. I'm looking for a battery operated. Like, you know, I have your drills with the battery pack now. I'm looking for one that you don't have to plug in that I'm going to take backstage with me. Of course, they didn't have anything like that. Amazing. I bet they do now at the, what do you call them? The stores that like beauticians go to, to get their supplies. I bet someone's got to travel one, you know? Oh yeah. Yeah. No doubt. Yeah. Huh. Huh. My wife came to me the other day and said she needed a, not needed. She, you know, she can buy what she wants, but the Dyson hair straightener. Yeah. Oh yeah. Like 600 bucks. I know, dude. I know. And she's like, I don't want to spend that. Cause my wife is like that. Like she will not spend. Of course she probably knows I will. So there's that. But I'm like, you, how long do they last? Oh, you know, they're going to last. And it was day. It's a damage issue to the hair. And, uh, I'm like, yeah. Okay. Damaged hair. Uh, they last forever. We'll go out to dinner and spend 600. Why is this even an issue? Why are you talking about this? She wanted you to buy it for her. I think so. She's just, she's like that. She doesn't want to spend money on herself, but she, you know, she's okay. If I go, yeah, I'm going to go get it. Did you have a lot of advancements? I guess I'm saying. I thought you updated that, uh, file that we had a running file there. We had a, on, uh, on, uh, um, the text app or excuse me, uh, the notes app. Oh, oh, you know what? I probably did cause I was running stuff from my show. Um, adding some stuff on there. I might've, I just want everyone to recognize that I am color coordinated, not only with my head and my shirt. Even your drink. That brings up another thing about the drinks. How much of those are you drinking? Like over the last week or even like prep in general? You know what? I don't think we need to get into my health right now. It's not your health. No. So here's the thing. Okay. I do want a day. I've gone full circle lately back to, you know what? Why are we trying to make this experience easier than it is that, that, that, or like softer than it needs to be. Like prep should be hard. We should be suffering. We should be kind of miserable. The reward is you get to look frigging sick. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. So I'm kind of bringing it back to what are the things that I can exclude from people's preps that they, like they can live without it for the last eight weeks of prep. You know what I'm saying? Like do you allow coffee? Yes. Well, that's kind of how I look at it. I, the only reason I don't do, I would drink coffee, but stains the shit out of my teeth. Okay. Where the, where the monsters don't do that. This is no kidding. Chewing for 14 or 15 years. Yeah. Didn't make my teeth like yellow or what they stayed white. Six to eight months of drinking coffee. I'm like, I can't do this. Like, I'm sorry that I'm that vain, but I can't do this. So that's why I switched. That's the only reason I would, I can drink coffee just as easily. Do you use a water pick? These are, you don't want to go through my, my process. Well, you might want to, if you don't have one. I have different toothbrushes and a water. You do the water pick. Okay. So anyone listening, the water pick is, is like, it's changed my life. Okay. Your mouth feels so refreshed. Oh, dude. Cause I do it two to three times a day. Minimum. Oh my God. They tell you, you should do it like a few times a week. No more enamel on your teeth. How many times a week? A few, a few. They're like, yeah, if you do it two, three times a week is a good amount of times. I'm doing it like twice a day. Minimum breakfast and dinner. And sometimes middle of the day when I think to brush my teeth in the middle. So I got to warn you. I went through this phase of when I started working from home, I started brushing my teeth religiously because I hated going to the dentist. I was like, I'm not going to get any cavities. I'm just going to brush my teeth, brush my teeth. I brushed my teeth like five times a day. And then I came in and they were like, oh yeah, you wore your gums down doing that. Really? And your enamel. Yeah. Yeah. You wore your gums down doing that. The water pick may not do that, but I know brushing, well, cause I do, I have an audit. It depends on how aggressive you get. You know? I'm not an aggressive brusher. Just be careful. Just be careful. It's just my warning. Cause I was like, oh, I'm doing so good. And they're like, no, you wore your gums down. Actually. That was a mistake. I'll check on that water pick. Cause I don't think, I don't know that the water pick is all that. It gets pretty aggressive. If you turn it up, you have to build a tolerance. Like they tell you not to turn it up to 10. I went right to fucking 10. Yeah. Yeah. I started at like seven and then I worked my way up to 10. But your gums get used to it. Well, I'm just, it's crazy. Cause you, you, you brush your teeth, you mouthwash in like you spit and there's like no little residue or anything. Right. Yeah. But then you do the water pick and you're like, there's a little something that was caught in my teeth. There's something that's caught in my teeth. Like I was impressed with how much stuff it caught. So you want to know something too, is I'm prone to cavities. And then I started drinking a lot more water last year. I went and got my cleaning and they're like, you don't have any cavities. Your teeth are actually just as better shape than ever. No. You're just washing the bacteria away. I think that. Yeah. Having little bits of water, constantly sipping more frequently than I was before. Cause part of it too, is that pH. If you have like a high, I tend to be, some people get more plaque. Some people are more acidic. If you're more acidic, you're going to wear your teeth away versus if you have more plaque, you get more buildup. I don't get any buildup, but I'm more acidic. So that helped to neutralize it, I guess. Huh? Okay. I never get cavities. I brutalize my mouth. Copenhagen for years, all that type of shit. We could brutalize it with. Yeah. I did say it and went, oh shit. Yeah, we did. I was thinking to myself, we got that recorded. You knew where that was coming. My thing isn't about the cavities or anything, or even gum, you know, gum health. I, it's, I get it by proxy. I, mine is just vanity. I have this thing with old, I'm the older I get, the worse I get. Yeah. I can't, I, my eyebrows, ear hair, nose hair, that can't happen. I see it on other people. I'm like, oh, you're gross. Like, dude, like, what do you not see that? You know what? Same thing. So I, here's a conundrum for you, Skip, because I remember a while ago I had a friend who was doing minoxidil on his eyebrows and I mentioned it to you and you were like, no, like, you don't want that to grow. Here's the thing, man. When you're younger, you have thick eyebrows. So if you have real thin eyebrows, that's a sign of being looking old. I, I literally will trim mine just like I, every few weeks. Well, young eyebrows aren't also like growing all over the place. Yeah. So there is that. No, you know what I think of? I think of the dad on American Pie. He was on Schitt's Creek. Oh, yeah. You get a side profile of a congressman or this guy and you're like, bro, like, it's all off your face. It's like three inches. Do you not see this? Like Bernie Sanders. Coming out of your nose. Yeah. He's an unkept guy. He's an, he purposely, I think, like throws his hair all over the place before he goes out into public to look like. Yeah, I know, right. I'm just worried about the people and the people's business. I really do think. I don't care about my personal hygiene. I care about you. Exactly. But give me more money because I have six houses now. I can't afford, I can't afford hygiene. Oh, it's just wrong. All right. We had a question from a guy who's basically a newer user and it's not even a question really. Okay. I've got something for you. I got something for you. I've got it. He's, well, he has a question, but I have a different question. So let's just get this thing started and roll it. And I think I'm supposed to be over here. Are you guys charging me for the advice, by the way? Am I going to be getting an invoice? Yes, Bill will be in the mail. Yeah. And the check in turn will be in the mail. Thank you.