Injectable primo with dbol. Okay. Look, any I'm be honest. Anything without test I don't like. I just don't like it. I'm not saying it's wrong. Yeah. Um but my first question would be why is there no testosterone in there, bro? But you know, I was going to say what if they can't handle but I mean Debball itself is going to have even more estrogen. Yeah. I I don't know. I I don't want to say I don't want to hear it because that's rude. Um, but it I find it hard to believe that someone can tolerate other compounds and not even a small amount of testosterone. That's just odd. If you're um if you're not able to handle testosterone, I mean, that's like that's like wanting to be a stripper and you're not comfortable taking your clothes off. I I I can't I don't relate to that. I don't know. What's up, guys? Welcome back to Blood, Sweat, and Gear with Coaches Skipp Hill and me, Scott McNell. We're brought to you by true nutrition.com. Use our code thinksupplementsource.ca for Canadians. Patreon. I'm going to look up to see if we have some Patreon questions. I think we might have a couple from you guys. And if we don't comment over on Patreon, we get you give you guys priority for all the shows. Um, and you know, we're brought to you by some other people, too, that we don't talk about on YouTube. But if you listen to the audio podcast, you might find out about some other advertisers and sponsors. All right, Skip. We've got some listener questions. Andrew is not with us today. He is traveling. In fact, I spoke with him on text. He's in Rhode Island right now. And uh he he's going to support a friend's show and he's bringing a bunch of people with him to compete in that show. Um he does say hi. He uh sends everybody in YouTube his love. So, uh he wishes he could be with us today. Anyway, I'll paraphrase contract renegotiations. We'll see. We'll see if the contract goes through by the next episode. We'll see if it works for you, Andrew. I tried, didn't work very well. So, all right, we mentioned this before. It was kind of in passing. Uh, the question came up and it was from one of my clients. Can you do a contest prep without trend? Dieting without trend. I would do that. Why? So silly. That was my waxing, you know. So, I didn't know who that was and you told us about him. Did you check? Yeah. And then I looked him up. I watched like a dozen of his videos. So, if you haven't seen them, guys, it is funny and it gets old real quick. Yeah. Yeah. Look at the drip today. For real. I got the military blues on. I think that's what they're called. With the camo pants, apothecary on the shirt and and childish on the brim. I never went back and watched it again. When I get my watch this weekend, I'm going to do I'm going to be like, "And this is my drill. I got my Oliver Cabels on. Got my Brayley." Woo. It's so f It's funny. Like I said, three, four times. That's it. Yeah. Skip likes you and I laugh. All right. So, yeah, man. Just we'll make it we'll make it brief, but you know, contest prep without trend. I don't think it's as big of a deal as people might think. First of all, man, let me ask you this. If you go to a national level show, bodybuilding and classic, maybe even men's physique, what percentage of guys are running trend historically based off of your experience? Well, with 100% being everybody, if you count the audience, it's like 130%. Yeah. Yeah. No, I mean it it's so astronomically high that it is I think we can all agree it's it's kind of assumed that that's just an integral part of PR because it is so good. It's just so good. Here's I added it three weeks ago. Within two weeks of being on it, it's just such a dramatic change. I've always said this trend doesn't make you leaner but the visual it's hard to argue that that is not what is happening. Yeah. So you know and someone may be listening going yes it does make you know what maybe it does. The point is is there's no there's no component of it that you can single out and say yes, this compound makes you leaner, but the visual change is so dramatic that it's really hard to argue. And I think that's that's why. Plus, it's just so strong at like on a milligram per milligram, you know, comparison. Oh, yeah. that I mean you know 300 milligrams of of trend can't compare to 300 milligrams of anything else from a visual standpoint for strength oral like halo or something you're not going to do that for eight weeks you know yeah and then Pac-Man comes along and eats up liver to you know liver cells like that yeah you're not going to get that I mean okay I think trend is also thought of as being a really toxic harsh drug that's going to tear up but I mean realistically I and I'm not advocate like, oh man, turn's not a big deal. But like as it stands, I don't think it is as detrimental as maybe it's made out to be, especially when used in modest dosing. I think it was back when we made it. Oh, okay. Because that I always called trend. And I called it pond scum because it just literally I mean you had the coffee filter, you know, you had dust in there, arguably cat hair. I mean you try to cover it but it has to sit there and filter through a coffee filter and then it comes out this color that I have not seen trend be that color in the last 15 or 20. Pretty dark yellow, pretty dark gold. It's pretty pretty rough. kind of the color of the pellets that it was with the glue and everything. Yeah, exactly. And and I would even argue this, I don't know about your specific experience, but myself and my clients over the years, the trend cough is nothing of what it used to be. Oh. So, for me, I mean, I can run I It's been 3 weeks. I haven't had one yet. Now, good. Knock on wood, guys. Knock on wood for ski. Yeah, exactly. I did have one the other day that went was going pulmonary and it burnt like acid. I've only had four in my life. And oddly my this was the only one that my wife had given me the shot. And I I told her I'm like, "Stop. Hold on." Yeah. And I waited and I felt it and I'm like, "Pull it out. Pull it out. Pull it out." She's like, "What? What? Pull it out." And I start punching it because the pain is so bad. And I start breathing real heavy. And she's freaking out. I'm like, "It's it. Just don't freak out. It's cool. It'll go away. It'll go away. wife witnesses you have turn cough and she's seen a lot of you know stuff she's seen the cough and everything else and it wasn't the cough huh it was where it gets into going pul so it's going up thating vein and it's burning like battery acid it's horrible horrible that's the fourth one in my life I've only had four and I've done a lot of gear you could tell point is is it it's just it it it's just a great comp that we use it because 99% of us see such a dramatic response from it. Can you do a prep without it? Sure. And it arguably won't, you know, if you leave it out, it won't get in the way as much with your sleep. You don't have to deal with a lot of the sides. But I agree with you and I said this, I've said this for years and people, you know, like, oh, that's not responsible for you to say that. I can't believe you're saying it. But I haven't seen the blood work that has said this is horrendous on, you know, kidney values and everything else. I have not seen that. No. And to that note, I I mean, I imagine it would be easier to get and listen, I'm coming at this from just the perspective of I'll call myself a bro scientist, meaning that as a bro scientist, I see actual results. You know what I'm saying? meaning like I'm I'm not going by like this is what a research study says. I'm talking about a decade plus of watching people use compounds at various doses and seeing what their lab work looks like, you know? So, I'm a bro. It's still evidence. I've I've argued this time and time again. I argued on our show. It's still an evidencebased process. And that's why I don't like the label bro Science because it gets such a negative connotation. If you have three 19year-olds talking about what works with trend, that is what I think of bro science. I don't think about experienced trainers who aren't using academia to base a an opinion based on their experience with not only themselves but hundreds if not thousands of clients. There's a huge difference there. So there's a very broad definition of bro science. I've never though I've never once seen an issue and and part of that might be how we choose to use it dose-wise where we're at. And there are a myriad of variables. There are other things that can go wrong. there's outliers. You could take turn and have bad labs, but it may only be correlative. It may not be causitive. And that is a huge difference. Yeah. And and so what I can say is is that I mean because if you think about it, man, like there's going to be irresponsible dosing. Like I wouldn't start trying it 20 weeks out, you know? I wouldn't start trying it 20 weeks out at 500 milligrams a day or more. You know, people used to run it a lot higher than they do now. Yeah. So I think that maybe some of that reputation if you're taking 700 or a thousand trend you're probably going to be more likely to have issues. You know what I'm saying? So I s last six weeks last eight weeks eight weeks out from from a prep. I don't, you know, from a a peak, I don't think that that's uh crazy talk. And I can just say out of my experience as a coach and having done a lot of shows myself, I hadn't seen it being any more costic, you know, than than any other compound dosing it like that dosing duration. So, let me ask you this though. What how how would we how would we replace it? You know, what would you do without it? How how would you set a cycle up? Is there anything you would do? Would you just do the same exact thing minus the trend or would you try to add something else to the mix? I'm down with DHB. Yeah, you know me. Okay. Now, I really think it has a very very similar. Okay. It's not the same. Yeah. But I can't think of another compound based on my experience of using in place of trend that even comes close to trend. So if you have trend arbitrary numbers make my point. Trend's a 10. Yeah. DHB might be like a seven or an eight. And then everything else you might try to put in there to to make up the difference of trend is like a three. Yeah. Okay. It it DHB to me is is a it's a distant second, but it still works relatively well and you can get rid of a lot of those side effects from the sleep to the sweats to the uh you know all all that arguably the um edgginess. M you know I prep for a long time and my wife usually says until about 2 or 3 weeks out I really don't know that you're prepping but she can tell two things when I'm on trend. I get quiet because my idea of avoiding not conflict but avoiding frustration everything is kind of keeping to myself. Yeah, that's number one. Number two, she says you have a metallic smell. It's not bo. It's not offensive, but it's metallic. She goes, "I can I can smell it like on your breath and in your sweat." It's definitely not healthy, whatever that smell is because I know Yeah, I know the smell you're talking about. Yeah. Yeah. It can't be. And, you know, it's mostly too sometimes when you pee and you're like, "Yeah, I don't know if that's right." I I haven't eaten any asparagus in quite a while. I don't think that's, you know, I don't think that's the issue. We talked a little bit about DHB dihydrobolon which would be like test breaks down into uh uh DHT and now we're talking DHB. So, basically, equipoise breaking down into this. Um, last time we brought it up, we had a few people who said it is rough on your labs. And I reached out to lats cuz I figured, yeah, we we you and I hadn't really seen much on it. And I'm going to tell you completely honestly, I ran it twice and it was years ago. And in those days, we didn't do like it was labs on cycle very often. You were told to do labs like, you know, a couple times a year, make sure that everything's good. I'd probably check them three times a year and it was harder to get labs back then. Um, that said, I didn't notice anything different after my cycle was over. Um, Latz did say he said, you know, I have seen higher liver enzymes with it. Have you seen any changes with DHB in lab work? Only longer term. Okay. And and I don't know why that is. I don't know if it's because it's such a long esther that it takes a long time to build blood levels and then when you get or longer than say triacetate and quite frankly I I have to put this in because this is a bit of a caveat to be fair the longer trends I don't like. agree because if there's going to be a change in blood markers, I will see it with the longer acting, you know, the hex and an but I won't see it with the estate. Now, it could just be not even the Esther, but the fact that we're running the trenacetate for a shorter duration because of prep. That's a huge point, man, because I'm with you 100% and we've talked about that before, but some of our listeners might not have heard it. I'm with you 100% trying to ace for me and and what I've done with clients or myself in the past I it would be the only way I'd go. And I think too the last time I ran DHB for a while was um about a year and a half ago and I noticed that I did get a lot more lethargic almost kind of heavy-footed okay the longer I took it. And we're talking like maybe I might have ran it. I'm guessing I'd have to check but for I've got the notes for anybody who's like he doesn't keep No, I've got notes. I've got so many notes that I can't keep track of my notes. Um 14 16 weeks. So the last maybe 3 4 weeks I thought to myself, man, I'm just feeling a little bit more rund down, a little bit more heavy-footed. So it could have been and I didn't do labs at that point. I did labs about another four or five weeks later and they were not there was nothing that really stood out. But there could have been at that time because I had stopped the DHB prior to doing the blood work maybe four weeks prior. But anyway, yeah. Um that could have that there may be a connection there with that feeling. Yeah. Yeah. With the blood markers maybe being a little bit elevated, but I have not seen anything. Paul said it too cuz I asked him about it, Paul Barnett. He said he thought that, you know, he saw some some stuff on land and I wonder how long what that length of usage was and what that dosage was. Yeah. For the people who had the the higher, you know, and how bad they were. Were they just slightly elevated or were they egregious? Well, here's so here's the thing, man. I honestly like I go with the things I know and a lot of times and I get it. People want to experiment with different compounds and see how this works and what that does. when you find that like at the end of the day as a coach my goal isn't to like experiment with you and see what you know what I want to do is get to the things that work yeah you know and so generally we found if we are going to take it up a notch we go to trend I mean I I might have a guy who just does test and maybe a little bit of windstro at the end of a of of a prep that might be all he wanted to do right if maybe we go to test and mast and if he wanted to take it another step then we go to test mast and trend and you know so it so DHB isn't something I've done with clients honestly it's not been a go-to compound um I just haven't felt like I needed it and we've been able to get to our results that said you know it came up a few episodes ago Suma doesn't want to run trend he said hey I you know I it just don't want to feel the edgginess from it so and he's looking like dude we're like I think we're 10 12 weeks out and he asked like, "Can we do a show at like eight weeks?" I was like, "Yeah, let's do it." So, now we're eight weeks out and we're we're starting it up pretty soon. So, we'll keep track. We'll get notes and I'll keep you guys posted as to what happens with that one individual, you know, and and just to piggyback off of what you said, I think that that's a smart move as a as a coach, a good coach, especially in a cut phase, uh prep phase, right? You don't want to be gambling and experimenting. Oh, you want to keep that familiarity so that you know that the vast majority of people respond to this specific compound this way. So it it really is a better idea to go especially in a prep to go with the compounds that you know how you respond or or or have a good idea of how you're going to respond. Experiment in the offseason or experiment during a cut phase when you're not going to get on stage so that you can figure out what works. And if it's not working all that great, then it doesn't impact it. It'll have less of an impact on the end result as far as potentially you get on stage, you go, "Yeah, that didn't go well." Yeah. So, I I look forward to seeing though what we get out of it. So, DHB would be the potential replacer for Trent. Man, are you should get some labs for us. Let us know, you know, maybe like whatever, six weeks in or whatever. I'd love to see, you know, just draw like uh, you know, just your basic liver markers even see what Well, I'm 7 weeks out now, so I'm not going to go anywhere near any labs at this point. You don't like I don't because I don't want that added. Then I have to make the decision if they're not good to be like, "Oh, great." Yeah, everything is going great. But I and my brain, I'll be honest, I'll be like, you know what? I'm going to stick it out for the next seven weeks. So, I just I hate to say it, but I'd rather not know. I'm being completely transparent. I've you know I I get it, man. And and I I don't think it's I'm not going to mark you as being irresponsible for that because you you went in prepared, right? Knowing where your health was to start. Well, someone's going to say you're old, you're 55, you need it. You you you need you need I mean, there might not be wrong. No, here's the thing, though. Here's my my argument, though, to that, and that is, and I don't mean this to you specifically, to anyone who would say that. Yeah. It's just not your [\h__\h] business. Yeah, that's true. At the end of the day, you take care of you and at the end of the day, I'll take care of me. Yeah. And that's how it's going to be. And and people can judge that. That's okay. Or or I wouldn't say that. I'm comfortable saying that because it I just it'll be two minutes and I will have forgotten about this because I just don't give a [\h__\h] what people think. Yeah. At the end of the day, I need to be comfortable with the decisions I've made. I've made my decisions on gear for many years. I know the ramifications and the potential consequences better than most and I this is the decision that I made and it is what it is. We got to respect that guys and if you don't comment below or not, you know, I guess you don't have to or not. Or not. Okay, listen. So, I'm going to segue into a bunch of questions. We're going to try to power through a bunch of stuff and guys, we got a bunch of them. Uh the last couple episodes have freaking killed it, Skip. We've gotten like a a ton of really positive feedback from listeners. So, it's cool. And if you guys have question, not to be verbose, but you know that that's just Well, there's one less of us, right? So, so there's more time for me to talk. If you're in the market for protein powder, check out truen nutrition.com. They literally have like every protein powder under the sun. I go with their cold filtered whey isolate or their team skip blend. I prefer the chocolate peanut butter cup, but there's a few flavors that I like. Let me know if you have any questions about that. Victoria, my wife, she gets the pea protein isolate. It's rare to find a pea isolate. Most of them are concentrate. So, the isolate is super low in carbs. Regardless of your diet, they will have a protein powder for you and you get to flavor it how you want and buy it by how many pounds you want. So, check them out. True.com. They're the first company that ever supported our podcasting. So, we support them. You can support us by shopping with True Nutrition and using our code think. Here we go. All right. So, question for the next BSG. Um, when and how do you incorporate practice peaks going into a show? I know all variables won't be the same as peak week, for example. Uh, say a couple weeks out training and cardio will still be high. Um, so how would you judge your best look in practice weeks? Um, if you still have uh yet to drop the fatigue, um, all of that stuff. Currently, he's 7 weeks out. He's 6 foot 7 and 250 lbs. He's going to be I can guarantee you this, skip, he's going to be the tallest guy on stage. Yeah, no question. He says, "Not working with a coach." So, he's doing this on his own. Okay, that matters. He says, "Thanks, guys. Think big podcast. Get me through my hourlong commutes to work every day. Thank you for listening, brother." The reason I say it matters is because if you don't have a coach, then a trial kind of peak week, at least playing with a few things, especially water manipulation is very important. If you're with a good coach, and I and I have changed my position on this over the years because I've been doing this a long time, good, my opinion, good coaches don't do trial runs. They have a method. There are exceptions obviously, but I think by and large they have their methods. They have done them so many times that the results are incredibly predictable. If you're an outlier, if you are older, if you tend to carry more water than the average person, those can be exceptions where as a trainer, you might go, "Yeah, I got to get an idea here about how hard we can go to manipulate and shift water and see what that visual change is going to look like." It may not be. It doesn't need to be a 100% of the protocol that you're going to use to get on stage. Yeah. But something to be able to get a response so that you can say, "Okay, we did this and this was the response." That gives you a little bit of an idea as far as if you need to be more aggressive when it comes time to actually peak or if you were too aggressive and you need to to pull back. Some people will look great pulling water and arguably using, you know, hydrochloroioide or a dioide, whatever the preference is, and they'll look great. They'll look absolutely shredded. They'll maintain fullness and everything else. And a lot of this has to also do with how you're loading, when you're loading in relation to the shift of water. But then there are people who you lose water and you just go flat and you look like crap. Lose everything. No veins, no lines. Exactly. So in situations like that, if I had a client who came to me and said, you know, I'd done this a couple times. This is what I did. And I just ended up like dog [\h__\h] It wasn't very aggressive. Then I'd be like, then I'd have to take a look at, okay, how did that all how did that protocol of manipulating water stack up against how you loaded your water intake at that time? What the timing was? Like as an example, did you dry out first and then load? Or did you load and you and fill and spill and then you cleaned it up uh with the diuretic use or with the water manipulation? There are a lot of variables in there. Again, this is one of those things and I respect the fact that he's doing it without a coach. I even as a coach I think that's great. I did it for years and years and years and loved it and took pride in it until I couldn't and then I hired someone who you know I could trust you know to be able to handle which she's done it a long time and that was very recent like real recent guys. Yeah. So it's it's it just depends. The best case scenario though is go with a trainer who is incredibly experienced and has a great track record because you're going to eliminate a lot of that guesswork and you're going you're literally just paying for their experience and you're paying for that very predictable outcome. I like that. Um couple things I'll I'll throw in. So just just practicing in general. Um, I look at every load that we do. Like I I see the diet as being a series of depletion and loading, depletion and loading. We might not need to load that much at the at the beginning, you know, you you might have long periods. It might be three weeks, you know, four weeks and we haven't done a load, but once we get into that pattern of doing a load, I'm always looking at that as feedback as to what we're going to do for the load into the show. Now, that doesn't cover water manipulation. You know what I mean? Ideally, if we get you absolutely peeled, we might not have to do anything with water, you know? And and I know we say that, Skip, but that's like and and of course, every coach wants that. Like, these are the perfect scenarios. And I think that the better you get at it, the more consistently you can achieve not having to do anything to to drop water. Part of it too is like I think sometimes in my experience it's been like how early did we start the diet? You know what I mean? Like because the earlier you start the diet the leaner you can get. That's just going to be a formula always. Was it a 10e diet? Because you're probably not going to be as lean as the guy who did 20 weeks. You know where do you hold water? Yeah. I always love to do this. Don't ever as a listener viewer don't ever say you hold it in the fat cell. That cannot physiologically it is impossible. There are there's lipids in a fat cell. You hold the water around the fat cells. That's why you hold more water in your fattier areas. If your low back is still fat and you hold water, where are you going to hold it? In your lower back. One of the things before we move to the top I the next question is this. If if you wanted something to try to see what water manipulation will do just for a regular load, load with a lot of water, like a set amount, like, okay, I have a liter in between my load meals all day for my load. If you're loading five meals, as an example, the next time you do that, limit your water considerably during your load day and see what you look like as that day progresses. And the following morning, you arguably should be drier the following morning because all those carbs need water and if you're not providing it, it has to pull it subq. Yeah. So you you arguably should be drier. But then you have to see did I not fill out as much and what that balance looks like because you can't fill out as much if you don't if you're not taking in or you don't have enough water or you're not holding enough water. So then everybody has that balance. No one's going to be 100% full and 100% dry. You have to give up some to get the other. There are people who are exceptions like the Phil Heaths and the Nick Walkers and where they just always look like they they're just not usually off. Mere mortals like us, we have to find that balance and it's individual. I have to give up a little bit of fullness to get drier. Yeah. Yeah. And if I want fullness and I am focused on fullness, I have to give up a little bit of dryness to do that. And some people look better drier. Some people look better a little bit fuller. So you got to figure out what's your best look. It's not about it's not only about how shredded my glutes can be. I think that's one of the biggest mistakes we have made as competitors. Yes, that is unfortunately a a mark of conditioning, but you got to have that balance and what works specifically for your physique. Agreed. And you can win shows without peeled glutes. I've seen it happen, you know. Absolutely. Um, other thing I was going to add is that uh in Scott's book, Be Your Own Bodybuilding Coach, he does talk about uh practice peaks and Okay. and he'll do it, you know, several weeks out and he has he has uh like a complete formula that he'll and he used to run Dave Henry through that. So, you know, Scott is super analytical in everything he does. He's he's got his formulas and he's got some fun stuff, man, including I don't know if you've ever heard him talk about the uh head down tilt. Have you heard about this? Uhuh. So, it there were there was they they discovered this with astronauts and anti-gravity. They realized that there was a diaresis effect that astronauts were experiencing. They were losing water and it had to do with your head. So you can mimic this with your head being lower than your feet. And oh yeah, Scott would literally bring telephone books or cinder blocks to the hotel and prop up the foot of his bed for his own shows to sleep that way. 6 in six degree. Why am I not surprised? I believe it was. And I haven't tried it, man. But he said it works phenomenal. It's in his book. So, if you guys are interested, go to byobbcoach.com. You can get Scott's book there. And I um I recently last year, I can't remember what it was, but I was like, I want to brush up on water manipulation. So, I went and Scott's got a whole chapter on it. So, he's got a bunch of good stuff in there. So, Well, we uh I got TSA pre-check. Oh, yeah. And clear. And clear. Oh, you got clear. I I haven't gotten clear. I need to get clear. Yeah, it's it's freaking awesome. But uh I have a feeling that if I if I have two cinder blocks in my luggage, I there I'm going to get I'm going to be questioned. I'm pretty sure that you're going to pull me aside. They're going to look at you sideways with two cinder blocks. I got to get dryer. Yeah, you have to bring the book to reference it. You know what I mean? Exactly. Read right here. All right, so I guess we're on a prep kick here. Um, next question is, what's the best body hair trimmer? Let's just talk body hair removal. One blade. One blade. Dude, what is that? Because everybody is talking about the One Blade. I have not used it. That sounded like an infomercial intro. Yeah, it's um it not only for your face, but for your body. It It's One Blade. It is. is it's I think it's Panasonic, but I'm telling you and the blades, even though I get a lot of refills and stuff, the blade will easily last a month and rip through hair. It It doesn't obviously cut as close as a razor, but it's as close as you're going to get for the time that you're going to spend. You can just rip through and shave your body. I'm not kidding. In like I mean 10 15 minutes tops. It's It's great. But I use it on my uh on my face almost daily because it's faster. Now it works that good for like your face too, huh? It brings it all the way down. I have a nine nine series that I prefer, but when you use a high-end Brun and it still takes longer. The one blade just rip rip rip in and in 3 minutes I'm like I'm good to go. Okay, I got to check this thing out. I um so body hair removal I've used uh like a body groomer where it has like one side has like the clippers on it. Yeah. And then the other side not as close but it's decent. Yeah. And then the other side has the actual like shaver. Right. And and I I want to say first for contest prep and and just for general purpose like you don't have to get it all the way to the skin in order to be acceptable. You know like sometimes people think like oh it's still there's stubble there. Yeah. I can feel it. Yeah, I can feel it. The judges can't see it from 7 ft away. Exactly. Yeah. Um, so there's I still prefer a razor because I do like that smooth feeling. Yeah. No. So I have to be careful. If I do the razor on my forearms, give me three, four days and my arms get covered with ingrown hairs. Oh, really? Just my forearms. And I've heard other people I heard Scooby Prep say that one time about a different body part of his and I was like, "Oh, yeah. I get that too on my forearms." So, I'll just I don't think people are concerned about as much about their forearms as they are other sensitive areas. But yeah, true. But, you know, it's not a good look when your arm's covered in pimples, right? So, no. Um, I will just trim those down right to leaving the hairs, you know what I mean? But you you you can't see it, so it it's fine. And I would suggest, too, if you're doing a contest prep and that's what you're doing body hair removal for, condition your body to it. Don't do it like don't just start the week out, right? Yeah. 100%. How how early? Because I mean, I'll tell you what, too. I've got a couple guys that are non-competitors and we're gonna have to have a talk about doing some trimming because I can't even see what's going on sometimes, man. Yeah. And and you know, here's the thing, and I don't want to offend anybody by saying this. Um, but thankfully, my wife has the same um repulsive reaction to body hair that I do. Yeah. If I go a couple weeks and don't sh I mean, I've shaved since I was in high school. I was picked on by a friend of mine cuz he we were having a tiff, my best friend that I worked out with in high school. And in front of the whole class, I said something smart to him. He goes, "Well, at least I don't shave my legs." And the whole class started laughing and I'm going, "I'm I'm a bodybuilder." You know, felt like a dumbass, right? But it it's always been an issue for me. It's just something that I've always done, but a lot of people don't. And the visuals day and night. And when it comes to being able to assess your condition, get rid of that fur coat. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's just you're a bodybuilder. I'm not trying to, you know, do what you want. It's personal. Sometimes, you know, wise and stuff, they prefer that hairy. Thankfully, my wife does not. And thankfully, I'm not like Italian or, you know, super, you know, hairy. I would just ew. I I'll shave sometimes if I haven't shaved for like three months, which is rare. And I just look at the p look at it on the floor of the bathroom and or in the shower and I'm just looking at I'll take a picture of it. I'll send it to my wife and she's like, "Don't do that. It's just uh it just repulses me. It's just All right. Anyway, how about this one from Chris? He says, and okay, this is a weird one, man. He says, and I'm curious to hear what you say. Thinking about doing a dbol and Primo cycle just because I never tried dbol and want to try it. Uh, what is the longest that you would run dbol? Thinking about eight weeks. Oh, maybe this isn't what I thought it was because we've had a few people now talking about not using test but using dbol as their conversion to estrogen. So, dbol and Primo. Um, yeah, assuming the Primo is an inject, excuse me, an injectable. Yeah, they still have the strong patch. Woo. Anyway, sometimes cinnamon ones bite me. Um, yeah, I Injectable Primo with dbol. Okay, look, any I'm going be honest. Anything without test I don't like. I just don't like it. I'm not saying it's wrong. Yeah. Um, but my first question would be why is there no testosterone in there, bro? What? You know, I was gonna say, what if they can't handle But I mean, dbol itself is gonna have even more estrogen. Yeah, I I don't want to say I don't want to hear it because that's rude. Um, but it I find it hard to believe that someone can tolerate other compounds and not even a small amount of testosterone. That's just odd. If you're um if you're not able to handle testosterone, I mean, that's like that's like wanting to be a stripper and you're not comfortable taking your clothes off. I I I can't I don't relate to that. I don't know, man. That should be our intro clip right there. I'm sure it's going to be Yeah. You're welcome. You're welcome. I like dbol personally. I I mean the the whole thing aside, you know, I think my I think dbol is the most underrated compound out there now based off of underrated being how do people perceive things today. You know, there was a time that dbol was like the compound the I think people just see it as antiquated for some reason and I don't know why because well arguably it probably makes most people hold more water than anything else. I mean I'd rather take anol and I'd be harder on androl than I would on debol. Yeah. Yeah. There's that. you know, but but I don't dislike Debball. I think it's just kind of been moved aside over time for whatever reason. But clearly the most anabolic I I I'm pretty sure it's the most anabolic compound oral, right? I don't know, but I like to get on to that. I think it is. going back to, you know, I'm I'm old, so Tony Mandrich when he was um you know, they were talking about steroids in Sports Illustrated years ago when when Mandrich was taking everything under the sun back in the 80s and they listed all the compounds for and I remember cuz I was looking for steroids when I was a teenager. Yes. I'd call themsies and I'll be like, "Do you have dbol? Do you have you know that type of thing?" And then one day because it was a small town, I've told this story before, one day it was a small town, I called Xandandy Apothecary. I go, "Yeah, I'm just wondering, um, do you sell dbol? Do you have dbol?" And they're like, "Yeah." And I'm like, "Do you have Windstrong?" And they're like, "Yeah." And the guy goes, "Is this Ken Hill?" And I'm like, "No." Like, "Who who who's Ken?" Click. And I'm like, "You got to Yeah, you got to be kidding me. Like, who the hell was that? How would you know it's me? That's a real small town." Cuz you were That's a very small. And it wasn't a tiny town. That's what I couldn't figure. It was probably 60,000 people at that time. I'm like, "How the like how bad is my luck that I call a place that recognizes my voice?" He goes, "Is this Ken Hill?" No, this is Skip. Yeah, that's how it was born. Yeah. Oh, God. Yeah. All right. How about this one? Um, best I don't think we really gave him a solid answer for that. Okay, let me ask you this. Let me ask you this. So, test. Well, let's add test in there. Let's assume then that there is test. Test primo. dbol. Yeah, I think you could save money by leaving the Primo out and go with Tess and dbol. I mean, you're going to take dbol when you want to grow, right? I mean, it's not going to be something that, you know, if I think if you take dbol, you're like, you're like, I'm looking to put on some size. You put on more size arguably with testosterone. You're going to save money. And at least you know or have a better idea that your testosterone will be real versus the primo and potentially not being real unless you're well connected and you know for sure that the things that you're you know you're buying that your primo is legit. So yeah, there have been primo problems lately. So there is that. Yeah. Sure. All right, I'll move on then. Uh okay, Philip from over at the Facebook group. Best advice for growing lat width. I've increased the total weekly volume to 20 sets. Now, I don't know how many sets he was doing before, but uh here's his exercises. I do assisted pull-ups, wide grip lat pull downs, single arm pull downs, straight arm pull downs, vbar pull downs. Um changes to the program have been made within the last several months. So, I know I'm just being impatient. um saying he's done all these things and he hasn't given it enough time to see if it's going to make a difference yet. Just wondering how long and what you all have done to improve your lat width because my width sucks. So does mine and it sucked more when I relied on doing basically on that perspective that a that a muscle grows in one direction um and specifically from pull down movements. And then I changed it up because I thought this after years this just isn't working. And I started rowing more and my back grew wider and bigger. Yeah. So honestly, um I would say I don't want to say do exactly the opposite of what you're doing, but keep the chins in there at some point and change all those other exercises to different versions of a row. And then come back in six to eight months and tell us how much your back is growing. Oh, and cut your sets down because no one is hitting 20 sets a back at 100% anyway. I like that. I can't argue with any of that, man. I did my I made my best progress doing about two to three exercises for back. Two to three sets per exercise. And that was it. It was a pull down. It was a dumbbell row. And then it would be a a secondary another row. Maybe a T- bar row. I like T- bar. I know that T- bar gets bagged on nowadays, but and I don't know why. Yeah, I I I did, you know, did well for me. So, I think it it comes down to how you execute it. Yeah. You know, a lot of times if it ends up being a partial and it's a lot of B, you know, tons of plates and and a bicep movement or a shrug, then that's different. I I the only thing I would add is every now and then, maybe every second or third workout, finish off with pullovers. Oh, yeah. Because you pullovers are highly underrated. Agreed. for the back development up underneath the armpit. I have found more growth and progress out of dumbbell pullovers uh than I have pretty much any other exercise as far as any type of lat pull down or anything in that specific area. Can you replace it with a cable pullover or specific why? Let me ask you this. Why specifically dumbbell? Because I'm with you and I think there's something real special about the dumbbell pullover. But I think it I think it's stability. Um, okay. I I I just think that movements that are more stable that you can the more stable the exercise, the more arguably the more weight you can move. Like as an example, cable pull down, you're limited by, you know, how many times have you you know, your abs are, you know, you're shaking because it's it's heavy. Maybe it's too heavy. I mean, there's always that, too. But with the dumbbell pullover, you're not you're not limited. It's just a more stable exercise or even a machine pullover for that matter. But I still think that the the cable pullover or stiff arm pull down, if you will, Andreas Kaling, attack your back like a Viking, like 1986, um, Muscle Fitness or Flex, whatever. Th those movements work. I know those movements still work well and they're kind of a it adds variety, but I myself personally, I would go with the dumbbell on a bench. And I don't I don't like lying crossbench. I like going the length of the bench because I don't like the hips lower than the shoulder. It's a vulnerable position for the shoulder joint. I think it's a bad idea to have the shoulders lower. And the argument was always it's a better stretch. Well, yeah. And the more you stretch unnaturally a muscle or a joint, the the more risk you have for injury. I don't think you need to like arch your back to stretch, you know what I mean? I think you can stretch the lat from a completely I mean, that's just been my experience. I picked those up from John Meadows. He had them in the end of a lot of his programs. And when we were doing his plans back 2012 to 2015 and 16, like almost all of his routines that we did seemed to have a dumbbell pullover toward the end. And I the reason I really liked it, the stretch. I think that there's a component to getting a good stretch out of that exercise. And now they're saying that the fascia is its own system. And they're finding that that is much more related. The fascial system is related much more to growth than we ever thought it was before. So when you're finishing, you've got all that blood in there and you finish with a stretch move like that. Not even just for back for pullovers, but it could be overhead tricep extensions, you know, for triceps. Yeah. Anything that stretch position, stretching the fascia, the fascia system. It can absolutely they're finding now and they're learning more about it that that is going to contribute to a lot more growth than we ever thought before. So stretch was the number one thing I was missing back when we were doing those meadows plans and it was the number one thing that I well that and I got heavy I went to heavier weight too. I really worked on progression. So, I can't say it was just the one thing, but stretch was a big component of when I made the absolute most progress in my back and that was like well into my 40s and not on a lot of gear and not doing anything special with my diet. It was only the exercises that had changed and everything else was kind of mediocre, but I made tremendous progress compared to years back, man. Running way more gear, eating all the food. Um, so that would be I guess the other tip I would give him is train with a like get that full range, get a good stretch. I was just lacking it, man. By just a couple inches sometimes, you know, just a little bit more is all it would have taken. I've heard that before. What else we got here? You just skip right over that. Uh, yeah. As I was We've done this for a while together, haven't we? Yeah. When I know the joke you don't even make. That's what she said. Um, okay. Hey guys, new to the channel. 55, another tall guy. 55, 250 lb, 67 on three. Or maybe it's the same guy. It's got to be the same guy. And based on those stats, I don't want my wife to uh meet this guy. Either that or like everybody. He's a sucker for big big tall, especially if he wears a suit, you know, that sort of thing. She'll be like, "I'm busy tonight." I'm like, "Oh, shit." Okay, so 55. Uh he's uh 250, 67. He's on 300 milligrams of TRT per week. Uh work crazy. And the other guy was getting ready to get on stage, so I think this is someone else. Work crazy hours each week. Work 7 days a week with my business on top of a full-time job with overtime. Been on TRT for a few years now and still feel like crap most days. Blood work yearly um for the script. Um, had most everything checked by the doctor. Everything come back comes back looking pretty good. Nothing majorly out of whack. Don't get why I still feel like crap on that dose. Any suggestions or other compounds I should try to help to feel better. After work like I do, most days I don't feel like even uh looking at a dang weight, much less a workout. Uh, I need help but don't want to throw my money away with the hopes of getting better. Any suggestions would be greatly appreciated. I do have a suggestion, but it doesn't have anything to do with gear. He's not going to like it, is he? No, it's and it's probably not going to happen. You know, life, our lives are our lives, and our schedules are our schedules, stress levels, and and the demands that we have, you know, for our time every day. But when you're reading that, I'm I'm just thinking, bro, if if I was and I am 55, but if I had a schedule like that, I probably wouldn't want to be looking at the gym either, and I'd be feeling rund down, and I don't know that it has anything to do with gear. Yeah. No, you know, that that's a lot of you're going a million different directions. You're working full-time. You've got side hustles. You've got training. H, you know, I I would wonder your quality of sleep, um, cortisol levels, uh, all that. It It's, you know, you're not 25. I hate to say that and I don't like it when people say it to me. Yeah. But there's some truth to that. I had a whole lot more energy at 25 and 30, even if I was running crazy trying to raise four kids. 55, I don't have any kids. Sometimes I look around, I'm like, I just don't have a very stressful life, but I feel beat to [\h__\h] right now. And I don't know that it has anything to do with gear. So he's looking specifically, you know, at the gear. So I would say this. I mean, you could always increase the testosterone dose for whatever reason. I would check your, you know, the little things, your estrogen to testosterone ratio, cortisol levels, little things. I say little things still important, but um DHEA and and just all all those thyroid um just to see if something is just a little a little off. It could be something minor. Yeah. I I think that no matter what he does though, if he's that stressed, you're not going to be able to make up for it, unfortunately. Right. You know, makes it tough. There's got to be there's got to be something in there. And I mean if it's and are you overtrained? Are you still trying to train a lot? You know, I probably would look at my training first. I'd look at my diet. Is your diet crap? Is it realistic to have a big training plan, you know, with with this situation? Yeah. Would he be better off maybe cretailing it back? Maybe he trains three days a week on days that aren't quite as busy or I don't know. You know what I mean? Something. Yeah. Or they're two hour sessions or I don't know. How much cardio are you trying to cram in there? You know, too, is there card? There's a lot there. There's a lot to unravel. I think that one of the biggest things that I know I need and I see other people benefiting from is sleep that as we age like man you take a 22 year old or even a 30-year-old and they miss sleep you know consistently and still get into great shape and look incredible and win shows as we get to be older at like in your 40s even I you it's just so much more important and and I think at 55 you're ask it's kind of like saying like I I can't I can't run 10 miles an hour you know I can't run 15 miles why can't I run 20 miles an hour you know I I want to be able to run 20 m an hour like you you can recognize you just can't do that I don't know like you you have li we have limitations you know and that's what I just see here is like he's got limitations and if that's what his life is then there's not going to be anything you can take that's going to help in Fact, I think taking more man is going to probably would detrimental. Yeah. Not help. Those situations where it's like, man, he he worked and until he had a heart attack, you know, uh check your HRV, you know, how is your HRV trending? That's huge. Uh for people who don't track their sleep. Yeah. Yeah, I implore you to track your There's just so much information these days with even just your basic sleep monitor. They can tell you everything from your HRV to, you know, obviously resting heart rate and stuff. And the lower your resting heart rate, typically the higher your HRV. Um, I know myself and with clients, if you if if I or my clients start to trend down with their HRV over a couple weeks, you can almost predict that the next couple weeks after that, at some point they're going to start to feel that. Um, whether it be, you know, their recovery in the gym or energy levels, um, it's just not usually very good. The exception is when you're in prep and it's going to be low and typically going to be low and there isn't a whole lot you can do about it. But you still want to focus on trying to get as much quality quality sleep as you can. It it's so important and I think people tend to gauge their quality of sleep based on oh I can function during the day. But are you also functioning because you're taking in more synthetic caffeine? Yeah. You're taking in things that are stimulants that are, you know, stressing your adrenals, too. And in the Yeah, it's getting you through your day, but it it arguably is decreasing your quality of life at the same time, slowly over time. I agree, man, 100%. Um, somebody asked us about methylene blue in the chat here. What's up, chat? Hope you guys are doing good. Um, have you had any experience with methylene blue? Excuse me? I haven't. It was something that I would have added had I not been going into prep, but um you know, I'd already kind of tried to keep my variables constant at that point. The reta has always been working since I started that in late November. I did pull that back a little bit for reasons I won't get into now, but um SLU I added and I you know I even told you I'm like I don't even see a difference. I have it in there now just because it's a constant variable. Um but I I'm not gonna I don't kitchen sink things. I don't like to. Yeah, I'd love to add it to see, but if I add it and I've got so many other things in there right now, I wouldn't be able to tell Yeah. whether it's working or what impact it had. It is something that I'll go to in the offseason after the shows and uh take a closer look at it. I on paper I think it looks great, but I don't judge things based on what they look like on paper. I have to apply them practically and then see for myself and judge unbiasedly whether it is working or not. I'm revisiting it for a third time now and I think I have something figured out with it. So, and and there's I I can't remember his name, but I've been following a researcher who has I I've read some in-depth stuff that was pretty like it got me thinking and it got me looking at it in a different way. So, initially I was trying to load it like take it every day. Take it every day. And I found skip that I got what was probably like a serotonin syndrome effect. Oh, okay. Like I started um and it wasn't a crazy high dose. Like I started at five, built to 15, taking 15 a day and after several days or a week or so, I just found myself like too floaty feeling and a little disconnected. So I stopped it, started it again at a slightly lower dose and eventually got to that same place, but and so I I I kind of wrote it off, but I'm bringing it back in now taking it intermittently. Okay. So, I've heard that it will do something to basically uh I'm basically my respiratory system doesn't always function the way it should and it can help with rewiring that and so I'll use that in times that I can tell that my breathing isn't as good as it should be and it can be beneficial in that instance. Um and and I've seen the difference even with small doses. Now, that said, one of his big issues was, and and I I can't quote the research because I So, take this for what it's worth, guys. This is me telling you secondhand information that I've picked up. Um, that basically our our respiratory system is already wired really well. And if it's already running well, then you don't want to go rewiring it. Yeah. So, it might not be beneficial for everyone to to use everything. You know what I'm saying? A lot of times we're like, "Hey, I need more mitochondria. I guess I didn't know that mitochondria was a thing." You know what I mean? So, we all like then what can I do for that? I'll take this and this and this. Uh, it it's not always a beneficial thing. And I I do have more that I want to put together and say about that a little bit more in a prepared fashion. I think there's benefits, but I do I wouldn't just throw it in. And I I so I guess I'll echo what you're saying, man, because that's initially what I did. I was like, I'll try it. give it a fair shake, see what happens across the board. And now I'm doing it in a more controlled fashion. And I am seeing great benefit, but it's also something that I'm not doing every day. Yeah. And that was part of the reason that I wanted to stay away from it because I knew it was a possibility that I might respond well to it for a couple weeks and then not. Yeah. And that wasn't something that I was in a position at that point going into a prep that I wanted to deal with. Stefan uh in the live stream says uh I used Methylene Blue for the last 36 weeks and won my bodybuilding contest on Saturday. Dude, congratulations, man. He says uh everyone reacts differently. Some people get overwhelming anxiety even uh uh um even energy and other wanted unwanted side effects. So, you know, that's interesting, man. All right, I want to just look over at Patreon really quick just to see if we had something else here. Uh, see if we can rapid fire this one from Casey said, "What are some meal tips for an for an airport kiosk?" What? Oh, good luck, dude. I got some fish and chips from the airport yesterday in Seattle. It was so good. Skip. Hey, depending on where you are. I've had really good barbecue in North Carolina, too. I I don't think we're talking diet food, though, are we? This isn't like bodybuilding anymore, is it? No. Fish and chips. And yeah. Now, they do have, which I think is kind of cool, uh, a lot of the major airports now have this screw up the name, but they're they're wood vending machines. Okay. That have everything from organic sandwiches to I said Sam sandwiches. Sandwiches at the li how people library sandwiches at the library. Pick the libraries off the tree. Um but like yogurt type, you know, kind of healthier type. I want to say it's like farmland or it's something like that. Um but and they're, you know, they're refrigerated and everything, but even then it's something that as a bodybuilder you're going to get. It may get you through. Yeah. But good luck finding them. And and the cool thing is is they're typically at the gates. Oh. So that's kind of nice because a lot of times once you get to the gates, you've passed all the opportunities to get, you know, really good food. About the only thing you can get is I call it my wife's meal. Yeah. Uh liquid meal. You can get really good alcohol. And Starbucks. I think she likes flying because it's a better excuse to to drink and not have me bust her balls about it. Um but food is tough in airports. It's it's for convenience. It's for practicality. It's certainly not for health. So, this trip that we just took, Skip, I prepared and brought food with me for the first half. I I didn't plan on doing it for the whole time, you know, and I knew we were going to be going out to eat some. So, but I did and I felt good about that, man. I I just can't go to like complete chaos. So, I I mean, my thought is is just bring your food. If you bring your food, then you don't have to worry about it. It's not going to be it's not going to be like the best most delicious gourmet thing. In fact, it's going to be cold or even room temperature, but uh I'll eat it and then I'm not hungry anymore. So, I'm done. You know, I'm back to, you know, the rest of my life. I'd say this too is freeze your meals ahead of time, like 2, three days in advance. If you if you take that chicken and meal and rice and you put that in the freezer the night before your flight, it'll be cold and it will be frozen the next day. Yeah. But it's not going to be like rock frozen. If you freeze that for like 3 days, it's going to be a rock, you know, and that's going to probably take you put that in like a backpack several meals, they're going to take all day for that to thaw out, you know, you know, and people will sometimes say, well, you know, I don't want to take my meals and for that's listen, if and and this is just being as honest as I can be. If you want to be successful as a bodybuilder and you're not structured and you're not regimented and understand that that's part of the game, then you're just not going to be very good at this endeavor. You don't have to be if you don't want to travel with food and and that's fine. But there's really not much excuse outside of airports to travel and not have access to good food because you can go to any middle of the road or higher restaurant and they will make you plain chicken breast and vegetables. Yeah. So when you say or a client says to me, well, you know, I was at this restaurant and I didn't have any choice. No, you did. You just decided to be normal like everybody else because you didn't want to explain it or you wanted to be part of the group. There's nothing wrong with that. Yeah. But at least own it. because there are way too many options for you to still eat well. You just didn't want to. Yeah, I can't argue with any of that, man. Guys, we appreciate you tuning in. Go to teamskip.com. Reach out to skip over there. And listen, although he's not here, go to bodyberry.com to reach out to Andrew for coaching. You can hit me up at Diets@gmail.com. And of course, uh, thank you to true nutrition.com. Use our code think over there, supplements.ca for Canadians. They have great deals that change week to week. Patreon, guys. Let's put a new thread up over at Patreon and get some more questions going. Guys, if you are this far into the show and you haven't subscribed, then you probably should because if you're this far in, you enjoyed it, right? Or at least it passed your time. Uh we appreciate having you guys here. And of course, if you haven't hit the like button, uh man, that helps us out a freaking ton. So, please hit the like button, leave us a comment, comment with questions for the next show and for another episode of Blood, Sweat, and Gear, guys. We will see you soon. Thanks, G.