 What happens is at 10 weeks out, that's when things kind of get a little bit spicier, like Mastron goes in, EQ might come down a little bit, trend doesn't go into about six weeks out, Clen we didn't use, but the things I think I push, maybe that other people might not is Anadrol, I do really well on Anadrol, I do really well on Anadrol, I'll go up to like 100 a day. As it should be. Yeah. My body. I'm a lot.! I'm.! I'm. I'm. I'm.! I'm. I'm. I'm.! I'm.! I'm Big Ron Partler with Dusty Hanshaw and the producer Scott McNally. today today.!! Speak Speak Speak Speak Speak Speak Speak Speak Speak Speak episode a little while ago where I can't remember Scott was someone was asking about how the pros manage multiple shows a year and they yeah you know how do they manage their blood work and it must just be a complete disaster and all that sort of stuff and uh your name came up as a guy who did multiple shows for the duration of the year and and you know you're all you looked amazing obviously at all your shows thank you so I said well I'm going to speak for sass even though I have no right to speak for sass a he isn't using what you guys think he's using and b he's actually like dropping stuff out after a show and then adding it back in closer to the next show and that because that's just I just I'm pretty sure that's how things are working with you sass but correct me help us educate the listeners and viewers on what a real pro who just did the Olympia along with uh you did three shows this year right but they're all really spread out weren't they I did uh eight shows this year yeah eight shows sorry yeah because it was all the way from like sorry I'm thinking yeah yeah yeah all the way from March too many to keep you did eight shows eight shows because I remember you were at FIBO yeah so I did Detroit before FIBO then FIBO right it was the New York pro then the Calum right in Toronto Spain Olympia British and Toronto you won that right yeah Toronto in Spain I won back to back I got four second places one fifth yeah yeah lots of seconds Mr. Second Place is my new middle name how did I miss eight shows I thought it was like three and then the Olympia so I was thinking four I think people it's because your your memory only goes back like a couple months around you know what I mean it's like there's been a lot of shows that have happened since then man I did that many shows people just kind of just ignored the fact that I showed up again I think I saw Tyler Mannion about five times by the end of it I was like I bet you're sick of seeing me just you just started laughing did you still go to him you still go to him the eighth time and go how can I improve I usually just leave him to I did ask once um and then I just left him alone after that yeah yeah yeah okay so what what does it look like help help help us help other people understand what's going on a lot of these kids think you know you guys are just ramming all year long yeah right well um there's a few there's a few angles I'll go in I'll start with my last show for example um let's say 2024 Spain I did the Spain in June 2024 after that I had four weeks of nothing you know no TRT um just completely just nothing yeah lies lies the thing is even four weeks by week four you're still you're probably still in a higher range than a natural anyway because the half-life from if you're on say two two to three grams by week four you're still on like 400 milligrams of stuff probably swimming around but week four is when I start to crash so that's when I put the TRT in um I'll run TRT for about four weeks four to six I'll run some bloods um that'll take me up to about a 10 week post show that's like my detox clear out and then I'll go into I wouldn't call it a blast um I start to increase the test and I add the growth back in so it starts low and then it just gradually tapers up along with my progress into the next season but I don't really peak at high dosages in the offseason so it's not like I go and go and go till five grams I'll probably cap it about a gram test and about 10 10 units of growth that's probably where I'll get to and I'll I'll stay there because that's where I feel the best I could I have tried higher in the offseason and what happens when I go higher initially I feel great all of a sudden I've got extra muscle volume strength shoots up but then it's like the sleep starts to sleep starts to suffer a little bit I'm waking up multiple times in the night and then my fitness starts to kind of go downhill a little bit because I'm heavy um so I figured out for myself high calories high body weight and high anabolics just don't go it's got to be I have to be lean and fit to handle higher dosages whereas in the offseason I think the food is in a place where I can get away with using less anabolics um given the fact I'm not a mass monster so I've not been to 300 pounds but I did get to 280 last offseason which for me is quite heavy um and I wasn't fat in fact we did we did a nine we did a 10 week prep for Detroit from 280 and I was peeled by two weeks out so eight weeks it took us barely any cardio weeks yeah so um which leads me on to the point uh from about four weeks before prep I'll have another kind of pull back so I'll relax a little bit on the anabolics even the training I might take some extra rest days bring the volume down still train hard and heavy but really bring the volume down so my recovery starts to go above and beyond my uh training so that I'm fresh for prep so 12 weeks out we start to get kind of ramp that's when I send things over to Chris um from about 15 weeks out I'll start to bring the anabolics back up to where I left off the offseason and then so when you said in the offseason you're kind of focusing on tests and gh pretty much yeah I just feel the best if I want to bring something else in I'll bring in equipoise I love equipoise um test growth insulin a little bit pre with my pre-meal um I'll bring that in when the carbs are up over 800 grams a day so because I'll have like I'll have about 300 gram carbs with my pre-workout meal one so I like to bring in a hit of fast acting insulin just to make sure it's all getting used properly for that training session um but yeah carbs will go up to about 1000 um I'll have about 15 units of novo with my pre-meal 10 to 15 um depending on how much I push that pre-meal um so that's it it's very simple uh growth test bit of equipoise just to bring the anabolics up a little bit um no uh no um aromatase inhibitors I'd never really feel like I need it um that's it really it's plain no thyroid meds until prep even then he took he ended up taking T3 out at like six weeks out anyway because my body was just running quite fast um oh he actually pulled it out early yeah he pulled it out he well he went to like half a tablet then it was half a tablet every other day then it was no nothing for three days then he'd put it back in then he'd pull it out and then we ended up just not using it from Detroit all the way up to the Olympia prep um so yeah what happens is at 10 weeks out that's when things kind of get a little bit spicier like Mastron goes in uh EQ might come down a little bit um trend doesn't go into about six weeks out uh clen we didn't use um but the things I I think I push maybe that other people might not is anadrol I do really well on anadrol I'll go up to like a hundred a day as it should be yeah my body loves anadrol um these people now that don't like anadrol I just like what planet I don't I don't get it uh it doesn't it doesn't mess with my diaper it's my tummy yeah I uh I feel great on it I just feel like it's uh  I feel normal, I feel normal, I feel normal, I feel like I can do a TRT on Anadrol, Anadrol, Anadrol, Anadrol, Anadrol, Anadrol, Anadrol, Anadrol, Anadrol, Winnie, and then Halo at the end, so we push the orals, I would say, relatively, we push the orals, I would say, relatively, we push the orals more than injectables, injectables, injectables, injectables get up to, this prep, it got to maximum 2 grams, oh wow, total, two grams, two grams, so it was 200, 250, 250 trend, yep, 900 cast, a week, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold behold hear you being like essentially test based for the majority of your cycle and your entire year essentially is um you know it's no surprise to me i just um i tried uh with with the spain prep in 24 i actually tried bringing my test down a little bit just to see how it fared i have a thing i went from 900 to 600 and i just felt terrible i just i didn't feel good i didn't feel full strength wasn't as good as it should have been my mood wasn't great i just i don't do well with uh with lower tests maybe i don't know if it was a placebo effect but i find that seven eight eight eight to 900 in prep is perfect for me i'm i'm full it doesn't it doesn't cause any water um and it just keeps me round because i'm not again i'm not the biggest guy so if i can edge that roundness a little bit with my condition i can i just look that much better but yeah we don't we don't do a gram of mass everything else other than test stays probably below three to four hundred uh nothing nothing goes i just don't see the need is there anything that sets your blood work off that you notice like you've tried it set your blood work off try it again set your blood work off like anything that's weird that you just avoid or dosages you just this is the this is the other angle i was going to speak from i think genetically obviously there's an aspect of how well a bodybuilder handles side effects obviously so you know some people you they can take 200 milligrams of test and they get all the side effects under the sun and then you've got other guys who can take five grams of everything and they barely even get a high hematocrit level so i think genetically i'm lucky on that side but i do respond my my blood thickens quite easily so my blood pressure tends to tends to move up that's the only when i go to the two to three gram range my blood pressure can go up uh my hematocrit is always a little bit above and my h uh LDL drops no sorry my HDL drops a little bit but other than that as long as i'm keeping up with my health supplements a little bit of telmosartan and a little bit of cialis everything's in check all the way through prayer yeah little cialis a little bit yeah we actually don't we actually don't speak on that here so explain why you've thrown a little bit of that in there um so i i micro dose it daily so i take a probably one milligram which is very little amount but i find it helps me helps my blood pressure helps my mood helps my pumps in the gym but it's a small enough dose that it doesn't have any of the effects that i don't want all day long so i just feel great how do you get one how do you get one milligram it's i'm probably guessing i nibble it oh real accurate so you take 20 if you take 20 days to eat a pill it's about a milligram a day there you go nibble a cialis a day i like that yeah yeah just a nibble just a nibble just shave it on my tooth a little i gotta explain that to a client just just a little just yeah put that in the plan dusty yeah they they sent me back a picture of the pill i'm like oh no no no no well because they make that was a double nibble yeah they make the the cialis comes in the standard 20 but then they make a five yeah they do daily i take daily guys they do we take five yeah daily i just have them in my vegas pack my emergency travel pack i just have them in the holiday pack yeah most people know five a day is amazing yeah oh yeah once and once so five five cialis a day so that's okay five cialis a day so it's like a hundred okay that's what i just heard a hundred okay oh boy this just went sideways there's a bunch of guys walking around the gym yeah sparked up now yeah so honey i have a problem so we've got kind of the rough outline we're not the rough outline we have a pretty solid idea then of what you're running going into a show now how do you manage that times eight you know going through what were your gaps like yeah what was that biggest gap there was no so the biggest gap was five weeks between detroit and new york all the other gaps were although sorry the biggest gap was between spain and the olympia um uh so i had like i think i had 16 weeks between spain and the olympia so during those 16 weeks the only thing i i took out all the orals so anovar winnie anadrol halo that all came out from god that's a that's that's like the mount rushmore yeah yeah of orals that came out that came out junk food went in no uh food went off um so from 16 weeks to 10 weeks there was pretty much minimal no i did put anadrol in after about from about 12 weeks out um god after this i'm gonna put anadrol in yeah i just give me one second i'm gonna go take one i'll be right back yeah i'll be right back too well i don't want to 10 years i'm gonna try one more yeah it's great and then um i think it was nine 10 weeks out 11 weeks out i've handed things back over to chris and then uh i think that was it that was like a fresh prep almost so again i kept trending um i kept trending this time which i just at 250 milligrams i don't really feel rubbish on it anyway so yeah the injectables stayed in orals came out and they started to taper back in from 10 weeks out uh as they usually would so what how i managed to be honest it was a new experience for me as well because i've never done such a long season with so many shows i think what what helped was i had december pretty much completely off the gym and anabolics and a food regimen so i pretty much i ate what i wanted when i wanted i went to the gym maybe once a week during the whole of december um and then january was when we started well mid january we started prep because it was it was a late decision to jump into detroit so i literally emailed chris at like 10 weeks out and i was like chris forwards message me to to see if i want to do detroit what do you think and he goes yeah why not you know chris he doesn't say no to anything and then i sent sent him pictures and he yeah he was he was happy so i thought it was going to be a rushed prep with a load of cardio low carbs but it was complete opposite it was carbs didn't go below 500 there was barely any cardio in it i think i did like five cardio sessions in the whole prep no clan T3 got taken out um so that prep i didn't even feel like i was i remember i messaged chris at two weeks out i said you know i don't i still don't feel like i'm dieting like is this normal and he just kept saying don't jinx it so i think the fact the fact that i didn't destroy i didn't push myself with high cardio and low food or or high fat burners you know there was no again there was no clean there was barely any caffeine was in there pre-workout but nothing crazy so my sleep was perfect every night was like seven eight hours right up to the point where i flew out to detroit so the fact that the sleep was good and i didn't have to kill myself getting in shape by the time i was i got home from detroit i felt fresh i didn't feel i didn't feel like i'd just done a show i just felt like i had a bit of jet lag so i was i said to chris i was like i can keep going i feel i feel really good obviously as i did the shows i started to get more tired but i think every time i competed the feedback was so good i just i was riding the wave almost so i think the no cardio thing helped me a lot because it just saved so much energy the the fact that i could sleep eight hours a night the fact that i had december off so that was like a detox um mentally and physically and the fact that i managed my offseason without any exotic drugs it was you know test and growth is basically natural right it's a natural hormone in your body so um right although all those variables led me to just having a great long even now even after the olympia i wasn't i wasn't really like i was tired of prepping but i wasn't physically destroyed i could i could have probably kept going but um right i need to make some improvements so again it was a new experience  The hardest prep of my life, mentally, was a prep where everything just flowed, and I'd never felt like I was on a diet, and it was very stressful, because you're sending the pictures, and you're like, I don't feel like shit, and I'm worried because I usually feel like shit, I'm two weeks out, and Chris has got me doing three cheeseburger days in a row, and I'm like, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, you know what I mean? It's like, you just have to throw it all out, listen to your body, look at your pictures, look at your pictures, look at your progress, and call it all out, and you're still, and you're still, and you're still, and you're still, and you're still, and you're still, and you're still still, and you're still still, and you're still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still still to hear about like his level of genetics because he you know we asked him we're like you know what was the difference maker because he was always a great bodybuilder right but 2019 it changed he won the Arnold Classic then he won the Olympia it was obvious you know I would argue his best year his two best looks to date it was like well what changed to get there you know and what did they do at oxygen that was so different and he said well you know I'd always been told that like you really he was a big fan of the podcast too back in the day which blows my mind he listened to the shows and all that he's like you know I'm listening to all the content and like the thought was you really got to be careful you know you not to overdo it and he said I realized that that applies to most people but it doesn't apply to me yeah he said that he went to oxygen and they just pushed him and then pushed him harder and then pushed him harder than that and there turned out that his limit like he was he was underestimating you know what what his limits were as a result he ended up winning the Olympia you know which is crazy and Scott that's why they were doing it they they pushed the limits and he was fine so like well let's let's push him a little further arguably I think with oxygen that the way it works is they push everybody to the limits and either you hang and you do really well or you don't go to oxygen anymore like that's like you fall the wayside I think that's a good thing for you as a competitor then to look at and go yeah okay when did the wheels fall off yeah because that's another factor that takes place as you're progressing as an athlete for you guys listening is when you first start training for bodybuilding let's say you're two years deep and you're training at your highest intensity level well if you continue to train at your highest intensity level for the next five years your intensity level at year five is a lot higher than it was at year two way so that intensity increase even though both were your max now alters what you can handle you know I mean my sets and reps dropped as I was able to truly figure out where nothing left in the tank was on a single set yeah you know I needed more volume to grow when my highest intensity wasn't as high as the body was capable of and then you just pay attention because if your intensity is not increasing over time I'm not saying you were always as high intensity as you could be I'm saying you're not finding it because everyone I've ever worked with I start seeing their sets then a year later I'm looking at their sets on the same movement I'm like oh you found another gear and I'll tell them that all the time you know what the difference is between this year and last year for me nothing what you did in the gym combined with what we were already doing is why you've improved so much you know yeah so I do think Scott the biggest thing is is back to the same answer which is stress like you can stress about making sure you're recovering you can like you know I always looked at like Lee Priest he's like I trained all the way up to the show because I like to work out yeah he would train until he tanned because he's like I got time to go train arms you know I want to train yeah you know and it's like and like you were saying Scott I understand there's a genetic component to that but you do just need to play with that because yeah there is that line you know I mean you'll laugh but one year sass I uh I told Chris I was pretty tired so I'm gonna take a month off completely I'm not gonna train I'm not gonna do anything I just need to refresh and he was like cool yeah do your thing so about 11 days in I'm like not sleeping and I'm irritable and I'm like what the hell is going on here I did everything normal as far as the drugs and everything else so I called Chris I said dude I don't know what's going on but I mean I'm feeling worse not training he goes well you want to train and I said yeah but I you know I need the month off he goes I don't think you do I think you needed 10 days and we're on day 11 and I was like all right yeah went back to the gym started training three days later back to normal because it wasn't helping me because I was bothered by not going to the gym you know that is the place where I get the most joy and I'm forcing myself out because I followed a rule you need to be off for a month yeah you need to do nothing you know I agree what else you got Scott yeah I agree we we had a few of them we had a few good questions we had uh what was this one was uh oh one one specifically for sass get sass to talk about honey he uses a crazy amount of honey on his oatmeal I now I need to know about this I don't know about this situation I get this is like Ronnie Coleman's ketchup he just doesn't count yeah I get uh I get messages every so basically um um it started last it started in 2024 I think I handed things over to Chris for my comeback show and I was probably having about 30 grams of honey in my oats in the morning and then um he gave me a high day and he upped the honey to like 60 grams which was quite it's quite a lot and then the next another high day he upped it to 75 grams and for that year that was that was my highest honey intake for meal one 75 grams and then when I went into my offseason I I um I pushed it higher because I just I get to a point where I think we all do where appetite just disappears you feel like you can't eat any more food so I I was pouring honey one day and I just kept going I went up to 100 grams this was my daily meal meal one then I added I added oats to my post-workout meal and then I added 100 grams of honey to that as well so pre-workout post-workout was both 200 grams of oats and 100 grams of honey and then come prep this year Chris doubles it on high day to 200 grams of honey on a 200 gram bowl of oats and then 150 grams of honey with my 200 grams of bowl of oats post-workout so I was on 350 grams of honey a day and then I put it on one of my full day of eating videos and people just started to freak out like are you seriously in almost a tub of honey every day I was like yeah and then people were like so 100 grams am I getting this right 100 grams is 82 okay yeah at 82 the place I love yeah yeah we're talking like 300 grams of carbs from honey alone I have a question on that yeah so you make oatmeal typically you put water in it yeah I do and you cook it microwave do you still need water with 100 grams of honey or can you just mix that shit I'm just trying to understand how this works I knew where that was going I had to do water ratio to do I knew where something I purposely let it dry out a bit so then because you know the water from the honey is coming in yeah yeah the honey just soaks in it's it's a great meal it feels like you're eating like that every day and and I'm just thinking of how sick I'd be how sick I'd be if I just squirted 100 grams of honey in my mouth I gotta it would be like we get off I'm measuring 100 grams of honey in a bowl just to see what it looks oh yeah we're going in we're going yeah it's and the crazy part is it kept that stayed the same up to show day 100 grams of honey 200 grams of oats every morning all the way up I remember when I when I got back with him for the Olympia prep he said what what are you eating I said I'm um this this that and then he said what's what he he said he knows but he asked me what's how many carbs are in 100 grams of honey in your meal one I said 80 carbs he goes oh good that's more than a keem williams full day of carb intake which made me laugh a little bit have you have you considered becoming a beekeeper yeah because I mean the amount of like I'm just thinking financially especially if I lived in Canada what it would cost to have yeah 200 grams of honey a day I actually got a honey sponsorship for a while oh my god oh my god you're kidding are you the first bodybuilder in history with a honey sponsorship for sure thanks so there was an old school bodybuilder in Scotland who I knew he uh he was actually a beekeeper and he messaged me one day he said I make honey but I want to make an athlete  range. So he made five different types of honey. One had, there was like a strength honey, which had creatine in it. There was a recovery which had amino acids in it. There was a digestion honey which had like ginger in it. There was a digestion honey which had like ginger in it. So he made all these honeys and he wanted me to help take his business off the ground. And I was like yeah yeah of course free honey. It looks it's proper honey from Scotland. It must be good. And um. The Scottish bees are really nobils. for their honey well it's because i was eating the cheap uh supermarket honey so i thought this this right right so he upgraded he sent me some and it tastes great it was it was really rich uh lovely honey but the amount i was having made it so sickly i couldn't i couldn't eat it so i ended up having to go back to the uh the cheap supermarket honey which is probably like i can endorse this for normal people yeah not for the way you do it exactly i i'm so glad we got this honey story and when i was a kid growing up on the farm we had a giant farm grain farm and uh often like the far one of the quarters of land that we had we had this guy that we let keep bees over this far you know far away on this corner of land and when i'd go out on my dirt bike you know go we had like 2 000 acres so it was huge yeah i'd go out on my dirt bike and i'd ride by the bees and i could see like the kind of cluster the cloud of bees in the sky you know and sometimes he'd be out there in his white suit messing with him but then every year he'd drop off one of those giant white five like giant five gallon pails with the lid that's hard to get on and off you know yeah yeah and he'd drop off one of those full of honey oh and so one of my favorite things as a kid was my mom would bake fresh buns out of the oven yeah and then we'd have fresh honey on them oh nice and looking back on it i was like oh god that's just carb i needed insulin with that but i was only 12 so it wasn't time for insulin yet that's wasn't using insulin yet no just eating raw honey on on buns yeah yeah honey i love i love honey i wanted to ask because i didn't want to interrupt you earlier but when you're taking your um insulin pre-workout do you with 300 grams of carbs do you need a carb drink during your training too or nothing i don't need one he puts insulin in the with the honey i don't need one but i do i do um i've been drinking carbs through my training all year and i just feel like it completes the whole package either like we kept it in in prep even if it's like a mental thing when i'm sipping it in the gym i feel like i'm a little bit more ready for the next set type of thing so i don't know how many carbs is in it your your intro right now it's 75 in prep it's 50 and we we might go down to 25 like near the show but yeah 50 to 75 is is there anything else in it are you doing 25 branched chain amino acids or ea's or just just carbs ea's ea's um okay sometimes i'll put some electrolytes in it um it's just a it's just a nice tasting drink as well and it um it digests well and it helps me bring my total days worth of carbohydrates up without having to eat 75 grams or more food carbs which always helps yeah so yeah i was i was never that's a new thing as well that's this this year is the only year i've consistently had intra-workout carbs i think i would drop a little bit with without the carbs i think because by the end of my session if i if i wait a little bit too long for my post-workout meal i can feel my blood sugar dropping and that's after the 300 pre and the 75 intra and with only 10 iu of insulin so i'm quite insulin sensitive at the moment like my blood my fasting blood sugar is 4.1 um between meals it gets down to four very easily so i probably don't need the insulin but it's a bit more like a habit type thing at the moment safety net hey i've got an overrated underrated here for you guys and i'm curious because there's a lot of popularity right now with sourdough bread i see new people come to me they want to work with me they're like oh yeah i use sourdough bro bread twice a day i wanted to ask you guys why what run why yeah why what what's what am i not sourdough's magic what's the deal so they're supposed to be less less uh uh what do you call it uh celiac redness celiac what's the word i'm looking for uh oh gluten thank you gluten yeah there's supposed to be less celiac in it yeah yeah i couldn't think of the word i didn't know i was eating celiac yeah well i mean okay are you celiac yeah yeah like it doesn't these people they're not celiac like celiacs is like a real thing like if you have gluten you are in agony like people that truly have celiac yeah i i do think you know what i noticed though i cut i cut weed out and my stomach flattens out more i get i i get more distended from it now right okay i'm also dieting too right when i cut it out so there's that correlation but i yeah i just i feel like when i eat a lot of bread because i look i love freaking bread like i eat bread all the time yeah every day but when i do you know it's like i so i think there's a level around i think there's like levels to it you know what i'm saying like maybe i don't have like the full blown right i think there's the way i see it is there's celiac disease and then there's a range of people that have a certain amount of gluten sensitivity yeah yeah right yeah yeah now okay here's the other thing though and i still want to get your guys's rating on it but i discovered this because i i i tried it right in fact peyton's uh girl or fiancee wife yeah she uh what's that dusty eva eva yeah she uh she uh she makes sourdough bread she brought me some to the arnold's so freaking good so i was like man maybe i'm going to get into making this or maybe i'll just buy it it turns out that a lot of the commercial stuff isn't even real they put vinegar in commercial bread so it's not even the real deal so if you're going to the store and buying it it's not why what do you guys think what does the vinegar do the it gives it the flavor it gives it that sour yeah it's not actually sourdough bread is what he's saying yeah oh okay okay well i love sourdough bread but i mean like to answer the question of over under in terms of bodybuilding it's overrated a million percent yeah um in terms of bread as terms of taste delicious especially fine putting butter at a steakhouse making it it is underrated but i will also say that her chocolate croissants are even better than oh i didn't try those oh when they came up here i'm actually convincing them to move here they primarily for the big well it's because i ditched a ton i i complained thoroughly because i had never met them and they did not bring me any and they didn't know who i was well i mean maybe they knew who i was but they didn't give a shit um so i i was giving her shit all weekend long i'm like well you know you like scott he got sourdough so when she came up i got set up in a big big way but uh so yeah for the sport overrated for just being delicious underrated as long as she makes it there you go yeah all right what do you think now that you've been you've been set up man here now like if you go against these guys it's gonna you know you should go against us just to do it yeah the drama i do think it's overrated in terms of bodybuilding um just like one of those just like another fad trend i uh in terms of i love bread in fact i have bread all the way through prep i have on show day too i um training 60s a week eating bread it's a hard life life um you know chris likes to keep the gluten in if it's working so yeah with uh with sourdough i tried it and i probably i'm probably getting it from the wrong source but i just didn't think it was i like really soft bread you know like thick white white totally processed soft bread as processed as it gets um i just find like the bog standard supermarket own brand thick cut white bread we get we get here um every time i go for the sourdough i feel like it gets a little bit tough if you over toast it or you know like it's not quite for me it's not as um it doesn't go down as easily but i'm probably i need to go to a proper baker for it so in fact i had it on a pizza as a pizza base once that was delicious pizza dough pizza base that was really good my dad's friend makes it in his in his restaurant that's delicious i forgot about that okay that was fantastic okay what's the next overrated underrated scott uh we only had a couple uh fancy coffees that was another one i always purposely i don't know why it's like the worst dad old man thing that i could possibly do that no one gets but me because i just live in my own little world where i'm the only one laughing whenever i order a coffee i pretend like i don't know their terms right i don't want to ask for a large i want a large i'm not taking part i'm not gonna be i'm going to purpose you  I don't even know what you're getting, wow, or black iced coffee, that's what I'll ask for, but yeah, I like just not taking part, I don't like to, know that, I don't want to know, I don't want to know, I don't want to know, I'm curious on Sass's answer on this because, you know, the UK coffee is a big thing, it's a big thing, it's a big thing, it's a big thing, it's a big thing, it's a big thing, it's a big thing, it's a big thing, it's a big thing, it's a big thing, it's a big thing, it's a big thing, it's a big thing, it's a big thing, it's a big thing, it's a big thing, it's a big thing, it's a big thing, it's a big thing, it's a big thing, it's a big thing, it's a big thing, it's a big thing, it's a big thing, it's a big thing, it's a big thing, it's a big thing, it's a big thing, it's a big thing, it's a big thing, like, you know, instant, cheap. It has to be a really nice, like premium brand type coffee. Off-season, pre-contest for some reason, I don't know why, I can just, I can get the cheapest coffee and I can put the worst flavor drops in it and it just, for me, it tastes amazing. And all prep, I'll drink that. Like, the flavor, like, you ask anything. You ask any coffee. Gas station coffee. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. You ask any coffee enthusiast or connoisseur, you mention flavor drops, they'll look at you like you're a piece of crap. Like, you put, why would you ruin, why would you ruin the flavor of, you know, perfectly strong black coffee with anything sweet? But in prep, that's all I want. Literally, on the way to all these shows I did, I went to the supermarket, got the cheapest coffee and put, like, cheap sweetener in it and that's just my day made. But in off-season, I can't handle that kind of coffee for some reason. So, bit of a split personality there. You guys don't do, like, the type of coffee we do. Like, you guys don't do, like, the K-Cups and stuff like that, do you? Just like the standard, you know, just drip coffee, American-style gas station. No, I love it, though, because I was in the, it was in Vegas. Every time I did a show in the U.S., the hotel would have that. And you put a load of coffee at the top. That's the worst machine, too. Oh, right. Well, it was just on top. That was the best thing ever. Five coffees. Every time you walk by, you can just have another one. Yeah, it was great. Whereas here, we have, like, Nespresso machines where you either put your own coffee in and it grinds it, or you get pods with fresh coffee in it. And it's quite a bit of an ordeal to get one little bit of coffee. And then, so, yeah, it's very different here, definitely. Yeah. The first two places I ever saw, like, a restaurant cappuccino machine in a gym was in Australia and England. In England, yeah. Oh, yeah. And I was like, do you have a cappuccino machine at the gym? Yeah. Yeah. You know what? Completely normal. And people literally, yeah, you walk into Doherty's Gym in Melbourne and you can order a coffee and they give it to you on a saucer with a little cup. Yeah, yeah. That's class, man. Like, and they got to wash the dishes after. Yeah. Like, it's real coffee. They're not necessarily a cup. They're very snobby there, too. Here's a cup, you caveman. I asked for, the first place we went in Australia, I asked for cream on the side and they did, that's not their language, I guess, because they brought me, like, a scoop of sour cream. Yeah. All right. Literally. I was like, oh, and with, like, a little bit of cream. Yeah. And they're like, oh, okay. What do you call this one here? Because that's what I want more of. You guys want to hear what's terrible? I didn't know. I'm like, okay, so I'm in Australia and this is the cream. I guess their cream is in a scoop, you know, it's like on a plate. Like, we did not put that in. Yeah, I was like, I guess this is what I'm supposed to do, you know, and I'm like, yeah, we literally had been in Australia for like an hour, right? So I put the sour cream in my coffee and it didn't mix in very well. God, you're making me sick. That's horrible. That's a white sauce, Scott. Yeah. It goes against everything Ron stands for. Yeah. Sorry, Ron. That is fucking classic. That was all I had for overrated, underrated. I don't know if you guys have any other. It ended on a great note. All right. Okay. What about you, Dusty? Did you have a... I mean, for me, I just like straight espresso. I just want four shots, kick me in the face, throw it on some ice, and let's go. So that's my go-to. But, you know, it's just one of those deals where you can make it at home and half the time I'm still buying it out for $4 like an idiot. Yeah. I don't know why Ron didn't say that comment out loud, by the way. Yeah, I don't either. Well, at the time, I was trying not to interrupt, and then it wound up being bad timing, and it was... Ash was talking. Just to fill our audience in and to fill in our guest, our guest host, the son. Sassan said, I like my bread white and processed. White. Thick white and processed. Thick white and processed. And then Dusty and I got a text from Ron that said, the same way Dusty likes his women. Thick white and heavily processed. And that is absolutely true. Oh, God. I'll be honest, the white part isn't necessary, but the thick and heavily processed absolutely matters. The last two, yes. Yeah. That's good. That's good. Why not? I just smiled. I was like, see, this is why I know he's my friend. He understands the truth. It just, Sass said it, and I couldn't help my brain. My brain said, same way Dusty likes his women. Like, I didn't mean to think that. I'm going to be honest, Ron, I thought the same, like, it came to me. I just didn't have to tell you that. It just sounded like a ginger joke to me. I prefer him heavily processed. That is true. And yes, Sass, a little extra thickness goes a long way. Amen. Amen. Okay, we got, was there another overrated, underrated, Scott? That was the last one that I had. Yeah. That was the last one you had. How you doing, Sass, for time? Thanks for coming on, buddy. I'm good. I'm probably a permanent thing. I'm going to eat soon, but I'm good for now. Yeah, yeah. Where are you training today? Where are you training right now? So, it's the gym, it's the gym I, I joined when I was 17. This big gym opened up near my mum's house where we lived. It's a commercial gym, but originally, it's called Total Fitness. Originally, that gym, the first one, which is the HQ of all of them, it's the biggest one. I'm sure the guy who set it up was a bodybuilder because he had some really cool kit. We had Cybex, Nautilus, Hammer Strength, and there were some big guys in there. That's where I started my bodybuilding journey in the gym world, in the competitive world. That's where I met my first kind of competitive bodybuilder friends. But over the years, it's kind of gotten a bit more commercialized, but it's still, I think I've been going there for so long that it's home to me. And people look at me funny. Like, I get people coming there, coming up to me like, are you sass? Like, yeah, yeah. You just did the Olympia. Yeah. Why are you training in this gym? And it's because you've got old people, you've got young, you know, it's a family gym almost, but at the heart of it, it's still got all the full Hammer Strength kit. It's got some of the old school. It's got some Nautilus kit just came in. It's got a 200 meter running track inside the gym around all the kit. So it's a very big gym and I think I've just been going, people leave me alone in there because it's not a bodybuilding gym. There's a few bodybuilders in there, but people just, they all know me, but they're not really fussed. They don't care what I'm eating and what I'm taking and, you know, they don't need to ask me for advice. When I go to bodybuilding gyms in the UK, I just, I feel like the eyes are on me and I can't relax. Like my gym time is, I was a lifestyle bodybuilder for 15 years before I even thought about competing. So I was never a competitive bodybuilder for a long time. It was just something I did to relax, to feel good, to get stronger, to get bigger. But I feel like when I go to a hardcore bodybuilder gym, I'm not quite as relaxed as I'd like to be, you know, so it's not an escape for me anymore. So I think, so that's where I'm training. Total Fitness in Wilmslow. I think I'll be there forever. Hey, I got a question for you. Related to that, this being such a big year for you, you know, you made such an impression on bodybuilding, showed up so many times, did so well. I imagine that your experience going to the Olympia, there were probably a lot of people that were like, oh, hey, they're sad. How did you feel about the way that you were, you know, received this year by just people like being around Vegas? I'm sure like, if you went over to the Dragon's Lair, it was like nonstop. People wanted to talk and stuff like that. So just throughout the year, it was incredible. I think doing Detroit, people knew me, but they weren't really, they weren't expecting a lot. Like, I always show up in shape and, but as I did each show when I kept coming second to big hitters like Bonac, Andrew, Regan, big hitters big hitters big hitters big hitters big hitters big hitters big hitters big hitters big hitters big hitters big hitters big hitters big hitters big hitters big hitters! big hitters  So, people started to get invested in my story. So by the time I got to Toronto, which was my fourth show, I think, fourth or fifth show, I had people from Toronto stopping me, taking pictures like, we love Regan, but we really want you to win, we've been following your story since Detroit and everyone seemed to just want me to win because I kept coming second and I kept coming second and I kept getting knocked back, kept getting stuck at airports and you know, I had a bit of a tough time. So there was so many people that I had a bit of a tough time. and people are all invested in my story, and people are all invested in my story, and people are all invested in my story, and all that are all invested in my story, and all that are all invested in my story, and all that are all invested in my story, and all that are all that are all that are all that are all that are all that are all that are all that are all that are all that are all that are all that are all that are all that are all that are all that are all that are all that are all that are all that are all that are all that are all that are all that are all that are all that are all that are all that are all that are all that are all that are all that are all that are all that are all that are all that are all that are all that are all that are all that are all that are all that are all that are all that are all that are all that are all that are all that are all that are all that are all that are all that are all that are all that are all so um you feel like that's cool for the first time i felt like i'd made it you know i'd made it to a super high level and there was fans from like australia brazil mexico stopping at the tables and it was pretty overwhelming almost so uh it was that's that's what's given me a bit more hunger to try and get back there next year because i loved it so much i gotta ask you i gotta ask you about the results of the show itself um obviously the crowd saw a hell of a showdown that night very close call as we saw you know derek won pre-judging and hottie actually won the finals but derek came out on top um obviously you know uh andrew in third and you know samson and fourth and all that what were you seeing like you know you guys are all sitting backstage i know what it's like i've been back there at the olympia you guys are you know chilling out some guys are chatting some guys are not um but what are you seeing what do you are you what's going through your head as a kind of finals is rolling along are you are you guys talking is anyone saying like i think i think i think hottie's got this or derek's got this or did you talk to anybody or are you just watching i think um there wasn't many people talking i think so there was groups there was like that top five group that were very focused like you couldn't really speak to them and derek seemed quite relaxed funny enough he wasn't had he was in his corner with his little crew uh samson looked very intense and i could nick looked very intense and i and i got that and then there was like a group of us that were just super happy to be there like me jordan uh as um brett uh martin was all he's always martin's always buzzy and happy um there was a few of us and i was just kind of there i was just super i was it was like a fan moment you know i was watching derek pump up and samson pump up and all these guys that i've watched on the screen at the olympia for so many years so for me i was just inside i was smiling and i was buzzing and but i was also i was also i knew i had a job to do but at the end of the day for me it was more about the experience i was at my all-time best um and i was just super confident and then looking around people talked i think me like me jordan brett we talked a little bit more because you know we're not in the run into place in the in the prize money so i think when you're when you're at that end you kind of just you're quiet in your own thoughts and you're trying to kind of block out the noise so i could understand what each type of person was kind of pretty much thinking especially someone like samson who defending his title derek who's trying to win it again haddie who's come so close he's won it but he could have won it you know another one or two times i could understand that those guys must have been you know very intense in their mindset so no one really spoke unless like i said it was like the back of the pack type brendan always he always he always chats to me for ages like i love that guy uh bright um bonak william he he's he's super friendly super nice i always talk to him he was actually on the flight from amsterdam to vegas he was like the seat next to me so um them too i talked to a lot but it was for me it was relaxed at show day i'm always relaxed even when i was fighting for first with reagan and and um bonak and andrew and reagan again so i was still kind of quite relaxed that's just the way i deal with things but i also understand that majority are very they're very zoned in and locked into what they need to do where where were you during the final announcement at the finals like are you still hanging out backstage or you grabbed your stuff and come around or were you not even in the building like where were you no we left and went to the hotel and i was pretty much just watching it on the phone um the thing is i had i i got stuck in amsterdam and i was working so i had guys i had like four guys competing that weekend back in the uk so i was checking the meeting and because of the time difference i was staying up till like 2 a.m vegas time so that they could wake up and send me their pictures i'd go to sleep at 2 a.m and then i'd i'd naturally wake up at like 4 a.m because i'm my body clock so so by the time thursday friday come around i was so tired i was almost like at point slurring my words to leanne i was i was on another level of just fatigue i was pretty much riding on just adrenaline and hype so by the time we you know we got called backstage and you know the top 10 don't have to who you don't make the top 10 you don't need to go back um yeah at that point leanne was the same she had jet lag and we just thought let's just go back to the hotel because i couldn't even keep my eyes open properly just sat down backstage so we went back to the hotel and i watched the rest and um while i was at the show i didn't get a proper look obviously we're at the side and backstage you don't really see the full full physique yeah on show you see crazy shit under weird lighting yeah crazy spotty weirdness yeah yes because there's one thing just standing around and then there's another thing posing under the lights pumped you guys will see more than me so i was trying to look when i was at the side of the stage i was kind of looking at the screen behind me to see what the top four looked like um and i was really impressed with andrew he blew me away uh haddie was very sharp obviously samson he missed the mark and i think derrick derrick just looked huge to me back because in in the in the lineup when we went out to do our first first um posing you know in in the numbers numerical order i was in between behind me was samson in front of me was derrick so i was in front in in between two mr olympias and derrick was just like from shoulder to shoulder and from lat to lat was just so wide so much muscle um i could definitely see why he won in person he was just so impressive size wise i think had he just had that kind of typical condition sharpness so i don't know i just i couldn't decide to be honest who i would have picked if i was at the judges table so it was a hard one right but i think if had he won it i would be happy um even andrew i was so impressed with andrew probably not been fine yeah yeah to move in fine with the top three all just like yeah yeah exactly that's that's exactly what i think huh awesome man thanks to give us an insight into your olympia experience because most people will never be back there and i'm lucky i got to go back there so many times uh just because of like handing out an award with mutant or something like that we get to go stand backstage for 20 minutes and you're kind of like oh it's cool back here you know and buzzing around and and uh it was incredible every every every second it was just crazy yeah yeah yeah appreciate it sass oh you're welcome to have you man we'll wrap this up guys you got to go eat 100 grams of honey get your honey in get your insulin going yeah you got you got some old ladies to impress down at total fitness there so here's here's your mission for today let one of the old ladies give you an arm squeeze today at the total fitness yeah yeah make your day sounds good okay all right hey thanks sass for coming down thanks everybody for watching remember like share subscribe comment and ring the bell and remember i am mutant.com i am mutant.com dusty or big ron are your codes avoid people save money get it delivered to your door very quickly remember hardcore iso big greens mutant fk and everyone should get on the gear okay thanks again sassan harati eight shows in the bag couple of wins olympia appearance yeah that's your first olympia too yeah amazing what a great year for you we're so happy that you came back even though you never went anywhere you know you're always sass thank you guys for having me it's been it's been great being a guest on the show and i will come back anytime you want wow we try to think of you more of as a guest host but we did ask you a lot of questions today so yeah we didn't do a very good job of keeping yeah we didn't do a really good job of hosting today i probably would have stayed quiet otherwise i don't mind getting  I was good. Thanks, buddy. Remember, remember everybody, it's just bodybuilding. All right, guys, so a bunch of you had asked for tank tops. So the day has finally come that we've got them. If you're interested in one of our tanks, check them out at the merch store, I'll have links below. Who knows, you might end up meeting somebody else that listens to the shows too. I've had that happen more than once. Somebody's like, hey, you listen to that podcast. I like those guys too. And before you know it, there's a budding bromance just waiting to happen. So if you want to look frickin' jacked, and support the podcast, and support the podcast, and you guys can do that all at the same time. Just check out the shirts.