Another thing I would look at when it comes to exercise selection is swapping movements that are going to be more challenging on central nervous system. So deadlift variation potentially swap to a 45 degree hyperextension. If you are doing a free bar back squat, Smith machine squat, swap to a hack squat or a leg press. You will still get an immense amount of stimulus without the fatigue cost that comes alongside of these lifts. Especially when you are in a deprived state where your energy levels are always going to be dipping like you're in deficit. You don't have as much energy. What's up guys? Welcome back to Think Big Bodybuilding Media. I'm Scott McN hanging out again with IBB Pro Kubachellin deep in his offseason now. What's going on, man? We're deep. We're deep. We're getting there, Scott. We're getting there. Hit 269 this morning. So, I'm uh I'm getting there. It's It's not my heaviest yet. No. But in terms of quality and the density, it's it's definitely getting up there. So, I am uh I'm pleased especially with how effortless it has been to get here and how much I have held my condition and how how dry I'm pretty much staying. It's it's it's incredible. So, I'm uh I've got a lot of a lot of tools left to play with still that I can yeah explore to see to see more progress happen. So, I'm going to uh yeah, I'm going to just keep going and keep rolling with it and see see where I can take it and see what we can do, right? So, that's going to be the plan now. And uh and the goal. >> Hey, real quick, too. Um Incrill X, so last time we spoke, you had tried it because you're like, I I just got to know, but >> a little bit, >> you know, talking before the show with you, you said you're still holding off. And listen, I'll I'll see a lot of people that we start working together and they're like, "Yeah, I just want to jump on everything right now. What's your mindset behind?" So, you're not using the Inkrlex yet. I Dude, I think this is a huge point to make. >> Why aren't you just throwing it in, man? You've got it. It's right there. >> Yeah. So, let's think about this one. And I think a lot of people get get really stuck into >> rushing with food, with drugs, and all the tools they've got left to play with. Right now, when I structure things for myself and clients, I don't just think about the process now. I think about long-term pushup. So, my offseason phases don't last 12, 16 weeks. It's more so that's if someone can adhere and not blow it by overeating, which happens very often, and then you can't stay in offseason for that long. But if you can control yourself, you can stay in an offseason 20, 30 weeks if you manage your food correctly and your blood work stays Gucci and there's no negatives showing up. So my thought process is and always has been it's so hard if you are seeing progression and this is something I can even make errors with when it comes to training and and and all sorts of other things and and mostly for me it's training because I I always analyze stuff deeply but when it comes to food and drugs I'm very comfortable in just staying patient and just letting it do the And the thought process behind it, Scott, is this. If I am growing and I'm gaining weight and I'm gaining size, do I need more drugs? Probably not. >> Do I need more food? No. And don't get me wrong, when we have a cycle length, or shall we say an escalation for a certain period of time within the offseason, let's say if I want to do a 28w week push-up phase, which is what I've got planned now, I will creep up my doses to my peak dose over 12, 14 weeks, and then it's only the last 14 weeks of the cycle where I will stay at peak doses. And in this case, I'm pretty much going to be like peak dose for like last 11 weeks, which I've got planned now. >> Okay. >> So, the options are still vast, right? I've got incre that's on the table. I've got the option of adjusting my stack design where I can potentially add in NPP or swap swap some of the milligrams I'm using because I'm just using Testm and Primo at the moment. So, I've got the options of even adjusting my stack for a compound that will potentially leverage a little bit more water, a little bit more when it comes to training and training performance. And that's still questionable, right? Is it just the water that's influencing it? But regardless, if I am able to move more weight consistently for 11 weeks, I'm probably going to build more muscle tissue. >> Yeah. >> So, if I hit 269 now, my food isn't atrociously high. It's still going down super easy. I'm gaining weight. Do I need to be adding in yet? No. When I hit a plateau and I notice that things have slowed down and I'm not really stepping forward, it probably makes sense to add it then because then what happens is the progression just continues. >> And let's say I started at at week one of this offseason. I have gone straight to my peak doses, food high straight away. Do you think I would be able to stay in an offseason for 28 weeks? >> It would be like hitting I'm not a car guy, but from what I understand of cars and racing, it'd be like hitting the nitrous button like right off the line while you're still in first gear, basically. >> Yeah, 100%. And when it comes to building muscle tissue, right, a lot of people think that it's easy and quick. I have changed my stance on the process of building muscle and truly adding a substantial amount of muscle where it's going to be visible and it's going to be noticeable on your weight as well, but noticeable on stage. I think to make that sort of change, it's not going to happen in 18 weeks. It's not going to happen in 20 weeks. I think 25 weeks of slowly pushing up your body weight and growing, I think, is a minimum. But to be able to do that, you will of course need a fairly lean start point. Like if you're not close to stage lean or stage lean and you attempt to do 25 week offseason phase, you're just going to get super [\h__\h] fat. It's just you need to be extremely lean to do that, but also patient enough with not adding food prematurely. Like Scott man, when it comes to food, right, check this out. Guess how long I was on the same calories in total weeks before I have taken my food up last week. Guess how many how many weeks in total? >> I don't know. But I I mean I can't guess, but I've seen I've seen long periods, man. I've turned around and been like, "Holy crap." Like I may say to a client like I I I almost feel bad as a coach that like we haven't changed anything. But it's been 10 weeks, you know, since we've made any changes and they still are continuing to breast. It's not always the case obviously, but yeah, I've seen long windows. What What are we talking? >> 11 and a half weeks without a single change. >> That's crazy, man. >> And that took me from 252 all the way up to 265. And I only made a change when my body weight pretty much held for like 15 days. So I had I had two weeks where on average my body weight was the same but the week prior to that my body weight was pretty much like half a pound or a pound less. So I almost had three weeks where my body weight pretty much stayed the same. And even in that week even in those weeks I would argue I held my weight and I improved my body composition as well to a degree and that actually gave me an opportunity then to push forward. Um which is which is quite cool. And and and you know what something I I've really found interesting off the back of our last conversation as well and I've noticed this with with a lot of clients uh that have struggled with insulin resistance in past and and generally in the offseason with getting not only heavier but using SLU in a periodized fashion in offseason has been very interesting because what I've noticed is SLU in a fat loss phase it it works incredibly well allowing you to get leaner whilst to a degree eating more food and it almost makes the whole system work better where you're a lot more efficient at actually losing body fat and and anyone who is dialed in like a lot of people say it doesn't work I believe it does it definitely makes a big difference >> in an offseason phase and I've actually I've actually done this myself um this week I feel like and that's just theoretical when you use an offseason phase and your food is high, it almost makes you a lot more efficient at utilizing the food that you are already eating. So, I'll give you an example. I had a client pretty much held weight for two weeks, no changes, no drug changes, no nothing, right? I added SLUPP in 3 days in,2 up, no changing, no change in composition. >> No kidding. Okay. And then his weight is just creeping up across those weeks. But the difference individuals and the fullness is crazy. And the feedback from him is my appetite is higher. >> Yeah. >> Food's going down much easier because his food is pretty high >> for him. And his pumps are a lot better in the gym. So the only theory I could potentially have with this is it can actually to a degree improve your ability to sustain positive nutrition partitioning where you are able to partition these nutrients towards building muscle tissue as opposed to just storing as body fat which most people will struggle with in an offseason. I think this is the biggest difference between some of the genetic elite and some of the guys that don't have greatest genes when it comes to building muscle tissue. I think is ability to stay insulin sensitive and grow tissue for extended periods of time as well. So tools like this potentially could be a gamecher but when you are using them in a smart way and you are not overusing them. >> So something very interesting and I've even noticed this this week cuz I I introduced it back in on Saturday again. My weight was holding at 266 and then I was like 265 uh sorry 266 sorry 267 >> 267 and a half then a little dip back in 267 268 and then 269. >> Okay. Wow. >> That's pretty much how my weight trended across all days since. >> And did you notice did you notice feeling different during that phase too? Were you seeing like like positive improvements in the gym, you know, things like that? It it's I only use up to like 500 mcgs if I use in an offseason. I don't use more than that in a maximum I'll use in a diet phase is a thousand. So 1 milligram. I'll never use anything above that. >> But what I notice personally is pretty much same feedback as my client. My I mean my blood sugar is always great but if I take my blood sugar now before a meal it's like 3.9. So it's almost like the roadblock that we always hit in an offseason phase, right, is you will lose some insulin sensitive and and you will lose that partition over time. >> So if you can leverage that in that phase and sustain your nutrition partitioning to stay in the right spot or even improving sensitiv sensitivity, it's only going to benefit you in a fashion where you not only stay leaner but potentially could extend your off seasons even longer. And another thing I've noticed as well is definitely a big improvement in not just LDL but LDL reduction was substantial in blood work with a client of mine. Quite a few clients to be honest. Yeah. >> And definitely an improvement in triglycerides as well. >> Okay. Interesting. So improve improve cholesterol overall. I I'm seeing some some pretty good benefits over I I'll be curious to to hear, you know, when we do get more I hope the stuff gets approved, you know. I want to see just more research, more trials overall. But I I'm definitely, you know, I you've heard my my take on it. I'm a big fan of SLU. >> Yeah, I think so. Endurance as well. Yeah. You will notice and do you know what in the offseason phase as well where most people start to fail is they will get when they start feeling sluggish, slower, they start moving less. >> So they get pretty much lazier and lazier. If you can use something like SLU at your peak body weight when you are heavier and you feel sluggish and all of a sudden you have more energy, you have better output, combining that with some faster activity, it might just give you second wind, it might improve, it might not only improve your capacity to have better endurance, but improve your actual output and improve to a degree your fitness levels, resting heart rate, and all of these things that then allow you to tolerate more training volume. If you can tolerate more training volume, better recovery, what happens then? >> You're going to grow more muscle. >> Exactly. And that's the goal, right? >> So, man, do you know what it's >> and this is why I love I love love your show as well because >> you get all these different perspectives, right? And I think if we could all just stay a little bit more open-minded >> with some things and not just put things in brackets, like >> if we hadn't had this conversation before, right? And somebody just told you that SLP is just a fat loss tool. That's what you would blindly believe, wouldn't you? >> Yeah. Yeah. You just kind of leave it at it would be easy. I I think that's important, man. You know, it's uh and that's a that's a value I I do agree of having multiple perspectives. Yeah. >> Um, there's there's another thing I wanted to ask you about. Make sure we got on this topic today. You know, does it relate? I don't know. But you tell me, you know, something we were talking about in text was losing muscle during a a fat loss phase, during a contest prep. Sometimes we see a pro that comes in, you know, they're they're they've downsized. They come in looking small, >> you know, how does that happen? How do we avoid it? And I think this is important too for basically everybody. Dude, I can't tell you how many people just average guys that want to work, you know, train with me and they say, you know, but the number one thing I don't want to lose muscle, you know, when I diet. >> Shall we shall we break it down in stages? Uh training, drugs, diet. >> Yeah, that sounds What do you want to start with? What do you want to start with? Drugs, training, or diet? >> Oh, man. I feel like diet is probably the biggest mover, right, when it comes to fat loss. So, let's let's start there, man. >> For losing muscle, I would probably say the training. But if you want to start with a diet, we'll start with a diet, right? >> Oh, for muscle loss. Absolutely. >> Because that's the topic, right? But but you said diet already, so we'll go with diet. That's fine. That's fine. >> Okay. First things first, man, there's two camps and and I think it's fair to say that you will have people that have tendency to not push hard enough and then you will have others that have a tendency to push hard or too hard without pulling back in time or without periodizing their fat loss. And when it comes to periodization, simplifying it, it's you have to do things in a cyclical fashion where for example, Scott, when you are training balls to the wall every single [\h__\h] day, every single week, it it's not sustainable long term. The same applies with dieting. It is not sustainable to maintain a high deficit, especially the bigger you are. More times you will need to actually pull back. So the easiest way I can explain this and and look guys, if there's one thing that I can take a lot of pride in is yes, I'm able to add decent amount of muscle year to year on my on my physique, but I'm also able to to to retain that muscle. And I've done this myself and with many other guys that I've worked with and over the years the approach has gone from avoiding to force my body to go any other way. If you force your body or try to force your body to add muscle tissue, it's going to fight back. The same applies when it comes to dieting. You almost have to give the body a gentle nudge and do just enough to see the response. So, in a calorie deficit, you want to be eating in a deficit that allows you to sustain a consistent rate of loss. You want to lose just enough body weight, but not that much body weight where you are driving the deficit too high where your training performance will be affected. And we will touch on training next and the drugs as well that work hand inhand with this. But >> with the nutrition especially I think the biggest mistakes we see is this one people over eats protein under eat carbohydrates especially some of the guys at the elite level they do not take times of having an adequate amount of time to refeed and refuel one single day and a cheat meal that is mostly just sodium and high fat isn't going to replenish your glycogen stores sufficiently enough to be able to get you back into a productive place from a training performance standpoint. Your nutrition is based around your training performance and your nutrition is based around you staying in a small consistent deficit over time. The opposite would be in the offseason small consistent surplus over time to not drive body weight. The small consistent surplus over time is there to facilitate your training performance and recovery, nothing more. Because food alone doesn't build muscle. It's your training that does. So, you only need to eat enough food to facilitate your recovery. The same applies in a calorie deficit. You only need to be putting yourself in a deficit that is enough to see a response where you are losing enough body weight each week to get in shape. So, too little food, not enough refeeds. And the reason why this happens mostly, Scott, is because people are not giving themsel enough time to actually prep. >> Yeah. Most of these guys most of these guys >> been crashing at the end and and and and trying to make up for it, then you're dropping the scale too quickly, right? >> It's not just it's not just crashing at the end. But I think what's happening is these guys are starting prep at 16 weeks out knowing they have 40 pounds to lose and then if you have 40 50 pounds to lose in just 16 weeks, >> you are you're crashing from the very start, mate. You're not you're not crashing at the end. You're literally crashing from 16 weeks out. So, the length of your prep should be dictated by how much body weight roughly you have to lose. And you should have that reference point based off what you weighed on stage last time. >> Yeah. >> Versus what you weigh right now. >> If you know, let's say you've had an offseason, you're an IFBB pro. Last time you was on stage, you was 240. You've ended up 290 in this offseason and you've built 8 pounds of muscle tissue. That's approximately 248 pounds on stage, right? >> Okay. >> 290 coming down to 250, that's still 40 pounds. >> It's a lot. >> If you have 40 pounds to drop, right? And you only give yourself 16 weeks. Let's say 42. >> Right. That's probably around £3 per weekish. >> You can't stay full on that at all. Absolutely. You know, I can't imagine what your training would be like on that either. >> Absolutely not. you you you will lose muscle tissue. But >> Scott, that's 16 weeks out from the show. >> You are not dieting in peak week. >> That's true. >> So, it's not 16 weeks, it's 15 weeks, >> which then it's it's it's three pounds per week that you've got to hit no matter what. >> Right, Scott? Most IBB pros have travel times. Out of that 16 weeks, you're telling me they're going to have 16 perfect weeks of fat loss. This rarely ever happens because most people get illnesses. Most people have weeks off. You will need a de load. You will need to do this. You will need to do that. So if you have 42 Oh, 100%. >> If someone has 42 pounds to drop, I would always aim for a minimum of 22 weeks of dieting. And that's 20 that would that would be 23 weeks out >> because 22 weeks of dieting means >> your peak week is not there for dieting. Your peak week is there to be able to drop fatigue and then fill up. You cannot do both at the same time when your body is tired. And you see this term used very often with even some guys that have been coaching for many years where they're saying, you know, your refeeds were successful because you burnt through the food. I would argue if you have a client refeed and is burning through food and dropping weight, that food isn't doing anything apart from just giving them energy. So if someone drops weight off the back of refeed, they have literally used up all that food to drop fatigue. They have not filled any glycogen stores. If your body weight has not gone up off the back of high days, you're not replenishing glycogen yet. >> You ever notice how every influencer suddenly has their own supplement company. One day they're doing cable crossovers, the next they revolutionized sports nutrition. That's interesting timing. And somehow every formula has like 47 different ingredients, but only three grams total per serving. Amazing. That's why I like True Nutrition. They don't sell hype, they sell ingredients. You want creatin? Buy creatin. Take a full dose. Take five grams. Done. You want citrine? Buy citrine. No pump matrix needed. No proprietary blends. No underdosed fairy dust. No paying for someone's social media budget. They manufacture inhouse, sell pure single form ingredients, and they let you build your own stack like an adult. Because bodybuilding isn't complicated. Lift heavy, eat right, know exactly what you're taking. Truen.com. Use our code think to get 10% off and support the podcast. less influencer magic, more actual supplements. I I would argue that at times I think that can be even beneficial though. Like I I'd be okay with that. Sometimes I don't want somebody to be completely filled back up. You know what I mean? Especially as we're trying to get things moving. I'll take some cheat meals where you drop. Also too factors like if their digestion started getting slow. Sometimes you get that cheat meal or that high day in there and it pushes all the waste out. you know, it gets their system cleared and if they wake up hungrier the next day, like I I'll take those. But that's not how you're going to be able to get loaded for, you know, your your final show. That's >> absolutely. But if that happens in a peak week, that just means you haven't done job your job correctly. So, you need to scrap that that final week of prep is not for dieting. So, I like let's say if your show's 20 weeks out, >> essentially, you need to be starting 21 weeks out, not 20 weeks out. So you always add that extra week on because that's your peak week done. >> So >> yeah, >> with nutrition, we need to make sure that the bigger guys especially are giving themselves time to eat. And I'm not just saying a single cheat meal, Scott. What I'm saying is when someone needs to feed feed up and someone weighs 260 lb, 250 pounds, one day is not going to do [\h__\h] You need two days feeding them pretty hard. And if I was to give like a rough guideline in terms of how much carbohydrates, I would always shoot for pretty much man around 10 gram of carbs per kilogram of body weight. If someone's lean enough, if someone which is it's a lot, it's a lot of food. If someone's really lean and you want to refill them up, they probably need around that amount of food in terms of actual carbohydrates to get that response. >> Now, Scott, if someone has that much to drop, they're probably not getting refeeds. They're probably not doing refeeds because they don't have the time for them. That's true, too. Yeah. So, if you're just driving yourself to the ground on low food, high deficit, no time to refuel, no time to refeed, no time to manage fatigue through nutrition, which is that's what nutrition does. That's what rest does, you are going to lose muscle tissue. You need to make sure that you are feeding adequately and you are not eating 500 grams of protein per day, but actually having more carbohydrates and potentially even less protein when you are dieting because that is what's going to facilitate your training performance. Carbohydrates, not protein. Protein can be broken down through gluccogen gluccogenesis >> and can be broken down and used as a source of fuel as a source of energy but it's actually a very hard process and I would argue protein is a pretty [\h__\h] source of energy. So, if I was to get someone who is struggling with training performance and I know that they've got the typical bro method of dieting with high protein, low carb, low fat, I would probably just lower the protein, increase the carbohydrates and instantly they would probably drop weight and have better training performance. And normally when this happens, right, the reason why people drop weight is simply one, a drop in fatigue, drop in some water inflammation, but also when they have more energy through that food going in, they will be moving more. They will be fidgeting more, they will train harder. All of these things will lead to the need, the overall expenditure of calories being higher. >> Yeah. >> Because they're not completely wrecked. So I think nutrition plays a huge role. how you structure nutrition, how you periodize nutrition, your high days as of when they are needed. And I'm not talking about high days and your first four, four, five weeks of dieting, Scott, first four, five, six weeks of dieting, you probably won't need a single high day. Where single high days where where high days really come into play is as you get leaner. So let's say someone's dieting for 22 weeks. The first 8 to n weeks, I would always aim to have a higher rate of loss. That's when the bulk of the work is done. When someone gets leaner, that is when we slow things down. And that is when we do start to incorporate more refeeds and more higher days to not only slow them down, but manage fatigue and make sure that we play a game of pushing and pulling where you are almost wanting to trick the body into fat loss where it's just moving with a flow. You're not forcing it. That's the diet part as simplified as I potentially can because I can literally I can probably break down 10 more different things. But have you got any questions on that or have you got any input? >> No, I I I like where you're going with this. I do think that, you know, just to kind of reiterate one aspect you said was that time frame, you know, and and a factor before that is is not getting, you know, and we all know not getting too fat to begin with, right? So that's going to be the biggest factor on what kind of time frame it takes. Now, when I first started bodybuilding and competing, guys were dieting at the most like 12 weeks. And before that, it was like 8 to 10. It very rapidly went to a 16week diet. And >> 16 weeks was considered to be like mindbendingly long. People being, you know, cuz I think that people were so used to dieting super hard. So now you're thinking to yourself, oh, I'm going to be dieting that hard, but now for 16 weeks, right? No, you're not dieting quite as hard because you have more time. And and now you then we go to 20. And now I'm hearing you say 22, which by the way, that's about the time frame I like too is is give give yourself plenty of time. You know, 22 weeks I think is fantastic. I do believe that, especially for guys that aren't necessarily your size. Take a guy who's 200 lb. I believe that he can still continue to grow for a lot of that period, too, if he keeps himself plugged in. I don't believe that you necessarily need to be in a massive surplus in order to keep growing muscle. In fact, we've seen studies to show that you can continue growing muscle in a deficit as a natural person. So, if we're on gear, you know, I I I think that you can continue to grow, especially for the smaller guy, classic guys, uh, light heavyweight, middleweight bodybuilders, you'll continue to be able to grow through a lot of that process. And and when you're talking a 22- week diet, it's not like, you know, it's not terrible. It's not 22 weeks of hell. You're not starting out with an hour of cardio and and low carbs. Like, you're still eating, you know, you're still training hard and you're you're trying to create an environment as you're kind of putting it that we're trying to lead the body versus force it, you know? And I I I think that that is definitely the most successful route to get a body that that ends up looking fresh on stage versus worn and and flat. The the options are there. The options are this. You either do a 12week prep and you have to suffer like hell for entire 12 weeks or you do a a 22- week prep where you will likely feel a little bit [\h__\h] for last two weeks. That's literally it. I mean, what would you rather do? I mean, it's got to be a much more enjoyable experience. And also a consideration to make out of that 22 weeks, Scott, for for for my guys and myself and my clients, it's it's never 22 weeks of dieting because I do incorporate active diet breaks when we take the loads where and this is something I see definitely a common mistake with is like if someone's trying to drop fatigue and diet at the same time, it's counterproductive. You cannot drop fatigue whilst remain in a calorie deficit. So you will need times where you at least bring your calories up to maintenance and take some extra rest days. It's not physically possible to not do that. So when clients have concerns about longer diets, it's like you should have a concern if I told you not to diet for as long because you wouldn't get these diet breaks. You wouldn't get times where I tell you to have a rest and eat more food. It's going to be literally right, we only have this time left >> and that's it. Now, to a degree, the length of the prep is always going to be dictated by how much body fat someone has, but I would still urge on giving someone more time for that exact reason that you've mentioned. >> You will simply be able to even build some muscle tissue at the start of the prep when drugs are going in back in, food is still relatively high, and your rate of loss is slow. Guess what? If your training performance is high and you are even improving your training performance, that is still an opportunity for you to make some marginal improvements, which is a win-win. So, for the sake of having an extra 6 weeks of dieting, you could potentially either add a couple of pounds of muscle tissue or retain 3 to four pounds of extra muscle tissue. So, the outcome is always going to be so much better from that perspective. So, amazing point, mate. Uh, amazing point for sure. Now, >> shall we go on to uh training or the drugs? >> Ah, man. I mean, they're it's hard to pick, dude, because they all go hand in hand. Like when you were talking about the nutrition, so much of the nutrition relates to what I was doing to the training, you know, and of course then the gear just it it it helps you to Yeah. And it allows you to kind of I I do think that with gear it allows you to maybe push a little bit harder than you would have been able to otherwise in both directions, >> staying stronger, being able to push harder. >> Yeah, absolutely. And look, I know everyone's dying to listen about the gear and we we'll we'll get on to the gear in a moment, but I think training wise, I think it's worth mentioning this. the training styles that guys have that I don't want to say this without insulting anyone. Some of the biggest guys that we've got that are common for losing size in prep, right? The training styles that they have are very often suited to a very high calorie intake or high carbohydrate diet. >> Oh, I can see that. Yeah. >> Right. So what happens then if they continue to train with that style that doesn't then get supported with enough fuel i.e. carbohydrates. >> What happens then? And insulin and insulin. What happens then? One, the muscle tissue devolmizes. But two, >> they are just driving a high amount of fatigue with very little tension, very little stimulus to the muscle. And guess what? If you are not experiencing enough tension within that muscle, you are going to lose size. So in a contest prep guys, audit your training. Any set extenders, any intensifiers are likely not going to be suited when you are cal in a calorie deficit because you do not have the recovery capacity for this because you are in a calorie deficit. You do not have the nutrition to support training that is going to be more metabolically supported or shall we say pumpbased. That's probably the the best term for people to understand, right? The pump is very much dictated by how much food you eat. When your glycogen stores are empty or even flatter, not completely empty, when you are in a deficit and your food is lower, you're not filled to the brim, you're not using insulin anymore, your pumps are not going to be as great. That doesn't mean [\h__\h] Like a a high pump in in a in a prep is is just not something you chase. And I think most of these guys fall into the trap of doing more volume in an attempt to get a pump. And then all they are doing is just driving more fatigue, using less load, driving less mechanical tension to the muscle, flattening themsel off further, driving more fatigue, and then it's like a repeating pattern and a vicious circle where they are more tired, so they're using less and less weight every single session. If your muscle is not experiencing the same degree of tension it did before and you are just doing extra sets trying to get a pump, you are going to lose muscle tissue. Especially when your nutrition is not supporting that training style in a prep. I want you to go through stages of this. Any drop sets you was doing before, remove them. any set extensions like response sets, you probably don't need them at that point because they will cause an immense amount of fatigue with very little return on investment if you are not in a calorie surplus. any giant sets, any type of training that is going to be taxing on your cardiovascular system to a degree, but any type of training that is more based around pushing nutrients into the muscle is not going to be your best friend in a prep. In a prep, you want just enough volume to retain your training performance and ability to drive high quality mechanical tension into the target area muscle that you're trying to train. That is all you have to focus on. You are not chasing a pump. A pump is not going to be there. Food is going to dictate your pump and drugs to a degree. So, your goal is staying strong. And again, what I've said before, you are aiming to do just enough to hold the muscle tissue on your frame without pushing you above and beyond that point where then recovery is zapped. You are not sleeping and you are constantly trashed across your day. >> Yeah. Listen, um I would say Kuba, so this is this topic right here, the training aspect. Um, one of our first episodes ever that we did was something along the lines of like, uh, tailoring your training to your nutrition. Y >> um, and you've talked about this and some of these ideas were new to me at that time. Now, it's been like a good year or so. Um, yeah, that's something I've been processing and it's something I've applied, you know, I've paid like in my own life. I I found that after having gotten sick in 21, I wasn't able to push with the same level of intensity. Break my central nervous system down is all it would do. Um, but that doesn't mean that I can't still train. It doesn't mean I can't still get that trigger for growth. But I have to be really careful personally with how many times I crack my CNS. And with multiple rest pauses, I do think for a healthy individual, there's a time and a place that I think that that stuff can be super beneficial. I think that when our surplus is high, being able to push harder and hit failure more often, I I I think that there's benefits to that, especially for a younger guy who's trying to put on as much muscle as possible. But paying closer attention and using the techniques that you just talked about, dude, it's like I said, man, it's something I've applied and I've started talking to my clients about it over the last year and we've seen some pretty awesome success with being able to maintain strength as the calories are going down um through everything you just said, you reducing the intensifiers, focusing more also looking at what like what are the other areas that maybe aren't as beneficial things like isolation work. I, you know, if if we're really low on nutrition, what are the key elements that are helping us to retain this muscle? The key compound lifts. So, I want to be as strong as possible in things like the chest press, compound chest press movement, compound heavy, my meat and potatoes row movement, you know, compound squat pattern movement, things like that versus, you know, wasting a bunch of energy. At the end of the day, we only have so much recovery to go around. >> And if you're spinning that on on a set of pec decks, >> you know that it it's not going to necessarily directly mean that you can't squat as much, but it might it might reduce your recovery if you have a lot of those additional additional noise when your body just can't take it. So, yeah, dude. I I that's I'll tell you Kuba this topic is like if there was one thing I've picked up from you that would be like the number one thing that uh has influenced me. So thank you. >> Excess selection definitely plays a role as well Scott. So great great great thing that you've mentioned there. Another thing I would look at when it comes to excess selection is swapping movements that are going to be more challenging on central nervous system. So deadlift variation potentially swap to a 45 degree hyperextension. If you are doing a free bar back squat, Smith machine squat, swap to a hat squat or a leg press, >> all of these things will still give you an immense amount of mechanical tension. >> Again, stimulus that you need to retain the tissue without driving excessive fatigue. >> If you're doing incin dumbbell press or barbell pressing, >> swap it to Smith machine, swap it to machines. you will still get an immense amount of stimulus without the fatigue cost that comes alongside of these lifts, giving you more bang for your buck at that given time. Especially when you are in a deprived state where your energy levels are always going to be dipping like you're in deficit, you don't have as much energy. Another thing that most people fail to realize and understand is when you improve your training quality, the number of sets that you need to grow or retain the muscle tissue is going to be less. So if you focus simply on quality straight sets with a slight reduction in volume, it's always going to be more and more beneficial both shortterm and long term. M so if you are going to scale back on the volume let's say you've got a leg day right Scott you the the peak volume that you did in your leg day was like five sets of hamstring work split between hamstring curl three sets of hamstring curl two sets of RDL's and then you did two sets of leg extension two sets of leg press two sets of hack squat okay >> sure >> in this instance what I would do is this reduce your volume away from the hip hinge to one working set >> and then I would then what I would actually do is keep two working sets on leg press, keep two working sets on hack squat, one leg session, then other leg session, remove the hack squat and just do the leg press. >> Okay? >> That way you are still getting enough training volume to sustain a meaningful amount of stimulus >> but without driving excessive amount of fatigue. But also you've got that rotation where one session you do have the hack squat which will to a degree give you more actual loading and more fatigue. Next session you've got the leg press which is going to be a little bit less demanding from a central liver system standpoint. So this can be definitely taken into consideration. Um on the training topic there's so much more things that we could go into. Um if there's anything else you want me to touch on, I'm more than happy to do so. But again, like I said, there's so many things that we could venture into when it comes to there's even like there's even stuff like there's even stuff on rep ranges where >> I would definitely air on side of keeping your rep ranges consistent where you are not driving your rep ranges higher because again higher rep ranges are going to be more suited to you eating more food and higher carbohydrates. So even scaling back on your rep ranges and sitting mostly in like 8 to 10, which is still moderate rep range. It's not a rep range that's going to force you to go extremely heavy, but for most people, 8 to 10 is going to be bulletproof >> across most lifts. And I think in a deficit, I think that's perfect. So avoid high rep range work, avoid high volume, avoid super sets, giant sets, and set extensions if you are looking to retain muscle. staying big, staying full, and staying strong. Guys, you are not going to stay full if you are overcooking your training. I've tried it. And the way I stay fuller in prep is doing less volume, less reps, and simply maintaining high load. Love it. Yeah, I'm with you. So, how does the gear tie in with all this, Kuba? That's what they've all been waiting for. >> The cherry on top. Let's give you two perspectives. I think some guys that have got to a certain level taking a certain amount of drugs then have like a U-turn where they let's say someone is used to taking 2,000 milligrams in a prep. >> All right. >> Or or or 2,000 milligram injectables plus oral. So it could be even 3,000 milligs in a prep. Okay. >> Yeah. >> Let's say that's someone's standard. That's not uncommon. know I mean that's pretty standard for most top guys because very often people talk about the cycles right and they they're like they'll talk about all these injectables and they'll be like 1.5 g you know 2 g whatever which on paper like three four injectables it's not that much okay but then they don't actually count orals into the total milligrams and it's like >> hold on a minute you've just told me that you only take this but >> you're taking like 150 milligrams of orals a day that's Yeah, >> you know that's taking this up to like 3 and a half grams. >> Anyway, you're going to have two camps, Scott. You're going to have a camp where someone is used to taking that much drugs and they could probably diet on much less, but they haven't changed their training and refined their nutrition. So, let's say you've got someone that's used to taking three three and a half thousand milligrams weekly, but they are not doing what they're supposed to with the training and the diet. that amount of drugs would post sustain the muscle mass. But all of the sudden the same person is now taking half of that and attempting to diet with not refining the training and nutrition. They're going to lose muscle tissue. You've got the other context and other people that will then be used to dieting on 2,000 milligram total, but all of a sudden they push the totals up to like 4,000 milligram, but they're not sleeping, they're constantly inflamed. >> Yeah. >> Do you see? Do you see the picture? So, you've got one that either takes not enough drugs. to the other camp that will take too much and then it has almost a counterproductive effect where they cannot recover, they cannot sleep, they cannot sustain the training any or they cannot even eat and the digestion takes a hit. They're constantly bloated. All of these downstream effects from just being in a very high state of high oxidative stress. >> Yeah. Now, breaking things down even more simply when it comes to drugs, I don't think you need as much drugs to retain the muscle tissue in prep as you do to build new muscle tissue. And I know this is going to be a little bit different. I think that it's still very common for people to use more in prep. I disagree. If you need to use more in prep, you are masking potential mistakes you are making with nutrition, recovery, and training. Okay. Now, listen. I want to throw I want to point something out. So, and I want to hear exactly what you have to say on this. Not everybody will agree with that. There are people that I think have very viable approaches that would say the opposite. Does that make them wrong? No. Does that make Kuba wrong? No. Because there are different ways to do the same thing. Because we've had people on the show, Dusty for instance, Dante would suggest that he ran gear low in the offseason and then he would, you know, quadruple or triple going into the show. And guess what? That worked for him. That's not the only way to do it. So, I want to I just want to throw that out there because I think sometimes people will hear that and then hear this and then say, "Well, which guy was right?" Guess what? They're both right. >> Yeah. Look, the the reason why I stand on this is because I have found it much easier to hold my size, taking less in prep. Like that's just that's just me. Sleep's better, >> pressure less, there's less pressure on the body, the skin looks better. >> And I see this with a lot of clients as Well, it's like if I was give you a percentage, Scott, is what you need to maximize your gains in an offseason. For what you will need to retain that muscle in prep, I would probably say you will need 30% less drugs. >> Okay? >> But the only way to do that is if you do have your training dialed in, you are taking the approach of having a slower prep where you do have enough time to refeed and eat up. If you are doing the usual approach of doing 12 to 16 week prep with 50 pounds to come off, I would probably then say yes, you probably need a lot more drugs than you did in offseason to sustain that. And look, >> I'm not trying to uh I'm not trying to say that someone's wrong and I'm right. I'm I'm just I'm just giving I'm just giving my perspective on things and I'm trying to speak my logic on things on a bit of a different way. That's all it is. I'm not saying that someone else is wrong because look, >> I can tell you it's funny because it's it's the listener. You know, they'll come to us and they'll be like, "Well, this guy said that, so is he wrong about everything?" It's like, "No." So, I I want to bring that up because we there's a lot of ways to do things, guys. >> So, but del keep delving into this, please. Like, you don't have to justify it, man. I I want to though because I want to I want to though because look that's just my take on it because >> man >> let's think about things logically and I think most of us and most people most people in this sometimes yeah bodybuilding can be so confusing at times it's it's really logical when you break things down if you manage your rate of loss correctly. You only need a certain amount of anabolics to hold that muscle. Like, do you lose muscle when you come off cycle? No. Most of the time when you come off cycle, sometimes you even see improvements continue to happen when you're taking less when you are taking less drugs. So, why is it then you would need more drugs to simply hold the muscle that you've built? >> Yeah. Again, when you think about it logically, it it's it's a bit counterintuitive, isn't it? >> Unless unless unless you are trying to grow muscle in prep, then fair enough. I understand it. But >> yeah, >> my biggest thing is what you see very often is most guys that need more drugs in prep than in the offseason is down to just not training either hard enough, doing too much in the gym, or having to force their body to get in shape with a poorly timed timeline, not giving themselves enough time. >> Drugs are there to only facilitate training performance. Again, the only way to see your muscle hang around is having enough food and enough drugs to support training performance. So, we could break things down in categories, right? >> Yeah. Some people will respond to higher testosterone. If you know higher testosterone dosage keeps you fuller, keeps you feeling better, and keeps you feeling stronger, do not drop your test. I have personally found a lot more success in prep not lowering my tests. >> When I when I do lower my test, I I literally just get flatter. I don't get any leaner. >> Only use enough DHTs that you need to make up your total milligram dosage. So, if you need 2,000 milligrams to sustain the muscle tissue, don't just take 2,000 milligrams of test. Maybe 1,000 milligrams of test, 800 mig of primo will do the job and then save a 100 milligram to 200 milligrams for maybe layering a little bit of tremble towards the very end. Trembolone has been a very very popular one as of late and I'm super happy to see a lot of people change the ways with trembling use and using less and that's something now especially uh us in UK we've been doing that for years many many years and what I have seen the most success with myself and with many other people and I mean big guys as well is maximum 150 milligrams of tremolone a week 200 milligrams at the very And I think more tremblone again it does have dim dim diminishing returns when it comes to digestion and sleep. If you cannot sleep and you are taking a drug that is impacting your recovery and sleep this will impact your training performance but also fat loss. If you are only getting 5 hours of night 5 hours of sleep per night you are not going to be able to retain your lifts. But most importantly, after so little sleep, your ability to lose body fat will also be diminished. So again, less is more. You don't really need that much. And I think, >> okay, >> strategically, a lot of people are still under assumptions that orals don't do very much. And I very much disagree. But again, Scott, the devil is always in the is in the dosage. I think orals work tremendously well again at lower doses. >> H >> you don't need more than I would say 25 to 50 milligrams tops depending on your selection of orals and what oral you prefer. And if you've worked with someone for a long time you will know what they respond to well and I know for a fact you will know which oral you respond to the best with and which oral it can to correlate. But again, if you are not losing performance, would you add an oral in or not? >> If you're not losing performance, >> yep, if you are not losing training performance, would you add in an oral in prep or not? That's the question to ask yourself. Secondly, Scott, if you are 3, four weeks out, you are super hard, super grainy, your skin is transparent, >> would you risk then introducing an aurora? Because the trade-off could be you incorporate an oral when you're already looking tremendous. >> Yeah. >> And all of a sudden your digestion's off or your sleep's off. >> Oh yeah. >> Do you see where I'm coming from? If your digestion's off, if your digestion's off and then you do need these super high days, >> this might impact your ability to actually digest the food and get the biggest benefit out of the food. So your entire compound selection for your contest prep and offseason to a degree needs to be based around what you can tolerate and what isn't going to affect your sleep and affect your ability to digest your food or cause excessive bloating. What has [\h__\h] me last year and I will hold my arm up and say it is introducing certain orals that I shouldn't have done. And I've actually got a comparison that I posted on my Instagram of like show day morning, show day morning and a week after the show where I actually had no orals that week. I was fuller and I was my skin was like [\h__\h] paper and I was same weight >> and my midsection my midsection looked [\h__\h] halfed. Okay, >> so prime example sometimes, and this gets us back to the conversation we had at the beginning. If something is [\h__\h] working well with your setup, your drugs, your food, whatever it is you're doing, don't [\h__\h] change it. >> Oh, because that's the biggest thing right there. when you when you have that formula down. I and I I I think that especially sometimes it's newer guys that don't get that concept that it's taken a lot to get us right where we are and the main thing we want to be able to do is keep you here. So, we don't necessarily want to throw different variables at it once especially as we get close and we might not have time to undo those variables. Honestly, Scott, like the the longer I've done this now, the more I'm swayed away to not using orals. And and the reason why, Scott, is like I've actually got a couple of couple of people that are prep that can't use orals at all because that they just get a really bad response with the gut. But it's like these are these are the same guys that I have people inboxing me saying, "What the [\h__\h] is he doing? Blah blah blah. Look at his skin. Look how peel is." It's like, well, he's not using any orals or any tremblone. is using two compounds. That's it. >> Yeah. Okay. >> But his body's fresh. He's sleeping well. >> He's able to eat. And every time we do do a refeed, he's not just [\h__\h] it out. He's he's actually responding well to food. >> His fatigue isn't high. His blood work's impeccable. I think all of these things play a role. And I think you've got two camps in a that that generally people sit in, especially at a high level, is the guys that are doers, right? the doers are going to just throw the kitchen sink in and hope for the best. And then you've got guys that are trying to take more of a refined approach now with the drugs where they're not taking enough drugs, but that is not going to work because they still haven't refined the training nutrition aspect to be able to get away with taking less drugs and be able to do a prep. H anything uh on the drug side of things? >> No, man. I I I do think though that one of the that big point that I think you're getting at here is like sometimes we we look at things as as though it's it's more like a dogma or written in stone that you know at four weeks out we have to do this. >> Yeah. >> Where if things are going well without it, you know, I I I and and I could see, man, I I can see where you're coming from. You know, just to go back to the high drugs in prep versus offseason versus high drugs in offseason versus prep. I I love hearing your perspective on that, too. You know, back to what we were saying at the beginning of the show >> that there's a lot of ways to do this thing, and I love that we can bring all those perspectives here >> so that you guys at home can figure out, well, what works for you, you know, what's for you. I one thing that I bet is not ideal is the high drug drugs in both. You know what I'm saying? There's there's there's a there's a choice in here. I think and I I think to figure out what works for you, it's just going to take time to experiment with it. >> And look, the reason why I wanted to kind of go over these topics is because the process in my eyes in my eyes should always be reactive. It should not be proactive. So what I simply mean by this is no change to your food should be done without you seeing a response from someone's body. >> Nothing should be pre-planned. No change to the drugs should be often pre-planned to that degree. Like you shouldn't just be throwing orals in with no reason behind it. You shouldn't just add tremble in just because it's 10 weeks out. You should have a good reason behind adding any compound or making any change. If there is not a good reason behind it like why are you making that change? That that that should be the question. Or >> if you're a client, simply ask whoever you are working with like why are we doing this now? They should always give you a meaningful response which I know you do because what you do from everything listen I I listen to all the podcasts. I know what you do Scott has always got a meaning and a reason behind it. >> Sure. It always does because like even you speak about oral use with your clients or certain compound choices like you always say I did this with him because of this or this was this situation. It's always situational with what you do and it's always reactive to the process. It doesn't strike me like you just make a change just because it's so many weeks out. And this is why I've mentioned the less drugs in prep is because in order for you to be able to do the less drugs in prep, you need to have the process that's more reactive, not proactive. >> Yeah. Yeah. And if you can do less, you will come in fresher. you you know and and not only that but man so often nowadays we do have guys that are just looking to do that one show this season but we also have a ton of guys that are state level that are if they could if they could hold on if they could do another show like why not get more bang for your buck by the way if you're a state level guy I you know I used to put all my eggs in one basket as a state level competitor and I'd have to take like a week off of work and all that stuff and but man if you could do two three shows this season because you're on less gear and you can maintain that longer, stay fresher longer. That's go for it. I love that idea. >> Absolutely. Absolutely, man. >> All right, let's wrap this thing up, man. I think we gave him some good stuff. Kuba, what's going on with you, man? You got anything coming out over at your YouTube channel right now? >> Plenty of videos, offseason series. I've got I've got quite a few things that I do like educational clips and like sit down clips where I break things down. Uh I I've got like a a little book that I write in. It's like it's like my book for my mental diarrhea. Sometimes if I if something comes to my head >> Yeah. Do you like that one? If something comes to my head, right? If something comes to my head, I I I very often like put it in that book. But also if I've got like a if I've got like a content idea, >> I I'll put it in a book and like I'll show you when I go downstairs, I'll take a picture. I've actually got like a camera set up that I've got a camera on a on a tripod set up directly into like where I shoot my content. >> Yeah. >> And if I get something in my head that I need to [\h__\h] do, I will just jump on, get in a seat, turn the camera on, and just speak and do it. >> So, I love it, dude. >> Yeah. But look, it's like it's it's much easier doing this content with you because it's like it's almost like we just speak about the things that we [\h__\h] like anyway. >> Yeah. But sometimes if I've get an idea in my head, I need to do it there and then. Otherwise, I won't do it with the same quality and the same delivery that I know I can do it with. >> Does that make sense? >> Yeah. No, I I I think that's awesome, man. So, guys, tune in to Kuba and uh, of course, check out Patreon, subscribe over there, and uh, let's get let's What else do we got to say to wrap this thing up, man? I'll let you take it. Guys, we appreciate you for listening and as always, this is me and Scott sharing our perspectives today. We could have gone down multiple avenues with training, drugs, nutrition, and I think we've covered a lot on each one without going into more detail. But if you wish for us to go into more detail on any of these topics, we're more than happy to do that. And uh Scott, do we have any questions from previous shows? If so, we will likely do a Q&A episode and get some questions boxed off for you all as a treat and we can go over any physique critiques, training critiques. Guys, if you want us to review what you are doing with your cycle, with your process, we're more than happy to do that. So even if you want to get in touch with Scott, email him through your entire setup, your supplements, your stack, your training, and you want to review it. We're more than happy to do that. More than happy to help you any way that we can here. Here at Think Big is not just about thinking big. It's about getting big, my friends. >> All right, guys. We'll see you soon. >> Appreciate you all.