What's up, guys? Welcome back to Blood, Sweat, and Gear with coaches Skipp Hill, Andrew Barry, myself, Scott McN, and we are brought to you by true nutrition.com. Use our code think for additional savings on high quality thirdparty tested supplements. You can get your creatin, your intra-workout, and the team skip blend. We're also brought to you by supplements.ca for Canadians. They have great deals that change week to week. And we are brought to you by you. We've got some Patreon questions. We will tackle them today. Guys, I'm going to start out with a controversial post that I saw in the Think Big group at Facebook. By the way, Facebook is no longer, nobody goes there, but we do have a group. It's the one redeeming place that you can go on Facebook is to groups. Join us over there. Anyway, it drives me nuts when you say that. You know, it's true though. It's still a good platform. It's better. Well, it has fallen off, but it's better for the older demographic. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Right. I mean, it's better for the like articles and stuff. I post my articles there and they get a they get a lot of Do they get a good track? They get good traction there. I stopped posting older demographic. Yeah. I imagine that Skip sits down to a tall glass of prune juice and puts on his spectacle and he starts facebook.com. He boots up the he boots up the modem. http the AOL sound goes on my motor. You dumb. He tells his kids he can't use the phone between, you know, 4:00 and 6:00 on Wednesday. I'm doing my articles. I'm doing my articles. You got mail. Damn. Damn, damn. So basically, everything the monsters have done to become monsters that weren't genetic freaks is wrong. Now, don't eat in a surplus. Don't take a lot of testosterone because the AIs are poison. Don't train to failure. And God help if you add in intensifiers. Don't do too much volume because you're fragile and fatigue and calcium ion goblins will come to steal all of your muscle. Just a statement. Just a statement in the group. Very strong polarizing statement. I I do get his point because I do think in some ways we have information overload and like if you don't know that you have X, Y, and Z going on, does it is that going to like if if a if a tree falls in wood, no one's there to hear it, did it really make a sound? You know, so I guess it's kind of like now we're so educated and the problem is is clients are more educated and and I use that in like a they're educated because they hear like, oh, like if I didn't sleep well for one night, does that mean I have like adrenal fatigue and that I need to take a month off from training? Like I get what he's saying, you know? Um, and that there's a supplement for everything that there's a protocol for everything. Like if you have bad digestion one day, like do we need to start a GI map and and and run through a whole list of allergies? So, I get what he's saying, but I do think there's a happy medium there. I don't think it's an all or nothing type of thing. We have great information. We have great tools to use and we can use them effectively, but at the end of the day, hard work is still going to be your driver of success. I've got a follow-up question. Yeah, I can't I can't argue with that. A middle kind of middle ground. There's a there's like you said a happy medium. Yeah. years and years of just pound, excuse me, pound and bang away and don't pay attention to the to the minutia. Don't consider it a nuanced uh endeavor. So, I'm not surprised to see a swing to the other. The only argument I would have for is this. I could argue that there are, and you guys tell me if you agree or not, maybe you don't, that there are more people making progress not training balls out than there are people training balls out, making progress. If I was a newbie, I would notice. Yeah, but more people are taking PES across the board. True. Yeah. Like remember back in the day 20 years ago it was just the competition bodybuilders that were using peeds. Now it's like every female athlete is using peeds. Female athletes moms are using peeds because I heard Anavar works. They're using clen. They're using GLPS. They're using all you know what I So I'm I I do think it's because of the compounds that people are seeing more results without having to train as hard. But I think when you find someone that matches hard training, hard eating, and hard gear, you're going to see a freak. I have a follow-up question. All right. Got a follow-up question. So, you know, there is some level of truth to some of the stuff he's saying discrediting to a degree. You know, like like we and we've learned that like you said, Skip, there are more people that are getting into great shape and building great physiques that aren't pushing as hard as like everybody did across the board in the past. What I wanted to ask you guys is how do you know how many sets you should take to like completely gassed out on the tank? Like like empty the tank sets? How many how many sets should the average person be doing? How do they figure that out? I wanted to give them I guess a piece of take-home here. you know, if they're training now, you know, maybe maybe they are emptying the tank on everything or maybe they're the opposite and they're like, I'm reading everything online and I'm not emptying the tank on anything because I never should. You know, how do we figure out that middle ground? I have a cue, but it's a in the- moment cue like during your workout and it's a time where if I notice this, I'm done like done with that muscle group. Even if I was like, oh, I had another, you know, I had another exercise that I was going to do two more sets for. And that is this. And and it's difficult to explain. It's just that I've been training for so long that when I feel it, I know. And a lot of people are thinking, "Oh, he's going to say the pump." No, it it's not not the pump. I think a lot of people go with the pump and they say, "Oh, I'm starting to lose a pump, so I'm done. Oh, I did an extra exercise. I got a little bit better pump, so Oh, that was good." I don't gauge things that way. I did in my younger years because the pump is right there in your face, and you just naturally assume that that is a marker or that is a way to gauge um or or or assess, you know, how whether you need to do more work or not. Mine is contractile force. If I'm training chest or back could be anything, I guess, but training chest or back and I realize that I have lost a significant amount of or I'm losing contract off force. I can't contract that muscle and it doesn't feel hard when I literally squeeze my chest together. Then I'm done. I think that the you're you're going to get the most efficient and optimal sets while you still have that ability to contract that muscle hard. And once you don't and you start to lose that, every set after that becomes, I don't want to say junk, but it starts you start to dig a hole. And that hole you're kind of digging a hole for recovery. So, if you're relying on the pump, you can still ride the pump, but what are those sets really doing for you? Um, a better way or another way to do it is if you say, "Well, what is contractile force?" I'm not sure what that if I finish up, I did this the other day. I finished up chest with um slight decline flies. And on the first set, I realized I don't even feel the muscle where I mean, I can feel it, but I don't not only feel it contracting, but it's not even burning anymore. like there is really not much going on there other than it's just moving I'm moving the weight. So that's when I dumped my not only my last exercise but the last set of those decline flies because I just realized I'm like anything more right now is just it's a waste. It's extra expenditure that is going to start to dig that hole for for recovery. I'll go with that. I think that's fair enough. Yeah, I can't can't disagree with that. In terms of number, you know, I think I I've always found that like three really hard sets in a workout is usually a general good rule across four or five exercises and and across maybe 10 different sets that you're doing. Three really hard ball busting sets, I think, is is kind of where you go to to to a maximally stimulate, but b also like you're like you're saying, Skip, not dig yourself into a hole for the next workout or for your overall program. So yeah, something like that. Would you agree though that it depends on on the actual exercise? Because as an example, and I wonder if you guys deal with this, if I go all out on flat dumbbell presses, by the time I get those weights into, you know, the dumbbells into place and I've unloaded them or dropped them or whatever and then re-rackcked them and then unrackcked the next one. It's a pretty laborious task versus, you know, dumbbell flies or uh Yeah. or even like a an incline selector machine. Hammer strength. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. It's it's day and night. So, and and coach, you guys say his name, Cassum, is that how you say his I don't want to pronounce it incorrectly, but he touched on something like this a couple months ago, and I thought, "Oh, God, I completely agree with that." And that is that the the exercise some exercises have so much more of a fatigue factor based on the fact that they are complex or or compound exercises even arguably like deads and bend over rows. I mean b over rows versus a long pulley row even um you know things like that that I think those things need to be taken into consideration because the impact that some exercises have on your CNS from a strictly a fatigue factor can be three times what another exercise may be for sure. Yeah. Well, think about let's say you're training back and you're doing either rows or deadlifts versus doing cable rows or some other, you know, another back exercise. Just bending over and moving that that barbell, rolling it onto another plate and then so you can slide another plate on and then pull it back off like that costs energy and that and when you get to four or five plates on that like that does get physically demanding. That is a pain in the ass and I so I do agree with you about the type the exercise you're doing 100%. Yeah. All right. Androgen receptor one, ask us. And by the way, guys, you're welcome to comment in the live stream. If you're watching this on YouTube, you're welcome to comment and we will tackle your questions on the next show. And if you are new here, let me encourage you to subscribe, ring the bell, all that. Plus, guys, it comments, likes, all those things. They help us out a ton. If you haven't hit the like button, you enjoy our show, then please do. He says he's uh in Windsor, Ontario, literally just south of me. He says, "Uh, hey guys from Windsor, Ontario. Do you guys get any anxiety from EQ? If so, uh, does it have to do with the crushed E2? I don't get anxiety. I don't, but gear. Yeah, I feel great. Make me feel almost awesome." Yeah, I I do on Clint. Clen, I It took me years to figure out, oh, okay. I am not only wired, I am very anxious. like I need I'm supposed to be doing something like I did I miss that? It's just a very very f my brain is moving very very quickly. Um but no gear I've never noticed it and I done gear for long long time. Yeah, I don't think it has anything. I don't think it has anything to do with the I was just saying yeah I've taken a couple shots in my day too. Yeah. here and there. Now, you don't you don't think it would have to do with the estrogen, though, Scott? I from what I understand, there's some relationship to GABA relating to EQ and people get anxiety as a result of that. So, I I would think that any kind of my first thought with that would be it would be related to that more than related to estrogen for sure. You know, I think you could get all sorts of mental issues with low or high estrogen, but it's it wouldn't be my first thought where like EQ is notorious for anxiety in some people for the simply because of estrogen. You know what I mean? Yeah. But low e low E2 can definitely contribute to higher anxiety levels. So, if EQ is causing that much of a low um an estrogen lowering effect, I mean, that could be the reason. And I and I know the GABA receptor as well that is definitely a factor. Um I mean it could be all all and for sure contributing but my thought would be like then wouldn't primo be equally as associated you know what I mean since it also would lower you know estrogen as well. Not if it doesn't lower his estrogen as much as EQ does though. So like, so what I guess the thing to do would be run a little experiment of let's say like a 500 500 of test and EQ for eight weeks and then like a 500 500 say test and primo, you know, just to to round out some even numbers and then gauge your go get your labs done and check your E2 and then also take a um some type of anxiety survey. I'm sure they exist online like a questionnaire type thing and then give truthful answers and then compare the scores, you know. Um, or I bet if we step back is I was say if we step back I bet you probably like we wouldn't even tell them to use it then. You know what I mean? Like if you're like a client's like hey you know what I mean? If he's like hey I got anxiety be like let's just not use that drug then there's a hundred other ones we can pick from. Yeah ex Yeah, that that's the right answer. But for us and for science do it for science. That's right. I mean even if it's imaginary, right? even if he's just read somewhere that increases anxiety and now he's caused, you know, a a um placebo effect, just get rid of the drug. There's other there's so many other drugs you can use that are going to produce benefits, you know. Um yeah. Yeah. Have you if you still have the same anxiety, then you have to look at something else because it had nothing to do with the EQ. I think sometimes the the reason I'm not I'm not picking on him. What I'm saying is sometimes thing can things can be correlative when we think they're causitive, but there's a myriad of variables that could play into it. Maybe your anxiety levels are up for some other reason and it has absolutely nothing to do with the EQ. Let me ask you guys a question. Why then if and I don't disagree, but if low estrogen impacts GABA levels and I can literally [\h__\h] tank my estrogen, why do I not what what is going on chemically estrogen that an it's the EQ? It's it's it's the EQ. Yeah. Not the estrogen. Okay. in this particular but you just said but what he's saying is though you have low yeah I mean the there's the science and then there's the actuality of like individuality so like it just it's just not something that affects you know what I mean and okay I just didn't know if there was a reason I drug okay I think we have a leg I'm not making blinking statements about anything explain that away I I think we have a lag I think we have a leg yeah I think I think I'm lagging for some reason. Uh, just hang up. Call us back. Let's see if that does it. Yep. Andrew's hardwired and everything. I know. So am I. You look good. You look clean. But I did notice it. Nice. I have a new camera. It's 4K. Nice. Nice. They said that the new Razer Kyio is uh because it's 4K is literally up there with DSLR. And I noticed it as soon as I started using I was like, "This is pretty damn good." Nice. Cool. We're back. Everything look good, sound good, yep. All right. You uh you got your experiences now with SLU. You've got a bunch of people that have been running it as do I. And uh I've I've seen this once in a great while. Somebody says uh they haven't noticed any effects. But he does have more to say though, Dom. He says, um, he says, uh, oh, I'm just a, he says, I'm just a week in, so not that far in to SLU at 250 a day. I don't quote feel any effects from it. However, I have been cutting for about four weeks now. I'm down 2 lbs per week on average. Do you all notice any effects from that dose? I don't I I would say I noticed something from it, but I consider myself probably an outlier because most people probably don't have the like mitochondrial damage that I've had. So, I wouldn't expect everybody to. And you sounded like you're going no, Andrew on that dose. Uh honestly, I think at 250 mics a day, that's like I don't even start females out that low. Um so, I I think he needs to bump the dose up a little bit. you know, I would start him at 500 probably and see where he goes from there. But, um, you know, yeah, I would double it. Go big or go home. And the thing, so I just did a paper on this for Mountain Dog Diet about Slooh. And yeah, no, it's I mean it's not like a it's not like a Scott Stevenson paper, don't get me wrong, but yeah, there are a couple there's a couple references in there, so I feel like somewhat academic, but so there's actually there's SLU 332, and now they found SLU PP91, which is an even stronger um uh estrogen receptor activator. So, and in the research, you know, the cool stuff I'm finding is that, okay, so someone sent me a message the other day. So, this is anecdotal, but it confirms the research I'm reading about it being kidney protective. Yeah. Uh, one of my buddy's clients added in 2 milligrams of Slooh for I want to say he ran it for 8 weeks. And at the start of that 8 weeks, his eGFR was 35. So, pretty low, right? Yeah. Oh, [\h__\h] At the end of the eight weeks, he got his labs done again and it was up to 75. Okay. No kidding. And he continued all other variables staying the same. So, and and it shows in the research that it helps protect the glomemeilus, helps um help regenerate some of the tissue. Um it also has cardio effects with um decreasing some of the um the heart growth that we see from, you know, just weight training in general, being an athlete. Yeah. Uh so there there's a lot of other implications than just the bodybuilding stuff that we're interested in. But um I think this compound is going to be pumped more than the GLP ones, more than you know trappite, reatide. I think it's going to be the next thing that hits the medical market in the next year or so because we're and getting back to the dosing, he's taking 250 micrograms. The the the studies they did on the rats were like 50 to 100 times that. Okay. And at those doses, there were no adverse side effects seen in these animals over the the 12 or 16 week studies, which is pretty amazing, right? I I do imagine that there is a dose where you can cause mitochondrial damage. But I think if we were to go like 2.5 g or higher, I don't think we would see those those damages. I'm not saying that we should because I think we're seeing plenty of results staying in the 500 to,000 micrograms per day dosing, but you know what I mean? What what have you seen, Scott, with your clients? I've seen nothing but but results. I've seen nothing but really good benefits so far. But what I'm trying to get to and and I found because initially I thought he was a guy who had been running a healthy dose and he said he didn't quote unquote feel anything from it. Once in a great while I'll come across someone who's like, I don't really notice anything. once in a great while. It's like and and so initially initially when I first started talking about it, I would occasionally see that on comments on YouTube or wherever else. And of my first thought is like, well, I don't know where you're sourcing it, you know, that kind of thing. But then these are people that are sourcing it from I know where they're sourcing it from from the, you know, the I'll call them the affiliate of the podcast. And I've only seen good benefits for all the people that are using it. But occasionally they'll be like that one person. And then I noticed too some people get a much stronger benefit than others. And like I said, I think for myself, I'm getting incred like I'll call it downright incredible response. I mean, I'm down 30 lbs now of fat. I'm getting into the best literally I'm in the best shape that I've been in now since I had gotten sick. And you know where it's really interesting, Andrew, is that I'd get taken out like like go to the Arnold and be up for four days and all that interaction. I would kind of crash afterward and my appetite, mood, everything would go way down. My ability to train would be zero and I'd have to rebuild that where I was doing really good right before the kind of thing. This it took me one day to recoup the way I normally would and now I'm back on my feet again. And then it's like I'm still doing great, man. So, I'm seeing across the board really good results, but then some people like me, I'm seeing like exceptional out there crazy results. Well, so just hearing that, the obvious answer to me on why you're seeing great results and maybe why someone who's taking it, they're not seeing anything is the level of mitochondrial dysfunction they have. That's what I'm thinking, man. That's what I'm wondering. Yeah, you can assume that you were pretty dysfunctional in terms of the mitochondrial and and the efficiency there. Whereas like the the the person that um asked the the comment in the comments the question in the comments, he's already losing two pounds a week on a very basic diet. So his body seems to be be performing pretty well as it is. So I wouldn't necessarily expect it to do as much for him. He's already getting great results, which tells me that his body is already very efficient in the mitochondria, insulin sensitivity, all those those key factors. Uh, so the level of dysfunction you have, I think it it's only an upside to help you more and more and more. Um, I got labs done this morning. I agree 100%. I got labs done this morning, so I'm excited to see what those look like. And I'm hoping that my hematocrit is down, too, because I've been doing a lot of cardio. So, we'll see. Nice. Yeah. Were you thinking something? What do you What are you thinking? Yeah, I wasn't. It's it's it's fleeting. It I had it while you were saying something, Scott, and then it just left my brain like an idiot. Um yeah, I it just like an idiot. You'll think of it in either 10 minutes or 10 minutes after we're done with the show. One of the two, right? Probably the latter. I'll think of it tonight when I'm while I'm sleeping. While I'm in bed. Yeah. Why hello. I wanted to do something different with my True Nutrition advertisement for today. And here's the thing, I just got our order in. Victoria and I, we pay for all the protein that we get. They don't send us anything for free. And that's because I've believed in True Nutrition for 15 years now. I've been using them ever since I contest prep. They have some of the cleanest, best quality protein. A lot of times I use the Team Skip. But here's the deal. I'm going back to the Pureway Isolate. The Pureway isolate, it just just processes so fast. This is my favorite flavor. Chocolate peanut butter cups. But if you want to try just like one pound at a time, you can do that. Just sample it. I've never had the cookie butter. So, I'm going to try the cookie butter this week. I got a big old bag of pea protein isolate for the wife. This is what she likes to use. And here's the thing, they're just about wholesale prices at True Nutrition. Plus, they don't add the flavor in when they weigh it. So, you get like legit one pound of protein and then from there they add the flavor after that. So, every one lb, I think it's like 1.2, to I'm not sure. Don't quote me on that. But hey, here's the thing. The True Nutrition is a great quality protein. They believe in us. They advertise with us because I literally asked them to. And uh if you use our code think, you'll get some additional savings. Plus, of course, that's like voting for our podcast. So, thank you guys. I hope you enjoyed my uh my impromptu ad. Goodbye. Uh, my buddy is having acne issues and he wants to know if there is a difference between test e and test sip. Says he tried injecting uh daily injections and had zero difference. Uh, I told him to change the Esther. It wouldn't make a difference with daily injections. What do you guys think? Uh, he he's keeping his estrogen in check. uh he's had these issues both on cycle and on TRT. I would actually look at gut health. Yeah. And I would look at Yeah. You know, I and I would maybe even think about doing like a some type of gut protocol, you know, where you don't have to go all out and do like a GI map because those are 400 bucks, you know, and then you got to you got to crap in a bag and send it to somebody and wait two weeks to get the results. But there's some things you could do where you can use some general um natural killers to kill off, you know, the bad bacteria, the opportunist bacteria that might be overpop populating your gut. And then um you know, you can reintroduce good bacteria with probiotics, prebiotic fiber. Um and then also work on gut u mucosal health, you know, with you know, glutamine, zinccarnazine, some other supplements. And so so I would look at gut health first. I'm starting to really look more into that in regards to acne because I think for a long time we've always been like, okay, look at the compounds, look at the dosing, how you're dosing it. And a lot of those people, they make those changes, they still see acne, maybe it gets a little bit better, but it's still like a a thing that's prevalent in their life. And so then I've started to do a lot more reading and research into, you know, your immune system, you know, and and it all starts with your gut. So, I'm not fully prepared to give a great answer there, but yet, but I think that looking at the gut first is where where we need to go with that now. I like that. I mean, hell, even if he's got like an egg allergy, for instance, but he's eating now that he's bodybuilding, he's eating eggs all the time, you know, something like that. Yeah. What do you got? You guys ever developed a sensitivity to eggs? Yes. Raw eggs? I never have. It's bad. I had I had to raw eggs for some reason. I never have. The only thing I'd add is coming back to the compounds. I just still think that if you're breaking out while your blood levels are increasing or decreasing that that's not uncommon. So if your blood stable blood levels have been stable and you're having acne or you're breaking out, then yeah, I can't disagree. It could be a gut issue. It's probably not related to the compound. It could be carrier. It could be something that's in that specific, but but changing from anthypate, it shouldn't I mean, they're not even radically different esters. It's it's it shouldn't matter. I can't see how that would play into it. Agreed. Um and and you know, too, and once he has acne, it can be it's harder to get rid of acne than it is to keep it gone. So if he was on cycle and he had acne and now he's off cycle, he's on TRT and he still has acne, you know, it's an infection of the skin. So once that infection is there, if you're if you if you're still the irritant's still happening, like it's going to be it's harder to get rid of. So, you know, I'm I think that that's a good move, Andrew. Like you said, too, it look internally. Um, I mean I found and it's not something I'd say like across the board this is the answer for everything, but I found like doxycyc for just 10 days has been enough to get a breakout under control just to basically like put the fire out so it doesn't continue to spread and then after that then it's like now I can keep it under control once it's there. So to that point, what is doxycycline? Doxycycline is an antibiotic. So, bingo. That's what I'm getting at is and what's it going to do? It's going to kill off a lot of bad gut bacteria. Yeah. So, I'm with you. And I think what where it comes from is the inflammation that arises from the disbiosis of an imbalance in your bacteria. Um, so, and I tend to not like to use antibiotics just because I I look at them as like they're like drone strikes, right? Like they'll kill the bad guy, but they're going to kill all the bystanders that are in that apartment building or on the street as well. all the good stuff. So, I try to use like more natural antimicrobial stuff like mastic gum, oil of oregano, um stuff like capillic acid, stuff like that that um is going to do roughly the same job without having the kill factor on the good stuff, too. I'm with you. If if it if it is really bad, though, I feel like I'm there's a to me there are points, you know what I mean? It's like that's why I hesitated to even say it because I don't want people to think like there's your go-to option, you know? Yeah. Yeah. 100%. No, I mean in bad cases you got to use antibiotics, right? Like like we can't pretend that like natural stuff is going to completely cure everything, you know, in every single case. There's definitely cases where you got to use um antibiotics. But the other thing also with talking about compounds is you know how you guys are familiar with like test flu, right? Yeah. Mhm. So like when your body senses that the testosterone or whatever compound you're putting in your body is a foreign invader causing an immune response, inflammation, etc. Um I'm just speculating here, but it could that could be related to this whole thing causing an immune response and then inflammation leading to this this you know this this this type of acne. Sure. in the world. And the thing is, you can talk to acne experts and like they'll give you a lot of good stuff, but like when it comes down to it, they don't have a concrete example or or a concrete reason for exactly why this happens. You know what I mean? It's it it's an area that like the top dermatologists and and scientists are still trying to figure out because once they crack that code, I mean, that's that's a billion or trillion dollar industry, right? I mean, oh yeah. People can do anything to get rid of it. Yeah. like it's, you know. So, yeah. Uh, James had one for us. Uh, does Winstrol dramatically lower estrogen? I'm thinking about using it in my next cycle. 500 test e per week, 500 EQ per week, and 50 Winstrol every day. I really just don't want to crash my E2 like I did on my previous cycle. I don't think it's going to crash your E2. I I've never seen that happen. Usually when people have crashed E2, it's when they're using Windstraw, but also added in a bunch of AIs. So I I think yeah, I mean, I don't think it's going to crush his E2. And he'll know, right? Cuz like I imagine, let's say you're doing a 16 week cycle, you're probably not using that Winstro the whole time, right? So where are you at at like is the EQ crushing your E2 at that 1:1 ratio? Like find that out, you know, at week 12 before you add it in, you know? Yeah. Yeah. Good point. I kind of feel like you can always test. Yeah. Yeah. I feel like Wistrel is my new favorite underrated compound. You can't change away from dbol like that. You just said dbol like two shows ago. Can't get it. No, I'm But I'm I'm kind of like I don't know, man. I feel like a lot of people don't use Winstro. Like is is it safe to say that all of us are like parents and it's really hard to pick your favorite kid? Because this one, this one got good grades, so like you love him in the moment. And then this one's the star athlete, so you love her the next day. And this one is just a great person around the house helping out, doing chores, right? It's kind of like we appreciate and love them all for what they give us. And it's hard to pick a favorite. Depends on the day. I like that. I like that analogy. All right, I think we got this one last episode. Um, how long does it take to clear up scar tissue uh after you stop injecting into that muscle group? I don't know that it just does. Yeah, I think it just stays. I have golf balls in my quads that don't go away. Yeah. I mean, yeah, it doesn't. I mean, I think it gets better. I think it gets better some. I I had like I had like the snap, crackle, pop in my glutes and then I stopped doing mostly all injections for a few years and then I went back and then I was like, "Oh jeez, these are really pretty good now." They like I'm not Maybe it's hard. Yeah, if it's not that that if there's not a lot of it. But I mean, they literally thought I had a tumor in each quad when I did the MRI and I had to tell them like that's really like you don't see that that might be upper outer quad in the same spot on both legs. I mean, God, come on now. Oh, yeah. He didn't respond that way, but he might as well have. Think of that. I think you're right to a degree like scar tissue is scar tissue, you know. Can you break it up, guys? Can you break scar tissue up? I think if it's minimal, I think you can, but it would have to be pretty minimal. And I've got scar tissue that's not going anywhere. It's just I tell you what, it's so bad that I just want to put like a 20 gauge in it. And I've thought about it. Just suck out what's in there and see what's in there. I bet it's black. I bet it's black. You guys want a story? Let's hear a story. I had a buddy buddy who was like so he's a candidate of someone that should not be using peeds because he doesn't do a diet. It doesn't he was one of my buddies and he did a lot of wreck drugs too and had high blood pressure and caused a lot of stress in his life by having multiple girlfriends in different cities and you know whatever. So he had a lot of stress. Anyway, he was using I think 100 migs of injectable uh tren in the shoulder every single day. every single day and his shoulders just kept getting huge and bigger and bigger, but not in like, "Oh, dude, you're blowing up." More in like a dude, you got to get that looked at kind of way. So, finally, he had a major major fever, major infection. He goes in, they pulled out 60 cc's of stuff between his two shoulders, and he show sent me pictures. It was like this reddish jizz looking stuff that just didn't look like it belonged in his shoulders. Yeah, dude. It was bad. like like disgusting. Yeah, that's rough. Was it like pus and stuff? Yes, it was pus and it was oil and it was just probably parts of his muscle tissue. Smelled really bad, too. He probably he probably smelled anyway. All right, I'm 45 uh and starting my cycle of testy at 250 a week and balding on at 350 a week for 16 weeks. Is this safe and is the dosage okay? Give me some feedback. By the way, the last cycle I did was 15 to 20 years ago. Well, say goodbye to your tell your wife too that there will be no sex for quite a while because your libido will be in the toilet within 3 weeks. So, you won't want to have sex with your wife. Then your wife is going to wonder why and then she's going to think that you've got a side piece at work and it's just going to kind of spiral out of control right there. I I don't know if I would go that route. I do marriage counseling on the side. I do marriage counseling on the side. But no, you will not die. No. So more you're not going to die. More test skip. Is that what you would say? Uh yeah. Yeah. That R I don't like that ratio. I don't think you would be very happy with that about four weeks in. What would be in that range, that dosing range, a more ideal ratio in your opinion? 500 tests two. Yeah. I I just I wouldn't even want one to one at first. Yeah. At least I'm saying at the very minimum one to one. Yep. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Like 500, 300, 500, 250. I don't know. 750 test 300 EQ. Well, I might try 400, but it sounds like he wants to keep it under like 600 milligrams total, right? Is that kind of what the vibe we're getting? Uh, first cycle in 20 years. So, I would even go so far as like 400 test, 200 EQ. And I can throw just an example of TRT. It's TRT plus, but I was 336 siponate a week. Don't ask about the because it's there's a explanation for it, but 336 for the MIG for test. And then it was about 120 for primo. And it took me about two months before my wife was like like like what the [\h__\h] Ken? Like cuz she calls me Ken. She doesn't She doesn't call you Skip. Yeah. She refuses to call me Scout. I've tried to get her to, but she won't. Team Skip. So call me skip. But it took me a couple couple months in her to say something and I was like, "Wow, I don't have It's not like I wasn't interested, but I wasn't like typically interested." I'm trying to be careful here and be respectful and mature. Yeah. So I had to change that ratio. Even that 336 to 120 was just destroying it. It was not working. Drop that primo. Bam. Back in business. Two weeks. Uh, I tried to I told you I would try to keep it respectful and mature, but you did. Sometimes it just doesn't last. Andrew, question for the next episode from Miss Olympia, Missy Trescott. She says, um, when you had a senior weenie, I like the way she worded that. How much TRT did you give Brady? I think that was his name. I gave Yeah, I gave Brady an Oscar. Yeah. Um and I actually messaged her privately. Okay. I gave Brady and Oscar Oh, yeah. 100%. Like it I mean, did it make them teenagers again? No. But it like definitely put more pep in their step, especially my older one, Oscar, at the time when I started it. Um but it was, you know, it's a very baby dose. It's it's um 0.5 to 1.5 milligrams per kilogram. So on a 13 pound dog, you know, we're talking like four to six milligrams of testosterone once a week, you know, and and you know, people will ask, well then like, well, where do you get dog testosterone? It's like, no, no, no. Testosterone is testosterone. Almost all mammals, all mammals have androgen receptors and you can use regular testosterone. So I was using like a testee. Um, but I did I went, of course, to mess with her. I went to the um AI generator and I had it make a bottle of docs and testosterone and it it's these AI things are great, dude. I should have sent you guys a picture. Oh, that would be great, man. I can send it to you right now. But um and it's called it came up with dicostone for dachshund, you know, like I'll send it to you real quick. It's pretty funny, actually. Um if I can freaking find it. Oh, here we go. Holy crap. This guy went up 32 kilograms in four weeks. The real report from Norway. You're not allowed to use gear in Norway from what I' I've heard. I think that's immediately you get sent to the clink. Oh, is that right? Is that it's one I think it's one of those uh one of those countries. Is that the country where they can like if they see you walking down the street and you're big, the cops can stop you and detain you, bring you in? Was it Denmark? Sweden, I think, is gets gets like that. But I think wasn't it Sweden where uh somebody wasn't Cedric? Was it Cedric? I think it was Cedric. I think it was Cedric. Yeah. Got got stopped and harassed for being a jacked guy. Yeah, that's crazy, man. I'll wait for that. Uh for some reason, you know what? My computer is not linking things properly. I think that there are some issues on this. But uh while you're doing that, I'll just say that it's difficult for people in the United States to understand when they complain about their rights if they haven't been to countries where like in Denmark apparently you if they just want to come in and I get I understand this better now, but they could literally just come in. They don't need a search. They can just come into your house and look for what they need to look for. That's crazy to me. Yeah. Real report says in Norway they can come and test you in the street. That's wild. So, here's what he says, though. He went up from 84 kg to 117 kg. Did not eat enough protein either. He says, uh, done one cycle in it was 8 years ago. I guess it's the only cycle he needed. Now he's like a super heavy, went up 32 kg in four weeks. I want to go on one more cycle now, but will uh start working for a tech company in the next week. Will it be okay? What does a tech company have to do with it? Well, I think that like so I Dave and I did a topic called like undercover cycles for people that don't want to get called out in their workplace or by their family members and stuff like that. So there are and then I got a lot of feedback. There are people that like they want to put on some muscle but they don't want to get too big. They want the effects you get from steroids but they don't want to look they don't want to draw uh needless attention you know. So I wonder man if this guy even looks at some test he did what he said he took 300 milligrams of trend in 500 tests a week for that cycle and just blew up. I would say he was eating enough protein. Yeah. He went from 84 to 117. Like, so here's what I would do if I were him in the workplace and when I'm out and about. I would wear long sleeve shirts, button up, right? And I would get like one of those little like a like a pouch suit to put underneath my stom like in my stomach to make it look like I have a little bit of a gut like a little bit of chub so I don't look as like and it'll offset you know his broad and shoulders and the musculature that he has up top and it might you know at least make him look like oh he's just he's just a bigger fat guy you know or just he's a little on the chubby side. He's not. You have a Tell him you have a thyroid disorder. You know, why would I I'll speak for myself. I would not pursue muscle mass or a bodybuilding physique if you couldn't get attention for it. If you just like if you're going to stand if you're not going to stand out or you can't stand out and be unique, then what what good would that be? You can't compete. Obviously, they'll be be like waiting at the auditorium for every anybody who was going to compete. I mean, what do you do? You got to move. You got to get the hell out that country. Not everyone is attention-seeking fitness. I understand. Some people do bodybuilding just for themselves. Literally just for themselves. time. I think we can all say though that we'd like that look and we want to still be noticed for that look as a as a may not be the mo, you know, the prime motivator, but I wouldn't want to walk around with like a gut thing under my shirt to try to hide that I was a bodybuilder. That would suck. I could just eat [\h__\h] French fries and burgers and look like that. And I don't have to go to the gym. I don't have to get injured and I don't have to do all that. Yeah, but when you got home and took your shirt off, you'd be like, you fat [\h__\h] Like, you know what I'm saying? Like, you wouldn't be happy with yourself. You guys remember Turner Riddle and Turner was like, I want to be, you know, he's like, I want to be a freak. I want to walk in places and have people look at me and be like, that dude's a There's something I I get what you're saying, Skip. That No, no, no. But like in bodybuilding, there's various degrees of that. I get that. I get that. Well, okay. Let's go back to a previous episode where we had your client Gus on and you're like, man, you don't have a lot of video footage. you don't have a YouTube channel yet or all and he's like well like kind of just do it for me and I I don't really like it when my friends videotape my set. I I can relate to that and I think he literally I think he's just doing it for himself and and his buddies like if he gets some props from his buddies when they're training I think that's more than the world to him than someone on the street being like oh my god are you jacked like let me see your arms you know. Um, yeah. Stefan says, "Can't even take pics of your sick gym pump if you live in Norway, you know." Wow, that's weird. Let's Let's have a country where we make everybody look exactly the same. Wow, that sounds totally normal. Not. God, come on now, man. All right. And then I've heard that the country is actually really good to live in. So, I've heard that, too. It's really pretty. I bet the air is really good and clean there. You know, the water, you can probably drink water straight out of the creek. You know what I'm saying? In Norway, you're probably safe to do that. Uh oh. So, we had this guy. He came on my ask me anything live stream, but I have a little more insight than when he posted this question six days ago. He says, "Uh, question for the next show. Has anyone ever heard of Masteron causing nose bleeds? I've been getting them daily for nearly two months now. The labs are fine. BP is fine. I'm using testip at 180 milligrams Monday, Wednesday, Friday. Mast E at two at 120 Monday, Wednesday, Friday. Drinking plenty of water. Um where I'm constantly peeing all day and night. My blood just doesn't seem to be responding to the mast. What's his blood pressure? His BP is fine. He said BP is fine. His his labs are fine too first. Yeah, me too. I mean, I wouldn't say it's a master specific side effect. I mean, I think we've all been running compounds where maybe not your typical DVAL or anadrol and you've been had like a nose bleed every now and then when you're on cycle. Um, I can't Does he have a history of nose bleeds or did he never have The reason I asked is my wife had a situation where she had to have it was horrific and and on a few occasions catastrophic. We were headed to Colorado one time. We were in the plains of Colorado and my wife had a nose bleed that would not stop and I mean it wouldn't stop and she was coughing up like like blood like chunks of blood because she was bleeding so much that we finally kids got Yeah. Yeah. just cl like she was choking on it and so we had to get her to the hospital there and they packed both nostrils to her throat. Sent us back home to go back up in elevation which was like horrendously painful for her. Stayed that way for a week. Went back, had them taken out and had to cauterize the inside. And since then she's never had nose bleeds. But the my point is this. He may have something going on where he has thin walls on the vessels. you know, those those vessels, blood vessels in his nose are something that he may not know about, but because my wife didn't have high blood pressure either, and I mean, they would just come out of nowhere and they would not stop. Is it with you? I don't She was training and everything, but um but it wasn't specific like it had happened. It had been on and off for years. Yeah. I'm wondering if maybe you know with cuz he's a bodybuilder and he's training maybe you know like you said he had some we'll call it a deformity in the in the nasal cavity that the hard training is rupturing blood vessels more frequently the average person you know I don't I don't think it's mass like I I I don't see the connection all right so you might need to get the surgery you might need to get the surgery your wife got done the cauterization yeah maybe that's all we got Guys, it's another episode of Blood Sweat and Gear. Leave us comments and questions. I keep hitting this mic today for the next show. Um, and uh, go over to bodybry.com. Reach out to Andrew there. Team skip.com to reach out to skip mcnal diets@gmail.com. You can email me there. And of course, trnutrition.com. Use our code thinksupplementsource.ca for Canadians. And thank you to everybody from Patreon. We'll be gathering up your Patreon questions next time around. Be sure to go over to the Facebook group for Think Big Bodybuilding and post your hardcore set of the week. And of course, use that hashtag hardcore set. Nobody else will have used it in the group, so we'll be able to pick that out easily. And guys, for another episode of Blood, Sweat, and Gear, we will see you soon. Thanks, guys.