 What's up, what's up guys, welcome back to blood, sweat and gear with coaches, skip pill, Andrew Barry, myself, Scott, Scott, McDowell, and all of our programming is brought to you by you, the people of Patreon. Thank you for your support. We've got some Patreon questions today. We've got some Patreon questions today. We are brought to you by truenutrition.com. Use our code think over there for some additional savings on all your basic bodybuilding stuff, protein powder, creatine, intra-workout, you can get the team skip blend over there. And we are brought to you by supplementsource.com. We've got香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港香港 We're going to lead with this one. He says, hey, Scott, I have a cycle design question for you, Andrew and Skip. So he's an older guy, 58 years old. Normally he's on TRT. I'm looking to cut for a May vacation. About six weeks ago, I finished a 16-week test SIP cycle, 600 milligrams, 400 EQ, 200 DECA, and I got pretty good results from it. I did not need to use any AI. I was about 500 calories per day over maintenance in terms of my diet. I'm looking to start a new cycle with the goal of getting in better shape for a May vacation. I'll be dropping down to a cutting diet. And as far as compounds, I was thinking of going to test Primo, DECA, and adding in Anivar about six weeks out from the actual start of the vacation. What would be a good ratio for these compounds? Should the Primo dose be higher than the test or vice versa? I know EQ is sort of a slow burn and ideally needs 16 to 20 weeks to take full effect. Do I need to run Primo that long before it takes full effect? Given the cost of Primo, I'd love to do a 12-week cycle if the results would be just as good as a longer cycle would be. Given my age and the fact that this is basically just a cycle to help me get into vacation shape, I don't want to add in anything else like Tren. Sorry, Skip. Appreciate you guys and all the information you provide. Skip, were you going to tell him to get on Tren? No, I'm not that pro, Tren. I mean, come on. There's always DHB. Skip. Okay, let me make sure I understand. Tess, Primo. Deca. I thought he said Deca. He did. And then he went. And Anivar? EQ. And then Anivar. And then he mentioned EQ in the second part of the last part of the question. I'm confused on the EQ. So maybe he was thinking of, yeah, he says, I'm going to a cycle of Tess, Primo, Deca, and adding in Anivar for about the last six weeks. And then he says, yeah, and then he brings the EQ back up out of nowhere. He says, should the Primo dose be higher than the test or vice versa? I know EQ is sort of a slow burn and needs 16 to 20 weeks to take full effect. I guess he's asking, is Primo a slow burn? Yeah. That needs a full effect. Yeah, to take the time that EQ would take. Okay. Because that's important because if EQ and Primo are in there, like, brah, you're going to have some problems there. I'm pretty sure. That vacation's going to, your wife's going to be wanting a boyfriend about three days in. I'm pretty sure. So I guess. Go for it, Andrew. Well, I was just going to say, why the Deca? Like, that's not a drug I would throw in when I'm trying to get in shape. Yeah. And try to be drier. I would even do, like, a test Primo Masteron cycle. Yeah. You know? I would stick with that. Throw in some Anovar, like you mentioned, maybe the last three weeks and call it a day. Ratios. How much test was he using in his off-season cycle? 600 test, 400 EQ, 200 Deca. Okay. So. There's going to be an overlap. Let's be careful. There's going to be an overlap with that EQ, too, when the Primo comes in. So let me answer this. He's been off that for a little while. Oh, okay. Thank you. Okay. Because I thought I was looking at the overlap. Six weeks ago. So it's been. And that was two weeks. So eight weeks before we recorded this. He's been off now. Okay. So let's say 600 tests, 300 Primo, 300 masks, and then 25 to 50 migs of Anovar over the last three weeks. I think that'll serve him. Now, he's definitely going to want to maybe bump the test up a little bit over the last two weeks leading into vacation. If it's like a vacation with just the wife, if it's a family vacation with all the kids, just stay on the cycle. Exactly. You know what I'm saying? Do you get where I'm going with that? I mean, is it, is it, are you going to one of those hedonism resorts or are you going on the Disney cruise? Yeah. Hado cruise or is it? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So you have one room. We always got, well, I won't. Yeah, I will. We always, when we took cruises, kids had their own room right next to us. Oh yeah. It's still got to be a vacation. I'm sorry, but no, I'm not. You're not cramming all them rotten ass kids in the same room with me for a week. No. Yeah. So I have a client that reached out to me about setting up a cycle and he said, man, I don't know. He's like, what can I add in at the beginning of the cycle if we use EQ? Because from what I understand, you have to be on EQ for 10 weeks before it builds up and kicks in. And he said something similar in there where that, what was it? I know that EQ was a slow burn and ideally needs 16 to 20 weeks to take full effect. What are your comments and thoughts on that? 16 to 20. I don't know about that. Yeah. Okay. It's not like it just magically activates at 10 weeks into the cycle. Right. You know? Once you inject it in your body, it's there. It's just how fast is it breaking apart from the ester, getting in your bloodstream and hitting the androgen receptors, right? And maxing blood levels. And maxing blood levels. But it's like a little bit of EQ is going to be there and that's better than no EQ. Right. And then when a little bit, you know, a couple weeks more down the road, more EQ is going to be better than the previous EQ levels. So, yeah, I don't think it's a 10-week. It's not as slow a burn as people like to think it is. Right. And I'm with you on that. Yeah. I don't think I've ever taken EQ and not felt it for 8 to 10 weeks. That's just my... Yeah, I agree. And I think on the other side, it's going to be argued, well, Skip, you've got other compounds in there, so you can't say that for sure. No, but I am a professional drug user. I've used them for a long time. And I'm just saying that I don't think it takes that long to feel it. And I kind of hear Andrew saying the same thing. So what do you think, Scott? Yeah, I agree with you guys. And it's something that I can tell you that like in my very first cycle, it felt like it took four weeks to kick in. But later, you get to know what you're looking for. And you can start... I can start to tell the differences within the first week of being on a cycle. I start... The first thing I notice is that even though my workout is finished, I feel like I could keep going. And I feel like I'm having good workouts. Like every workout has been a really good workout the past few days. Like to me, those are those early signs. It doesn't have to be to the point where like, oh yeah, the scale's up 10 pounds. You know what I mean? It's like you become better at recognizing. I think that's part of it. I will say my experience with EQ is that it is a slow burn. I'm with you guys. It's working from the time that you're taking it. The first day you take it. And that's what I told my client too, is from the day you take it, it is working. I noticed that it was later, like that six, eight weeks in, I feel like I just kind of look in the mirror when I had a pump and I'd be like, oh wow. Like six weeks in, I'm like, oh wow. Yeah, no, I see it now. Like I didn't notice it until, you know, now, but I would just start at that point. It's like, that's when I could tell a difference visually versus like some compounds that you take it and it's like, you feel it right away or you feel it sooner. I want to throw something else at you guys. So Dave Crosland just speculated on this. He said, you know, 20 years ago, we didn't have the understanding about what EQ does to estrogen. Is it possible that us thinking that EQ didn't kick in till eight weeks in was in part related to your cycle building up? Did it get to a point where maybe you're adding other things in and, you know, maybe your estrogen, like, cause here's what I found. I intuitively discovered that I loved test EQ and dbol. Right. And I think there's something to that, that maybe I was getting my estrogen back up with that dbol. And that that's why it made that cycle. So magic that without the dbol, maybe I was crushing my estrogen altogether. You know, is there, is there something to it that maybe our, our relationship in the past to thinking EQ took forever to build up, had something to do with it actually doing something to estrogen early on. And us also taking AIs, right. Cause 20 years ago, we're starting that cycle up with, you know, milligram of a rim at X after every shot, you know, or whatever. Yeah. And we're also layering that in with a bunch of EQ on top of it. I don't know. I think it's hard to, to figure out. I can see the logic behind it at the same time. I mean, something like dbol kicks pretty quick and, and it's felt like it is like, wow. Oh yeah. So it's, I think it would be hard to tell the difference. The only thing I would go, I say go against the only thing that I would say that I would change is to increase the primo. And that's not because I like it and I respond that, you know, well to it cause I don't, but my experience with clients is I would probably run the, and understand that it's difficult to get real primo and it's expensive when you do, but I don't base my gear selection on what's difficult to get and how expensive it is anymore. So I would take it up to four or 500. I would run it a little bit higher. I don't think 300 is bad. I just think that primo is one of those compounds that it's, I don't want to say it's watered down, but it's, it's not as anabolic. It's not as anabolic. Exactly. It's weaker. So yeah, I would rather see it. If I had to pick a number, I'd say 500. It's 500 versus 300. So yeah, it's not much difference, but I would run it a little bit higher. Nothing wrong with that. I think in my mind, I was thinking, okay, he probably wants to try to stay around the same milligram of what he was using. Yeah, and that could be too. Of what he was using during his offseason cycle. Cause he's probably not a young guy. He's probably, I'm imagining someone who's probably somewhere between our ages and he's just going on vacation with his wife and he wants to, he's not putting it all on the line. He's not putting all the chips in on, on red. Right. Yeah. Yeah. What about this one? Um, in the live stream, how do you decide how long a cycle should be in general? I mean, that's kind of a tough one, isn't it? I would say experience. Yeah. Like, like we know that four weeks into a cycle, we'll say a moderate normal cycle that most guys would use in an offseason or whatever. That's not going to produce horrible labs. Right. We know that going 30 weeks probably is for most people. So then I think experience of yourself working with a number of clients, getting labs done with these people and seeing, okay, where do we get to a point that's, we'll say not acceptable anymore, not acceptable casualties, I guess, in that sense, you know, what's what, and it's never like one number of like HDL or one number of liver enzymes or one, it's kind of a collective. Okay. So I'm seeing this, I'm seeing this, I'm seeing this. Yeah. Okay. I'm seeing this and yeah, I think it's time we should pull back, you know, but usually it also coincides with the athletes or the person's desire or need to take a break, like mentally and physically anyway. Cause like, I just find, okay, you can have someone do maybe a 20 week cycle and maybe one of those weeks somewhere in the middle, or maybe even like 14 weeks in, you're giving them a deload week. You're telling them to take some time off, you know, maybe go two to three times this week. Don't kill it in the gym. And then they get that kind of second push towards the end of the finish line. And you get back in your mind, you're like, okay, we probably got five, six, maybe eight more weeks to stretch this thing out before they just need a break. Whether it's joints, sleep issues. Hey, their BP is getting high. Maybe we're seeing, cause we've been pushing the food. We're getting to that point where everything I'm trying to keep the blood sugar under control. That's not working anymore. So it kind of all coincides together to give you this kind of milieu of like, okay, the lab work, blood sugar, BP, their lethargy, how they're feeling about going to the gym. It kind of all coincides in one and you kind of make a decision together usually. Okay. Let's just say I'm going to rephrase the question. Let's just say that it's us personally. When we go into a cycle, what can we typically expect or plan on for a typical cycle length for ourselves? Because I can say that I usually look at it like if I start a cycle, I can pretty much count that it's going to be 20 to 24 weeks. Yeah. That's kind of my, and there may be things that come up. There may be things that I feel. There may be inflammatory issues. Things can play into that. But that's typically what I go in planning to do. I'd even almost go so far 20 to 25. And I know some people think 25 is long. And here's my point with that is I think we all see the old school 8, 10, 12 weeks is really short. You know what? I think though a lot of people came off back then. And so there was the big factor of – because like when I first started reading message boards in like 2004 or whatever, like everybody was PCTing and coming off. And I know not everybody, but at least everybody said they did. And so the cycle was 8 weeks, 10 weeks, 12 weeks. I saw guys in the UK were more like 10 to 12, whereas the US was 12 to 16. And I was like 16 when I saw that. But I think a big factor, Skip, was that they were factoring in the fact that they didn't do TRT, you know? Yeah. Yeah. But I don't disagree with your time frame, Skip, because – and I know both of us have done this and maybe Scott has too – where you did an off-season cycle right into a contest prep cycle. Yeah. And ran right through, I guess we'll say 50 weeks. Yeah, 50 weeks of the year. You know, without – I'm talking – I'm guilty of it, of not taking a single week of less than 1,000 milligrams of something. You know what I mean? Now, I got done that stretch and I did my labs. And this is before we were doing labs, you know, every six, eight weeks. It was – you got your labs done twice a year. And I knew I should probably get them done after this long 20-week off-season cycle and then a long 20-week prep, you know? And they really weren't as bad as I thought they were going to be. Yeah. You know, and I'm not saying, like, this isn't an advertisement or a, you know, a checkmark to go and try this. Yeah. Okay. I'm not telling people to do this. I'm just saying it could be – I was also taking tons of supplements, water, cardio, all the good stuff that keeps you healthy. Because that plays into it as well. Age was on your side too, I'm sure. Age was on my side, Scott. Thank you. That's actually a big one. Age was on my side. Would I do that today? No. I absolutely would not do that. So – but it's – I'll say this too is – because I think we're all very intuitive. And I think if you're a coach that thinks you can help other people, you kind of have to be intuitive. You can kind of pick up on signs when it's time for you to go off a cycle. And then you can use that experience and knowledge to help other people by asking the questions of, like, well, how are you sleeping now? Yeah. Are you excited to go to the gym or are you just going to the gym because you have to and it's back day? You know what I mean? Like, you can kind of garner a lot of, like, where someone's head state – mental state and their head's at. Have we pushed this thing a little too long? Is it time to pull back? Like, now, today's guys are all educated too. Like, the typical client is a million times more educated than they were back in the day, right? To the point where sometimes it's annoying. But – and they're kind of planning in their head, okay, so if they know they want to compete in September, they're like, okay, so we've got a 16-week stretch where I can do an off-season cycle. And then I want to take 8 to 10 weeks off and then I'm going to start my contest prep sometime around, what, you know, early August or late July, that kind of thing. So there is a little bit of that client comfortability, I guess, too. Except in prep. And the only reason I say that is because even with all my experience, you know, personally, I have a hard time differentiating between how I feel based on the cycle versus how I feel because I'm just beat up in prep. And I think that – I know when I went to the – I had that injury with the glute and I went to the ER, I was very concerned and told the guy, I don't want to know what – don't come to me and tell me that my markers are all out of whack. It was like five weeks before a show. I don't want to know. Don't tell me. Don't lecture me. I'll drag my leg out of here if you do that. And he ended up telling me before I left. He's like, hey, I know I'm not supposed to tell you, but I was actually surprised that your blood work really wasn't very bad. And Skip heard, I can take more. Yeah, exactly. So I went home. No, but that's – I think sometimes because of our experience and our knowledge, we can sometimes feel, and especially in prep, maybe things are worse than what they actually are. And even with our experience, it's hard to differentiate between what is prep, even though we're familiar with prep, and what is actually – the gear is really beating me down right now. I'll say when it comes to working with clients, if we're in a cycle in a prep, to me, the big things that I'm going to stop someone in prep is we're not progressing. Yeah. The body is just – I've tried 18 different things for a period of time. None of them are working. Your body is just not working right now. Like, it's time to regroup. It's time to pull off the gear. Let's rest the body, and let's attack this again maybe in six months for a prep. You know, I find it's always – that's the reason I pull people out of prep, because you ask someone to get their labs done, and like you said, Skip, like nine times out of ten, it's not as bad as you would imagine it's supposed to be. But even if it is, I make sure I educate the client. I'm like, this is the issue. This is – you know, I think – here's my opinion, but you're the person doing the show. So it's up to you on what you want to do with this information. I've always said that if you have to force a response, you're in trouble. It should be coercion. You should be manipulating the body for a response, not literally just forcing it to happen. And I think – and that's not to say there aren't those cases where it happens. But if that is the – it should be, ideally, it should be just coercion and manipulation. It should be you make this move. Yes, it's a bitch. You make these changes, but this happens. Versus I've made a couple changes. I've made a few changes. But now we're to the point where we're just literally taking your body and we're just – we're just wringing it out and we're forcing it. That's a – I don't think it's a great situation. It's not a good look. Put it this way. If I've got – and this usually applies more to females. If I've got a female and I put you on 600 calories and I'll be the first to say, yeah, that happens sometimes. You work with Pro Bikini and they're going to compete competing all year, multiple years back to back to back. You do some unhealthy shit. But if you've got someone on 600 calories and T3 is as high as you ever want to take it, all the goodies are in there and they're not moving, to me, that's when I'm like, we've got to pull you out. This isn't the time right now. Yeah. All right. We've got another one in the stream here from Juice250. He says, what dose of Reta are people who already have their diet and training nailed down using? I started to titrate up a few weeks ago and I'm not sure how high I should go. 10 milligrams a week sound high? Guys, I have someone who came to me asking for coaching. They were taking 13 milligrams of Reta a week plus 3 milligrams of semaglutide. It's crazy to see. Andrew, I haven't had somebody come to me that high, but I have seen 8s and 10s. I've never in my life, I couldn't fathom going that high. Well, I was at dinner last night with a friend and he wanted to test out the clinical dosing used in experiments for Reta. So he took a month and did that and titrated up from like the 2.5 to 5 to 8. And then I think he topped out at 9 milligrams a week. He lost 35 pounds over like I think he said a month, maybe a little bit more than that. Wow. I couldn't fathom losing 35 pounds in a month. I just, I don't think that's. You can't imagine that would look awesome. What about the look? I mean, number one, was he a bodybuilder who trains or was he just an average person? He's a very hard trainer. Okay. He's a bodybuilding coach. He's actually, he's never competed. And there's something to be said about that, but he earns my respect because he's very good at what he does. And he does consults with a lot of good coaches and he asks the right questions. Like when I do consults with them, I'm like, you would have thought this guy competed a hundred times. You know what I mean? Yeah. I can think of a couple of people and I might even actually be thinking of the same person. I won't mention his name, but yeah. And, and I, I agree with you. I think sometimes look to each their own. I can always appreciate someone getting outside of the box and experimenting. I'd rather people experiment on themselves than on their clients. So there's that. Yes. Yeah. Now at the same time, can we all agree that that is an egregious amount of Reta? I'm, I'll go on record and say that if the vast majority of people are going to respond very well, if they respond between one and two milligrams. I mean, we're talking about getting gut distension from 1.7, right? Yeah. Yeah. No. Yeah. But there are other factors in the sense, you know, that I own. I mean, I'm over. No, but I'm just saying though, like if we're talking 1.7, imagine. No question. Yeah. No question. I was just making the point that there are extenuating circumstances. Like I'm not 30 anymore and I've been through the nineties of force feeding and I do have a passive insulin and GH. There are other things I have to consider, but you're right. So then here's what I also see is the people who don't respond in those areas when they do go up, if they respond, it's not much better. So I don't see any reason based on my experience with my clients, not just myself, but with my clients that when those numbers get up there, they're the ROI really isn't there anyway. Okay. So I just, I don't see much. Like I haven't seen someone go high and go all of a sudden, oh yeah, now it's working great. I have not seen that. I don't think once. Yeah. I think also we got to keep in mind, these drugs were not made for bodybuilders to optimize their bodybuilding progress. And I don't say that to be joking. I'm saying these drugs were made to attack the obese population, especially in our country, which is just growing more and more. So these people, they don't care if they only eat one meal a day. Yeah. They don't, they're not doing the weight training to support muscle and bone density mass. They're not doing, they're not doing out of health. I mean, I guess you could say they're doing out of health because they need to lose 50 pounds or, you know, they're in metabolic syndrome, et cetera. Everything that goes with that, um, diabetes, et cetera. But like, they're not looking at it from an optimal physique development standpoint. They're looking at it. 90% of it's vanity. Give me a break. It's no different. Sure, sure, sure, sure. But it's like, well, here's the, let me ask you this. If, if you're a 300 pound chick on one of the GLP drugs, do you look any better at 260 pounds? Well, true, but maybe they're on the way down to 150. Yeah. I, yeah, I get what you're saying. Yeah. We just lost three viewers because they were, they're 300 pound chicks. We don't have any 300 pound chicks. We don't have any. We've got four females and they're all in very good condition. Very, very good point. I get what you're, I get what you're saying. I, I just, I, I, I can't disagree with it. But there is, to your point though, there is a large population of already fairly fit people. They're not in the bodybuilding realm whatsoever. The soccer moms that, you know, still have good curves and stuff that want to just like get a little, a leg up over their friends and look a little more attractive. There's that whole pot. And because the, the, the, the, um, the prescribing guidelines are like so vague, right? Right. That you can go to like a med spa clinic and they're giving you prescriptions and shots of this stuff. Can we talk about the perspective real quick, Scott? The reason I say this is because I think that I get clients who are not bodybuilders, but they're, you know, they want to stay in shape and they're, they're training and, you know, it's going on vacation, be in great shape. But this Reddit, it's, it's almost like it's, it's misunderstood. It's not a drug to fix your problems and make you lean. It's a, it's a compound or a peptide to help you to get, it's a tool to help you get lean. You, so many people rely on it that it's almost like, well, I'm still hungry. It's not supposed to eliminate hunger. It's supposed to take the edge off. It's not made to make you not hungry or to never have a craving. I mean, it's, it's almost like, do you not understand what you're, what this compound is supposed to do? They don't care. I think the general person that's being prescribed this, oh, I won't get hungry. Perfect. That eliminates half the problem. Oh, I don't need to exercise and I'll continue to lose weight at a clip of two to three, 2.3 pounds a week. Okay. Sign me up. So I, I mean, it's like two, maybe there's three audiences, potential audiences that use this drug. Like there's our demographic, physique competitors, people that try to get the most out of life. We'll say, you know, physique. Right. There's that middle ground group of people that try to exercise, try to stay healthy. They just want to look more attractive. They want to, um, you know, whatever you want to make out of that. And then there's the people that clinically need something to drop 50 pounds because their heart's going to explode or, you know, they're already passed. They're already well into diabetes, type two diabetes. You know what I mean? So there's, it's really sad, but like you're seeing kids on this drug. Yes. It's like that. That's our fix. That's our Western medicine fix. It's, it's kind of, it's sad. It's a gross understatement. I agree with you. Remember we had that segment the other week that we were like, what are phrases we would like taken out of our language? I would like to add one to that on this topic. I would like to remove the term food noise. Oh, for real? I'm getting real tired of food noise. Fair enough. I can see it on your face. You're like really irritated me. Well, I've been experiencing a little bit more. How many check-ins have you gotten, Andrew, where somebody says, I've been experiencing more food noise this week. That's, that's the old, I'm feeling flat. Yeah. Yeah, it is actually. It really is. The question of the guy losing the 35 pounds, what did he see visually? Did he like the look or was it a, you know, a flat, like, Oh my God. Like, yeah, I'm leaner, but this isn't a great look. We didn't get that far in the conversation because then like our giant steaks came. We were at Rich Chris. But then, but also he did say like, dude, the side effects were crazy in terms of just the, not being able to go to the bathroom and just like not feeling like zero appetite. He didn't poop for 30 days and that's when he lost half of the weight. And he lost seven more pounds when he did. Yeah. So, yeah, I don't know. I'm still all over the map about Retta. Like when people come to me before we even start a prep and they're, they're a somewhat new client and they're talking about like, well, so do I need to get Retta for this prep? And it's like, I don't know. Like, I kind of want to be like, no, like I want to, let's do this prep without it. Like we used to just three years ago, you know, like it's not a, it's not a must that you have to use Retta to compete in bodybuilding. You know, you guys remember me showing the contrast of my pictures from the two years. And I argued that I was so much fuller, but I wasn't as strong that I couldn't put the only, the only difference between those two pictures was the one year I was fuller and wasn't as strong. I wasn't on Retta. And that is really hanging in my brain because I, and especially when it came to my legs, I'm like, this is like day and night, like, holy shit. And the weight, I mean, I, when I contrasted those pictures, that weight was within a few pounds of each of, it was pretty dramatic. That's on my brain coming into this cut cycle as well. And which is exactly the reason why I'm like, you know what? I'm going to definitely start cutting because I tapered it late in the cut phase last time. I'm going to start tapering literally from the, from the go, right from the jump. Thought about taking it out. The only reason I'm going to take it out completely is because I have been on it for a year, still low dose, but I had this hangup about, yeah, that, that would be my luck. I go and I pull it and change that variable dramatically. And then I, it all up. So that's, it's on the table. Cause I don't, I don't, I think there's some relationship there. Studies show creatine doesn't just fuel your muscles. It fuels your brain. Research links creatine to improved memory focused and mental clarity, especially while under stress. It helps reduce mental fatigue, supports learning, and may even protect long-term brain health. I order my creatine from true nutrition, use code, think at checkout to get 10% off and support this podcast. Power your body and your mind with true nutrition creatine. By the way, this is my actual morning routine, mixing 15 grams of creatine into my oats, no flavor, no texture. And Hey, since I got married, we store it in this fancy jar. So it doesn't look like my wife lives with a bro, but Hey, if you're single, just leave it in the bag on the counter. It's totally fine. How about this one? I'm in the final four to six weeks of my photo shoot prep. I'm currently on TRT in Mast. And for the last weeks, my coach has added just, he didn't say how many. And for the last weeks, my coach has added in trend ACE at 10 milligrams on training days. I'd like to hear your opinions on whether it is an advantage to take it on training days only, or whatever. Would I be better off going with every day? I think 70 milligrams a week, taking it every day is fine. I do too. I just don't like the fact that he's got a coach and he's asking us. I don't know. There's that. Oh yeah. Gotta go to your coach, bro. That's a good point. Yeah. I just, but at the same time, I'm with you, Andrew. I don't, I've just never been a fan of the fluctuating levels. I know that there are people who like, I think you do Scott, you like that pre-workout bump. Nothing wrong with it. I don't like fluctuating levels. That's with especially, yeah. Injectable. Even with the world. Injectable orals. I don't want to take them every day to begin with. So it was kind of like, that was my middle ground was to take it on training days. But I'm with you though, that in general, like let's say Anivar. I hear people saying, oh, I take my Anivar on training days only. I'd rather, you know, take it every day. I think you're going to get it. You're going to get, it's kind of like the growth hormone thing, right? Like, do you, should you take growth hormone seven days or should you take it five on two off? Should you take it training days only? I will say that. I mean, obviously there's blood sugar things to consider in there, but if you take it as many times as you can, you're taking more, it's going to have a better effect. Yeah. The whole Anivar thing I think came across, came about when females seriously started taking, competing more and taking PEDs more, especially in the bikini divisions, because there was a lot of that. Okay. Just take 10 mg of Anivar, you know, an hour before you work out, like on your four or five training days a week. I think with the thought process of we're going to cause less virilization if there is any, if we're only taking it four to five days a week versus seven. I feel like that's a, and then I think it carried over into the bodybuilding world from coaches that coach bikini and maybe wellness, or this is before wellness. Cause I'm thinking back 12, 13 years ago, crossed over to men. Oh, maybe I'll just take it on my training days. You know? Yeah. I don't know. Um, what about this one from Daniel in the stream? He says, uh, can you guys give a general rule of thumb for AI dosing per 250 milligrams a test to one gram? So he's asking like, if you're taking two 50 tests, how much is there a rule or a general idea of how much AI to take versus say 500 versus seven 50 versus a thousand? No. You'll need more with a thousand than you do at two 50. That's yeah, that's true. That's about all. That's kind of what I was going to lean towards a smart ass thing like that, because it's true. It's, I mean, it's a hundred percent true. Like how many guys, you know, that can use 250 migs of tests a week. They don't need a single AI. They're fine. But then there's some people, there's a good amount, but then there's some that like, they need to be taken something every other day. Yeah. So, yeah. And then 500, I would say when you get to 500, there's more people that are going to need an AI, but not everybody. Maybe 90% at that point? Somewhere. Yeah. Like high end. High end. Yeah. Yeah. If I were to start somebody at 500 tests and we, I would say, let's say we wanted to take 500 tests and we wanted to add in some level of AI. Cause I do think that with 500 tests, you're probably going to get high estrogen. I might start something real low. Like, let's say they did two shots. I might say, Hey, let's take 25, excuse me, 0.25 milligrams of a Remed-X twice a week after your shots. And then let's get your lab work done after four weeks. That way it's probably going to at least help, you know? Yep. If, if, if, if you get to a point where we start getting some sensitivity, then we obviously needed, you know, before that four weeks, then we're going to increase it. Sensitivity is going to happen, you know, well before gyno happens though. Yeah. So you do got some time. Yeah. Yeah. Um, all right. Let me see what else we have here. Why don't we go to that physique critique? Got one pulled up here. Where is he at? Yes. All right. So this guy is pretty good. I thought I, I actually pulled it open. I was like, Oh, I'm pleasantly surprised here. Man. It's Andrew's microphone big. That's what they say. All right. So he's two 18, five 10. And he's just looking for a general critique. I looked at it. I was like, geez, that guy's waist is incredible. Yeah. Got a great taper. Yeah. So he's how tall? Five, 10. Yeah. Two 18. Yeah. I mean, let's be fair. Did you not look at him and go, okay, he's five, six. Well, I did. I just, I was like, Oh yeah, he's not that tall. And when he said five 10, I'm like, Oh man. Probably because of his waist. You seen classic or bodybuilding. Jeez. He didn't say, but I will say this. I feel like just out the gate, he needs more of everything and will look absolutely crazy when he gets it. Legs are maybe a little bit down compared to that upper body, but wait a second. When he diets down that upper body, I bet is going to kind of tighten up. You know, see what I'm saying guys? How like through his upper body, I think that he'll, he'll, as he tightens up, that's going to come in, but then the legs are going to come in too. I think maybe legs are a little bit imbalanced. If I had to critique him, which I hate to do. You hate to do, but he, he's going to send it to me. So, um, well, here's the thing. So if he's classic, I think he'll be just fine this year. If he, if he's a bodybuilder, he's got to get to, he's got to be a super heavyweight at five foot 10. Yeah. Like that, that's just a must. Um, structurally very sound. Like, is there anything that stands out? You know, like, you know, I'm going to say something I'm waiting for you guys, but I'm going to say something that you guys might not agree with. Okay. Um, is there an ab thigh? Let's see. Hold on. He's got some more here. There you go. Not a good shot for him. I just think is, I know you guys are probably going to have a heyday with this. I think even though his waist is tiny, I think his abs are just too thin. They're just underdeveloped. Okay. Well, I think we would agree with that. Okay. All right. Cause I don't want to take away from the fact that he's got a ridiculously small waist. That's an easy fix too. Yeah. Usually there. I tell you what, oddly enough, I've run into a couple of people that you just bang them and tear them up and train them heavy. Like you're training legs and they just don't thicken up. It's kind of bizarre. Then he has to be careful when he's training to not increase too much, like to turn around, turn it into an oblique. Yeah. Progression. But I just think arguably, I think that that's what stands out to me. Obviously his waist is small, but it doesn't, to me, it doesn't fit. I noticed that before. I don't, I don't necessarily think that his legs are weak overall. I agree with you, Andrew. I think that he would need to come up to, to be much bigger for the open division, but this is a classic. I think that classic physique. Honestly, I would say that his arms feel a little bit, and maybe it's the angle, maybe it's angled down a little bit, but yeah, I'll stand by it. I think that his arms are just so strong that bringing those legs up would create even like a crazier X frame on him. The shape of his legs are incredible. You know, like the, the shape of the sweep, I think is really pretty. He's got a beautiful physique and I'd like to see him in shape, but I, I just, I wonder when he gets there, are those legs going to shrink up on him at all in that process? Cause we usually do lose a little bit of leg size when we're in absolutely peeled condition and those arms are still going to be huge. That's why I think he'd be really good at classic right now. Yeah. All the good classic guys have wacky arms. Like, okay. So he's got something you can't build. You can't buy it. No waste. Like that, that, that, that taper is out of this world. I think if he brought his feet a little closer together, you might think his legs looked a little bigger. Okay. A lot of space between the kneecaps. I'll give you that for sure. If those adductors are touching just a little bit more, I think we'd be saying, well, his legs are maybe he's not, those adductors up even, you know, I don't think he's too far off as far as condition. I mean, he's got, is the Sartorius is there from the back, his glutes and everything. Like he's not too far off. Just more of everything. Yeah. Yeah. Just more of everything. So if he's doing classic, he'd be dangerous this year. If he's competing at some point this year, if he wants to be a bodybuilder, he's got to grow probably in three years when he's 235 to 240 pounds on stage and he keeps that waist in Jesus. Like keep that shot right there too. If you would, I know that they're not judged, but I still think he needs cast. He needs better calves. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. That's a good point. I had someone comment on a photo, a client posted of me putting him through poses and they were like, uh, Oh, the coach, the coach has got stick legs and it's like, yeah, dude, my calf has disappeared. Like, cause all you can see where my calves, like my calves have atrophied from like the nerve issues. Like my, my, my gastric is gone now, like literally gone. And I noticed I had another client that had that same thing happen to him. He got his pro card two years ago. His, his, his left gastric was completely just gone. Like it just shrivels up and goes away. It's, it's really weird. Probably from back injury. I always love those just random troll comments. Like, like, well, how can I get this guy? Oh, there's twigs. It's just so funny. But it's like here, my client is posing in a most muscular looking nasty. Like that's the highlight of the photo. Not the fucking slubs, like sitting there, like putting him through the poses right now. Right. You know, pale and like out of shape, just like, you know, coaching them up. Yeah. Great. I think it should. I think 10, 15 years down the road, it would be nice if social media didn't allow you to post with, especially when it's related to physiques, unless you had a physique picture in your profile. Yeah. A good physique picture. Yeah. Or just, I don't even care if it's good, just to be able to judge versus what do they always have? They got that gray silhouette or a picture of like a tree or a flower. I've seen a lot of pictures of cats, bro. I've seen it. And you know what's bad is I'm like, I want to wreck you, but you like that. I'll leave you alone. I saw that. I saw that physique come in and I was like, crap, this guy looks freaking good. Like he's, he's got some talent. You said it, Andrew. I think that what he has, you can't buy. That's just, yeah. That's excellent structure. That just, you know. Thank you, parents, bro. Because you're not training for shape like that. Blair Royds has a good question. Blair Royds 33. I wonder if he's a natural guy. Blair Royds. Yeah. If at 5'10", he would be a super heavyweight, what class would you play someone at 5'8"? That's hard, man. With his frame. So, okay. So I'm saying because he's 5'10", he needs to be a super heavyweight to be ultra competitive. Like he could win local shows up and down the road. Sure. Oh, easy. But if you want to win a pro card, you got to be 240 with that frame, right? Yeah. Because while it's beautiful muscle, it's not like heavy, dense. Yeah. You know. Once you get next to the guys that are your height and they are 250, then you look, that's where you get exposed. Yeah. You become the guy like, man, that guy's got potential. Yeah. But not the guy that's winning the class, you know? Yeah. But at 5'8", that's a good question. I mean, conventional wisdom would say he's got to be a heavyweight, you know, but probably topped out at 225, right around there. Yeah. I would still say a 5'8", the guy with that frame, as a super heavyweight, would dominate. Dominate. Yeah. I take it. I got a fun question for you guys. Has anyone ever had a gym nemesis? You know, the guy who's always there, never said a word to him, but F that guy. Like, he talks shit about you, maybe? Maybe. Maybe. Could be a gym nemesis. Maybe it's just a vibe. Yeah. Maybe it's a vibe. Maybe you never said a word to him. You just know that, like, you know, F that guy. Or maybe it is somebody that you've seen. Maybe you guys compete at the same shows and he's been talking crap about you, even though you have a better physique than him. Not that that's ever happened to me. I don't know that anybody's ever talked shit about me, but I know you ever get that vibe that someone just doesn't like you for no good reason. You've never had a conversation with them. It's just something about the way you carry yourself or the way that you look, that they just don't like you. And I know I've probably had this several times in training forever. And it's something that when I moved to Florida, I, after a while, I had to pull a guy aside and be like, what is wrong with people? Like, I make eye contact with people. I, you know, nod at them and they just could not give a shit. And apparently that was the, you know, I'm on the east side of the state. We got a lot of New Yorkers over here who don't give a shit about nothing. But he kind of explained to me that the culture, I'm from Colorado. I mean, people talk, people will just pass by you and they'll talk and they're just genuinely pretty nice people. And that's not the case down here. I never had that, but I don't know that I've had anybody. I've just fucking can't stand. I was going to say, when you say the case down here about Florida, it's because no one from around here is from Florida. And that's what I was told. Everyone's from New York, New Jersey, Vermont, you know, Michigan. Yeah. Yeah. So it's like, like when you meet someone, they're like, oh, I'm from Miami. You're like, yeah, but where are you originally from? Right. I'm from Miami. You're like, oh, so you're like legit. Like, you know. Yeah. Versus if you're in suburban Detroit, you're probably from suburban Detroit. So true. Right. So true. That is true. Yeah. Man, I feel like I've always just been so friendly to people at the gym that I don't have any nemesises or nemesis. Is it one? How would you say that? Ooh. Nemesis. Yeah. Nemesis. I don't know. Whatever the plural that I just don't have that. Yeah. Is octopus. Maybe you didn't know you did. Maybe you were somebody else's and they're like that. Andrew Barry walks around here. Well, I was going to lead into it. Yeah. I was going to lead into a story about that sort of, but I wouldn't say he's a nemesis. He's just a mentally unsound person. Yeah. Started rumors about me with another girl that like did not happen. Huh. And kind of made sure. Yeah, we know they didn't. No. Like, but the thing is, well, here's a crazy thing. We got you. We got you. We got your back, man. This rumor originated with that girl. Okay. And this is a girl who was friends with Rachel. And this really upset her when it got back to her because people were kind of talking about it like, no. Like, did he? Huh. I'd never been in a room alone with this person. I never coached her or nothing. Yeah. And, but I think it all started because he also lived in my neighborhood. And he thought that I had his car towed because I was on the board of the HOA. I was in Pittsburgh winning my pro card at the time. Okay. My mind was not on whose car is parked where. And I could care less if you parked illegally, dude. That's not my business. So, yeah. He started, like, anyway, he got kicked out of the gym because of these rumors that were just completely untrue. So did the female. I mean, well, Rachel kicked them out yelling, screaming, get the F out. You know, one of those. Oh, nice. It was a scene. Yeah. You know, but. And I'm serious. Like, I like her for shit like that. Oh, no. When this girl came in thinking, like, nothing was going on, she's like, what the F are you doing here? Get the F out of here right now or I will remove you. And it was like one of those types of situations. Dang. Yeah. I had a guy that it just, he started just talking crap. There was actually three guys in the gym that one of them, like, I was, we both started competing around the same time. And when I first met him, he started coming to the gym. It wasn't a popular gym yet at the time. And I was like, oh, you know, you're getting into competing. That's cool. You know? And I, when I'd see him, I was like, what's up, man? You know? But as time went by, he developed more of a friendship with these two other guys and they competed. And then it got to be this thing where, like, I'd see them and they just kind of like, oh, look at me. They give me like this look. And I like, just, you know, when people, you know, people are talking about you kind of thing. Yeah. And then I'd hear, I'd hear just stories about myself that weren't true, you know, stuff like that. And then one of the guys I remember, we were going to do the same show, but he was going to be in heavyweights and I was in light heavy. And I remember like being in the, he, like, he wouldn't talk to me at all. Like we became mortal enemies. But then I'm hearing stories from other people that were like saying, oh, so this guy was going to say, I'm not going to say Nick's his name is Nick. Nick said that he's going to win heavyweight and you're going to win light heavies. And then when you guys go up against each other, he's going to beat you because he has more muscle. That's the way the show is good. So, you know, not taking into account, this is like that small, like little inner gym thing. Yeah, exactly. When he doesn't factor in that, there is going to be guys from every city that are coming to the state level show. And that's the way it was. Yeah. I just remember that. And then I remember being in the locker room one time after training and I was like hitting poses with my, buddies, you know, I got like two guys there and like they're watching me hit poses and everything. And he was like on the other side of the locker room. Like I was there for 25 minutes. This is like the post-workout powwow hangout, you know? And he was like standing by himself, like just off in the corner, just kind of like checking out what I had. You know, it was, yeah. Pretending to go through his gym bag, pretending to check his strap. Oh, yeah. Straps are on. I got my drink mail. But then he came up and he stood next to me in line. Cause then when we, when we actually got to the show, so we got to the show and then he was like, Hey, what's up, man? Cause I was the only person he knew then, you know? It's funny how that changes real quick when you're the only guy that from the gym that, you know, you know what I mean? And he probably realizes maybe he did or maybe didn't, but he probably was like, why did I create this internal battle in my head against a guy? Who's he's not going against me. He's going against the field. He's going against himself. He's, he's just going out there to win his class and whatever happens in an overall. Yeah. I think you're giving him way too much credit. I think what really went through his head was he wasn't as good as he thought he was going to be. And all the shit talking he had done, not only to Scott and everybody else, but was going to come to fruition. Like people were going to recognize exactly what the deal was. The second he stepped on stage. I think that has a lot to do with people being very, very cool backstage. All of a sudden. Yeah. Yeah. I had, I don't remember honestly where he did and I'm trying to think, I can't remember where I did, but I was happy with it. I remember that it was, it was, it was like, I had a good time. I don't think that he did. He was too. So I remember that day he was like, yeah, my coach told me I not to go to the bathroom this morning so that I could make heavies. Otherwise he was going to be in light heavies with me and he was like a foot taller. So, yeah. So there was the smallest heavyweight out there. Good. Good. Yeah. Yeah. So apparently I have far less drama in my life than you two do. Oh man, dude. When I was a teenager I got picked on because that was the eighties, but that goes, you know, that goes way back. As an adult, I don't think I was. There was a bunch of people at that gym. Cause I remember somebody coming up to me and being like, oh yeah, that guy said that you're a walking chemical factory. Cause I was like peeled. And I was like, yeah. I took that as a compliment. Thank you, bro. But people thought I was using a lot more than I was because I was like just fricking peeled out of my head. Yeah. Yeah. I gotta say the culture at like the gym I go to, MI40, like, cause there's so many competitors. There's none of that. Like someone's doing this. I think it's very different. Chill. Like everyone's like when someone who's good is there and they're posing, everyone kind of stops and like gives them some respect and kind of watches and like, wow, you know, you're looking good, man. You know, or you're looking good. That's a good gym culture. And it really is. And I'm talking across all divisions, male, female, like people that are serious about like, they're not my client, but if they're good and they're posing, they're getting ready for the Tampa or something. I'll go, I won't offer unsolicited advice unless they ask, but like, I'll just keep them. I'll give like thumbs up or I'll give a, you know, a compliment because I mean, that's what you should be doing. They're going to your gym. Give them something to like, leave the gym positive because you know, prep is hard. Prep is hard. You're tired. You're drained. If someone gives you like a thumbs up or like, Hey, like you're there, you're looking good. That goes a long way when they go home and they're like, yeah, I'm going to finish this diet out. I'm doing good. Yeah. Yeah. One of the reasons I'm going to Ross starting next week, I'm going to make the drive just because I want to change a venue. I want to, I want to be in a more supportive environment that is more relatable to me than the environment that I'm in right now. I like that. That 60 year old guy is going to show up. I know. And then everybody's going to be like, this place is going to shit. No, I'm saying the 60 year old guy that was giving you the. Oh yeah. I'm trying to get away from this guy. Yeah. Skips out running him. How did he get here? This is an hour away. What the hell? Hey guys, what's the best way to teach yourself basic bodybuilding poses? He says, I'm not a competitor, just a self coach lifestyle guy trying to get big. And I feel like I could use some basic poses to keep me on better track with comp, like my body composition, you know, across the weeks. Is there anything that you guys would recommend? Yeah. I'd hire a posing coach. Like I know even if you have no, no inclinations of getting on stage, but maybe someday you will, because you're getting more and more into this. And you're like, I really like this lifestyle. I like how the posing feels. I would hire a real posing coach. Just like, well, Scott, like when you were first starting with firearms, you never thought you were going to join like the Navy SEALs or attack team. But you probably hired somebody to maybe show you some techniques and stuff that were going to help you, you know, in your future firearms endeavors. Right. I'm kind of trying to relate it to something like that. Right. Yeah. Right. Just because you don't want to go pro in something doesn't mean you can't hire an expert to help you get better at something. Yeah. Like people that hire personal trainers. Right. Like there's nothing wrong with that. Like you could, you could Google and look up how to do a squat, how to do a bench press, all that stuff. Or you could hire someone, get that interpersonal relationship and get those cues that are going to be really important. So I would say hire a posing coach, someone like one of my clients, Sid Ray, you know, he'd be a good person to start with. Yeah. Yeah. There are a lot of good posing coaches out there. There used to be a really good video and you could find all the segments of it online. It's still there. Yeah. I was going to say a real old one called a perfect posing by Gary Udit. And I'm talking, this is old. This is like probably shot in the late nineties, early two thousands. But everything that they said in that was all the basic stuff that still applies, where if you don't know how to do a front relaxed, it would give you that information. So if he wants to find, I would try to seek that out. And I'm not going to say that like, it's a hundred percent consistent with what we do today, but it's like 95%. Well, cause I was going to say like, even just the front relaxed, the guys are getting their elbows out. Like remember someone made a video about it last year about like the Milos, maybe Milos made it of how they used to open up for a front relax versus like they were kind of picking on Derek Lunsford for getting every square centimeter he could out of his lats in that front relax. Yeah. About how they think it's over-exaggerated posing now. Or even simple things like the rear double. Cause guys used to kick that leg back. Oh yeah. Really, really far. It wasn't very symmetrical. They didn't flex their glutes like we do today. So there are some nuanced differences if someone wants to become competitive, but I think, yeah, just for, for basic posing. Yeah. Just to know like, how do I put my arms? How am I supposed to? Cause like just even that basic stuff of like learning how to flex everything at once. I think it's a learning curve when you've never done it before. There's a funny one here. What's that? From Ryan Parsons. Did you guys at all discuss the falling out that happened at the masters though? No, we're not going to, because there were 18 million videos made about it by that one muscle discord guy that just wouldn't let it go. It's like the falling out. Oh gosh, that was months ago. That was like, yeah. I mean, there are multiple layers like, oh, did Dorian really win? Like, should he have won? Phil looked so much better than him. And it's like, okay, well there's, there's a, that's why there's a prejudging confirmation. The score, you know? Yeah. Jake Cutler even came out and said, I was ahead at my, at the Olympia beating Ronnie by six points. How did I lose that Olympia? Because there's two rounds. Okay. And they both count equally. And then the other falling out was the guy not paying the. Oh yeah. It's like the promoter just didn't have the money. He didn't have the money ahead of time. And when it came time to pay. What's. Oh, I did hear that. Yeah. Jake Wood had to bail him out and paid the athletes salary or the prizes for him. Yeah. Yeah. The late payment thing. He said, yeah. Yeah. Old news. Ryan, you got to keep up, man. If you're in the YouTube world, brother, that was like, you know, if it's, if it's two days old, that was last year. It literally was last year. Now. Yeah. No, they're just not going to go. He's not going to, the guy's not allowed to promote the show anymore. Is that what they're going to do? Yeah. It won't be there. I remember that kind of stuff happening. Do you remember that Jarka lady? It was like back in, she did like that, uh, India, I think it was in India or something. And then nobody got paid for that one. Yeah. Hmm. You're on Peter to pay Paul for some of these shows. You got a word of the day for skip. I don't, you know, I'm getting really bad at that. I used to have a word all the time and then you never asked me. So I just like, I've been asking you almost. I know you have the couple last couple times. I'll tell you what I'll do. I am going to make it a point to make sure that I come to the show with it, with the word. I'm sorry. All right. And if we don't do it, remind me. And I have them on my phone. It just takes me forever to find them. Yeah. If we don't do it, remind me. And if not, then you can retell your story about the breakfast. Cause that was your best story ever. Right. Right. I will tell it if you want me to tell it. Do you want to do Andrew, do you think he can tell it? Will we be able to react to the point where it'll be like, cause the first time skip told that story, I was level. Like people would have probably enjoyed seeing our reactions to it. I don't think I could be as animated, but I think the listeners would enjoy the story. Okay. I'm going to put in my all. Are you going to put in your all? Give it your all. I think it's the first time you've heard it, but I'm going to preface it with the fact that I was really, and I told you guys this, I was really proud of myself because I handled in a way that I otherwise wouldn't normally handle it. Because remember I did three years ago was charged for assaulting, punching in the face an Uber driver, a Uber eats driver. You never told that. I did not punch him in the face. I was saved by CCTV that they did not know that I had access to and my attorney had access to. So after four months of spending, I think I spent, I don't even know, $12,000 or $14,000. I can't remember. Then it was, it was finally dropped. Horrible time in my life. But I learned a lesson and this ended up playing out over the holidays. When I was in Milwaukee, we go every year to see the kids. I had gone with my family to support my niece who was graduating from essentially drill sergeant school in the Navy down in Chicago at Great Lakes. So I go down there, we get done, we're going to go to breakfast. We go to this place called Egg Harbor. Great breakfast place. It's real busy because it's a couple of days before the holidays or right before Christmas, a couple of days before Christmas. So parking's kind of rough. We were circling around a few times and you know, one person leaves and you pull in. My daughter is driving. I'm in the back seat. My wife's in the front seat with my daughter. So my middle daughter, Riley, and she pulls in, she's waiting and other cars pulling out. She goes, she pulls into park and as she pulls into park, a guy goes by and flips her off and is like, fuck you. And she laughs about it. And she's like, yeah, this guy was, I didn't even see it. This guy's like, you know, fuck you. And yeah, because she apparently took his parking spot, which wasn't true. She had waited on it, but I think he was just frustrated because he parking was limited. So I laughed and said on the way in, I'm like, I'd be funny if he were inside, you know, he was having breakfast too. We all laughed about it. So we go in, there's probably like seven or eight of us and we're waiting to get a seat. We had told the host, you know, we had, uh, the hostess that we had eight people or whatever. And my daughter comes over to me and she's like, dad, that's that guy right there. She's all excited. And I'm like, where? So I hadn't seen him. I didn't know what he looked like. And I, in my brain, it's like, you know, it's an older guy, I'm sure. And he's probably balding or some shit like me. So I didn't really give it much thought. So anyway, she pointed up, she said, yeah, you sit on the other side right here. So I go to the bathroom and my daughter's like, oh no, no. I'm like, what are you? Like, I'm going to go over there and kick his ass or something. And like beat someone up in the middle of brunch, you know, in the middle of the week. So I go to the bathroom, I come out and I'm looking and I walk over there and I'm like, not purposely like, but I want to make sure that I see who it is. There's a guy sitting there with two kids that are maybe like 12 or 13, 14 in there somewhere. And I'm not convinced it's him because they didn't say anything about kids or anything. So I go back over to my daughter and I'm like, yeah, I think I see him, but he's with two kids. And she's like, yeah, that's him. He came in and he met the two kids. So I'm thinking, okay, so they're, they're concerned about it because they, they're still thinking I'm going to, like, I want to beat his ass or something. And I went up to the hostess and I said, we were getting seated. And I told the lady, I said, look, um, I want to, I handed her my card. Yeah. And I said this, I told, I explained it to her. I said, I didn't explain the situation, but I said, this guy over here on the other side, like literally right over here, he's sitting with two kids. They're sitting across from there in this booth, no matter what he orders, no matter what he eats or drinks or whatever else, you need to pick up the bill with this card. Don't let him pay, pick it up. I'm paying for it. And basically said, this is, I didn't explain it or anything else. I just said, this is what I'm going to do. So we go to sit down. Um, the guy comes over with the machine and everything else. And I see what it is and tipped and made sure that I tipped really well too. And I told the guy, he kind of smiled. And I said, make sure that you tell him that I tipped a hundred percent. So just as a joke, cause it wasn't that expensive. It was maybe like 60 or 70 bucks. It wasn't bad. So in there somewhere, 70, 75 bucks. So we get ready to leave and we go back up to the, um, to the hostess. And I said, what did he say? And I probably left out the part that I explained. Yeah, you did. Yeah. So I explained to the hostess when we went back that he, basically I said, he's going to come up and he's going to ask you, well, who picked this up? You know, like who paid for this? Why don't I have to pay for this? And I said, make sure that you explain to him exactly this. And I will tip you for this. I will make sure I need you to do this. So she's smiling. I said, tell her that it's the father of the daughter that you flipped off and told to fuck off when she pulled into the parking spot in the parking lot. So we go back up there and she's like, you know, excited. She's like, oh, cause she knew at that point what was, you know, what was going on. Yeah. So I go back up there and, and, and my daughter even said, well, did he leave? And she's like, yeah. She said the look on his face. And I'm like, well, what did he say? Did he say anything? She goes, no, he really didn't have anything. Like, what could he say? And it, which is true. Like, what do you say to that? He didn't come over. I thought maybe he'd come over and maybe be like, oh, I'm sorry, but that's asking too much of people. What it was, was my, I was bothered by the fact that my, my daughter's reaction, not just my one daughter, but my, also my older daughter really thought that I was going to go confront him. You kind of left out that part a little bit. You kind of played that up heavier when you told us the story. Yeah. You were like, you were worried. They were worried. Like, what's dad going to do in here? They were. And that's what bothered me because I thought, wow, that is what I have somehow projected to my kids over all these years. That's terrible. So it was just one of those things where they thought that I was going to react that way and not reacting or reacting the way that I did, but not confronting him. And I know made him feel like an absolute dick two days before Christmas. I mean, think about it. Two days before Christmas, you flip off arguably like a 25 year old because she stole your parking spot. Now in hindsight, he probably had dropped off his kids and he was going to park because the girls said that they, that he didn't have kids with him and he was, that he had hurried in, but they thought he was hurrying in because he didn't want to be confronted by somebody or whatever, but I don't know that he ever saw anybody else in the vehicle. The whole point was two days before Christmas, the guy was kind of a douchebag and I didn't have to confront him. I just literally spent a few bucks to be able to make him feel like a dick. And I walked away from the situation being, feeling very proud of myself that I had undermined this guy at the end of the day because he didn't have anything. She said, he goes, he just didn't have anything to say. He said nothing. I bet that you really made him think about it versus if you would have confronted him, he would have in his mind doubled down and been like, well, yeah, it was my parking spot, you know, and then this guy's going to give me shit. But you, you probably made him really think twice about flipping somebody off. I just, there was really nothing to gain. And what it did is it took me back to the situation with the Uber Eats driver. I wasn't confronting the guy. I had confronted him about a parking spot. He wasn't supposed to be parking there. And I had done that several times before because they park in the wrong spot and you can't get out, out of the garage parking garage because they're parked there. So it was a situation that was fine. People usually say, oh yeah, it's cool. And he did until I started to walk away. And then he said something smart and I just came back smiling like, dude, everything was fine. I was walking away and it just escalated to the point where, and I'm not going to explain what happened other than to say it's too nuanced, but I did not, I did not punch him in the face. And thankfully the CCTV proved that, but it was just a situation that didn't need to escalate to that point. The dude was trying to get like, get money out of you. He knew that you lived in a nice building that your wife manages. So they're like, oh, these guys are rich and all that. Yeah. Which is not true, but nonetheless. But that's what the view would be, right? When you drive an Astro van that has only one sliding door on the side, you know, it's really old and you don't have a lot of money and you're delivering food to people. I'm sure that he saw dollar signs. Yeah. It is what it is. But the point is, is I kept myself from getting, even being put into a situation where it could have escalated and I won at the end of the day. It was, I was pretty proud of myself. Well, I retold that story to Victoria right after we did the show the other week. Oh, did it? Yeah. Yeah. She was very pleased too. I was quite animated in your retelling, the retelling of your story. So I know it doesn't hit as hard when Andrew and I had already heard it. Cause we reacted big time. Like, I think I was like on the floor. I was like, yeah, it was funny. Cause you were literally like leaning in, like, yeah, you should have told this story. I'm like, you don't ever let me talk and tell stories on the show. What do you mean? Anyway. All right. We appreciate you guys tuning in. Thanks for being here. Go to bodyberry.com and you can reach out to skip over at team skip.com. Hit me up. You can only diets at gmail.com. Leave us questions for the next show. By the way, this is how we do this thing. We, uh, you know, take your listener questions. So leave us comments, all that stuff. Like if you haven't subscribed, we'd love to have you along for everything we do for another episode of blood, sweat and gear guys. We'll see you soon. This is how we do it. As I said that, I was like, if you notice, I paused really long. Yeah. That played in my head. You know what you gotta do? When you edit this, you gotta put some background music up. Yes. I was thinking the same thing. It has to be a cut. And then just go to blank screen and continue playing the song.