What's up, guys? Welcome back to the podcast with Dave Crosslin. I'm Scott McN and all of our programming. It's brought to you by Eval Blood Analysis. If you're in the UK, you can get your labs done by Dave. And hey, if you're on cycle, you should definitely be getting your labs done. We're also brought to you by trueenutrition.com. Use our code think over there for all your basic supplements. Everything from creatine to protein powder, highly brain cyclic dextrogen, everything else you need. Nearly wholesale prices over there. Use our code think to get savings and support the show. We're brought to you by Stro Sports Nutrition, both available in the UK and now in the US. I'm looking forward to trying uh their Thrombo product, Thrombo Max, I believe it's called, and uh all their supplement support stuff. They've got a great line. If you're on cycle, definitely check them out. And we are brought to you by supplements.ca for Canadians. Great deals that change week to week and of course Patreon. You guys, if it wasn't for you guys, well, we wouldn't just be talking to ourselves right now. Dave, what's going on, man? >> Not much. Not much. >> Got a lot of uh good feedback on the the DECA episode. In fact, we had a heartfelt message that I sent it to you yesterday. It was very nice. We'll read it a little bit later. >> It was a very nice message. Yes. Dave doesn't know how to handle people being nice and kind to him. So, >> brought a tear to my eye. Well, that's only because you abuse me so much off camera. >> He doesn't know how to handle it. All I get is abuse of Scott. You don't He He's all nice here. But then as soon as the cameras go off, it's you fat this, you useless that. Why did you fing do that? >> So, you know, I'm I'm an abused co-host, >> guys. you you you can sort that out for yourselves whether that's whether Dave's telling fibs or not on that one. But uh listen, so we did get a couple questions on that last episode. >> Um somebody had asked us specifically about Deca. Um can you explain the heart issues with Deca? And somebody else just flat out said this is preposterous. >> There is no studies. Let's deal with the prus one because I've got the research findings up in front of me. >> Okay. >> So the gentleman basically said there was no studies. So Kamar and Costa Vana 2025 a structured review of critical analysics cardia effects in young exercising men found some things that are common with anabolics. So let's not get too upset here. left ventricle wall thickness common with anabolics uh ventricle compliance and cardiac afterload. Basically what they were showing was the onset of fibrosis or heart scarring which is a little bit more specific to to to Nanderlands Arf uh 2025 he looked and saw an increase in mTor expression again a mechanism to war cell scarring um and myioardial damage with that and heart wall thickening. So though some of these traits from nandrallone are common to anabolics, it is a little bit more pronounced with nandrallone. So the heart wall thickening is more pronounced and the scarring um atas 25 again fibrosis again uh and some vascular remodeling and gene expression again around this cellular development of the heart wall. uh maravllius. >> That's good. >> 23 um arrhythmias um and apoptosis which again sort of goes along with scarring and the mtor pathway about cellular death cell mutation cellular scarring. >> Okay. Okay. Good. Good. Good. This is plenty Dave. This is a lot. >> There's quite a few um that have been specific around Nandeloone. Now going back into the second question which is what were the increased risks? >> Yeah, >> heart wall thickening uh which is common across anabolics um but slightly pronounced within nandallone and that's because this endor pathway increasing which increases cellular development. Therefore the heart wall muscle thickens. um fibrosis or scar tissue within the heart which affects its contractual ability. So it can't move in the same way. When it can't move in the same way, we start to get irregular rhythms which are lead to arterial fibrillations. Uh they can worsen into heart failure where the heart fails to beat correctly. Um a lot of oxidative stress. um and apotosis, early cellular death. And then what was the uh vasodilation issues, reduced vasodilation issues, and I think that was the main of it. There was one Yeah, know that's that's the main of it. So, if you want to put it in in really sort of layman terms, um gets thicker, doesn't beat as well, gets scarred up, >> leads to irregular heart rate, leads to incomplete heart rate, which can result in a long-term cardiovascular impact with conditions like heart failure. >> Interesting. All alabolics have hints towards this, but the the scarring one is the one that's more specific to DECA. >> Okay. I wonder. So, I uh I just started a a new peptide that I wanted to experiment with relating to the mitochondrial stuff, SS31, and Keith over at Parabolic had been suggesting I tried it for a long time. Uh, but I I I felt like the SLU was working so well for me. I I didn't want to like like let's throw this and this and this on top of it, you know, and I reached a point where I kind of feel like the SLU is kind of had run its course. And I'm up for experimentation in in other regards. So SS31 is supposed to be beneficial for people with like a the long bug like I've dealt with, which is real similar to chronic fatigue, a lot of the the symptoms I get. And um interestingly you mentioned um the the I guess the increase in cell death from DECA. I wonder whether this would be beneficial because one of its actions is said to um what is it? Hold on a second here. I've got a note. cells that produce too much react reactive oxidative species um will inhibit electron transport uh SS31 can remove reactive oxygen species which will prevent the activation of the cell death pathways. So, it's supposed to be beneficial for basically preventing cell death that isn't like unneeded cell death, reducing how that that whole uh thing functions, as well as improve your ability to utilize ATP, which is, you know, the fuel that we we use in the mitochondria. So, I I don't know, man. I started it this morning and I already do, you know, it's hard to tell because it's just one day. I could just be having a good day, but I do feel more clear already just with one dose. And I did feel that way with SLU as well. So I I am having a good feeling about that. We'll see whether it lasts. >> Okay. Yeah. I I I mean even if it's not going to have a sort of direct stop effect from the effects of Nanderlone, >> if it's improving it in other areas, it's going to have an offset effect anyway. I would have thought. So yeah, I mean it it's definitely worth I'll tell you what. Now take two gram of deca for a six months and tell us >> and see what happens. >> Yeah. >> See what we get. >> So I'll I'll I'll circle back around to that one after my trip to China. By the way, uh we do have a a great lead topic and I do have a little >> about yourself, aren't you? Yeah. I mean, what about the viewers? I've done mine. I I did my research for the viewers. Sure, >> guys. I got to take a break to do the whole like, share, subscribe thing, but I also want to say thank you to you. The internet's kind of a weird place in case you didn't know. And I I'm glad that we've put the community together that we have. I'm grateful to read your comments. In fact, I I know a lot of YouTubers that don't read comments. I read all of them and I try to get back to everybody. So, if you comment, I will see it and I'll try to get back to you. Also, the like button is absolutely free of charge. You don't have to pay anything to hit it, and it does help us out a ton. It's not going to like push us into your algorithm, but it will help other people to hopefully find the show. So, if you like our stuff, please try to help us out. We've got a great lead topic, which is how much can you gain in in a cycle? We had somebody who asked that today. But before we got to that, I can't tell you a ton about this information that I have, but I did want to tell you I have an inside source update um about the closure of the research and peptide companies. So, this is what my inside source says who is extremely credible uh right in the middle of everything that's been going on. He says that it was more of a chain reaction. So people are wondering like are peptides all closing down? Is this it? Turns out Dave it may be more of a chain reaction where one company that we all know got in trouble and as a result the other companies became paranoid and electively closed their doors. So we saw one go down and then we saw a chain reaction of multiples. People jump to the conclusion of oh this is the FDA they're cracking down. It was a you know an or an an orchestrated attack. But I think more so it was just the one. Uh and I do have more details. I unfortunately I can't share that stuff publicly. I was asked not to by myself. >> I you telling me that people within the bodybuilding community and the supply of certain supplementation overreacted. >> I don't know man. I I think there's >> doesn't sound like this community in the slightest. >> I feel like you know what you know better to be safe than sorry. You know be conservative. close your doors and live to open them again uh another day, >> you know, maybe under another name or something. >> Yeah. I mean, at the end end of the day, if if you don't attract any attention by closing >> Yeah. >> then there's nothing to stop you reopening, is there? >> Yeah. Yeah. So, yeah. Question of the day, Dave. How much can I gain? I can't remember the exact wording, but he is basically saying, "Hey, I'm getting ready to go on cycle. Uh, how much do you guys think I can gain?" I think he said he was like 185 and then he dieted down to 160 and now he's pushing upward. What can he expect to gain in one cycle? And just as a general topic, too, what can we gain per cycle? It's kind of an open-ended question because I think it it it relies on a lot of factors, you know. >> Yeah. I mean, let's look at the variables before we start getting into potential numbers. Genetics is is a big one. Yeah, there's that. >> Uh, I mean, you look at, you know, like Lee Priest and Lee um Coleman and stuff and some of their early shots and, you know, massive increase. >> Well, look at you compared to me. You know what I mean? Like we're going to both have a very different response. >> Yes. So then obviously drug dose, drug exposure. >> Yeah. >> And are we talking lean muscle mass? Are we talking just general weight gain? Because obviously there's factors in that as well. Um, I I I think people underestimate the potential. now you could argue, if I'm going to be cynical, I'm going to say because people just don't put enough effort in. And then to justify that, they'll say, "Oh, you can only gain 5 pound of muscle on a cycle, etc., etc." There are plenty of real world experiences within pros and amateurs of gains being far in excess of that. My first big cycle, yes, I went into big numbers, but I was 70 pound up in seven months. >> Was it all muscle? No, there was some fat, but was there a huge amount of fat gain? No, not not massively massively. maybe 20 pound which in the relative to muscle I think was was more than adequate. So but I think if you're early on you're going to see more significant gains. Uh you spoke yourself about what you've got off your first debol cycle and and the stuff that came from that. Um so I think if you're very early on you're going to see those newbie gains and they could be quite dramatic and they could easily be 20 to even 30 pound. um more experience, you're probably going to be more the 10 pound sort of region. >> Um I I think it it's not unreasonable to say sort of 5, seven, 10 to 15, depending on where you are. Um I mean, a lot of the top guys, they're not really putting on huge amounts of actual physical weight. They're more remodeling the muscle tissue they have. um you know so they get better balance, better shape, better structure, uh tighter condition on stage. So so yeah, I mean a lot of it does depend on your level of development, but definitely in your early days there can be some insanely ridiculous gains and I've had clients put on 30 40 pound in cycles that have already got three or four under their belt just because they've got everything nailed. And and that's the thing to get everything nailed to get the diet nailed to eat at the level you have to eat to train at the intensity you have to train and then to do that day in day out day in day out for weeks and months is difficult because we all have lives we all have you know work we all have relationships families uh and they do make it difficult for that level of commitment but if if you can truly dedicate yourself then um there can be some some quite impressive numbers. >> Um >> a factor too, Dave. >> I got a factor for you. So, you had, let's use two cycles that you did because you talked about that big cycle, but then we've also talked about the cycle you did after that. And I I I have a number of guys who are competitors that we go into an offseason and we have enough time between uh their off between one show to the next to maybe do two big cycles, two long cycles, right? And so a lot of times post show there's that period where you come down you you clean everything out you you you know after you've rebounded and everything and we focus on health for a minute we get into a nice cycle and from there they may make their biggest gains of the year. I don't expect that to happen. Say we have enough time where we say okay let's take a little downtime. Let's learn to hold this muscle and then let's run a second offseason cycle before we have to diet. If they already gained, say, 20 pounds in that first cycle, I don't expect them to exactly replicate that again. I almost feel like you can get so much out of one push and from there, no matter what you do, there has to be a period of time of learning to hold that, possibly recmping, possibly improving your insulin sensitivity again to put you into the position. So, I wouldn't say you're going to gain 20 and then gain 20 and then gain 20. You know, it's more like if you do make a huge leap forward, which I would consider 20 pounds to be like of of call it stage weight, like that's a once in a-lifetime kind of, you know, cycle. But if you do that once the next cycle, I would expect half of that at the most, you know, maybe even less. >> Yeah. you in the same season you tend to get a big one or a good one um and then a lesser and then a a better one then a lesser >> um and and I think a lot depends on one time off level of health and fitness going in. >> Yeah, >> my best gains have always come from extended times off and a high level of focus around health and fitness not not you know particularly fitness as well. So cardiovascular fitness uh and and you always find that people will gain better after a a decent level of a cut. >> Yeah. uh there's going to be some natural rebound in that obviously, but I think the fact that they're not trying to push for size helps when it comes to then putting that demand on the body to actually grow because it is hugely demanding on your body and it's something that the body can only sustain for you know certain periods of time. So no, I wouldn't expect unless you are particularly genetically gifted, I wouldn't expect to see repeats of of big gains in a following cycle. even don't be surprised if you gain very little, but you come out of it harder and and slightly leaner and a better composition. Um, >> and I think that's quite a commonplace situation as well. Yeah, definitely. >> Yeah, I've noticed that. I I would say my biggest uh single gain cycle it after already being like more advanced, you know, after having run a a few a number of cycles and I began competing. I competed as a middleweight. I competed at like one I just made it. I was actually like 178 and then squeezed in to 176. And the following year I about 18 months later I competed again and I was 172 but I looked 10 lbs bigger cuz my conditioning was just way improved. I had gained muscle. But then from there I went from 172 on stage to 194 18 months after that. That was my biggest single leap. And I would say, Dave, that >> I ate more than I had ever eaten in my life during that phase. So, I think that's another factor is, you know, obviously the gear, but then like what are you doing to support it, right? The like what is your nutrition like? And man, I I can see what you mean. You said like a lot of people they've got, you know, you've got families, you got lives you have to deal with, you have work. I ate every hour. You know, it was a for me it was a solid food meal and then one hour later a shake with carbs, one hour later a solid food meal. And I was just like, I'm just going to freaking do whatever it takes. And I ended up, like I said, 20 lbs up on uh stage weight. Wasn't as sharp as the 172. It took me a couple years to be able to bring that conditioning back again at that weight, but yeah, diet was massive, man. >> Yeah. And I think this is something that people don't actually appreciate. Oh, I eat a lot. You know, it's if you're if you're someone who who's got this Excuse me. I need to get rid of this. >> Yes, good idea. Throw it. Uh um so if if you know if you're someone who's wanting to drive really big muscular gains, the level of eating that's going to require and and the effort in that eating that's going to require isn't just a case of hitting your meals. You're going to be force-feeding. You're going to be very uncomfortable with the volume of food you're having to consume. you really are going to have to push the calories hard and clean. And I think that's where a lot of people get mixed up. It's got to be clean. Um just cuz it's offseason, you can't start messing around with [\h__\h] You know, it's it's challenging in itself. You know, when you're trying to push for really big gains, it it's going to be a full-time commitment, but it's going to be a very unpleasant experience. And I don't care who you are, it is not going to be nice forcing that amount of food and maintaining that level of training for an extended period of time. >> Yeah. Yeah. I'm with you. I I hope this helps. I hope that I mean it's it's not specific, but I I hope it does help to any of the listeners who are, you know, wondering the same thing. So, I mean, if we were to say pointers, number one would be uh where are you at going into this cycle? Have you say recmped? Are you in a good position? Is your insulin sensitivity good? Um, is your body fat lower? Do you have room to add fat as you grow? Or are you already 15 20%. You know, >> yeah. >> Yeah. If you're 25% that's going to have a significant impact on your ability to get bigger. >> Yeah. And then what's your diet like? And then of course, as you mentioned too, toward the beginning is dose, duration. Those are going to be factors. If we have somebody Dave who's like uh uh the TRT plus crowd who's like hey all you need is 10 milligrams of Anavar you are probably not going to gain 20 pounds on this cycle but that's part of you know what you're like that's not what you're attempting to do. You know what I mean? You you don't get into a car that does 60 m an hour and then say hey let's drive it at 120. It's just not going to happen. You know >> I agree. And if people gave me money for a Procharger, I'd have a car that did 120 mph. >> Hey, so we did have uh somebody commented on one of the other shows. I was talking on uh Blood, Sweat, and Gear. Um I guess that you know I told you all the prices seem to be going up on labs and we were talking about it on that show and somebody commented and said, "Yeah, I think it was some English bloke that was responsible for these price increases. Something about a Procharger. I wish. I wish. >> All right. Well, listen, we do have a bunch of listener questions and you guys at home are welcome to ask questions. So, comment below, plus all your comments and likes, all that stuff. It helps to boost our programming up. Uh, I've been coaching for 15 years now. I'm here to share my education. And Dave, you've been at this for a long ass time, man. You were over 400 pounds at one point. >> No. >> Yeah, you you were. Believe it or not, >> just rumors. >> Rumors. >> Yes. I'm I I am just a fat unnowledgeable person that can be replaced with chat GP. >> Oh yeah, that guy. That was something else. >> Was it Bicepy or something he calls himself? >> I don't know, man. But whoever he was, he was like he didn't believe it. He I answered some questions in that in that thread on Instagram and somebody said, "This guy is definitely using chat GPT for his answers." I felt kind of like that was a to me I took that as a compliment. You know what I mean? He's like it's impossible to know everything this guy knows. >> I like chat GP. Um like like searching for papers. It's [\h__\h] great for that. You just put say find me some papers on this and boom boom boom boom. Whoa. Yeah. And then go read the papers. I wouldn't rely on chat BP for the information but it's nice for tools like that. It's great. >> Yeah. All right. So listen questions. Um, I've recently started TRT and dosing 150 milligrams per week, 43 years old, and bloods are fine at that level. Um, I want to try an increase size, but never planning to get on stage. Would there be any advantage to running another compound other than test? Thank you both. Yeah. I mean, you increase the anabolic load, be it through test or a second compound, you're going to increase the potential for growth. There's there's no denying that. >> Yeah. >> Um, as we've already discussed on the getting big bit, you know, you need to back it up with trading a diet. But, uh, yeah. Yeah. I mean just whether it be more test or you choose something like mast as a second compound or EQ or whatever it may be um there's definitely going to be you know increased potential for growth with increased anabolics. >> Yeah. All right. What about this one? Uh Gambon Law is with us. We got a few in the stream actually says uh could a four to five pound weight gain be due to inflammation or possible increased stress if diet hasn't changed but training volume and cardio has actually increased strength is up a bit >> I so there's a few things rapid weight gains or rapid weight losses over a very short time scale i.e. a few days. >> Are generally in my opinion waterbased in some format. >> Now, if you've increased volume or training intensity, you could have an increase in glycogen storage within the muscle, which would result in more water being held interuscularly. If you have high levels of inflammation or stress, you're going to see water retention. If you have a change in environmental temperature, you're potentially going to see water inflammation. >> True. Uh, it's been for England, it's been hot as hell here. Um, and it's dropped temperature the last couple of days and literally I've dropped four or five pound in two days, but I've not. It's just water though. I was holding on to because I was hot. >> You were dehydrated too then, Dave. We need to get more fluids in you. >> Well, the kidneys make it a little bit more complex, but yeah. Um and and so you know that and that's I'm really good with fluids Monday to Friday cuz I'm in the office but when I'm not in the office I'm terrible. >> Uh but yeah so you know every if you're in the market for protein powder check out trueenutrition.com. They literally have like every protein powder under the sun. I go with their cold filtered whey isolate or their team skip blend. I prefer the chocolate peanut butter cup but there's a few flavors that I like. Let me know if you have any questions about that. Victoria, my wife, she gets the pea protein isolate. It's rare to find a pea isolate. Most of them are concentrate. So, the isolate is super low in carbs regardless of your diet that they will have a protein powder for you and you get to flavor it how you want and buy it by how many pounds you want. So, check them out. True.com. They're the first company that ever supported our podcasting. So, we support them. You can support us by shopping with True Nutrition and using our code think. You see rapid fluctuations in weight over a day or two. It is normally driven by some form of water change. >> All right. Peter says, uh, "When cycling off of a contest prep, should you pull the GH and drop test to TRT and pull all compounds cold turkey or should you titrate down?" >> I personally believe in just stopping because the half-life gives you a natural taper. M >> so you know if you let's just stupid numbers but you know if you've been taking a grammar test >> and you stop it you're probably not going to see levels back in natural range about 6 weeks >> at least five >> okay >> so there's your taper why why extend that period of elevated levels longer than it needs to be you know it is virtually impossible to crash your hormones from a point of view of removing your supplementation. The only sort of scenario where you would do is if you were losing a lot of fast acting, but even then you're going to get a couple of weeks taper. >> Okay. I I'd say, and I'm sure you'd agree with me on this, it probably depends too on how long was your cycle. I I've had people that maybe we just start the cycle at 10 12 weeks out. And if we're doing that and we aren't pushing really hard, I'm okay with leaving the gear in longer post cycle or post contest as we start to rebuild the food back up. Um, if you if you had to like pull out all the stops to get into the show, then there are those situations where yeah, it's just time to take a break. That said, I if possible, if your blood sugar is okay, I would leave the growth hormone in. Kuba and I talked about this maybe a month or so ago Dave when I used to come off cycle and do PCT. It sucked first of all, right? Um but there was a the year that I started using GH and I was just using uh two units of hydroropen at that time the real original hydroatropen. I kept running that through PCT, through my recovery phase, and I felt like it it did help a ton. Like I still got the psychological effect of getting good pumps in the gym because you're still holding some water. I felt the possible improved recovery. It just it made it a smoother experience. >> There there is something that we didn't touch on, but you just did then to a degree is the psychological impact of pulling everything can make you feel incredibly flat. >> Yeah, there's that. So there is there is argument for just maintaining sanity by leaving something in the pot in in GH would be a very good example of having something in there that just keeps a bit of fullness helps your head cope with the fact that you're coming off everything because that could be a difficult transition in its own right. >> Why don't you just turn your ringer back on? >> I I just I didn't realize it was still on. Oh, go away. Just put the ringer right in the microphone. >> That way we all get to hear it every time. Listen guys, Dave's popular, okay? There's that. He's got he's got a lot of people who want to get out a hold of him at all times. Bill collectors, the authorities, they're all trying to track him down. >> Yeah. >> All right. What else do we have here? Uh, Jent, if I manage estradile, uh, say 800 milligrams of test only cycle, can you still have erectile dysfunction and issues? Um, I'm thinking consequences of having high testosterone levels in the body. I assume that something you cannot get rid of unlike estradile where you can take an AI and solve the issue. Thank you for sharing your knowledge and education. Love from the UK. I'm not sure I understand that question. >> No, you have to read that one again. Go on. >> All right. So, if you manage your estradile >> on say 800 milligrams of test only, can you still have an erectile dysfunction issue? >> Yeah. >> Yes. Yeah. Just people seem to think that high test guarantees erectile good erectile function even and even if you control things like estrogen or prolactin or whatever the other you know the other hormones that can can play about just high test does not guarantee good erectile function. I have seen people particularly on like the TRT plus crowd and stuff where their estrogen's in place, they're running their test at say 10 20% above natural ranges uh and they're still getting erectile issues that do clear up when they bring their test levels back down. H and I also think that the longer you are down the cycle road, the less of a positive impact you see on libido whilst by going on a cycle. >> Agreed 100%. Also, SHBG is a factor. I found that >> if for me, if I've crushed SHBG, I feel like absolute garbage. So, I need some level of SHBG in there to feel okay. Yeah, there definitely are are factors. I'm not a fan of artificial alone SHBG. I've never been a fan of Proviron on cycle. Um I think it's overkill and actually potentially more negative than positive. But yeah, so yes, if you've got elevated test levels, you can still have erectile issues even when other hormones are in place. >> Okay. Somebody asked that uh uh I listened to an episode where Dave said that Primo can be prescribed in the UK where previously when I asked him he advised that it was not prescribed in the UK. >> No, not in the UK. In the US. >> Okay. Okay. Maybe it was a misunderstanding on his end or maybe you mis set on me. Yeah. No. Um I'm not aware of Primo being available in the UK for a TRT purpose. I have seen primo prescribed in the UK for other food. >> I think that might be what we were talking about actually. >> Right. So medically, yeah, >> medically primo can be available in the UK. Not common, quite rare, but it can happen. But from a point of view of an add-on to TRT, no chance. >> Yeah. >> Not a CADL. You will be you you'll get test, you'll get AIS. you're going to struggle beyond that and HCG. Um that the the UK TRT system is nowhere near like the US one. >> You guys need to get in the ball with your add-ons. It's a technical scientific term. >> I actually I actually think it's going to go the other way. >> How so? >> So CQC, which is something that we've spent a long time getting accreditated to, not because the actual process is overly complex, because they're difficult to work with. Pelics would you say? >> Well, they just >> that's a British word guys that I learned. >> I don't want to go away from the question too much, but let's just say that we applied once and they said we'd overcooked it. Then we applied again and they said we'd undercooked it. We should have. So, it's like hang on a bit. You know, I want us to do what we did in the first instance that you're now saying we don't we did we shouldn't have done. Um and then they were like they don't regulate bloodlets but they wanted us to submit policies and protocols and references and and frigin um consent forms for for bloodline. Don't have an issue doing it. It's just it's not something they control. And then we were told we don't even know what blood is. So how are you trying to regulate something you don't even know what it is? Anyway, the issue is so just recently CQC have started to move very much against the aesthetics community and they're putting a free tier system in about where aesthetics need to be registered in depending on what treatments they're going to do. I can see them going after the TRT clinics after that. >> Okay. Uh, and so they will probably end up forcing TR clinics, which should be registered with them anyway to be fair, but I think they'll start putting some strict regulation around what TRT clinics can and cannot do. Um, so yes, I can see them getting involved and making things a mess. Well, let's not let's hope not for all my friends in the UK that are on gradually more and more accepted UK TRT, which 20 years ago was not a thing at all. No, >> people had to cry and beg at the NHS and they still said, "No, go away. You're fine." >> I I the private TRT over here has really only boomed in the last five years. >> Yeah. I mean, it's really taken off here in the last five as well. like gotten huge huge but I mean it's it's out of this world here now. >> Uh >> so yes I apologize for any confusion um but as a TRT product in the UK no chance USA potentially but yes it is a prescribed medication that is made available for some treatments. >> I'm not sure if this is a question or just a comment but I collected it for some reason. Deca is by far my favorite compound. Been using gear for 13 years and nothing came close to Deca for me for that full 3D look while still filled with veins and strong as an ox. I mean, Trenalone is up there for me too. Personally, I give Deca the win. I just finished using 600 test, 300 DECA, 150 trend with three IUs of GH and 100 mg of Masteron for E2 control. And Christ on a bike, I look ridiculous right now and I look like a freaking bull. Lol. Wish that I could post a pick in the comment section here on YouTube to show you all. It is mindblowing, Dave. Yeah, I just screen cam to comment. I guess it's good. >> Go you. >> Yeah, it's freaking on, man. >> I know the I can get his energy through that comment. You know what I mean? Bro, >> very happy camper. >> Yeah. Um, okay. So, if you are on test and NPP, should you you shouldn't take finasteride. Can I add an in with it? Yes. Anavar will have no there's no negative effect with anavar. It's just already a DHT compound. there's no breakdown to something else that isn't going to that finasteride would interfere with. Uh possible question. Oh, this one interested me. He says, "Now that bourberine is the new hip supplement, is there any place for metformin except for diabetes in bodybuilding?" Dude, I said the same thing. Is it is maybe our listeners can tell us. Is bourberine like the new hip hype supplement? I've been a fan of bourberine for the last 10 12 years. >> I've known about it for 15 since 2015 to 12 to 15 is when I started using it. >> I've never been a fan of metaphoring. Um not not that I've got anything against metaphoring. I just think when there's an alternative like bourberine, there's got to be some sort of real heavy reasons to to move to metaphoring personally. But uh and I found bourberine does the job generally quite well. Uh but obviously it drugs in use and stuff like that. No, I mean I still know a lot of coaches that metaphor is their go-to. Uh and it becomes part of their sort of stable of of compounds that they put people on irrespective of what they're doing, you know. And there's a lot of coaches that will have a a sort of basket of stuff that they want every client to generally do. >> Yeah, I know what you mean. >> Um um and some of this is supplement based stuff and some of this is drug based stuff and and metaphoring definitely sits in that basket for a lot of people. >> Yeah. >> So I I didn't think I would have said actually metforming came after bourberine personally. Hm. >> From a popularity point of view. >> Yeah. Yeah. I feel like metformin isn't nearly as popular as it used to be. I saw it a decade or so ago, even further than that. It was real popular for a while. Um I think there's less side effects with bourberine. I I do think that you can definitely crush everything a lot faster with metformin. like too much metformin and you flatten out and you can't get full versus bourberine I think it's a little bit more forgiving. Also too, bourberine has health benefits. You know, it's it's beneficial for blood sugar. Obviously, it's good for your cholesterol profile. There's a lot of great things that bourberine can do in addition to being a GDA versus metformin is a pharmaceutical drug. It is toxic on the liver. I I'm not saying it's like it's going to you're going to keel over using it, but you are putting stress on and for somebody that is using it longer term, you know, that's something to consider. But I will say that I do feel like metformin is stronger in my experience. Like just because I am more likely to see somebody like they can't get full in their workouts anymore versus bourberine doesn't really seem to strip you of that ability. As >> what do bourberine do you tend to run? I'll do the so the the research that I've seen has always been on around 1500 milligrams. So I know >> single dose or pace out the day >> spaced out. Now here's the thing. I know you've talked about doing small doses with each meal. I only find it at like 400 500 milligrams per cap. So generally I'll do with your three largest carb meals but away from training because training in itself is a powerful GDA. You know what I'm saying? >> Yeah. Yeah. If if caps are bigger, I'd go every other meal. Um, but I I do like to to micro not I wouldn't say it's really micro doing, but I I do like 250300 per meal, even a bit more if if someone's needing it. But >> I'd do that if I could. >> Yeah. Metformin um the sustained release they have,000 milligram uh extended released and then they have the 500 instant. Uh I I also seen through uh one of our affiliates having a pow just like raw powder of it. Um >> you know I don't think people are quite aware of the different time releases available with metformin. Not UK based anyway. I think a lot of people just >> it's metaphoring really. >> Um yeah I think so. Yeah. >> Yeah. We generally have the 500 instant and the thousand and I believe there might even be 2,000 extended. There might be a thousand um IR too, instant release. >> So yeah, but I I anyway I prefer to not use it when possible. Gastric upset is going to be a lot greater with metformin than bourberine, you know. >> Yeah. Yeah, I would say so as well. Yeah. >> All right. What else do we have here? Uh that was the deca on negative heart. Okay. Another long one here. question. Hey, uh, let me start by saying I have the greatest coach on the planet, Skipp Hill. Okay, there's a plug for Skip right there. Uh, so I could ask him this question, but um, why should I be selfish when I get so much out of the questions on think big in between two dumbbells? Okay, so I guess he's he's plugging Skip's show. He says, uh, so far we haven't gotten the question. So I'm on my first cycle. at 53 years old. 400 test sip 400. So I think he's saying he wanted to ask this question on Skip's show. I think he copied and pasted it into our show. Anyway, should we even answer it? >> Well, it's efficient. Can't knock the guy for being efficient. Why type it all out again? >> Okay, >> I'm I'm with him. Well done, lad. >> So, he's 53. He's on his first cycle. 400 test sip, 400 primo, uh 300 NP, and I'm about in a month in and wonderful recmp already, mainly due to skips guiding my diet. Uh but people are starting to ask questions about what I'm running. So I I'll get to the point. I think I want to just maintain. How do I design the cycle to just maintain? I'll do a health phase with TRT. Uh but after a good month of recovery, I want to just maintain. Uh uh >> that's what your TRT does. >> Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Says, uh is it always growing or shrinking? Growing and shrinking. Um how do I do a cycle to just maintain? >> Is it the compounds? >> What? >> Okay, let's talk about what the purpose is of doing steroids. >> I I Yeah. So the purpose of a cycle is to increase growth. >> You want more muscle. >> You want progression of either muscle or strength. >> Y >> uh in a diet situation potentially muscle preservation but generally also the doses above that for simple cosmetic effects of a higher dose making the muscle fuller, harder and appear leaner. So, this is your first cycle, which first of all seems excessive for a first cycle. You're on a gram. Um, which to me is a lot. Each to their own at the end of the day, it's a personal choice. It does just does seem to be a little bit overkill for where you are. So, yes, obviously you're going to see quite dramatic results off that as a first cycle. being a gram for a first cycle, you're going to see quite a significant change. If you lose progress off cycle, then your diet and training aren't quite doing what it needs to do. There should be a a slight regress granted uh particularly in the strength department but there shouldn't be any real significant loss of either condition or size >> unless you are really at the top end way beyond your genetic potential and then needing anabolics to sustain. So for where you are in your journey around anabolics and training there shouldn't be regression. If there is then something's not working right for your training and diet. Now, whether that's um a mental thing because you're off gear, you take the foot off the gas, or if the gear is actually covering up some holes in what you're doing, hard to say. Uh we'd need a lot more information and probably not enough time on this show to actually go through it. Um but yeah, you your maintenance should come from your training and diet and ti. >> Yeah, you don't need to run a bunch of gear. If you don't want to grow muscle, then don't run a bunch of gear, you know? >> Yeah. Simple as that. >> So, it sounds like he's getting freaked out by it. Like he's getting afraid that people are going to start, you know, labeling him as a gear user or something, you know. >> Yeah. It sounds like he's his his usage is he is secretive to an extent and he doesn't want people to know. People have start asking questions. >> Yeah. >> He's panicked him a little bit, so he wants to pull back, which is fine. Just stop. Go on to your TRT. But if you're dropping loads of size, then it's your training or your diet that's not working for you. You said skips doing your diet. So, I would suspect that if you're sticking to it, which is a key element, then uh there's no problem with the diet and it's it's the training where there needs to be improvement. >> Yeah. >> People don't like to hear that. People don't like the truth of that, but it sort of is unfortunately. >> I don't get it. I don't get the purpose of like, you know, well, I mean, you're you're running a cycle and it's working. That's what you you know what I mean? It's like then don't run the cycle. I don't know. >> Well, yeah, but I mean Oh, come on. We've all We've all done things and bought things and committed to things thinking it would be one thing and then >> Oh, I Yeah. Okay. Think people were going to start asking me questions about what I'm doing. I I don't want people to know I use gear. >> I I I'm happy where I am. So, can I just stay where I am and, you know, stop and then I won't get these questions? >> Yeah. I guess as a bodybuilder, I don't understand that concept. I'm happy where I am. You know what I mean? That's uh >> I as well the the other thing is and I've had this with clients where you know they may work in an industry or career where they've got to be careful. >> Yeah. I've seen it before where I start working with somebody especially a younger person who has never gained any kind of real size and let's say they tell me hey I've been watching the podcast for a few years. I've run gear. I haven't had great success. They come to me and they're sometimes running high dose cycles and it kind of like it doesn't match the way they look right and they haven't had the other aspects figured out. So, we get everything sorted out. This has happened to me more than once as a coach, Dave. We get everything sorted out. We get their training where it needs to be. We get the diet where it needs to be. Good chances they weren't eating enough protein spread throughout the day. Like, that's super common in these cases. We add a moderate cycle in much lower than they had done before. They start making legit progress and 8 10 weeks in they start freaking out because now that they're getting bigger, they equate the size with health risks. They say, "Oh, I'm afraid that the cycle is going to hurt me now." Where they previously were literally running like three, two, three grams of gear and not making any progress. Now they're making the actual progress on a fraction. And that freaks them out because they're actually seeing the results. I don't want to have, you know, issues >> or they start to realize that growing is a lot of effort, but also takes a lot out of you. You know, you you can be quite tired when you grow at a rapid rate. >> Yeah. >> And things like that. And always I mean, I've actually had clients leave me because I've got them too big too quick. >> Yeah. They've actually turned around and said, "Oh, no. I can't cope with this. I I don't I don't want this. This is not You said you wanted to grow. Yeah. But this is just like too much. >> All right. Fair enough. >> I've seen that. And then I've had them ask like, "Well, will I have to keep eating this much now to maintain this?" >> Yes. >> Yes, you do. Yes. >> And if you want to get bigger than that, then you have to go to more. >> You have to eat more. Yeah. And I I think people honestly think, "Oh, I eat when I'm on cycle and then I come off. I don't eat as much and I'll hold." No. You need that food to maintain the physical mass you've created. >> Yeah. There's no magic. There's no secret. That's it. >> Oh, I said I think food is one of the the killers when it comes to getting massive. It's one of the the the aspects that people just don't comprehend how challenging the food can be. >> Yeah. But then you have guys like Dusty and Dusty was like, "I ate five meals. I never had to eat as much as this guy." It's like, you know what I mean? He just like he just grew. >> Yeah. Well, yeah. But Dusty's a freak. I mean, let's be honest. He is a freak. Um, and then you get people like Ed Coak that was 10 12,000 calories a [\h__\h] day and wasn't actually a mass monster. >> Yeah. Yeah. Well, hey, when I gained that 20 pounds, it was like 8 to 10,000 calories a day, man. >> Have you heard the story about I don't know where they was, but they were in a hotel. >> No. >> And um so I'm trying to think of the bodybuilders. It was either Tom Plat or Red Car had come down and had breakfast and just eaten mountains of food. >> Yeah. >> Mountains of food. And then this this another pro bodybuilder came down afterwards and the the hotel just provided him with the same mountain of food and he was like, "What the [\h__\h] all I can't eat all this? What's all that?" Well, the other guy did, so we thought you would as well. And they were just piling food up because I think it was Ed Kak had gone in beforehand and just demolished everything they had. >> Wow. I love it. All right, how about >> that little man could eat? Uh thanks for the perfectly timed episode referring to our uh Nandelin episode. Starting my NPP offseason cycle today. I have a question. Providing regular labs come back clear overall health is great and BP is good. Other health metrics are all safe and within range. Um is it viable to extend the cycle uh until such point markers begin to deteriorate? I know from experience my body can seemingly run high doses with almost zero hit to my health markers but have always ended up uh my ended my cycles on X weeks just as momentum was building. Um any insight would be appreciated. >> I think you can extend but you I would not adapt the attitude of running until bloods go bad. >> Yeah. Because when bloods go bad, things are already a problem. And if you want someone who actually did really well on cycle and didn't have a lot of adulterated bloods, but still had a footload of problems, hello class in session because my bloods weren't particularly bad. >> Yeah. >> Um and I was developing some very severe problems. >> Yeah. So, um, yes, you can extend that there. And if you're feeling good and everything is good, granted, yes, I wouldn't extend massively. Maybe for depending on what your initial cycle length was, but I'm reluctant to go above 16. Um, because there's things in bloods. I know you like to run a little bit longer. >> I maybe, maybe not, depending on the progress. If we hit 12 and things are slowing down, then I'd rather pull the plug than retool. You know what I mean? But yeah, if we're at 16 and things are going good, I'll go to 20 or 22 depending on the compounds. >> But I I do think there are stresses that bloods just aren't going to show. Um and and a lot of it is also to judge on how you're progressing. Are you still making good progress? You know, are you It's very easy to start seeing negative things creep into how we feel and daytoday and just say, "Oh, yeah, it's just because of this or it's just because of that." and accept them when really you need to step back and go well actually you know what six weeks ago I didn't feel like this six weeks ago I wasn't struggling to get out of the bed in the morning because I felt rough and I felt tired and I wasn't struggling with this I wasn't struggling with that and be a little bit more objective because I mean there was loads of signs that things were going wrong for me but I just ignored them because it was like well this is just part of the course. >> Yeah. >> You know this is great. >> So I I would have a bit of caution. I saw this comment here. As great as the other shorts are, we need a series of YouTube shorts of just Scott and Dave giving each other a hard time. That would be a fun series of shorts, wouldn't it? >> Yes. >> Uh first cycle. Uh let's see. Oh, this is the this was our initial question. The question about how much muscle can you gain? Also, he says he is a U retired US Army infantry guy. 47 years old. Shout out to you and thank you for your service. That was a guy who was wondering how much can he gain. Um, let's see. Yeah, he said his goal was 185 pounds. He's 160 now. I think he could totally reach that, you know. >> Uh, yeah. >> All right. I've been looking forward to doing my next blast with test EQ and NP. hearing a lot of good things about this combo probably from the channel here and me and Skip and Andrew all like that cycle. Uh been on a cruise uh of test and primo. Uh do you think it would be smart to add one compound at a time to be able to detect what's going on? Um but then it would drag it out longer. Would it be better to just run all three and see how I feel? I should be clear, Dave. When I ran that cycle, I already knew what test and EQ did. I already knew what test and MPPP did. You know what? I already knew what just test did. So I was at a more advanced stage where it made sense to then combine tools that I was already familiar with. And I did that so that the test and NPP I use sustenon. So sustain NP are going to kick in more rapidly. I found for me EQ started really showing its benefits and I could really see it in the mirror around 68 week uh eight excuse me excuse me week six 8 and 10 weeks you know versus that that test in NPP where it happening faster so I'd want them all together for that reason you know >> yeah I I think cycle progression and new I mean people do this all the time and I'm not knocking them for doing it they'll they'll see someone that's made good progress or they'll hear of a cycle style that someone recommends or someone said, "Oh, that was one of the best cycles I ever did," etc., etc. Yeah. And they want to emulate it for obvious reasons. You know, if it worked for them, it might work for me. >> But if you've only ever done test only, then don't be gimping into test MPP and EQ just because you've heard it's a good cycle. Do test and MP or do test and EQ. >> Yeah. >> And build up to that triple compound because, you know, you you don't you don't go from racing go-karts to racing Formula 1. there's a few stages in between of more powerful cars you get into as you progress. And it's the same with your drugs. So even though none of those drugs are particularly hard hitters, um there there is a total anabolic load increase there that's going to be dramatically above. And in fact, our our man who did his first cycle that was borderline gram or just over a gram and found that his progression was a little bit too noticeable. Mhm. >> Um there's a prime example of, you know, overcooking it a little bit there. So, um just uh in stages, you know, if you've done tests and you've done tests in MPP, then you could do testing and EQ or you could try to test MPPPQ, but you've got to look at where you've been with total doses. You've never gone above 500 milligrams. You don't want to suddenly be jumping into a 1,200 milligram cycle. >> Yeah. And and I think that's a big part of why, you know, we don't always talk about what are the pros doing. You know, there are pros and we will talk about pros that are using lower doses because it is kind of interesting to hear that stuff. Sure, there are pros that are using 1.5 grams a test, two grams a test, but that's not going to apply to the guy who has very limited experience. Maybe you might get there one day, but we're taking this a step at a time. You don't go from your 300 milligram TRT plus cycle to now saying, "Well, I want to do like what a pro does and go to 1.5 grams." You know, >> you you've got to understand that yes, a pro has or potentially runs quite high doses, but they've built up to that. >> Yeah, >> they are very experienced in knowing how their body reacts. They have a a great deal of experience when it comes to the actual training and when it comes to the diet. Now, if you've got all those things going on, then that's a different conversation. But until you've you've nailed your training and you really know what's going on in the gym and how it impacts you and how you can get the most out of your workouts, then there's where my concentration would be. Rather than trying to emulate a pro, emulate a pros training, emulate a pros diet before you emulate a pros drugs. >> Yeah. Is there anything Dave doesn't know? That was just a comment. >> Yeah, loads. >> Loads. Yeah, I love >> How about this one? Um, great show as always. Thank you for the education and the laughs. Um, how would you suggest taking an oral like Winstril if you fast during the day and only eat one big meal at night? Would you split it up? Take it all after the meal, before the meal. 700 milligrams of test and 50 milligrams a day of Winstro are my total cycle. Whatever whatever is convenient. >> Yeah. It's not going to be the end. Like we talked about this the other week. You talked about how you get a higher peak if you take it all at once, right? >> Yep. Uh which is which is more impacting if it's a single compound setup. I.e. you're just taking Winstrol. >> Ah okay. with with with a 750 test dose in there, the the peak from the Winstrol is not going to be as impacting as it would be if you were just taking Winstrol. Um but yeah, um I I prefer single dosing. Some people the sides can be a bit much for them. If I'm taking it in a fasted take, I'd probably take it with some fish oils or some sort of dietary positive dietary fat. Um, but it's not essential. Uh, I tend to avoid taking it with food. Um, but it's the timing isn't that crucial. You get a little bit of a pre-workout effect if you took it preworkout, but it's not a drug that that's really significantly timing sensitive. >> Yeah. I bet that real world, no matter how he splits it up or doesn't split it up, it he he's going to get the same results, you know. >> Yeah. Too. Yeah, the I mean that's the thing in that you know we we can quote the science of the studies and and it's not that the science of the studies aren't true but real world effects can be different to say the least. >> All right, we got a couple more. Um oh any relationship between androgen use and the development of skin tags and skin quality in general? Thanks in advance for any info. This is from Patreon. I could definitely skin quality. Uh anabolics are well proven to increase the aging process. Um cellular dare that thing we talked about with Deca is is a trait of anabolics as well. Uh so yes, skin aging can definitely be um in fact anecdotally you'll hear people talk about anabolic users looking older than they actually are. >> Yeah. Um, but it seems to be, which I find a bit weird, this, it seems to be that it ages the younger ones, but sort of preserves the older ones. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> Um, but so there's a certain context there. Uh, I'm not sure about skin tags to be honest. Uh, they're not something I know anything about. They either what causes them, why they appear. So, I wouldn't know if there was any anabolic action that would promote further expansion of them, but definitely from a skin aging point of view, yes, it can have an impact. >> I've seen a few cases of people running growth hormone and getting increased amount of skin tags. So, I I'll >> that's sorry. Yes, I was thinking just anabolics, but yeah, growth definitely. >> I've noticed that more than than gear. So, if we are getting in increased collagen production, right, I I I think that we could see potentially more skin tags, but growth specifically. Um, I knew a figure girl and she was developing them around like where her pants line, her waistband would rub and where her bra would rub. She would develop these skin tags and have to constantly get them removed. She event she she eventually quit using GH. She ran GH. She got a couple of them, then moved on. Wasn't on GH. And the next time she ran it again, she started getting it again. I also knew a guy, oh my god, this was the worst, man. He developed one on his eyelid and he was a heavy growth user. Developed one on his eyelid and when I talked to him in the gym, he'd blink and I just see the skin tag going up and down. Oh, and I know I I assume it was from the GH cuz he got it after he had told me like, "Yeah, I'm running these rip tropens. I'm going to be pushing them real hard." is back when rips first came out. >> I I got an increased number of lipomomas from GH without doubt. >> Did you really? >> That blows. Those suck, man. >> Yeah. Yeah, I'm covered in them. >> Are you really? I've worked with clients that have had them. >> They they estimate two 300 on my torso alone. >> Oh, you're kidding me. >> Oh, no. Absolutely. There's not an inch of my stomach that doesn't have a lipoma on it. >> No kidding. Have you ever thought about getting them removed or anything? I've had 12 surgeries. Um they'll only remove a few at a time. >> Okay. >> The apronctomy would be the way to go and they won't do it. >> What's that? >> Was where they cut the skin here. >> Oh yeah. >> Lift it up, go in and take them all out. The problem is as well that they have blood supplies. So they're not just they're not like just skin tags. Some of these are connected to my vascular system. >> Okay. So, um, they can be a little bit more complex with removal, but yeah, I've got I mean, just there's one there, there's one there. Um, there's three there together. There's one there, there's another two there. >> There's just all over. But my core is particularly bad. >> All right. Um, couple more here. Is this okay? cycle design 400 test for 3 weeks. Then 400 test 200 EQ 200 deca with 25 windstro for five weeks but in 3 weeks but in week three of taking the oral bump the EQ to 4400. I don't know why he's doing this. He says, "Then continue the cycle for 12 weeks, possibly raising the test at week 12 to 800 a week and then going 16 weeks with everything." >> Right. Right. So 3 weeks, then a fiveweek block with Windstrel >> and increasing the test. >> Yeah. And then we have a 12week block after that or is the 12week total? >> No. then continue the cycle. Oh yeah, until 12 weeks. So yeah, 12 weeks. >> So is that 12 week total or 12 week on top from that? >> Yeah, he says going to 12 weeks and then from there possibly increasing the test again. So the question is really is what do we think about him tapering these doses up as he goes starting? >> I don't have >> Yeah, >> I don't have an issue with the tapering. I think that the windstrol, if you're going to use it, needs moving to the back, but I don't really see it adding a huge amount with where you set it up. I'd bring the EQ in earlier. Yeah. >> Just because of, like you've already discussed today, the the sort of >> time delay we see with it actually starting to produce results. Uh, but at the same time, I don't have an issue with tapers. I like tapers. Um, just a bit confused what total cycle length is. It looks like 16 weeks. >> If it's 16 weeks, then I don't have an issue with that either. But yeah, I don't see any point. I I like cycles to peak for the last six weeks. Uh where I'd use my highest doses for that short that period and generally I start quite low and build. But the only the only change would be the EQ. I think I'd bring that in a little bit earlier. Um and potentially a little bit higher. >> Yeah. Yeah. I'm not a fan of this overall. I but I personally I just do it differently. But I'm not AI'm not against tapering either, but I would definitely just set it up a little bit differently. >> Yeah, it seems a little bit overly complex or it's necessary. >> Yeah, I agree with you. I'd probably keep it simple like test an EQ to start and if I wanted to add another compound in or increase the doses, I might do that at week four or six and then ride those doses out, you know. >> Yeah. Or even do um um test EQ, add Decker in at week six, maybe a slight bump at week 10 or the oral added in at week 10 for the last six weeks and call that 16. Yeah, something like that. >> Yeah, I could see. Yeah, personally I might start at a lower dose week one with EQ. Uh EQ though running full blast maybe at four weeks in blast everything, boost everything up and then yeah, last last segment add the windstrill in. I might do something like that. >> Um, all right. Oh, we had a really nice comment, by the way. I don't think we had anything. So, we told everybody that if they wanted Uncle Dave's wisdom, they had to ask. Moving forward, we did get this comment, which I thought was really nice. And guys, Dave doesn't know how to take love. All right? He just doesn't understand it. So, this is the comment. >> It's because of the constant abuse from yourself. >> Scott, please pass on my regards to Dave. His advice is deep. Honestly, it has changed my perspective. At the same time, I've been thinking about our that our uncle must have been through a lot in his life to be able to say share such wisdom. What really stuck out to me was when he said that you have to try to normalize things as much as you can during tough times. And that's something that I've never been particularly good at. I recently broke up with my long-term girlfriend who uh and what a perfect time to receive these kind words of wisdom. Hey, and I made an effort to normalize my days and keep myself busy, including going back to training. And honestly, it helped. I hear Dave's voice in my head whenever I start to spiral into negative thinking or beat myself up. In other words, even though uh our uh uncle Grumpy might think he uh doesn't help people and that no one listens to him, well, actually we do. These words will stay with me and I'll definitely be echoing them to others. It is excellent advice for people to try to not lose their mind. How about that, Dave? >> That was very nice. Thank you. And they didn't ask us for any uh any bits of wisdom. No advice this week. So I I guess they don't want to hear it anymore is what it comes down to. >> I've got one for you. >> What do you got? >> Just keep swimming. >> Well, that's all you guys get. It's all you get. If you don't ask us questions, then you don't you don't get advice. Just keep swimming. >> We appreciate everybody tuning in. Dave, uh what does the rest of your day and your week look like? >> I've got um What have I got? 16 19 20 25 WhatsApp messages to deal with about five phone calls. >> Okay. Okay. >> So, I'll play catch up with that lot. >> And are you available for coaching now? >> Yes. >> Okay. How do they reach out to you for that? >> Just through the socials. Just drop me a message through the socials. Either Instagram or Facebook. It's it's easiest way to be honest. >> All right. We'll have Dave's uh Instagram linked below and uh you can reach out to him there. Hit me up mcnal diets@gmail.com and of course check out truen nutrition.com. Use our code think over there. supplementsource.ca for Canadians. Uh they have great deals that change week to week. Of course, Strong Sports Nutrition. Check out their support max if you're on cycle and all the other supplements that you may or may not need depending on your health situation. Check them out. And of course, uh thank you to Supplement Source. I said them. And who did I miss? Patreon. Thank you guys for Patreon. You guys are freaking awesome. for another episode of the podcast. Dave, we'll see you soon.