 There is going to be a point where drugs become unproductive or where the benefit is so small and the benefit is so small and the steroid progression curve so starts quite steep and then starts to shallow out even though the dose is getting higher and higher and higher and higher and higher. You went 500 to a gram, again you see another solid increase but if you then went a gram to two gram, you would actually probably find that the benefit is so small. The benefit of going that extra gram to two gram is less than the benefit of going from 500 to a thousand. Yeah, it's not going to keep like exponentially. No, it's not linear. No, it's not linear. So. What's up guys, welcome back to the podcast with Dave Crosland. I'm Scott McNally and all of our programming is brought to you by evalbloodanalysis.com. If you're in the UK, you should be getting your labs done especially if you're on cycle and you can do that with Dave. Go to evalbloodanalysis.com. Get your labs done today. We're brought to you by strong sports nutrition. You can get thrombomax which I'm taking. You also get stuff like the support max especially if you're on cycle, you're going to need that and you get that the US and the UK. True nutrition.com use our code think over there for all your basic bodybuilding supplements like protein powder, creatine, intra-workout and use code think to get 10% off on all your orders in supplement source.ca. If you're in Canada, you can get some great deals there. And those deals change week to week. So be sure to check back at the site regularly free shipping over after 99 bucks. Dave, we got a lot of good feedback on the last show. We got some fun comments which I shall work in today. We've got a bunch of listener questions. And by the way, guys, if you're new to our content, this is what we do. Dave is an expert witness for the court systems testifying to help defend people who are caught up on gear charges. And he's also been an educator to the police and military about PEDs. And of course, he runs eval. He sees tons of labs for PED users every day. He has a lot of experience with that. And as well as coaching and I'm a coach as well. I've been coaching for over a decade. Used to be a competitive bodybuilder myself. So if you're new here, we are basically just hanging out and giving our our opinions and our ideas and our experience sharing that with you. You're welcome to leave questions for the next show. Dave, topic of the day. We've done what's the least effective dose of each compound, like of all the major compounds. Somebody asked us like, well, what's the most you can take before you get diminishing returns? And I thought, yeah, maybe we make that a main topic for the day. All of it. All of it. All of it. All of it. It's a lot. All of it is a lot. There's yeah, it's going to be very subject. I think it's an interesting question because it's like, hmm. And I know clever Scots looked at the science side of it and where they top out. But I think there are so many variables that the science side of it is only sort of one factor to consider. And individuals tolerance to the drugs plays a massive role in this. You know how sensitive are they to the side effects? There'll be people watching this that like I can't touch trend or if I can, it's only 200, 300 milligram, any more than that. And I'm batshit crazy or, you know, I can't take Decker for the same reason. So, you know, there's going to be things like that will limit people. I think if you look and we have touched on this a few times, if you look at it, and it dotally in the area where there are the big users, which is the programs. Yeah, the two, two and a half grams seems to be where everybody sort of sells. There'll be a few a bit higher and few a bit lower, but it seems to be that's the sort of ballpark between that two and three gram total is where everybody sells. Obviously, I've gone high. Really? And the first time I went high, it wasn't so bad. And I'd had a long, I'd hate to use the term health phrase, I fucking think it's bollocks, but going into that cycle, I was probably the fittest and healthiest I've been for quite a while. Okay. Okay. And as a result, you know, I was in the four and a half gram region and was still making solid progress five months down the line. I didn't start straight, four and a half, I'd take it up to it. The second cycle where I was high, I went in unhealthy. Yeah. In a sense of I hadn't had long enough off, I had loads of niggles and injuries, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. And my tolerance for the drugs in that situation were short lived. And that's not to say, I mean, there's two aspects to this, I suppose, really. There's the drugs being productive in the sense of the chemicals supporting muscular growth. Right. But there's you being able to tolerate the drugs at that level for that period of time. And they're two very separate things. You know, people could still grow off, off drugs, but they might not be able to cope with the side effects those drugs are creating for them. Sure. Sure. Like you said, 200 trend might be like that max. Somebody can take one of our listeners. Another guy's at 400. And he's like, oh, I sleep like a baby with that. In fact, I feel more calm on trend. There's two limitations here. One is the effective limitation of the drug in building muscle, which is more of the science side of it. You know, what point do these drugs cap out? And two is the individual's tolerance to the size and stress that those drugs create a higher doses and how well they can handle that. But I do think that where they cross over is interesting as well, because you get this point where even though a higher dose may still yield more progress. But the issue is that the health impacts or the stress impacts cause that many problems that progress is limited anyway because you can't recover because your body's diverting too much of its resources to keeping you healthy. Yeah. Yeah. And we all know that stress in training and progress is a killer. We all know when we've had a stressful life and we've had loads of problems, be it work, personal or whatever, our training progression slows down. You know, things just don't go well when we're not sleeping well, when we're not getting good recovery and rest. So you might not be at the ceiling for a drug. Let's just say spitball that the ceiling for testosterone is two gram. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I was going to say, let's break this down into some real world stuff and look at what our, you know, like testosterone is a great place to start. Let's say the ceiling for testosterone is two gram above two gram progress reduces significantly. Yeah. But if you're stressed out to the max with estrogen and everything else at a gram and a half, you're never getting to two gram. So for you. Or what if they're brand new to gear? What if they've only done one or, you know, and I'll say newer. So let's say they've only done a couple of cycles. Two gram is going to be an awful lot to manage for somebody who's never taught, you know, never been on that kind of. So, you know, if you can't, if you can't handle the side effects of that drug, 1500, then you're never going to reach the ceiling of what that drug can do. And I don't, I'm not, there is going to be a point where drugs become unproductive or where the, the benefit is so small. And, and the steroid progression curve sort of starts quite steep and then starts to shallow out, even though the dose is getting higher and higher and higher. It really does, doesn't it? So the progress you get from 250 milligrams is unlikely, though it may be significantly improved by going up to 500 milligrams. Wait, say that again. Is it unlikely going to be improved? So I haven't said that exactly right. So I changed the way I was going to say it halfway through, which is why it sounded a bit weird. So you don't necessarily double the effect by doubling the dose. Okay. So from a natural state to a state of 250 milligrams, there's going to be a certain level of progress. That progress is not necessarily going to be double if you take 500 milligrams. Hmm. But we're, we're also talking about, so testosterone in the body at normal levels, not going above range is going to just function like a hormone in our body that does the thing that it always does. Yeah, of course it is. You know, versus when we get higher than that, that's when we get into that, start getting that super physiological effect. Mm-hmm . So 250 is probably for most people going to put them at that like bottom end of Supra. You know what I'm saying? 250 should put them at double natural ranges roughly. Or just so. So let's say you think double. Well, I'll take that. I'll take that. I would say. 250 should put you around. I can't do the NGDL conversion in my head, but it should put you around 50 and more. Okay. Yeah. And I don't know what that would. One point. Sorry, I'll probably be over exaggerating here a little bit because I'm thinking of TRT levels as in ideal levels, not actual natural range. If you look at upper limit being 2930, then we're looking at about 1.6 upper limit. Okay. So one and a half times ish. Yeah, I'd say one and a half times. I could see that. I could see. I could see being, yeah, 1,700 or something. Now, if you. Everybody's different though. You know, we've got some guys that take 300 tests and, you know, they're just barely poor souls or. You poor souls are scraping by. But let's take that 250 now versus 500. 500. Yeah. Now. I feel like you're going to get a substantial increase from 250 to 500. You are, but you've also got to consider that the actual increase in drugs is much greater than the initial increase. What do you mean? So you were originally running. So you've gone from, let's say we're going to call natural levels, 25 and more for ease. Okay. Yeah. Okay. And the two 50 puts you at 500. So you've doubled it from natural. Okay. You then go to 500. You're going to be at 100 and more. So you now you're four times your natural level. Okay. You're not double your four times it. So there's a significant increase in hormonal activation in the body. You've not over where you would be naturally. So you do initially get this quite rapid increase in effect. Yeah. Now. The difference between 250 and 500. If you then went to gram. There's a strong chance that the, the increase, the benefit would actually be less than the benefit you saw of going. If you went and went 500 to a gram. Again, you see another solid increase. But if you then went a gram to two gram, you would actually find that the, the benefit of going that extra gram to two gram is less than the benefit you saw going from 500 to a thousand. Yeah. It's not going to keep like exponentially. It's not linear. So as the, as the doses get higher and higher, the actual increase in progress gets less and less. All right, guys. So a bunch of you had asked for tank tops. So the day has finally come that we've got them. If you're interested in one of our tanks, check them out at the merch store. I'll have links below. Who knows? You might end up meeting somebody else that listens to the shows too. I've had that happen more than once. Somebody is like, Hey, you listen to that podcast. I like those guys too. And before you know it, there's a budding bromance just waiting to happen. So if you want to look fricking checked and support the podcast, you guys can do that all at the same time. Just check out the shirts. Yeah, no, I a hundred percent agree. A hundred percent agree. I'm going to say this. I, cause I, cause I think what our listeners are really looking for is like substantial take home information that applies to them. I know we can't give that to them because everybody is individual, but I'm going to say that for your average gym, bro, that 500 to 1000 tests, I'd say is probably going to be where you're going to get the high end without turning that corner. I would say, I would say, I would probably go slightly higher, but yeah. Okay. And then on that dosing, I was going to say that Nandrolone, I would put at, if we're using say that ratio of tests, 500 to 1000, then I would say Nandrolone would be somewhere in the 300 to 700 range based off of somebody's tolerance. Aquaploys, I would go that 400 to 800 range, depending once again on somebody's tolerance trend. I would go a hundred wider range, 150 to 400, depending on somebody's tolerance. I don't know. Are you, are you with me on any of this or is that a change for you? I would be same with trend. Okay. Same with EQ. I think deck it can be pushed higher. Okay. Okay. But not necessarily with that high level dose of tests. So I would say you can, you could definitely, I think you can probably stretch the test. Let's say it was test only. I think you can probably stretch the test out to maybe 12, 13 and still be in a fairly good spot. But I think you're at, you're sort of getting at the right top edge limit of that. You're not having loads of problems. Yeah. Um, if you were to add Decker to test, I think you could come through your own Decker at a gram, maybe slightly more and run the test lower. Okay. Um, which is your wheelhouse for like compared to me, man. I, I, I, I would be, I would be quite comfortable with sort of 500 tests and a gram a Decker. Um, I think, I think for most people that are experienced and have had a long time, we're probably looking at a total grammage of between 15 and so 1.5 gram and 2.5 gram. I think that's where you're going to be. I think for those that are less experienced, you're probably upper limits going to be about 1.5 gram total. Um, as you gain more experience, you can probably push higher, but I see very few people that go above 2.5. And actually want to stay up there. Nearly everybody I know and everybody I spoke to have always come back down. They might do one cycle, one and a half cycles and inevitably they always come back down because it's just too uncomfortable to live there. Um, so I think, you know, in the advanced users, 2.5 seems to be the rough limit. And I think in the less advanced users, we're going to be a gram to a gram 0.5 total, but there will be people in between that range because of, you know, if you're a national competitor, um, a national competitor, you know, going for national qualification, you're probably going to be more 1.5 to 2, you know, and I think when you're hitting the pro doors, you're going to be 2, 2.5. But, um, yeah, I don't. Going into like Masteron and Primo, those, I think I've seen people, especially in the past few years, running those compounds much higher than they used to. I used to be my, my real go-to was to take the Masteron higher. I was always a big fan of that in a, in a cutting cycle, not really offseason, but I would say the tolerance for those compounds dosage wise go, you know, it goes up to pretty high doses, but I don't know if I would say that the benefits. No, that's my argument there. I think you can easily run a gram plus a mast, but I don't think you're getting much benefit once you get over six, 800. Yeah. Yeah. I just don't see it the way that like, say a thousand tests versus a thousand mast. I just, I don't think you're going to see it as far as gains go, you know, you're not going to see massive progress. I think Primo even less. So, I mean, Primo is a very clever, very sophisticated, very well developed drug, but you can't deny or get away from the fact that as a growth agent, it's a bit of a toffee hammer. You know, it really is knocking down, but it's not going to be knocking down big walls. Yeah. Um, so I think I've seen plenty of people run a gram gram and a half a Primo. And I just think that's a lot of money for not a lot of result. Yeah. Cornelius Perkins with us. He says a gram of Deca. Okay, Dave told me what to do. Time to get out the five CC Turkey baster. It's about time. You did a decent cycle again, corn. Yeah, that's well above my pay grade, man. I, uh, I'm not for one instance suggesting that people do these cycles. That's fucking stupid. But okay. Well, I'm glad you said that. Cause we're kind of giving them take home information. I thought here. No, no, I, it's, you're asking me where are the limits to what I think people can tolerate. Yeah. Okay. And get effective progress. And I think that's the absolute limits, but you've also got to look at your facilities. You've got to look at your physique and go, am I at the limit of my physical development? And if it's like, no, then why the fuck are you using drugs at the limit of your physical capability? It's stupid. Oh yeah. That's a great point, man. You know? So your, your dosage should be very relative to you where you are and progressing. And at the end of the day, you are free to do what you want to do. You are an adult in the most part, um, with your own independent thoughts in the most part. Yeah. But you also are free to take responsibility for what you do. Uh, and if you want to use grams and grams of gear, that's your choice. But just be honest with yourself about the fact it's not that you're a bad responder. It's not that you need it more than anyone else. It's that you're training and diet are fucking good enough. And you're not putting enough effort in, in the most part, there will be before someone messages, there will be the one or two exceptions that genetically adjust, unfortunately, almost handicapped when it comes to growing muscle. Yeah. After 20 years of bodybuilding experience, plus coaching countless athletes, I have tried all sorts of protein shakes from thin to thick to gritty to dry wall paste consistency. So when I say that I trust true nutrition, I mean it. In fact, true nutrition is one of the few companies that I trust and trust in this industry. Well, it's about as common as a bodybuilder passing up the opportunity to talk about his prep. 60 grams of protein is kind of my sweet spot. Yeah. I see you out there. What makes true nutrition different? You get to pick your base. I'm a big fan of the way ISO you get to pick your flavor. I like the cookie butter lately. You can choose how thick you want it and you can add boosts. It's basically like the supplement version of Qdoba minus the chance of getting food poisoning. Oh my God. My insides are on. Plus they're also a manufacturer creating a lot of the supplements that you guys are using from other companies. You can cut off the middleman and go straight to the source. No proprietary blend nonsense. They're third party tested and in-house tested as well. There's no guessing games. It's literally just gains in a bag. If you want protein, you can trust, go to true nutrition.com and use our code. Think after 20 years of bodybuilding coaching and mixing some absolute nightmares of protein shakes. Believe me when I say this is the good stuff. All right. Listen, we do have a bunch of listener questions. We just thought it would be kind of an interesting topic. Somebody did ask us this question, by the way, somebody had said like, Hey, where is the point of diminishing return? So I thought, you know what? We'd try to tackle it. Although there's, there's no solid answer. Um, and with your listener questions, guys, like I said, comment and, uh, it helps to boost our programming. So that's fricking awesome comment with just anything you want to say about the show. Maybe you like us or, or don't like us. That's okay too. If you don't like us, people, a lot of, a lot of times have a negative stuff. Yeah. They don't, they don't always say the nicest things to it, but they, they've been a lot better in the past years, haven't they? Like people have, uh, people have gotten a little bit better versus when we first came on YouTube. It was, uh, I think there was, there was definitely cultural clashes and sense of humor clashes that people didn't quite get that we weren't being serious as they thought we were. Um, yeah. All right. Listen, so we got a bunch of questions, man. Go on then. What were you gonna say? No, no, no. Okay. Um, so. Um, so one of our listeners asks us, um, he says, good conversation. Thank you for all the help, uh, to keep us learning. Is there any recommendations for a person, a TRT plus doctor to consult with? I don't need scripts at the moment, but is there anyone you can recommend for cycle advice that can prescribe things if needed? Yeah. I don't think you're going to get that in the UK especially, are you Dave? No, I didn't. No, not in the UK at all. At all. Um, it just. Now I'm not saying there aren't doctors that may potentially give you cycle advice cause there may well be. There are doctors at the end of the day that do use and do train. Uh, particularly younger, modern, you know, modern age doctors, but technically they would be breaking a lot of rules. Yeah. To the point where they could actually be, I don't know what they call it, but stripped of their title as a doctor. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's a little different. You know, I mean, there's a lot of doctors at a TRT clinics. So a lot of times actually the way it works is, is you work with some type of a consultant and that person has a relationship to a prescribing doctor. So this person is not legally prescribing anything. They're just advising. And then the doctor is actually writing the scripts and that's where people are getting I don't know if it's strange, different there, but over here, the doctor who writes a script has a responsibility to the person he writes the script for. So if I was a consult and I had a GP and I said, right, I want you to write a script for test and must for argument's sake. Right. That doctor in the UK would turn around and go, I can't write a script for must because there's no medical need for it. Yeah. No, there's still working within that system to an extent they're supposed to. Over here. You're only going to get tests. You're never going to get anything else. Yeah. We get all the TRT companies have their quote unquote add ons where you, we remember we were looking at some of those lists. Some of them were fucking 500 milligram cycles. Yeah. Yeah. They really were. So you could go, you know, that route if you wanted to. I really though, in most cases, I see those situations as basically being a salesperson. I don't see them as being, they don't have your best interest in mind. They have making money in mind. They know what their commission is. If you buy X amount of products and not every TRT clinic is like that. Um, but that's, that's just the way that I I've seen it a lot of times. So, you know, buyer beware. So this guy was UK, wasn't it? I didn't. Oh, I'm not sure. Oh, I thought you said he was UK. I say if he's UK, he's got no chance. Um, he wouldn't get it. He wouldn't even get a scripted drug. Unless he qualified with low testosterone. Now, I like you may have a relationship with a doctor who isn't even super educated, but is open minded. And, you know, you could be in a position where, Hey, maybe they write your TRT for you. They know that you use cycle gear and that, you know, maybe they might be able to help you with ancillaries like estrogen management, things like that, you know, here in the U.S. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. That's something that you, you know, you could potentially get into over here. Uh, next question is, Hey guys, uh, love the show question for the next episode. Have you heard of any experience with gear crashing in particular, a violet DHB has crashed, become crystallized. Um, what I've read is that this is common with DHB. Is it fine to heat it up to bring it back into liquid and will it still be okay to use? How does this keep the potency? So no issue with potency. Yes, you can resuspend it and use it. However, I would definitely go on a little bit on the longer side as heating. When it crashes, obviously crystallines, you, you reheat it. It goes back into a liquid, but you can't see because your eyesight isn't good enough. Um, you'd need to tell you, you'd need to tell you. You need to tell us, you need a microscope. Microscope. Microscope. Thank you. Fucking brain dead idiot. A telescope for your desk to look. Yeah. Microscope for your desk to be able to see that it actually has gone properly gone to liquid. So there is a possibility that there's still going to be some crystals floating around in there. They're just quite small. So I would go a little bit overboard with the time you eat it for just to make sure you, you do everything you can to get it in solution as much as possible and be prepared for it to fucking hurt. Yeah. Yeah. I'll add this too. Um, if you reconstitute a product, yes, it's common, right? Especially if the gear changes temperature, it could be more likely to crash. Like if it gets cold, um, you know, now that we're entering the fall season, that's what you call it, right? Dave, the fall. We're in fall right now. You know, the other day I looked in the dictionary for the definition of a knobhead. And there was a picture of you. Fall, autumn, tomato, tomato, whichever you want to call it. You know, that can be a factor temperature, right? I would though. And then brewing is a factor too. And then a lot of times too, a lot of these companies, they try to boost up their dosage so they have strong gear. So if you're getting like a test sip 300, for instance, it's more likely to crash. Sip is more likely to crash than other compounds, by the way. Um, I, I would say this, uh, also pay attention. Does it, does it re does it crash again? Or does it stay reconstituted? If it continues to crash, you know, you might need to fix it, which you can fix it using like bent a little bit of benzoyl benzene. Have you ever done that before? Had product that crashed and then corrected it yourself. Only through heat. I've never added anything else to it. Okay. I, I used to make my own trend. So, you know, you used to what? You used to what? You used to what? Make my own, Bina. DIY? Yeah. DIY trend. Today, Andrew, it's a good stuff. DIY trend. And you could just, you know, maybe just like a little bit at a time, maybe like a quarter mil of, uh, you know, benzoyl benzene. You want to get sterile benzoyl benzene. You could possibly, and then, you know, reheat that, shake it up real good. Let it sit for a little while. See if that corrects it. What about this one? I mean, I think if you're really in doubt, just get rid of the fucker and buy another one. Cause, cause if you end up with any sort of abscess, it will be the cost of the bottle will be significantly not anything compared to the pain and trouble you're going to go through with an abscess. True. True. Um, Oh, just a nice comment from James Carter. He says, there is good synergy between you two. Kind of like test and DECA. Great show as always guys. Which one is of us is the test and which one of us is the DECA? You, your test. You're the DECA. Yeah. All right. I'll take it. Cause you make people want to cry and I make people depressed. Wait, test makes you want to cry, Dave? We need to rethink your cycling. High estrogen. That was, that was, that was, High estrogen. Or should I say you give people water retention and I make them say, Hey, I'm wondering if it's possible to run an NPP only cycle. Be interested to hear what you guys think. I've heard of the DECA only obviously. Uh, but the NPP being fast acting nandrolone, would there be less suppression? And also, is there such a thing as an eight week bulk cycle? Love the show. Not in 2025. There used to be a thing called a eight week bulk cycle back in 2006 when I started, but I don't believe in that anymore. I don't believe in that anymore. There's a, there's a few things here. Uh, can you run an NPP only cycle? Yes. Uh, I've not met many people that genuinely can do it. Um, I've met a lot of people claiming they do DECA only or NPP only cycles. And then when you actually break the cycle down, there's dbol in there and there's something else in there. So, um, I, I would say that, yes, some people can, um, Robbie Robinson is the most famous person, I think, for running Nandrolone only cycles. Yeah. Um, he did a lot of it. Um, so, but yes, that is definitely a possibility. Um, the next question has gone completely out of my head because I was thinking about that first part. What was the next bit? Well, you said, uh, and you know, what was it? I lost it here. MPP only. Um, you guys think of the, and then is there such a thing as an eight week, uh, bulk cycle? That's what we used to all do. There was another question in between. Um, he said, uh, be interested to hear what you guys think. I've heard of DECA only obviously, but MPP being fast acting Nandrolone. Would it, would there be less suppression? That was the bit I wanted to pick up. Gotcha. So when you raise a hormone in the body, uh, testosterone being obvious one, but estrogen and prolactin all have the potential. Sensors in the brain sense the raise of elevation of hormone. Now, because males don't produce estrogen in the first instance, it's a conversion process. Our way of controlling estrogen is to lower testosterone. So when your brain, and that's the same with the rest of the hormones. So when your brain senses that a hormone is elevated, it slows down testosterone production to try and lower that hormone. If that hormone remains elevated, it slows down testosterone production further. It does this by reducing the output of GnRH, a conotermin releasing hormone. And subsequently because of that FSH and LH though they can both lower independently. Now that's what we traditionally call shut down. Yeah. When you stop producing GnRH and you stop producing FSH and LH. That's it. That's you shut down. You can't shut down more. You can't go negative GnRH. You can't go negative SHLH. You just, when you shut down, you shut down. So, nandrolones will shut you down faster. Yeah. But they don't shut you down any harder. But they don't clear quickly. Decker particularly. Obviously, MPP has a shorter half-life, but the metabolites detectability and impact of the drug still lasts a little bit longer, even though it clears your system from a point of view of an active compound. So, it's not gonna, just because it's faster acting doesn't mean that you're not going to be shut down any less. You're still gonna get shut down, but you're not gonna get shut down anymore with Decker than you are with TEST or anything. They will all shut you down to the same degree. Okay. If your first cycle was a cutting cycle and you worked up to 600 milligrams total load, when it's time to bulk, does the total milligrams need to increase? Or, since you didn't use it in a growth context, could you start back at, say, 300 to 400 milligrams? I think this is relating to how, you know how people say, like, oh, you're gonna get your best gains on your first cycle. You know what I mean? So, people are like, you know, really prepare for that. There's some in that. There's some in that. In the, if you repeated the same cycle, but went from a calorie deficit to a calorie excess, then you're gonna see more growth than you did in the deficit, because obviously you've got more calories going on. For sure. So, there's definitely something in that. You don't necessarily have to do a bigger cycle for the off-season. In fact, Dusty, that ran very little in the off-season, he ran very low cycles because his food was high, so he grew anyway and didn't need it. Yeah. Yeah. He focused on, you know, and I love this mindset that he had. I think there's a lot to it, and I follow it myself now, is to say that there's three factors for muscle growth, the food, the training, and the gear. And we need to have two out of those three at any given time. So, he focused on the food and the training in the off-season with some gear in there, but not going crazy. And that left him a lot of room so that when he did go into a diet phase and the food wasn't there, he'd turn that gear up, and that's where he'd continue to grow into a show, basically. I think it's a smart move. Con's doing a coaching session in the questions and answers here, isn't it? Is he? Yeah. I'll get out. Hey, Scott. Great show. I have a question for Dave. I'm primarily a power lifter slash strong man, but I like to look good, too. I treat meat preps as a bulk phase and then cut in the off-season. I've considered using insulin around training to build some extra muscle mass this prep. Are there any issues with a strength-focused training program while using insulin? Most of the people I've seen use insulin use higher training volumes. I do have higher volume accessories, but meat and potatoes are power lifting movements and done with low volume. I would use the insulin with your food intake, not with your training. That would be my personal approach if it's power lifting. Okay. I wouldn't use it for volumization. I think, one, the pump potential from the insulin pre-workout is going to be counterproductive for power lifting. And I think that you'll get more out of dosing it with your meals than you will around just getting a big pump when you train. Yeah, you can fight. You can drive a lot of intra-nutrition in at that point, but I don't think that's going to be super beneficial for what you're doing. I mean, I think that if you keep the dosing low, like the more modern day approaches, like I'm with you basically, but I would have no problem too with using it in your pre-workout, you know, using it in that peri-workout window. So, but once again, like low dose, so you're not really getting like a crazy amount of, you know, additional like water and the crazy pumps that would be limiting. You're not going to get as much of a pump, are you, if you're doing super low power lifting volume, right? You're not, but it's, I still think it's sort of wasting it almost. I don't think it's the best place to put it in. I think the best place to put it in, in his scenario, particularly as he, he treats his comp preps as his offseason. So his foods, I, I would be looking more to try and use, utilize that food as much as possible. Yeah. Yeah. And, and thus then potentially improving your recovery. No, I'm working with a guy right now who, a German guy might be watching the show. So he, his recovery is just utter shit, Dave. Like he, he's a real intense trainer, first of all. Right. But his volume that he can handle is so fricking low. Yeah. But if he's super intense, that's probably part of why, isn't it? It, oh, it absolutely is. But it's crazy, man, because it's a, so anyway, though, I'm just thinking for a guy like him, you know, I'm using a little bit, small amount. We're playing, we haven't started it yet, but I'm planning on using small amount of insulin, like big intra-workout shake that he can handle. You know, like as we build that up, I think I noticed a difference. Have you, had you experimented much with like intra-workout, highly branched cyclic dextrin? Yes. Yeah. I didn't get on with intra at all. And you might actually have a problem with your man if he's a very intense trainer. Yeah. When you train intense, obviously the last thing the stomach wants to be doing is bothering with nutrient. And what I found was I just ended up uncomfortable and bloated and wasn't really getting what I should have got out of the nutrition because my body was just not wanting it because it was so focused on the intensity that was going on in the gym, which was on the edge of that fight or flight stuff. Yes. And if you're proper pushing to absolute, true, everything you've got balls to the wall failure, you are going into that sort of real base, instinctive, nervous response that you're going to get as, you know, a subhuman. You're in that high sympathetic state. Yeah. So I found that the intra work stuff was just not for me. Do you remember, I know it's been a while. Do you remember what kind of carb you were using? No, I don't, to be fair. But I think it was. It was, I ran the Milos protocol for the intra, which was. Oh, and he goes super high. So when I say high, I'm not talking Milos high. Yeah. Fuck me. Yeah. There was, there was a shake. About 30, 40 minutes before training. Then it's shake just as you start training. Then another one in training. Oh God. There was, there was such citrulline. All sorts. Like, you know, five, 10 grams of this, five, 10 grams of that. It was just, it was a proper concoction. Yeah. Yeah. That's, that's. So here's, here's my thought on intra-workout. I, you know, I used to think, and you still hear people who will say this like, oh, you know, like we're trying to drive nutrients into the muscles. So I want to make sure that I have a bunch of citrulline, malay and creatine. What I'm thinking to myself like, Dave, what do I want to drive into the muscle? Let's put all those things in there. Doesn't that make sense? But I don't want that. I want to try to keep it paired back as simple as possible because I want to try to hack the digestive system. I don't want to trigger the rest and digest. When we do that, what happens is we're blood flow is getting pulled into the organs, right? Away from the muscles. And, and that's where we start getting stomach upset. If you're using like a super, super fast carb, like, but, but complex, like highly barred cyclic dextrin and essential amino acid, those will, they don't require any digestion. They just permeate through the wall, go straight into the bloodstream. And it takes a diluting it with a high amount of water. So I found that in order to get the dose up of that, you have to be able to slowly titrate that water up and build a tolerance to it. And that's, that's where I think if you just go straight to it, it can be a problem. And I imagine with the Milo shakes, man. Oh yeah, that would be, it's a lot of nutrients. Your body can't help, but recognize it. We're trying to hack the system. So it doesn't even recognize the foods going in. If you can do that, you can get it in. But yeah, I think you need a lot more than that when you're supporting me, those levels of insulin, don't you? Oh, cause that's the other piece we didn't meant you didn't mention. Right. I don't know what you're talking about, Scott. Drugs, drugs, terrible. Do you remember what kind of insulin dosing you were using with that? Pre-workout. I think it was 60. Are you? Wow. But it builds up, you know, it builds up as you get more insulin resistant from my You need more, right? Effectively, yeah. That's basically what was going on. I've sent you a picture. Okay. Talking on WhatsApp. Talking about intensity. I've got a client training for that. Is this the deadly, deadly gross or deadly grass? What's it? What is this? It's, it's like a, deadly gross. Hydrox event. Hydrox? What the hell is a Hydrox event? Hyrox. Hyrox. I'm sorry. What's a Hyrox event? So it's a mix of weight and CrossFit and, and cardiovascular stuff. Did you say CrossFit? Yeah. I know. I know. Deadly, deadly gross. The Harbit Hydrox event in the world. Okay. Huh. Wow. 2.8 kilometer farmer's walk. Okay. 720 deadlifts in one go. What? 720. 720 meters of lunges. 720 snatches. 720 meters of burpees broad jumps. 720 goblet squats. 2.8 kilometers front carry. 1.4. This was the one that got me. 1.14 kilometers bear crawl. Oh, that. Oh, God. Yeah. No, I'm not doing that. Clean and press. 720 times. Dude, if you just asked me to, like, just clean and press the bar 720 times, I would tear something. You were about intense, and then I remembered he was doing that, as I thought I'd send it you. That's insane, man. Overhead carry for 160 meter, and then 240 double press, whatever that is. No, overhead carry for 2.1 kilometers. That's 2,160 meters. It says 2.16. It's not a point. It's an apostrophe. Oh, I see. So it's 2.1 kilometers. I see. Jeez, that's crazy, man. All right. What else do we have here? I decided to try to keep my cycle more simple and just stay away from Tren and even DECA because they both mess up my anxiety levels too much. I'm eight weeks into test in EQ only, and I'm up to a gram of test and 500 milligrams of EQ. I've never felt better on that much gear. My bloods are perfect, and my blood pressure is 120 over 75. I've never been stronger in my life than I am right now. Thanks for all the info, fellas. I've got a lot out of what you've – I've picked up a lot of what you put down. Oh, actually, I guess it wasn't a question. It was just a comment, but that sounds – it sounds like he's doing good with it, man. Good? Yeah, I thought it was a question. Sorry. Hey, Scott, great show. I have a question primarily for Dave. Oh, that's the powerlifting strongman one. All right. Dave used to knock about with people. Oh, here's what he says. Dave used to knock about with people. That means that he used to hang out with people. It's a very Yorkshire way of saying it from a long time ago. You knock about? Dave, are we knocking about right now? No. No? Knock about is not an activity, but if you were describing that you used to hang out with people. So, yeah, I used to knock around with so-and-so and knock around with that. Knock around is like hang out. Okay. We learned something. But you don't go and knock around. Okay. 300 DECA weekly versus 100 milligrams of Anadrol every day for building muscles. Just guessing out of 300, there's around 210 milligrams of actual DECA in the hormone, which would be better. Love the show. Especially Dave. So, you lied, didn't you? You made that up. No, he really did say that. Please, please don't start looking at actual hormone content. Just stick to the fact that it's 300 milligrams of DECA. Thank you. Everything works off that. That's how even research is done. You start trying to work out hormone content. One, it starts getting complex. But two, you'll end up taking higher dose cycles than you realize. And so, I would say DECA would be my personal choice. I think 100 milligrams of Oxy is not going to be sustainable long term. You're not going to get, sorry, and I think you're going to end up with stomach issues, which will restrict eating anyway and therefore impact progress. Yeah. Yeah. I think it's a very different cycle, 300 DECA versus 100 Anadrall every day. Side effects wise. Yeah, it's like, yeah, it is. It's like comparing an off-road vehicle to a track vehicle, you know, a racing car. Yeah. It's so different. You know, a racing car is super, super fast on a flat road. It's going to do fuck all in a field, whereas your truck is going to be shit on a road, but it's going to do all right in the field. Yeah, they're just different horses for different courses. On the Cutler cast, Palumbo talked about the receptor down regulation when being on gear too long. I don't know if I agree with this. I've been on TRT. Palumbo's talking out of his ass. Oh! You can tell him I said that. I don't know if I agree, as I've been on TRT with the same dose, and it keeps me at the same level. That said, he may have only been referring to super physiological doses. Now, it doesn't happen. It's not down regulation of the receptors. When you start to see a lack of progress or a reduction of progress off a dose on cycle, it's usually one of a few factors. One is complacency on your part because you've been on cycle 6, 7, 8, 10 weeks, and you're not being as progressive as you are with the training or with the food. Or two, it's the stresses from the cycle that are starting to build and become counterproductive. Now, that I can see for sure, man, because, yeah, it's like 300 deca is always 300 deca. But you can't infinitely just keep growing. Your body has limitations as to how much it's good. You're in a great example of that, right? You put on an incredible amount of mass, but then you tried to do it back to back, and the stressors are too high, right? Yeah. The other thing is, so you inject into the muscle. The oil sits in the muscle. It seeps into the bloodstream. When it goes into the bloodstream, the hormone is there swimming about. Yeah. It can get picked up by various enzymes and proteins, so SHBG, albumin. It can get picked up by 5-alpha reductase. It can get picked up by aromatase if it converts. Or it can enter the androgen receptor. When it enters the receptor, it goes into the nucleus. It imparts the signal. It comes out of the nucleus. It's released from the androgen receptor. Then the receptor splits in two and makes two of them. Okay. Yeah, we find out that you build up more androgen receptors over time, right? And then the hormone goes back into the bloodstream. It may go into another androgen receptor. It may then convert to estrogen. It may convert to a 5-alpha downstream. It may get picked up by SHBG and taken from your ass to your shoulder. There's a load of shit that can happen. In fact, the research that Alex PK did when he was on our podcast was that when you increase the number of androgen receptors you have through using gear, that there is some level of permanent alteration, which would lead me to believe that over time you would get better at using more steroids. You know what I'm saying? Or better at using the same amount of steroids. Yeah, it's the satellite cell proliferation as well, so the satellite cells remain for quite some time. So that's the first thing. The second thing is an under-receptor dies quite quickly. So they don't really last very long. So they're constantly being replaced and renewed. So the receptor can't do regulate because the receptor that you had there on Tuesday isn't there on fucking Wednesday. It's gone, and you've got a new one. Okay. Check this out. Remember somebody asked us about doing orals anally last week? Yes. Yes. Okay. Have you tried it? I have not, but we have a listener. Why not? Dave, but we have a listener that has. Oh, for God's sake. Seriously. Of course we have, right? That's our show. This is the kind of people who watch our show, Dave. These are the, these are who's out there. Describe your tickle viewer when he shoves Oxy up his ass and he's praying. Okay. So check this out. And what's his, what's his username here? Let me make sure I get this right. Does he want his username to be public? Maybe he doesn't. It's H-A-K-A-R-L-R-S. I can't even pronounce that. But anyways, he says he did rectal, var, and debal. Okay. Had no issues from it. It's similar to sublingual in that the drug esters in the, enters the bloodstream via the mucosa membrane. But with the added benefit of not swallowing the drug, which can otherwise be a significant amount of sublingual use. The rectal mucosa membrane is very absorbent of active ingredients while it's effective at cleaning out the filter materials that may be used while formulating the drug. It can also handle large volumes of water, though ideally you would use sterile saline, meaning you can dilute the drug significantly, thereby reducing localized irritation. Now he says, as for alcohol being taken rectally, the reasons why there is so much danger versus drinking it is that, one, incredibly rapid onset and extremely high peak blood alcohol concentration shortly after administration, rather than a slow gradual onset upon drinking, especially with food and the digestion tract. Next, stomach pumping becomes wholly ineffective at preventing overdose. And then he says, alcohol dehydrate, dehydrate, dehydrate, ADH1 and ADH2. Thank you. ADH1 is in the stomach. It's completely bypassed, which then means ADH2 and the liver. Alcohol dehydrate. I can't say the word down today. Hydrogenous. Thank you. Alcohol dehydrate. That was closer than me. Yeah. Enzyme in the gut, as well as the first past, exactly what you said. And then he said, that said, purely, theoretically speaking, if you were to dose with extreme caution and dilute. Oh, and then he talks about using alcohol and how you may be able to get around to actually make it work. Let's not even dive into that. But that was some good feedback, Dave. Notice that we didn't make that a main topic. Should we have made that the main topic? How to annually take your orals? And then would we have to rechange their names? Would we call them like injectable and anal steroids? Only on this show. Only on this show. I use an average of like one gram injectables. And as I close in on the show, I usually will add in like 50 milligrams of anal. I'm curious, actually. There is something that I'm quite curious about. Yeah. And it's a very layman's consideration. Best anal steroids. Yeah. Sorry. I'm just thinking of show ideas now. Oh, yeah. You're just fucking on one now, are you? That's it. He's off. With the proximity of the prostate being so close. Oh, would you get a localized effect? Yeah. That's a good point, Dave. Huh. I wonder, too. Some questions just might not ever be answered. You know what I'm saying? So, Scott, tomorrow get your prostate checked. And then we're going to do a run of anal D-Vol. You're going to run 100 milligrams of anal D-Vol for eight weeks, and then you're going to get your prostate rechecked. Okay. But then I also have to do a control, right, where I take it orally as well then, you know, on another test to be able to do the comparison. Very important question for the next episode. What is Dave's looks maxing routine? How did he get so hot? HWAT. Maxing routine. Look maxing. Like, how do you max your looks out? Oh, this is just God-given, mate. Just natural beauty. Hot. H-A-W-T. Is this individual a warthog, then? Because you've got to be that class of animal to think that this is attractive. I mean, my wife thinks I'm attractive, but then I give her drugs constantly. So. You can give yourself some more credit than that. If you're taking three compounds. Let's be real. I'm not fucking pretty. I'm one ugly motherfucker. I mean, come on. Let's just get. Let's not fuck about with this. If you're taking three compounds. Example. Test, EQ, trend. Why not do each of them on separate days rather than together? You could keep levels smoother this way, right? No. They all are estered compounds. So once they build up in your bloodstream, it's not going to matter anyway, right? Yeah. No. So you're still. If you. I mean, you can split dosing. That's not a problem. And you can take different compounds on different days if you want to. If you don't want to combine them into one syringe. That's not a problem. Yeah. You do increase the amount of injecting. So obviously there is an increased risk of infection and stuff there. It's not commonplace. I get that. But it's still an increased risk. But you're still going to get a drug peak from the first injection. 24 hours of drug peak. From the second injection. 24 hours of drug peak. From the third injection. 24 hours. Irrespective. Because they're all going to peak after they inject. So you're not changing that. Obviously, half-lives and stuff will affect level of peak, time of peak, and all the rest of it. But yeah, you don't get rid of that. Oh, I have two back-to-back comments here. Coca is native to South America. It wasn't available to Europeans until the Spanish visited around the 1500s. The modern Olympic Games may have used it for stimulant effects. But that's a no-go for the ancient Greeks in their bi-ream boat. LOL. And then also... I am incorrect. And I stand corrected then. Holy hand grenade. Ads. Yeah, definitely not true. The cocoa leaves were around for the first Olympics. But that's a new world plant native to the Andes in South America. It has been used for thousands and thousands of years by the natives. But sadly, none of them made it to a showing at the first Olympics. I like the way they were at those. All right. My biggest concern is that all these peptides are going to go away. We were talking about peptides to counteract health issues. If these are super successful with minimal issues, there is no way that Big Pharma will allow this to continue. Does China make the majority of these peptides? China makes the majority of all raw pharma ingredients. Yeah, I don't think he has to worry about these things going away, does he? No. No. Yeah, I mean, I don't think China... People realize how much of a player China is when it comes to the pharmaceutical industry. Yeah. Oh, you know what? By the way, speaking of China, I had something that I wanted to mention here. Just a conversation that I had had. Let me see who this was. David D. Mesquala messaged me. He does a lot of cool content. You guys should check him out. He said that he learned an entire landscape. He's going to put a video out about this. But he did some more digging. He's also been looking into the whole thing of the whole China shutdowns. And he said that there was one guy that was literally like a rocket scientist that got busted. And that he was doing some things that he literally... Illegally. He was like, I literally can't even talk about them. I don't even want to put it in a message. So it sounds like some pretty bad stuff. But, yeah. So there's that... The whole thing, it sounds like, U.S. border... Between U.S. border lockdown, people going to jail, you know, stuff like that. That really is a big part of it. And then potentially that precursor issue. That that has been a big part of the China thing. That said, I'm not seeing things totally dried out. Are you? Seems to be a slight recovery. Yeah. It seems to be settling a bit. Things seem to be just sort of steadily just getting back to normal. Yeah. You know what I think it may have been? This is a hypothesis I have now. I'll tell you why. Go on. Finish your bit. Because I've just remembered something. Okay. I'm thinking this. That there was a big group that was dealing in raw powders directly to the U.S. And that a lot of our UGLs were buying those raw powders. I'm seeing other well-established European brands who had their own setups in China completely unaffected by this. Yeah. I don't know. I mean, in the past I've heard that there's only actually a few. China has this weird setup. And very often you'll speak to someone, 99% of the time WhatsApp, but also email. Yeah. And they will act as an agent. But they'll act as an agent for, you know, five different things. And they don't work for the manufacturer. They're just going down to a distributor and going, I need some of this. Can you get it? Me, I'm going to sell it to so-and-so. And so there's this weird network of loads of people just part-time selling. Right. So I don't know if, you know, some of the manufacturers got busted or it was somebody that distributes got busted or if it's... But I've always been under the impression that there's like four or five big raw producers. And that's it. And that's not changed. And it's downstream from that where there's a problem where there's been busts on distributors and people in between that setup. Well, I'm wondering if it's those are what we know of that are selling to the U.S. Because my understanding is that there are companies that have... They're working on procuring their own licensing because they're doing everything in-house. I'm talking like big Eastern European labs. Yeah. I know. And I've heard a rumor of a couple of labs getting licensed to produce in China. And I think they already are doing it. They just, you know, haven't had the legal licensing. So I think that maybe that's been more what this has been about is the people who are selling the raws to everybody throughout the U.S. Which obviously, and the U.K., which is obviously a big part of how there are so many UGLs out there. But there are some big companies out there that I think have been untouched by this. And I think it's because they're producing their own already. Possibly. Possibly. All right. A couple more here. Ending this cycle, should he taper down or just go straight back to TRT? Or just go straight back to TRT? We've talked about this a bunch of times, Dave, right? Yep. Neither. Stop. Let levels drop. The ESTA will provide you a taper. Yeah. So stop. Let levels drop. Two, three weeks. Possibly slightly longer depending on your total dosing. And then start your TRT. Otherwise, you will keep elevated levels for easily. It could be two, three months. Another one we talked about a lot is how many weeks would you wait to check estrogen on blood work when running EQ and test? Five. Yep. I'm with you on that. Love the show. Thanks for all the education. 38 starting TRT plus. He's on 200 milligrams a test only for six weeks to dip his toes into the enhanced world. But wants to get his wife pregnant next year. Would it make sense to... Would it make sense to... Oh, that's his plan. He's planning to do 200 milligrams a test. But he wants to get his wife pregnant next year. Would it make sense to be patient and wait until she's pregnant? Or would 200 milligrams plus HCDG keep my fertility to be enough? There's no guarantees. So I would say two options. If you want to be certain about this, two options. One, wait. Two, freeze your sperm. Yeah, that's a great idea, isn't it? Get your sperm frozen. It's not free to have your sperm stored unless you're going to put it in your own freezer. But I don't know if that's the way it works. Yeah, don't be tossing yourself off into a cup and slamming it in freezer with a label on it. You know what I mean? You'll have to go get this done professional. Yeah. I like that idea. Hey, dog. Dave is in the house. Hey, Scott, do you even lift? He says, just pull in your pud. When's the last time you heard somebody say pull in your pud? I don't really recall ever hearing it. Okay. Yeah, I think that was like something people used to say in the, I don't know, long time ago in the U.S. Is that an American thing, is it? It might be. I don't think we have time for anything else, Dave. But people love story time with Uncle Dave last week. You know that? They heard about you knocking about with your mates at the rave, at the rave parties. Somebody said that you were like a, what do they call you, like a candy raver or something like that? Yeah, I don't know what that is. Where you have like the pacifier. No. You have like the pacifier and you were like, oh, like glow sticks. That was you? I do. I do remember those weird fuckers turning up with every sort of shade of fucking neon you can imagine. Whistles. Whistles. Dave's beard would look like a rainbow. You know, all sorts of different colors. Yeah. No, I do remember them nutters turning up. Yeah. Tell us a story. Tell you a story. Or give us advice. One of the two. You got either Uncle Dave's wisdom or story time with Uncle Dave. One of the two. Do you want a door wall story? A what story? A door wall story. What's that? A door wall story? A door wall. What's a door wall? I can't understand that. Okay. So when all doormen get together, they start telling war stories. A door war story. Okay. So they start telling a war story. So our lasses in our house is known as door wall stories. Basically, you know, talking about. Yeah. Give us one of that, man. Shit that used to happen. Okay. I'll tell you this one. So I, and I can drop names and all sorts for this. I used to work many moons ago. I used to work in a club in a town called Halifax. I've forgotten the name of the fucking club. Anyway. I've seen Halifax in Canada. Halifax, West Yorkshire. No, it's in Canada. I've seen it on the map. Never been there. There was a lad that worked with us called Nick. Now, Nick had the unfortunate skill of dropping some very obnoxious smells. Okay. Okay. Okay. So he could fart and fuck me. It stunk. So basically he had some sort of IBS or, you know, I just, I just think he had shit. But anyway. Yeah. At the end of the night, one of the duties was to obviously go into the toilets and check the toilet cubicles. Okay. So I wander into the toilet and I'm, you do, you know, you've, you're tired. It's end of the night. You're just kicking doors open and seeing if anything there. Anyway, I kicked this door and it didn't open properly. Okay. There's obviously something behind it. So I opened the door and there was a gentleman there, extremely inebriated to the point of past Al. Oh, God. His pants around his ankles. Somebody had pissed on him. Somebody had shit on him. Oh, God. And he'd done it all over himself as well. So we're all drawing straws about, you know, what do we do with this individual? We have to get him out. Hose him down. Well, we have to get him out. And then obviously we need to get him checked over because he could literally be, you know, at risk of losing his life. Yeah. So, so we always, there was always a police van parked outside the club. Yeah. So someone ran out and spoke to the police. They radioed an ambulance. It must have been a real nice area. It wasn't bad, actually. They, they radioed an ambulance and it was just where it was located in the town center. It was an ideal spot and it was the busiest club in the town. So everybody went there. So, yeah. So we ended up, obviously police came to have a look. Oh, God. Yeah. So there's two coppers come in and we're like, right, we've got to get him out. So they're putting all the rubber gloves on and everything else. We haven't got anything like this. Yeah. So, so we're grabbing a handful of toilet roll and anything we can because we don't want to touch this fucker because he's covered his shit in piss. Anyway, so it ends up being a copper on each arm. Yeah. One of us on each leg. Okay. It was me and Nick and these two coppers. So we're moving slowly out of the club and carrying him out by his limbs and, and we get down the steps of the club and we get to the street and the ambulance is parked up on the opposite side of the street and we're carrying him across. We get to the middle of the road and Nick drops his guts and it fucking stinks. When you say drops his guts, that means he broke wind. Yes. He farted. Yes. Okay. And I just did for the U S listeners. I'm just trying to translate here. And, and, and it stunk. I mean, yeah, absolutely gut wrenching throw up smell. Were you outside yet or were you still in the building? Yeah, we were outside at this point. Okay. In the middle of the road. Okay. So at least you have a, like the wind, you know, even though there's not a breeze. It was just the, it was just the automatic reaction. Everybody, including the police, just dropped him and fucked off and just left him there in the middle of the road. Oh God. So we're like shouting to Amnish, you need to come and get him. Yeah. Yeah. Dude. If the ambulance is across the street, man, bring the ambulance to you. I've never seen, I've seen some sites, but I've never seen anyone that bad. Oh, that sounds so gross, man. Dude. I I'm hoping for that guy's sake that that was his rock bottom. You know what I mean? Like he came up out of that one and it was like, I got to change some things. You definitely have to look at your life choices. Don't you? After that event has occurred to you. I would hope you did. You know, he probably didn't remember any of it. Well, you'll be waking up in hospital, but naked with no clothes because they will have been destroyed. I would have thought. Oh yeah. You'd have no more. You'd have to. Yeah. Yeah. But no. I mean, I remember there was a wedding party arrived. So they'd come to the club for effectively the night do of the wedding. Okay. And this woman was just like horrible. Oh, what a creature. Especially on weddings. They get real nasty at their weddings. Her husband had already pissed off and left her. As he actually left her. What? And we had a staff toilet by the reception. It was like a real long and narrow toilet. And we locked one of the lads in the toilet with her. Because she was just trying to get off with everybody. So we locked one of the lads in the toilet with her. Okay. And apparently she stood on the toilet and pulled her knickers down. So he came through the toilet. Trying to get away. What? That were funny. Huh. I don't get it. I don't get it. I'm lost. Right. So she'd got married that morning. They'd come to the club that night as a wedding party. Her husband had pissed off and left her. As in left her. Left the relationship. Wow. She was trying to get off with everybody and anybody. So she was trying to pick up guys. Yeah. So we locked her in the toilets with one of the doormen. Oh. Okay. She stood on the toilet. Pulled her knickers down and lifted her skirt up. So he literally came through the toilet door. Trying to get away from her. Oh God, man. Yeah. What a piece of work, dude. I couldn't imagine that. It's a whole source of mad stuff. Yeah. Well, listen, guys. If you want to get back to some Uncle Dave's wisdom, then you have to ask Dave for advice. And that's just the way it is. I need to come up with something. Yeah. Because. Have you been meditating? Have you been meditating? No. No? What about your cardio, Dave? Are you doing your cardio? You got a nice Peloton. Cardigan? You got a nice. Did you say cardigan? Yeah, I've got a nice cardigan as well. You got a nice Peloton bike at home. You got a program. You can watch the screen. And they tell you, come on, Dave. Five more minutes. Try harder. It's currently. Well, I'll tell you one thing. My good lady has put Christmas decorations up. I am absolutely appalled. It's not even. Oh, yeah. It's not even Thanksgiving yet. It's disgusting. It's disgusting. Are you excited for Thanksgiving? No. No? You going to celebrate next Thursday? Why would I celebrate an American festival? I thought everybody. It's an international holiday. The whole world celebrates Thanksgiving. No, they don't. No. Yeah. Ever since I was a kid, everybody celebrates Thanksgiving. No, they don't, Scott. Yeah. Anywhere I've ever been in my life. Outside of your country, nobody gives a shit. Listen, I've celebrated it with my family every year. Everybody at school celebrated it with their families. I'm pretty sure I'm right about this. Within your country, yes. We'll have people commenting about that. And comment with questions for the next show. How's things going with Eval? Yeah, not bad. Not bad. It's a bit up and down this time of year for obvious reasons. You know, it's Christmas and people are starting to watch the pennies a little bit. But, yeah, it's not been bad. Beginning of November was very, very busy. Last week was a bit quiet, but expected it. But we're already at last year's numbers. Okay. All right. You still got some time to go. Yeah, so I can't grumble. What about your Pillars of Strength program? January. Okay. So January. If you wanted to sign up for that now, you could get in. Yeah. Okay. It's already half full. So January. And how many weeks does that run? Is it just a one-time thing? Six. Okay. So it's a six-week, one course per week type thing? One session per week, yeah. About 90 minutes. Six weeks. Okay. And then is there any Q&A or anything? Can they ask you questions individually? So the sessions are live, so you can ask questions in that. There's a support WhatsApp chat group. But the last session, we review some work that I set, and then that's a Q&A. So things that are picked up in questions during the course, if they haven't answered them, or if there's stuff we haven't covered that they're curious about, that's all done in the last session. Is Christmas Cabbage there? Is he part of this? No. Oh, okay. Well, if you wanted to really get things going, you could always bring him in. You know? No. Who's the numbers? No? No. He's, look, I don't think at his age, that being on a show that discusses drugs and people covered in urine is really appropriate. And so I've had to step in and say, look, no, it's tough love, tough parenting, but you can't be privy to this anymore. Well, he said he was going to come and visit me for the holidays. You can fucking have him. All right, guys. Well, you heard Dave. Christmas Cabbage. Have an American tour for Christmas. Thank you for tuning in. Go to evalbloodanalysis.com and go to stromsportsnutrition.com. You can go to truenutrition.com and use our code THINK as well as supplementsource.ca. Guys, next episode, we're going to get back to tackling Patreon questions. I wanted to let them build up a little bit this week. And, yeah, reach out to Dave for coaching. Hit me up, mignallydice.gmail.com. We've got our information down in the description. And I did see somebody messaged and said, hey, Scott, I emailed you. I'll get back to you today about coaching. And for another episode of the podcast, guys, we'll see you soon. Thanks, Dave. Really? Yeah. Wait, so 1.1 pounds equals a dollar? No, 1.1 dollar equals a pound. Fuck. So I should be over there spending right now, huh? Now's a good time for me to go to the UK. 1.1 or 1.2, it's crap. It was like, fuck me, my parts have got expensive. And I've ordered money for the holiday. And it's like, fuck, is this all again? Oh, I got you. So the Canada dollar, Canadian dollar is weak right now. That's why I'm buying from Canada. It's cheaper. Ah, that makes sense. It'd be a good time to, like, buy it. Well, no, I was going to say buy a house in Canada. But their real estate's real expensive still. It depends where you go. If you go up north, it's cheap. Yeah, if you won't go somewhere nice. You know what I'm saying? Yeah, well, no. Toronto, Vancouver. Yeah, but if you go up, like, Timmins, which is still Ontario. It's just it's north Ontario. It's pretty cheap up there. Yeah. Oh, we had some other stuff. Shania Twain territory, you know. We had some other stuff, too. Like, some off-topic stuff I'll get to. But, all right. Let me see if I... We got people with us? We got people with us right now, Dave? Yeah, we got people with us. Dave's got a clown nose on. Angry listener, of course, Blunt Force Tanya and Matt. Hey, guys. So, I missed the cabbage. That's Matt Blevins. Shout out to Matt Blevins. We haven't seen you in a while, buddy. He left Matt because you were no longer supporting him. Yeah. Yeah, he did. He had some angry words. You don't even know where he is right now, do you? I did see him. Yeah, I do, actually. Yeah. Do you really? Yeah. I'm not going to show you. Are you going to take the nose off for the show? Or should I? What nose? I can't. Don't fuck me. You look like Pinocchio. Pinocchio. There we go. I think it's a look. I think we could carry this off. It is. Do you remember when I dressed up as you for an episode? I do. Yeah, you cheeky sod. That was good. You were not expecting that. No, that was when you used to put effort into the shows before you got all lazy. All right.