 What are we talking like? What does the cycle look like at this point? I've gone straight in at 1750? So 700 tests, 700 primo, 350? 350? Tell us about the growth. Guys are always interested to hear what's a pro using for growth hormone. 10 IU. I've gone from sort of 6 to then 8 and then 10 IU. Okay. And is this something, do you consider like I need to split this up or take this at the same time? that diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel diesel Work done by Dave. And if you're on cycle, you should definitely be getting your labs done. So if you're in the U.K., go to evalbloodanalysis.com. We're brought to you by Strong Sports Nutrition. For those of you in the U.S. and the U.K., they've got great health stacks to help you with everything you need. And, of course, truenutrition.com. Use our code THINK over there and supplementsource.ca for Canadians. Guys, great deals that change week to week. We are joined again by Big Nathan Stiles. IFBB Pro, I love that we can say that now, man. And it's been very well-deserved that you've joined the IFBB Pro ranks. And we're excited, man. We had you on before. We talked all about, like, what were you running for gear as an IFBB Pro. Unfortunately, that episode is no longer on YouTube. They didn't like that one. So they took it away from us. But we're having you back. And we're going to dive into everything. Big thing, man, is we know that you had gotten your lady pregnant after being a gear user. For years. So we want to hear all about that. We know you're three weeks back in. So we're just going to cover everything gear-related. And then, of course, guys, we're going to tackle your listener questions. So anyway, I'm going to shut up. Nathan, welcome back to the show, man. Thanks for being here with us. Thank you for having me, Scott. Much appreciated, as always. So, Dave, where do we start this thing up, man? Well, you – I think one thing that was a little bit standout was probably your – I'm going to use the wrong words. And dedication is not quite the right word. But you were quite happy to go, you know what? I'm just going to go legit TRT. Yeah. No TRT plus. No. A little bit of extra of this. And not only that. I mean, didn't you do six weeks of nothing at all before you even started the TRT? It was actually more like 16 to 18. Absolutely nothing. So when I made the decision, because obviously my knee situation, I was like, I need to get this knee sorted. This is the year to get it sorted. And if I'm going to be doing that, it's probably also the right time that I start thinking about fertility. Because I'm not going to be back on stage for maybe another 18 months, two years. So in that time, do I really want to be still just running gear for the sake of running gear? When I'm going to be coming up to late 30s. Like, this is the time that I've got to commit. And Phoebe's just wanting to start a family. So I just said in January, like, I'm going to come off. And if we're going to do it, let's do it properly. And I'll commit to it fully. So I'd come off a cycle of around two and a half grams total. And I literally just stopped. Completely stopped. And I thought I was going to have, as long as needed to come down. I was having regular blood tests with Dave to see how long things sort of came back down to normal. I was going to try and catch it and go back on TRT before my test levels literally, like, dropped off a cliff. And I still felt all right after, like, 12, 14 weeks. I thought, do you know what? I'm going to just run this a little bit longer. And then I had my bloods done again about 16 weeks. And there was a bit lower. And I was, yeah. Okay. And I started feeling it a little bit. So I was like, it's probably the right time now to jump back on TRT, which was legit TRT. It does say a lot when someone of your muscle mass and level of development and everything that comes with it can step off gear for that amount of time. And, lo and behold, not lose all your gains. Yeah. Tell us about that, man. Because I think that's our biggest fear. Because most people think if they miss three weeks, there's going to be nothing fucking left of them. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I found it quite difficult to get below 300 pounds. Okay. Like, I really did, like, I brought my calories right down. I was doing more cardio. I even started, like, doing daft things just because I was, like, boxing and doing high. Wasn't there a mention of CrossFit there at one point as well, young man? I did, like, a couple of, like, circuit-based sessions. Okay. He did CrossFit. Yeah. So I really, like, I really tried to drive body weight down a little bit. Yeah. And it's a lot more difficult to lose weight or lose muscle when you've been training and eating consistently and training hard consistently for a number of years. Like, people think you're just going to lose all your gains. And you're not. Like, you really have to toss it off and try to lose muscle mass. Yeah. Now, don't get me wrong, the muscle looks different. Yeah. It's not going to be, like, as full and round. And it feels different. Like, the pump in the gym and stuff like that, it's just not the same. Even though you think, oh, I'm getting a little bit of a pump here. And then 30 seconds later, it's not bad. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Sorry. Yeah, I got to interrupt. Is that, is there, is it raining at somebody's house there? Is it? Can you hear? I can hear it. I can hear, like, a tap running. Yeah. Is that, I just noticed it started a minute ago. Is that it? Oh, did you have a fan? Was that a fan? It was a humidifier. Oh, okay. Yeah. Sorry, man. It was, it got, yeah. Okay. Yeah. It was super, super loud. I know the audience members will be like, what the hell is that? I thought it was, like, rain hitting the windows or something. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. So, yeah, no, dude, it's not going to look the same, but you, you basically, you managed to hold on that. Tell us about the recovery, the fertility protocol. Like, what did you use and how long did that take? We get a lot of questions, man, about like, hey, I've been on cycle for years and trying to get my old lady pregnant. You know, what should I do? Yeah. So I came off completely, like I said, for like 16, 20 weeks. But as soon as I came off, I started my HCG and HMG. Yeah. And I started with HMG at 75 IUs every other day. And I started HCG at 1,000 IUs every other day. No Chlamyd, no, nothing else. Just HCG and HMG. And I just ran that. What I did find is when I, when I started having my blood work done with Dave, my E2, my estrogen was a little bit elevated. Okay. And I started noticing that I was, I mean, I've run testosterone quite high before. And I never really get any negative sides. And I can always run my estrogen quite high with no negative sides. I don't really get any gyno or anything like that. But I started getting like a little bit of a sensitive, like left nipple. And I thought, this is a little bit different. So I did a little bit of reading, a little bit of research into it. And I changed my dosing of HCG from 1,000 every other day to just 250 IUs daily. Okay. So I just did 250 IUs daily of HCG. Kept my HMG at 75 IUs. And then I had my, my first semen analysis. And once I got that, sort of looked at it, I was like, it's not as bad as what I thought. But. Okay. It could be better. So then I bumped my HMG up to 150. Every other day. Which is expensive. Yeah. No kidding. But. Yeah. I mean, the, the, the estrogen was coming from the HCG, but why it was impacting you was because the test was low. So you didn't have the DHT to act as a protectant against it. Yeah. It was the ratio that was causing the problem more than the absolute levels. Yeah. So you, you got on, you got on those things, HCG, HMG. How long was it before you had the sperm test done? And, and then from there you were like, what your sperm count or your motility was low or not as good as you'd like it. So that that's when you made the adjustment. So I had it, I probably had my, my first semen analysis done at the wrong time. Cause I literally had it done as soon as I came off. So it was going to be the worst it could be. Was it pretty bad at that time? It was pretty bad. Like it wasn't as bad as what I thought. Like my sperm count was 1.8 million. So at least I had some sperm. Um, there was just not very motile at all. Um, okay. So motility was literally zero. My morphology was out. Um, I mean like the viscosity and the pH and all that was like the concentration of it was, was all like normal, but I, it just wasn't moving. Um.  anywhere, anywhere, anywhere. So yeah, they were handicapped swimming in circles. Yeah, yeah, yeah, so I was like, okay, I need, I need some, I need some, need some work on this. So, HCG and HMG and HMG and then I did L-Cornitine at a thousand milligrams, injectable L-Cornitine a thousand milligrams daily for more for more for motility and morphology and then just some natural supplements like some macaro, vitamin E, just kept all my normal health supplements in. Omg, yeah. Omg, yeah. Omg, yeah. Omg, yeah. Omg, yeah. Omg, yeah. Omg, yeah. Omg, yeah. Omg, yeah. Omg, yeah. Omg, yeah. Omg, yeah Omg, yeah Omg, yeah Omg, yeah Omg, yeah Omg, yeah Omg, yeah Omg, yeah Omg, yeah Omg, yeah Omg, yeah Omg, yeah Omg, yeah Omg, yeah Omg, yeah Omg, yeah Omg, yeah Omg, yeah Omg, yeah Omg, yeah Omg, yeah Omg, yeah Omg, yeah Omg, yeah Omg, yeah Omg, yeah Omg, yeah Omg, yeah Omg, yeah Omg, yeah Omg, yeah Omg, yeah Omg, yeah Omg, yeah Omg, yeah Omg, yeah Omg, yeah Omg, yeah Omg, yeah Omg, yeah Omg, yeah Omg Okay. And that's when I just decided after speaking to Dave, after having like another round of blood work, he was like, you're probably ready to go back on some TRT now. So I went back on to 120 milligrams per week of just test sips, split twice, just 60 milligram and 60 milligram twice weekly. And then within five weeks, we had a positive conception. Dang. So you were able to do that on TRT, legit TRT, still running the HMG and the HCG all together, right? Yeah, correct, Jeff. Okay. Test itself will stimulate sperm production, which is why you see guys on cycle sometimes being able to get the missus as pregnant. And it's always going to be a difficult call in a non-use to TRT call as to whether it's going to help or not. In the next case, it did. It doesn't always, it's not a guarantee, but generally healthy test levels, even if they come in from TRT, are better than low test levels when it comes to fertility. And if your desire is higher, you're going to be able to perform as well. Yeah, exactly. If you're suffering with a floppy Johnson, you're not really doing anything whatever your sperm's doing, are you? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, Cialis was my friend as well, but it made a massive, massive difference. The difference, because I don't care what nobody says, you can't get pregnant from just kissing. It's not what they tell you at school. You do have to have sex. So if you've not got any sex drive... That's what I'm doing wrong. Yeah. It's just not going to happen. And the difference when I put that 120 milligrams back in, not only in terms of like sex drive and desire, but my mood, my recovery, like everything, my sleep, everything improved massively. So that was an absolute game changer. And then I did another... So when we got the positive conception, obviously, I wanted to make sure that it was out of the woods with any potential risks with the pregnancy. Sure. So I stayed on my fertility until literally three weeks ago. And I got another semen analysis done just before I'd finished, because I wanted to see where I got it back to in that space of time, in like nine, ten months. My motility, and in that second one, and this was staying on HMG, HCG, like I had been doing, my 120 milligrams of testosterone, my motility had gone back up to 67%. I'd actually got rapid sperm as well as intermediate and slow. My morphology had gone back up to like 4% into where it needed to be. So within the second and the third sperm test, like it improved massively. So I know that... That's wild, man. Yeah. That everything that I was doing was right. Did you think about getting it... Would you think about any point where you're like, man, I'm going to go back on cycle. Who knows if I will be able to do this again? Did you think about getting any stored, frozen for the future in case you guys wanted to have another baby? Well, this is the reason that I did it, because I went down that route, and they've kind of got you over a barrel a little bit, especially in the UK, because I know that I've got a natural conception, a positive conception. So I wanted to get some stored, but even with my test results coming back as good as what they did, the private clinics will still say, we still recommend that you go down the IVF route with these frozen sperm. Okay. So it's not just like an artificial insemination. They still want you to go down the IVF treatment, which is tens of thousands of pounds in the UK. Yeah. Whereas you still get one free IVF treatment on the National Health Service in the UK as well. So you get one round free. Okay. But if I was going to freeze them, it would cost the consultation, the freezing, and then the storage monthly. And then let's say I was storing it for two years, three years. You've got to pay that every six months or whatever it might have been. So I might have racked up five, six thousand pounds worth of sort of fees just to store it to then come to it and then say, right, we've got to use this via IVF. It's 15,000 pounds. Right. When I know that I've just done what I've just done and we've had a positive natural conception. So obviously I had to sit down with Phoebe and say, look, this is where we're at. Do we risk it if I'm going to go back on or do we go down this route and look at spending this money? And she's like, well, we've done it once. We'll just, we'll do it again. So. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Contrary to popular belief, you can't just throw it in your own freezer. You know, that's what Dave and I were talking about that last week, right? Nice. As you've never particularly been a massive user. No. But has this experience with how well you reacted when you went on just the TRT, has that changed your thoughts around dosing at all? Yes, to a certain point. Yes, it has to a certain point. I do think that we can get away with a lot less to a certain level. Yeah, there's always going to be a point where it just has to go up. It's not. Yeah. There's always going to be a point where you kind of, they're saying what goes, you're only as big as your dose. Yeah. To a certain point. And when you're trying to get to a certain level, it's, unless you're a genetic freak, you're going to have to go to certain levels, I think. Yeah, I just wonder, because you were so responsive, like, after that break and then when it went back on, the transformation in how you felt and how you performed was dramatic. Oh, God, yeah. Yeah. I think from being sort of physiological to super physiological, but then to being, like, a competitive pro bodybuilder is a little bit different. Yeah. So how do you feel now having gone back on cycle? Well, the last two weeks, I was that busy with clients competing at the end of the season and traveling. Like, I went to Romania, I went to Prague. I probably went back on at the wrong time because I was like, I couldn't string a couple of weeks together in the gym as efficiently as I wanted to. But this last week that's just gone, and even Grant, my training partner, was like, what the fuck? Like, I can tell. Like, I can tell. He's well and truly in now. Yeah. Yeah. And I mean. So what are we talking like? What does the cycle look like at this point? I've gone straight in at 1,750. So 700 tests, 700 primo, 350 masteron. I had a stockpile before the masteron the primo ball on situation. Good call. Good call. Yeah, I've got plenty. So, yeah, 700 tests, 700 primo. You know you'll be getting loads of messages now asking if you can sort someone out with some primo. Yeah. I've got enough to last me about a year, I think. Yeah. Okay. Hey, you've got to plan ahead, man. Hey, you don't need all that. Share the love. Come on. Is that pretty common then for what a cycle would look like for you? I usually find that my sweet spot is around about two gram. And then anything over about two and a half, I feel, I'll be honest with you, I end up feeling worse. But I've always thought in the past, because my cycles have always sort of escalated in dosage as time has gone on through the offseason. Yeah. I always feel worse when I'm at two and a half gram. And I'm like, once I get to two and a half gram, I'm like, I feel like shit. But that's also coincided with being 16 weeks, 20 weeks deep into an offseason. So, foods at its highest. Training performance is at its highest. Body weight is at its highest. Toxicity is at its highest. So, I'm like, is it the gear or is it just everything? Yeah. A bit of both, to be fair. Yeah. I've never just gone, right, we're going in at this dose and this is what we're going to stay at. From being at a lean body set point and being like two and a half grams straight in, I might feel fantastic. So, because we've always started a little bit lower than escalated, I think it's just a combination of that. That I've always felt worse with more when I've got to a certain point. Two and a half seems to be a common trend with that, though. A lot of people sort of like at two and a half are like, you know, above that I start to feel the drug in the sense of negative. Yeah. Yeah. You've said that a number of times, Dave. We've talked about guys.  Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors Fors eight weeks and then if things are looking good i'll probably up the dose a little bit and then we'll probably pull labs again at about 16 weeks and then see where we're at and if we feel like we can still still make some more progress for the last sort of six to eight weeks we'll run that through and then i usually think that once you've been pushing for 20 22 weeks you're probably ready for a bit of a pullback whether that's regards body fat levels food everything so it's probably about the right time to just pull things back and have a little bit of a tidy up anyway just commenting on that time scale now if we close 17th of december till third of jan yeah that's fine mate i'll i'll just just i'll get back in january because like i said it's only been three weeks anyway so yeah well just the eight week puts you bang in the middle of the shutdown so i just thought i better let you know yeah i'll know that yeah that makes sense when you if you do decide then hey you know things are looking good i'm going to push this up a little bit you're kind of at you know a higher combo of test in primo with a little bit of mast in there where where will you go from there like what would go up um i think that testosterone will probably go up a little bit um okay i usually find that my again my sweet spot because i've not been on this level of testosterone for a long long period of time i didn't really know but my sweet spots usually between 700 and a gram for testosterone and then i do like to make the majority of that up with with dhts i like primo but i do also like mastron so it's it's probably gonna be a mix of both do you need any kind of uh AI with any of that or does okay no no no i've not not run ais unless it's for like a potential cosmetic look coming into stage where just get that little bit of extra dryness in with uh with it with a look towards the end maybe last three or four weeks we might use a little bit but no i've never had to use any in in off seasons yeah all right so that'll be go ahead dave sorry where are you strength wise comparatively now do you know what like this is one thing like my strength dropped off a little bit but not massively um it didn't drop off massively it was more i lost a few reps but actual loading wasn't too dissimilar um there were certain exercises where my joints were feeling it a little bit more just under load and i were like oh i'll probably scale that back a little bit just being sensible but um the difference this last week i've noticed in terms of like my performance has increased quite dramatically this last week but also body weight's shot up quite dramatically like i've gone from like 298 pounds i was like 321 after a cheat meal over the weekend so i've dropped back down to 318 but i'm like 20 pounds 20 pounds up in three weeks yeah that's some recovery isn't it that's a bounce back so i mean i mean don't get me don't get me wrong that is not something that i would recommend that rate again to any any client it's painful but i've i've put my i've put the drugs back in my food's gone up 300 400 calories and the body weight has just just literally rocketed like my gh has gone up a little bit as well and i've also got some partitioning aids in um which is all a combination of everything like obviously androgen load a little bit of extra food a little bit of extra gh a little bit a little bit of insulin my body's just like fucking you've starved me for 10 months like yeah it's a sponge right yeah it's just gone yeah i bet tell us about the the the growth guys are always interested to hear like what's a pro using for growth hormone uh 10 iu i've gone from sort of six to then eight and then 10 iu's i'm using okay and and is this something do you consider like i need to split this up or take this at the specific time like where's your mindset and philosophy in that um so for me the it does and i'll say this to clients it doesn't for me make a massive difference until you get to sort of this sort of dosing and i feel best uh with splitting it multiple times through the day so i'll do three iu fasted but i always do cardio all year round uh i'll do three iu's pre-workout and i'll do four iu's pre-bed okay and what do you mean feel like you said that like if you if you did it differently you would feel as well yeah i usually i feel a little bit sluggish if i do it all in in in one bolus dose like i struggle waking up in the morning um i just feel a little bit more drowsy through the day uh my fasting blood glucose is always a little bit harder to manage uh with a yeah with a big bolus dose at night uh whereas when i split it i usually find that my fasting blood glucose stays within like between four and five all year round it doesn't really interesting yeah so just little things like that really and is this generic or is this pharma i've got a bit of both okay yeah so i've got some omni trope um pharma luckily enough i've i've got a contact who's uh son or daughter has got a um deficiency so that you're friends with a dwarf aren't you that's what you say essentially yeah so i i get i get a few cartridges every now and again um and then and then the majority is generic but the generics for me now like if you can get good generics they're just as good yeah agree yeah i don't think the gap's anywhere as wide as it used to be no between generic and pharma yeah i agree that's pretty cool man hey tell us a little bit about your your training philosophy when you were off everything did you find that and it sounds like you did a bunch of crazy stuff too if you were doing some crossfit some boxing all that at times and i get it sometimes you just got to kind of shift gears to you know not be disappointed in the fact that you're not able to do exactly what you used to be able to so i understand that but getting back into actual like your actual real bodybuilding training did you find that like hey it's a good idea for me to maybe pull back on some sets to improve my recoverability or what was your philosophy there and then how has that changed going back on yeah so like you said it was a little bit i'll be honest with you like mentally i struggled quite a bit this for the first three or four months just trying to get my head around like what was going off because obviously the knee situation as well i didn't treat i didn't train my legs for 16 weeks um which was uh which was rough um because i love training legs so not being able to train them was obviously you do yeah it was was hard work um but what i should have done and what i did do was was probably not the same so i probably should have just scaled back volume um and and trained to failure or within a close proximity to failure but i kind of just trained for enjoyment and i was just going in if i fancy doing a drop set i do a drop set uh i just went in and trained um and it kind of didn't i didn't really have a set plan as such i just kind of went in and just just trained just trained hard if i felt like i was knackered i'd take a rest um and i just used my head a little bit but now i've gone back on i've i've sort of or as i was getting to the point where i was going to be going back on i started right i've got a plan set in place again let's keep volume a baseline like a minimum volume and then i can build from there uh so i'm back onto a structured setup now in terms of like my volume and my intensity and i'm just building that up slowly you know i don't know i think you were saying that you thought it might not have been the best move but i don't know when you're in a situation where there's lots of factors of what you do being almost forcefully removed from you doing something that you still enjoy that was the hold out yeah let's hold it all together yeah yeah that was the main thing is is just training for enjoyment more than anything yeah because it does help hold you together yeah that was that was the main thing so if i fancy doing something i'd do it yeah i feel like that about cake that makes sense though man yeah because i i feel like we have all those expectations of what we what we think we should be doing in the gym and i am and if it keeps you in there and you're still having fun i think having fun is such an important factor that maybe we don't always look at yeah being back into it now there's all this talk about like hey you shouldn't train to failure ever and other guys are like that's all you should ever do is only train to failure where where do you stand on that and i'm curious because  I just couldn't get with that idea, huh? I just couldn't, I couldn't, I couldn't figure, like, don't get me wrong, I'm not saying I couldn't figure, out where certain reps in reserves where certain reps in reserves were, but it was just, it was just, it was difficult when you're in a set to think that I've got to stop at two or three reps in reserve, when you're actually, when you're actually in a set, it just take a lot of, a lot of control and a lot of discipline to stop, because you're like, I just want to keep going until I can't do anymore. But it takes you out of the focus of the set as well, because you're more focused on when I need to stop rather than not you're actually doing. Yeah, so I just, I just, I train as close to failure as close to failure as well as I need to stop, I need to stop, rather than what you're actually doing. Failure being, failure being, I can't complete a rep without jerking around and getting a mechanically advantageous position in the seat or using too much momentum or things like that. So, yeah, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll always train to failure unless it's an exercise where I feel like safety is not, it's not, not a super, super safe movement and then I'll probably not take it all the way to or past failure. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Talking of safety, how have you been for injuries? I mean, I know the knees are historic thing with, with football and everything, but how have you been for injuries? Yeah. All right. All right. Other than them, I mean, my shoulder's always been a little bit dodgy. Um, other than my knee, which like, like I say, that's just a, a bit of a bad, uh, bit of bad luck that the, the, the crucial reconstructions failed because I can't even point, there wasn't actually a, something that happened. It's not like a, yeah, it wasn't an event where I've gone over and like, oh, my knee's gone again. It, it, it kind of just progressively happened. It was like happening over like weeks and months and I was like, my fucking knee's giving me some right. So yeah, I've been all right with injuries to be fair. Um, touch wood. Yeah. Still, still feel quite fresh. Um, so touch wood. I mean, that's, that's not common for your level of development and experience that you're this far in without carrying some crap. As most of us at that point will have been carrying some crap that we've picked up on the way. So it stands testament that your training philosophy definitely works very well for you. Yeah. You've, uh, you, uh, am I wrong in this, Nate? You got a later start in actual competitive bodybuilding though, right? So training age. Yeah. Okay. Training age. You're a little bit younger than your actual. Right. Yeah. I mean, I was training from 17. As soon as I left college, like I, uh, or school, I got straight in the gym, but, um, I'd say like properly training, like from a sort of bodybuilding perspective. Cause I had about four years where I came away from it and went, went back boxing as well from like 23 to 27. Um, okay. And then I first competed at 27. Um, and that's, that's when I, I would say like bodybuilding properly started. So about 10 years ago, just over, I'm 38 in December. So just over 10 years, I would say. So quite a rapid ascent really, when you think about it that way. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I was kind of doing that timeline before the show and I was like, Hey, you kind of got a later start. You put together a lot in that time. And we have a lot of listeners too, that are like, Hey, I'm late thirties right now. And I, you know, I've only been doing this for five years. Is there any chance for me to gain some muscle? I think you're a great example of somebody who you weren't, you didn't start, you know, you weren't, you weren't like the Jay Cutlers, the, you know, guys like that, that were, you know, you're, you know, at team nationals and had been doing it, you know, competing since they were 16 kind of thing. No, I was, I was 200 pound on stage. My first competition. Were you really? Yeah. Yeah. Well, you're a taller guy. So how tall are you? I'm six, six foot three and six foot three, six foot four. Um, so yeah, I'm a, I'm a taller guy. So I think I was 205 pound in my first competition. I was about 200 pound at my first British finals. And then last, last, uh, last year when I competed at the Texas pro was 294 show day, show day. So yeah, that's a jump a hundred pound stage weight in 10 years, essentially. Yeah. That's pretty incredible. Yeah. Yeah. Well, Hey, listen, uh, we'd love to have you, uh, help us answer some listener questions. We have got a bunch of people. They always rate us in, uh, in guys at home. If you're watching this and you want to ask questions for the next show, then comment on this episode. Dave and I will tackle your questions on the following episode for today. We have a ton of them that you guys had left us in a bunch of great feedback from the last show. So I'll just kind of start at the top and, uh, dive in and see, uh, what we've got here. Hey, what's going on guys? Just a quick shout out to true nutrition. I figured I'd bring you to the home gym here. So welcome. And I just wanted to show you my order. So nothing big deal. I've got a few pounds of the cold filtered weight. I, so I'm a big fan of the cookie butter flavor. I've been on this this year. This has like been my favorite, but they've got a bunch of different flavors. So if you're interested in something else, just check them out. It's a, it's a very light protein overall. It's not going to bloat your digestion down. It's not going to cause a bunch of water retention. This is the kind of protein that I suggest to people who are doing a contest prep. They've got all your basic bodybuilding supplements like creatine. They've got great intro workout, highly branched cyclic dextrin, which is the high end. And then they've got the cheaper stuff like carbo load. Like anybody can afford that. And of course use our code. Think it'll get you 10% off. They really kicked up. It used to only be 5%. Now you get 10% off if you use the code and it throws some money our way too. So it definitely helps the podcast out a ton might be a buck here and there, but you know, if you guys all use the code, it definitely adds up and you have been using the code. So thank you for that. Let's get back to the podcast, but thank you for, uh, hanging out with me here in the home gym. Um, to start us out, uh, somebody asks us, and what do we think is the ideal ratio for test to EQ one-to-one he says, I'm planning on doing EQ. Um, now that Primo is almost impossible to get, um, will be my third cycle and it'll be my first bulk cycle. He's thinking of doing 500 tests, 500 EQ, or should he change that ratio? He says, he also adds that he's in his mid forties. Um, and he's considering other compounds too. Like maybe I'd drop in 300 NPP, but I guess to start us out, what do you think Nate of, uh, you know, the, that, that like a, the ratio idea, is there a ratio we should look at with testing EQ and if so, what would that be? Yeah. I mean, so I've got, I've got, um, um, a kind of premise that I use with my clients because I think testing EQ for everyone can be quite individual, um, experience. I've used it a couple of times myself in the past. Um, and I had a, the last time I used it, I had a, not a great experience. Like I felt great for about six to eight weeks and then I literally just dropped off a cliff in terms of like it crashed my estrogen hard. Um, and that was a one-to-one ratio. So what I find best with my clients is I usually do a two to one ratio of tests, tests to EQ. So 600 tests, 300 EQ. I find that that, um, that sort of controls estrogen nicely. Um, and they feel pretty good. Um, and that's, that, that's kind of what I, and then I'll just move up with, with that ratio if, if I need to. So 700, 350, 800, 400. Um, and then usually I don't usually like going much over 500 with EQ. So I might use a grammar test, 500 EQ. Uh, and then I'd look to bring a, uh, another compound if I needed to get the androgen load any higher than that. That makes sense. That makes sense. Similar in bloods. Um, the, the, there's some variance, but I've seen people on 500 tests only needing a hundred, 150 EQ to control the research on that, but I would have said the two to one ratio is definitely a fairly decent starting point. It's a lot more effective than I think people realize. Yeah. I think it's a lot more, I think it's a lot more aggressive at controlling estrogen than, than the, the DHTs than Primo and. Yeah, very much so. And it's, it's quite funny actually, because you think about historically and we used to say, if you weren't running at least 600 EQ, you were no point running it. Yeah. Right. To think where that was putting estrogen levels back then, when we're seeing people that, you know, 500, 600 tests and they're only needing two and 300 EQ and the estrogen is still on the lower side at that. Yeah. I mean, I've just had a client send me his bloods today because what I'll do with most of my clients is because obviously he's a bit of a slow burner. So normally I'll get people to pull labs at like week five or six, but when they've got an EQ cycle, I'll tell them to pull labs at maybe like week eight. Um, and just see where that ratio is. And he, he's on a two to one test and an EQ, um, again, because people other than me, people can't get DHTs. Um, and his, his E2 is like at 65. So it's a low. Thank you.  low end, low end for, for, for, for where I would have expected it running, running, running 700 testosterone, so, yeah, it's controlling, so, yeah, it's controlling. What about this one? You guys think that super draw toxicity is over exaggerated, how harsh is it compared to say, anadrol? Personally, I get no issues from it, while strength and cosmetic benefits are equal to trend. He says it's the most underrated steroid. People, I have People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People we might use like annavar for three weeks and have three weeks off and we might use turinaball for three weeks have three weeks off um but for me i don't think there's a massive place unless you like bridging something so whereas i've had a client this year who ran out of dhts and we had to change this stack and the overall load came down so i put in four weeks of annavar just to kind of bridge that gap where i thought that was yeah the right thing to do there overall i don't really like using them in an offseason because if they have any impact on appetite or digestion the main driver is going to be training performance the amount of food that you can eat over a consistent amount of time and i think if you're gonna have oils in there that can affect that i just don't think there's any place for them cosmetically i think they're fantastic in the prep and that's where i see that they they have the the most most benefit as for superdrol i've used it once myself and i didn't get on with it too well in terms of like um from a digestion standpoint um i've used anna droll in a in a in a load and i got on well with anadrol and then annavar and winstrel is and halo is is kind of my go-to um and i found i found that with with clients as well like if i've ever used superdrol it's always left them feeling a little bit uh either bloated or a little bit of discomfort from a digestion standpoint i've even gone to the the point if we're using say 20 milligrams of superdrol i've even broke it down through the day like five milligrams with four meals just to try and break it up a little bit um yeah and that seemed to work a little bit more but yeah um for me annavar winstrel and halo uh and my my go-to's on on oils you can't go wrong with those i feel like a lot of guys are and i agree with you by the way i think a lot of guys are kind of in that same idea of i don't i don't really use a lot of orals with people in the offseason it just i i feel like we do mostly everything we need to without messing up digestion i've got one guy so i well i'll tell you i have two guys that i have done that with currently one guy he was like 16 weeks eight uh 12 12 16 weeks into a cycle we're going to run it anyway for like another four weeks and we are like hey let's throw in he's got a little annavar let's throw 25 annavar in to just to kind of like boost things up give us a final push and it really did help him tremendously like it was it was great it was like it boosted morale boosted strength got the scale moving again kept his strength moving and then i've got another guy we just added in some t-ball and now he's like a weekend and he's like man i drink a shake and two hours later i feel like it's still sitting in my stomach and you know he's feeling bloated appetite's going down so yeah it's kind of hit or miss isn't it yeah yeah i agree you got anything you want to add on that one dav not really i mean they can be useful if you they i think they come more into play in a strength scenario rather than maybe so much in a bodybuilding scenario you know they can be useful for breaking strength plateaus and things like that yeah um i mean oxys seem to have this reputation for toxicity which is very unfounded whereas halo yeah it is quite toxic to be fair it's pretty harsh um but at the end of the day i mean i've i've run super draw i've run halo i've run super draw at 60 milligram a day didn't have any issues with it run halo 60 milligrams a day didn't have any issues with it you also ran train at a gram right but then i used to run oxy 100 and nanobar 100 together so yeah but no i mean appetite is definitely a big concern like you say you're not growing if you're not eating that can be useful in a cup because obviously it can help with dealing with hunger and stuff like that but i wouldn't put them in solely for that purpose they need respecting it's as simple as that but i think that's the case across all these drugs they need respecting um i don't like running orals for longer than four to six weeks in any scenario if i can avoid it i'd rather keep it less than that um and i tend to use them at the back end of things so if we do have problems we're not destroying everything we've done because we just drop it out and we're finished with it um but yeah it's there's no point i mean some people can tolerate them well and so there is you know they do run on a slightly different axis so there is some benefit to using them but if if they're getting in any way impact your appetite it's a completely pointless process because if you can't eat you can't grow it doesn't matter how much gear you run how much training you do if you haven't got the the nutrition for the building blocks of muscle that ain't gonna happen so it's i think a lot of people go through this i've got to have this i've got to have that and i've got to have that list when they come to looking at cycles and it's like no you pick what works for you and pick what suits the environment and the circumstances that you're working within and if you don't get one with orals don't use them simple as it's not going to be the end of the world yeah it's going to be detrimental to try and force them into the box yeah you know we get every time we comment anything you know if we're like oh you know 150 milligrams a test is a good TRT dose somebody's going to be like no they comment and they'll be like no i need 300 just to keep me in rate there's always somebody like who is an outlier that's going to comment right we're talking about high deca cycles and he we've got a guy here this is papa shady 88 he says uh what do you guys think of this 125 test with one gram of deca 79 days in no side effects whatsoever he's got that super high deca cycle with a little tiny bit of test in there i do i don't agree with the deca only cycles i do think you need a bit of test and i think you need a bit of dhd going on from the test but yeah i mean it's it's one of them in it you know some people like oranges some people like apples and it's the same with drugs you know there's if if you if you look at deca as a compound from a point of view of his anabolic action in muslima it's a very good drug but then you've got to factor in that individual and whether they can tolerate the other effects that deca has and if they can't it's like the oral situation it's just pointless doing it then isn't it yeah if you get on with it great exploit it if you don't leave the fucker well alone yeah i mean i've got no issue with it i've always wanted to try i've wanted to try it myself um because i'm i'm under i'm one of those that i won't really prescribe or advise or suggest anything to clients if i've not tried it myself um because then at least i know how i felt on it and and what the sort of impact was but i've i've never run a heidegger cycle but i've i've had a client who's run probably a little bit higher than that to be fair he was running 175 tests and 1400 uh nandrolone um and then we actually put in a little bit of primo on top of that as well so it was running up to about two grand and we we topped it up to like like 400 primo on top of that okay and how did he get on it felt absolutely fantastic well there you go and it's it's a weird thing with decker and i don't i've never got to the bottom of this the same person but if you were conservative and said right let's keep the decker at say 600 i often find people feel shit at that but when you ramp it right up they don't so there's definitely something to do i think with dhn and the total dhn levels that's going on within the body that has some impact i think there is a there is a volume thing here where at certain doses it does change how it impacts people but it's having that confidence to risk that negative experience at a lower dose um got another one here somebody was just uh mentioning to us because we're we're talking about DHB on uh the previous show and i'm finding that i i'm seeing guys running it and they're they're not having the side effects that on youtube i see historic like people are just saying like all the time like if you run DHB you're going to have high elevated uh liver values you're going to have high inflammation markers all that we've got a guy here he said uh i ran DHB many times last year uh and never had elevated CRP nor do i get elevated liver values i figured i wanted to bring you in on this  I put 200 milligrams of DHB into my cycle for like the last eight weeks of a cycle. and I didn't see any sort of negatives in terms of like blood pressure increasing or any sort of skewed values any more than what they would normally be with that sort of total androgen load did I see any benefits I probably feel like my strength increased a little bit and I got a little bit more vascular even though I'd only put that sort of that little bit in but then I've had clients who've run DHB and it's skewed their liver and kidney values quite aggressively okay I think again it's it's down to an individual sort of tolerability with most things some people will get on with certain compounds and some people will have a bad time with them okay I just got a comment here I have to listen to this vigorous Steve just gave BSG which was one of the other podcasts a shout out for DHB advice he's never used it and new Skip and Andrew were fans as well as myself yeah we were saying just because I'm trying to uncover this so I'm asking everybody I can what their experience is it sounds like you're kind of mixed bag where you personally didn't see anything negative but then you had a client that they did I think it's one of them where it's when it does affect you it's quite noticeable so you either get nothing or you're going to get really shitty levels yeah I don't think there's a sort of in between with it I think it's you're either sensitive to it or you're not and it's as simple as that yeah I could see all that yeah I've got a couple of clients who absolutely love it like they absolutely they absolutely love it but then like I say I've had a couple of experiences where yeah I'm not too not too keen so but you like it Scott I know I've I've listened to you speak about it quite a few times on the podcast and I know you like it and I know Skip likes it I think Skip Skip would pick that as his like secondary compound yeah yeah he said except for in prep he would pick Trent yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah of course he would yeah hard to pick DHB over Trent but you know hey there's guys out there that and that's what I think kind of sparked this was there's been guys who are like hey I don't really like the sides of Trent I want to try something else and you know run DHB into a show and they're they're looking freaking great I'm looking at the comments and you know what one other thing we wanted to get your opinion on was the idea of the new peptides out there Dave brought this up and he didn't he didn't mention your name but I know that we talked about it off the air you had posed the question will are the new peptides out there all the mitochondrial enhancers and everything allow us to push gear further you know what what is your whole take and thought on all that what are you thinking so I'm running some peptides now currently so I'll be pulling bloods and I'll be able to tell you what they have done to my bloods whilst on cycle my bloods whilst I was off cycle I think it's safe to say Dave they were they were pretty pretty good to say that I've been running gear for as long as what I'd run them I think my recovery was was pretty good pretty solid so I've I've tried quite a few different ones so I've got SS31 in at the minute I've got Mopsy in I've got 5 Amino 1MQ in and I've got a Cloblend in which is like a BPC a TB a KPV and a GHK-Cu in there as well so I've got I've got a multitude of different peptides in yeah and from a cognitive function mental clarity stable energy levels through the day standpoint I'm noticing that they've got a a good impact a good effect I've always been someone who has struggled a little bit with sensitive skin or skin issues not not not terrible I've never had like really bad acne from from from steroids but I've always had like a little bit some skin issues since running the GHK-Cu which is in the Cloblend I've noticed my skin has got a lot better my skin health has definitely improved and I'm not doing anything else differently so that's something that I have definitely noticed my digestion has been spot on I've even tried I even tried the once I was when I was coming down I did actually try RetroTide as well okay because I've got so many clients asking I'm like right well this is the point where I need to try it for myself because I need to know what it's what it's doing how I'm feeling how it's impacting blood what's what's it doing to insulin sensitivity to my lipid panel and to start off with I found some really really big positives it didn't really it didn't really disrupt my sort of GI transit too much it slowed it a little bit but not yeah not anything not anything crazily what I did notice is once I started putting food back up and I kept it in and I just lowered the dose just for the potential health benefits I did get quite bad acid reflux but from a cholesterol standpoint my cholesterol was in fact Dave you actually actually pulled my LDL down probably too hard my cholesterol pulled it down quite hard so I had to increase my fats in my diet it pulled it down quite aggressively did you get any hints of anxiety at all I've had a few people report not to a point where it's problematic but just an edge coming no I can't say that I did nothing noticeable yeah I haven't seen it either Dave by the way when you mentioned that on the show the other week we got a bunch of comments from people and nobody else in the comments had noticed that either okay I might just be an isolated few there I've had a few not a lot but I've had a few so just just trying to see how broad spectrum it is or whether it is like you say just you know it may even be down to the batch you know wherever the manufacturing's come from and there's something within that I don't know yeah Cornelius Sparkin's got a question for you he says question for Nathan markers in the blood work that are not good for you which ones are those so I think basically saying you know like as we run a cycle there's we all have our like Achilles heel there's going to be those things right for me hematocrit goes up what are the things that you battle HDL okay so it is that that HDL yeah his love of primo yeah yeah it's the it's the primo so HDL has always been my Achilles heel generally everything else is pretty pretty solid RBC so my red blood my red blood cell count is all hematocrit and hemoglobin is always in good in a good position yeah you don't really have a problem with that do you at all no and I don't really need I don't really need to do lets like I've probably had one or two lets in like maybe three or four years maybe the last five years I think it's probably because I keep cardio in all year possibly yeah possibly my cardiovascular fitness is always pretty good but yeah HDL I hammer the citrus bergamot and amigas and I've even done carderine to try and improve it and it's if I can get my HDL above sort of 0.7 I'm doing well okay yeah I've seen that with myself and a lot of people what do you run that citrus bergamot at I was just talking to Dante Trudell about it not too long ago after I had my calcium score done it was real good but you know of course I'm trying to be the best I possibly can be and he was telling me because I think I was doing 1200 and he was like man you can boost that up like go to 2400 1200 in the morning 1200 at night what do you do with that I do 1.5 yeah okay I do 1500 yeah so the the the one I've got in is 500 milligrams and I'll do double I'll sort of double the dosage like twice I'll do three tablets and three tablets so it makes it 1.5 have you tried the liquid versions no it's supposed to be quite good the sublingual liquids are supposed to be quite good so it might be worth looking at that they do combo product that's I think it's got a few things in it like red yeast rice as well and a few other bits about salt and support healthy profiling but yeah might be worth looking at the liquid version yeah just having a quick look  CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL CL on your channel I know you you you got your own YouTube I know you do a bunch of stuff on Instagram you were telling us a little bit about you've got something coming up there oh my my podcast yeah well it's not my podcast it's it's it's me my training partner and one of my one of our best friends we're all body builders and it's called the big dog cast so it's yeah it's it's bodybuilding and life and it's just three bodybuilders just having a having a chat we've got a studio and we just chat about everything what's going on in bodybuilding but what's going on in life and just try and be as as open and honest as we possibly can we've got some really good feedback on it to be fair so Jimmy my other mate on it he's a IFBB classic pro and then my training partner he's he's a non-competitive bodybuilder but he's a bodybuilder he tries to it tries to say he's not a bodybuilder but he's like the is the most he preps for fun Scott it'll do a full comp prep for fun yeah man that's cool and says he's not a bodybuilder yeah I guess leaner than people like leaner than he gets shredded really leaner than 90% of people who stand on stage and he just doesn't he doesn't want to like do that next step of getting on stage no he's even done a posing routine with my with Phoebe like Phoebe supposedly he's even he's even gone through a routine yeah wow so so one of those goals is next year to to get him on stage well yeah to try and even get him to do a guest posing oh no kidding yeah we'll have to kidnap him and then just forcefully tad him and throw it on stage well we want to do an independent show so the big dog classic um not affiliated to any federation uh and okay just for a little bit of fun maybe like to raise some money money for like charity or anything like that and we'd like him to try and get involved in that if we could but that would be cool man that's cool you guys can do that in the UK we don't do anything like that in the US but like you guys want to have a show you're like yeah we're gonna just put this show together and people actually compete in it I yeah I love that idea what's it where can people find that by the way I know somebody just did because we had somebody in a live stream that was like I subscribed to the to the to the podcast how do they find that yeah so it's on YouTube the big dog cast um it's on Spotify as well the big dog cast um so yeah we're uh we're just trying to put one episode out um a week now because obviously we was going to a a studio to do it obviously we have to pay studio rent and we've got a videographer so it's not just like we're doing it on on on zoom or anything like that or Riverside we we're actually paying for for a studio but it's uh it's now we've got to the point where we're doing it once a week we're bringing some merchandise out as well so people have got the ability to buy t-shirts and things like that now so yeah it's good it's going well um and we're just trying to yeah trying to just be as involved with it we seem to have built like a bit of a community which is great we've got some some which you'll find now Scott you've been doing this years you'll have got your trusty your trusty listeners who come back week after week and get involved and and that's pretty cool right yeah it's cool to see like and what what what is really nice to see as well is we've had people comment saying like you've you've really helped me through a dark time in my life and i've got back into training and i've done this and i've i've been listening to you and i've got back in i've lost 20 kilos and you've changed my life and i mean that's mega that that stuff like that is is really cool to see so as long as we keep as long as we can keep helping people and putting out some sort of useful information then then i'm happy doing it why don't we get comments like that scott we just get you're wrong and you're useless and you're crap and there's a dog people love dave people dave dave has a hard time accepting love from people he doesn't know he's not used to that he's not used to people being nice to him that's because you abuse me all the time we're gonna get dave on actually we're gonna get you should me and grant together yeah you know dave speaking of which they do this in a like a studio audience very professional i think i have a nice studio here i don't see there's any reason why you can't just maybe every other week you come out we shoot the show together here there may be a slight legal problem with that scott i'm barred from america we got to get that paperwork filled out we'll get you over here you'll be sitting next to me we'll do it all right here i'm real professional not allowed in the country it's good you guys are doing something what did you tell us before the show you've got like uh you're doing like a bake-off thing coming up no it's not this won't come out yeah it might not come out until then so if anybody's watched the the great british bake-off in the uk which the americans seem to love um oh we we do my wife loves that show she watched all of it so we're doing a bodybuilders bake-off where um one of our first guests who's a coach in the uk who it went down really well we're everything back on as a as a guest and we're going to do um basically my food sponsor who does my my food prep he's got a kitchen a unit and we've said do you think you could do this for us like we want to put like a bit of a christmas special together where we do like a bake-off and he was like yeah no problem so all us four are going to be going against each other and and he set out the the the whatever it is that we're going to bake um and we've got a list of instructions and utensils and ingredients and we've got to put together something and and then it's going to get judged so that should be uh should be a good laugh that'd be cool man yeah that'll be cool so that's going to be a big video for for youtube we should be doing that dave you should be like trying to cook things on the podcast why don't you why don't we do that you were supposed to get your competitive eater on that was going to try and eat my day's food in one second oh yeah we didn't follow through with that we have a listener who's a competitive eater and the goal is we should still make that happen we're going to have him come on and we're going to do a normal podcast is he a pro is he is he a pro as well yeah yeah yeah well he eats all of dave's entire day of his food when he was at his biggest yeah i met him actually at mi40 um when i competed in um in the in the states he's a good guy he um he did a few things while i was there i think he like did a a full do you remember one of the big jugs yeah like he can like drink that at down in like one go oh no kidding yeah it was crazy yeah that's crazy man well listen we uh we appreciate you taking the time to join us this is uh freaking cool and uh i i'm going to encourage everybody to go over i'll put the link for your show in the description so anybody who wants to go over and subscribe to that and uh dave is there anything else we should uh mention or anything like that that anything you're thinking of man that we didn't talk about no i think we covered it all it's been good to see you know good to see you looking well as well cheers mate cheers and obviously i need a little bit of a shame yeah we're not even going there but uh and obviously congratulations on uh phoebe getting pregnant and a little girl yeah little girl yeah so you can call her divina that'll be fine well guys we appreciate everybody tuning in and uh big nathan styles will uh have your instagram below man we dude we appreciate you every time you've come on the show man it's always been great we get a lot of really great feedback uh guys go over to truenutrition.com use our code think over there supplement source.ca for canadians strong sports nutrition for those of you in the uk and the u.s great health stacks and of course patreon and of course uh eval blood analysis.com get your labs done by dave just like nate does go over to uh that that's basically where you get your labs done isn't it yeah yeah yeah i get my i've had my labs done with dave uh well since you started probably the last like five six years maybe yeah yeah we started 2019 yeah so though well we did and we didn't because obviously covid hit and caused some problems but yeah yeah we started late 219 early 220. yeah so hell yeah i've been with dave from the start and for another episode of the podcast guys we'll see you soon cheers guys ah all right we're just gonna uh talk to nate about all his fertility dave and uh you know talk about recovering getting uh getting his lady pregnant we're gonna talk about then like maintaining muscle off gear i think we know how we did that cycling all that stuff and then we'll jump into figure we'll do that for like the first half for like 30 minutes and then we'll jump into listener questions for the second half like we usually do i believe you're back on nathan yes i am back  3DVIA4, życia4VIA, życia4VIA, życiaVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIAVIA the operation they have to take you to a veterinary facility now I mean that's not this is not me trying to inflate my ego he did say that and I was like holy crap I was like what do you what do you what do you got it what are you getting done so I'm having two procedures in one so that I have to have a CT scan about four weeks ago I had a about two MRIs and we knew what what the issue was but I had a CT scan see if they needed to do it in two operations or one luckily they can do it in one procedure it's just gonna be quite a big procedure so I had a cruise ship reconstruction when I was like 19 from from okay from playing football or soccer and over the last 18 months two years it's been my knees been giving me so much aggro like stability it used to just give way on me and I thought I tore my meniscus or I've done something and I prepped my whole prep 2024 prep for my pro debut I didn't do a leg extension I didn't do a squat pattern or I just did like press and single leg leg press all the way it will in to be fair with your legs if you didn't grow an inch on your legs like you're fine you know yes I it was okay that going for you yeah I held on to them and then I thought right after I need to get this sword it's not getting any better I love training legs yeah and I went and we've gone down the room we found that basically my cruciate reconstruction has failed so it's just not it's just not doing anything it's like I haven't got a cruise ship that is just flapping around I've also got a small time in both my medial meniscus and my lateral meniscus okay my college doesn't look too clever but that's there's not really much you can do about that so they've got to clean it up right yeah they can clean off yeah they can clean it up while they're inside so they've got to do a cruise ship revision surgery and then they're doing something called an LED I think it's called so like a lateral basically the user IT band to add extra stability to the lateral head of the knee so just like puts another piece on the lateral side so it just stabilizes the knee and obviously they're aware that Phoebe's during April so if they don't get me in within the next month or so I don't really want to be laid up when the baby's due so they're trying to sure they're either going to move me hospitals or they're going to get get me in pretty sharpish the good news is is that I so I had my ACL replaced in my left knee back in 97 98 and they took out about 90% of the cartilage that need to because it was just shredded I have not had any problems since but back then I was literally in a wheelchair and I was in a wheelchair and I was in a wheelchair because they used a piece of patella tendon for my right knee use that as my AC on the left knee that means that both of my legs were splayed open cut open and then splinted for 30 days I had to sit in a wheelchair for an entire month where is now man it's like you get you get a replacement like you're out you're walking you're on crutches right away you know and then like three days later you're so there is that on your side thankfully like the technology is so much better now yeah I mean even even even even so much better than nearly 20 years ago when I had it done the first time so yeah I can imagine that my recovery process is probably going to be a lot quicker especially with how I'll do my rehab and all the peptides and things like that we've got available now so yeah I'm friends with a guy if you're interested I'll connect you to him who now this is he had a major injury ruptured both quad tendons but he did went like super deep dive into everything to recover from injury surgery or surgery and he literally like I saw him I think it was like 10 weeks later we were at an event where I was speaking and he's walking around like it was no big deal man it was like 10 12 weeks later he's like oh yeah I'm already back on the leg press but he made it his full time job to recover you know and I'm sure you could do that too yeah yeah that's gonna be that's gonna be the goal what somebody I know local to me and literally within like 15 minutes they're just opening up in a wellness center as well with like a full recovery center which has got like the oxygen chambers in red light therapy all that sort of stuff as well so I'll be able to try and maximize that as much as I possibly can which is oh yeah well let me bring us in here we'll get this thing rolling what's up guys welcome back to you