Mhm. So, my point being is that why not use your same mindset, but then extend yourself into rep ranges where it's less likely for you to get hurt or within that set when you get to rep 12, 13, if you do feel something going on, you can back out of that set and just no harm, no foul. You know what I mean? And I think I and I know Dante's talked about this too. instead of, you know, sticking to certain rep ranges that he might have recommended guys do in their 20s to 30s, you know, if you look at his training, he'll he'll do like leg press sets in the 30s, you know, with like two or three second pauses in the hole. You can argue they're much they're actually a lot harder, you know what I mean? To to sit there for 22, 24, 28 reps versus an allout hard set of 12 or 13 reps, you know? So, I guess my point is is you can still be really strong, but be stronger in higher rep ranges. Rep ranges that aren't necessarily going to hurt you. What's up, guys? Welcome back to Blood, Sweat, and Gear with Coaches Skipp Hill, andrew Barry. I'm Scott McN, and we are brought to you by you, the people of Patreon. Thank you guys very much for your support. We are brought to you by supplementource.ca for Canadians, guys. They have great deals that change week to week. And we are brought to you by truen nutrition.com. Use our code think over there for highquality thirdparty tested supplements from a company that you can trust it. I feel like there's a lot of decent companies out there, but True Nutrition has been a decent company from the start. And uh you know, I suggest them to everybody, including the Team Skip Blend. They've got a lot of good supplements, though. Check them out. Let me know if you have any questions about any of their flavors. Guys, we uh answer your listener questions. That's what we're here to do. So, comment below. with questions. We will tackle them on the next show. Hey, if you're hanging with us in the live stream, you can comment there. I wanted to open up with this one. Uh this is from our Facebook group, which by the way, you guys are welcome to join. Uh anybody got some tips on not letting their biceps take over in their pull down and their rowing movements? I get a gnarly bicep pump on back day. Barely feel like I'm getting a pump and growing in my back. Um, he says it's got to be a technique issue. His current routine is two sets of straight bar pull-ups, two sets of barbell rows, two sets of pull down wide grip, two sets of cable row, neutral grip, shoulder width. I keep my training simple and quick. Uh, workout at home, usually doing two sets to failure, trying that out. used to be higher volume set guy. Um, but I felt like changing it up for higher frequency. Was playing around with doing a neutral shoulder width grip on pull downs today and that might hit back better than the wide grip actually. So maybe that's a good switch. What's your thoughts? I think it'd be good if if when people send a question like that, they send some clips of um them doing exercises so we can look at like their movement path with the elbow in particular. But, you know, I think you're you're not going to go wrong and it's it's probably the most overused tip for for back training is to drive and leave lead with the elbow, right? And to pretend like you know your arms, your hands are really just like a rope attached. It's it's more of an attachment to the bar, right? and that the real move movement is coming I'm pointing like everyone can see me is coming from this elbow driving back to your hip. Now I will say that you know if you go on uh YouTube and you just type in mountain dog one back activation John made a couple videos with some pretty good tips for people to better isolate their lats in particular before they start their back workouts. So I invite you know this guy and anyone else who's having this issue to try these exercises out. It's it takes two minutes, you know, it's not something that's like this, you know, eight different part, you know, warm-up. It's really just, you know, two exercises and it really just gets your your elbows moving in the right movement path with a few tips such as, you know, driving the elbow to the hip, but when you're getting back there, pulling your elbow into your hip or into your lat even, so you're not letting your elbows hang out to the side. You're really driving them inwards. Um, I think that tip, you know, is going to help a lot of people. I think if you think about your scapula and you don't want to let your scapula move up and down a lot, you want to lock that scapula down. And so visually when you're looking at yourself, if you're doing a single arm exercise, that el that shoulder is going to be a little bit lower than your other side shoulder because it's locked in place. And when you think about getting the full extension of the rep, you want to get that full extension to where the muscle is fully extended, not the whole shoulder joint. Okay? Right? You guys know what I'm talking about? 100%. you you you can extend your arm out, but then you can reach and get another 3 4 in, which is really just your scapula moving forward. That's not the muscle. So, I think if you can get the scapula movement out of it, and really just think about locking that in place, keeping your chest high, el shoulder down, driving with the elbow, you're going to get a better lift. And I would say experiment with other exercises. You know, I think he's starting to think about switching up his routines. I would do some single arm stuff. Honestly, I I always I felt much better activation when I really moved to single arm movements. And I know Skip doesn't like that because there's not a lot there's no way to really do right arm, left arm really locking your your scapula in place. And I there not as much as a cable. I Yeah, I agree with you. Not as much as a cable. One arm at a time. I agree. Yeah. Well, I'll turn it over to you. There's a couple good and I like the idea of changing the exercises because if this is the issue that he's dealing with, my best advice would be find the exercises that aren't that don't give you as much of a brachiialis/bicep pump and that's likely going to be hitting your back harder. Um, and there's a couple things you make a very very good point about um, you know, obviously the elbow, but you're right. It's very cliche. It's very we we've said it for years about oh you're just you just pull from the elbow. You just pull from the elbow. But people can't really grasp and sometimes understand what that means. And I've used the cue before that. And some people say it helps other people go I still don't get it. Essentially from the elbow down to the hand it might as well you might as well consider it a loose noodle or a rope. I don't even consider it your arm. You you we're too busy. the people, this guy in particular who's doing this, that entire forearm, that entire bicep, it's all contracted and is being used the entire time equally if not more so to move that weight than the muscles of the back. So that that's number one. But to find to switch your exercises and find those exercises that you feel less in the in the bicep and and in the brachialis what you're after anyway then or anyway and then you can focus on those exercises get what that that feels like and then take that back to other exercises probably is training too heavy for one too wide if you have short clavicles is a bicep pump on a lat pull I mean I get it I literally well I won't do a a lat pull or a chin in unless it's just slightly outside of shoulder width because once you get out wide or try to do some kind of Arnold thing that's a ton of bison if you're literally pulling rowing is a good example too if you're doing say barbell rows you have to be careful to not row and this is hard to explain but hard row up you know if you get a bicep injury and you're doing an underhand barbell row you're not doing it Right? You're there's too much pull in from in that upward direction. There are times and I don't know if you guys have had this or not. I assume you have, but maybe you haven't where I'm doing rows and I'm warming up not quite to my top, you know, weight check and and my triceps will be cramping like, oh, oh, I'm I'm actually pulling back too much to compensate so that I'm not pulling up with the bicep. And it's a reminder even after all these years, okay, balance it out here. You're overcompensating to make sure that you're not involving the bicep as much or the brachiialis and now you're you're into your triceps and they're starting to cramp. Like what do you It's almost like a best way to explain it would be like a a barbell row like on a Smith machine because you can actually pull against the resistance. So it's kind of a barbell row slash tricep push down. It's not going to move because it can't. It's on a Smith machine, but that is I'm giving you an idea of the resistance being backing away versus up and into the biceps break. And and you people listening may not understand it, but if you've had that happen, you're like, "Oh, that's what that is." I I think one of the things I I'm going to throw in I've noticed is the a lot of people like using the mag grips and I noticed that with the mag grips there's that tendency the term I use where you're and I was picturing it skip when you were saying like your his forearms his brachiialis's biceps are all just like flex I call it like I used to try to like muscle the weight you know what I mean where you're just like really holding on with everything you got and you're literally taking that handle and pulling it toward your body. It's like an arm thing where everything's like hard flexed. You're gripping it. I found if I can strap up if I can strap up on it and I have to hold on a lot lighter, you know, or I can hold on a lot lighter. And if I'm not gripping the hell out of it, that for me is that the first start. But I do something different than you, Andrew. And I guess this goes to show like there's a lot of different ways to figure out what works for you. I want to let my scapula protract where you were saying like you want to keep it kind of retracted, right? You keep it tight, right? Keep it No, I want to keep it down. Keep it down. I'll let it I'll let everything hang loose where I'm completely stretched up at the top. And that way it for me what I can feel is I feel that lat stretching and I just feel an extremely deep stretch all through my side. And then from there, I can begin activating with the lat first. And I'm hands are loose, but I'm, you know, obviously strapped in. And it's just the elbows. And it I the thing that I think about is like the way we when we when we kind of hit that like the when you go to hit the Christmas tree, when you're down here and elbows are down here and I'm driving my elbows back and you're kind of flexing that Christmas tree, I'm flexing those lats. like I'll call it lower lats and I can activate that. That's that's the first thing that I feel when I'm in a very but it's like it's almost initially like an isometric contraction against the stretch and I can only feel that when I'm in like a really deep stretch. That said, the first thing that happens though is those scapula gets retracted then as I you know what I mean? Like that's the first movement is I'm hanging there and then that comes down and the elbows are coming down behind that. So, I don't know. But that that was I back to the handles. I feel like the handles make a difference for me that if I can not use a mag grip where I'm gonna try to like I almost see people like holding on to that mag grip and they're kind of hunching into it because they as the weight's real heavy and you know I like the way the mag grip feels and the texture and all of that and the angle is kind of cool but I don't like that like hunching over and musling that pull down down cuz this movement right here for our video listeners is not going to grow your back when you're doing a pull down. You know what I I don't use I don't use mag grip uh bars anymore. I don't a lot either. No, for that reason. And it's now I will actually let me take that back. I'll still use it, but I loop handles over it because they fit right down into the crack and I'll use the handles. And the reason is because this I'm going to I'm going to try to demonstrate. The way a mag grip is set up is to essentially keep your wrist back so that it doesn't do this. It forces it this way. In doing that, I feel like you're you're what you're talking about, Scott. It's almost like it just it makes me drive my hands into that that bar that much more. And it's not a natural Exactly. It's not a natural It's just not a natural feel for me. At one point, maybe they worked. And coming back, I want to come back to what you were talking about letting that go at the top for that stretch. And and if that works for you, that's great. The reason it doesn't work for me is I have very narrow clavicles. I can't do it. As soon as I let that go at the top, there's literally like I I'm just hanging there. Clearly, there's stress at some point, but it's not on my tries or anything like that around my my shoulder blade. So then I have to almost re-engage everything. Then the tension comes back. Yeah. I re-engage on every rep then. And and initially when I started teaching myself to do that, it was like a laborious multi-step slow process. And then I still felt like it took longer, but looking at it on video, it's like an instant. You know what I mean? Like after I gotten into a habit with it, let me ask you guys this. What about say a barbell row then? What do you do with the scapula? Then see there's protraction and retraction, but it's not exaggerated, I guess, is a better way for me to explain. I have full protraction, full retraction, but it's not like, you know, I don't know how to explain it's like rounding of the back. It's it's visual. Yeah, we would need the visual. I tell you, barbell row is a not a bad example, but a better example visually would be like the seated hammer row that's straight out in front of you. The one that's the most popular that we see low handle row. No, not the low. the regular one that's literally like right in front of your chest. Sometimes I stand. Are the plates low? Are the plates low or the plates? Yeah, the plates are low. It is supported. It is supported because the hammer that one is a good example because I see that abuse in my opinion abused for the stretch that is an overexaggerated stretch where they've gone past that protracted phase and now you're just into literally like it's like the chest becomes concave. Well, how am I going to do six plates on it, Gibb? Right. How else am I gonna do six? Dumbbell row, too. Dumbbell row. People stretch way down with the dust row and half their body's twisting, you know? Well, well, think about it. The back back training is probably, and maybe you could argue biceps training because they're swinging involved, you know, with the cable curls and whatnot, but back training is probably like the one body part. Well, let me let me say it another way. You're training legs. You're locked in one movement path like hack squats, leg presses, even walking lunges. You're training chest, whether it's a machine or a bar, it's up, down, right? Back, there's so much opportunity for you to swing one way or the other. If you're doing single arm movements, there's so much there's so much opportunity for you to use momentum. If you're doing a bent over movement, there's so much opportunity for you to overstretch and then use that overstretch to kind of give momentum. So, it's like the hardest body and I think that's this is why it's the hardest body part to train. Um, and oh, what I was going to say as a tip is to try for this person to try all the exercises he's doing, but hold them for two to three seconds at the contraction. Okay? And it's going to cut down the number of reps you can do. I don't care if you only get six reps, but I think if you hold them for that like two to three seconds at the peak contraction and really squeeze, he's going to be able to isolate the lats a little bit better. And then maybe he can start to ease up on the time under tension and maybe add a little bit more um repetitions to it. But, you know, one other point I wanted to make. Sorry. Going back to that bent over row. I think the only way to do a proper bent over row is like tops like 135 pounds to strictly do an a back isolating. I mean, think about all the greats that we've seen that that put five plates on like Ronnie Coleman or Dorian Yates. There's a lot of body English involved there. Like this isn't the textbook stuff that we're describing right here. So, in a way, their backs grew despite their form, not because of their form, right? So, so I think with back training, you really got to look at and there's something to be said about moving a lot of weight regardless of it just hitting that target muscle, right? We all know that there there's something about moving mass amounts of slag iron and putting pounds on your body. But to really in this case, the guy wants to isolate his back more because he's not feeling it. He's feeling his arms. So, I think he's got to slow everything down. He's got to lighten everything up. And I think he needs to take the tips that we've all offered him. I also think that Ronnie and guys who row big dusty, they're not walking away from those bigger rows going biceps sure are blown. My back's not blown at all. So, there's still, even though it's loose and there's momentum, it's still isolating is more so in the back than it is hitting their arms. The mechanics are still solid. There's just more momentum there to move more weight. And I do want to throw in one more thing that I think is important that we didn't touch on. hook grip. If you're if the guy is not using a hook grip, if that bar is buried in your hand here when you're pulling, no, learn learn the hook grip for back because that the majority of the time, all that does really to me, it's another cue that lends to this is all from the elbow to where the bar sits is literally just considered a rope. And I use the rope as as the cue because it's not rigid. It's it's incredibly flexible. And just con consider where you're holding the bar to the elbow to be flexible and not rigid. And I think that the hook grip nine out of 10 times will help if you're if he's versus if he's burying that bar in his hand. All right, we've got one from I think this is from YouTube. does a question for the next show for the king of Melanitin and then he put skit in parenthesis in case we didn't know. Um, and the rest assumption, but whatever. and the rest of the BSD crew. Uh, do you know of any risks of long-term melanitin 2 usage? Followed Skip's protocol of 10 IU a day. Um, 10 mgram bottle reconstituted with 3 ml backwater for 2 months and now in a maintenance phase of 10 IU three times a week. Uh, still tanning at least once per week. I'm pasty white guy living in Canada, so want to keep my tan year round now. and I've reached my desired color. Thanks. Love the show. Here's the thing. I'm always careful with this because I don't ever want to say that a compound is safe, but I will say this. I have not heard anything like to date to and I've been using it since ' 06 that shows because the biggest complaint is and you can Google it and it'll come up left and right that it will promote skin cancer and that is as far as I know and everything I've seen is absolutely horrible shitty information. Now, what can contribute to skin cancer is if you weren't using melanotan at all and you weren't in the sun at all and then you start using melanitan in 2006 and you're in the sun all the time like me. Okay, the sun will increase can increase especially when there's damage uh damage from the sun burn basically can increase the risk for skin cancer. There's no question there. I still view it and be the same way that I did years ago because I haven't seen anything to the contrary. Stan Evering has dug into this considerably. Uh many other people have. Carl Lenor, I was on superhuman radio back in 2019 and we were talking about I just stumbled upon this audio podcast like a week ago. It was kind of bizarre. I never even listened to it and I was like, "Wow, this is kind of cool." Cuz Carl sounds like a real radio voice. like that guy's got a a voice made for radio. Uh and he we were talking about melanitan and he brought up about studies saying that lowdose melanitan 2 lowered calcium scores. Oh yeah. Okay. And I had forgotten about that. So now have I done a calcium score? I have not. So I can't say that I don't need you know six stints right now. I'm not real I'm not real sure. The point is is those studies were there in 2019. Carl's very I always considered him to be very um he did his due diligence. He didn't [\h__\h] He didn't say things to fit his narrative. I don't know if you guys feel the same way, but I I had never known him to be like that. So, did I check the studies? I did not check the studies because he didn't reference them. But the fact that he said that they were there made me want to dig. that it's only been a week uh since I went back and I I just heard that like that podcast like a week ago. I don't see anything negative. Do you guys know anything or have you seen anything negative? There's just like nothing. No. No. I mean, I know you could call this an awkward side effect when you know someone might be personal training someone and they they're using a lot of melanotan and next thing you know they got they got a p a tent that's pitched in their pants. All of a sudden they're like We just kind of stand like this for a minute. That side effect left years ago though. I don't even notice that anymore because probably I've used it for so uh so long. He was going to say long. So long. So long. Yeah. I did not want to blast into my microphone. I also tickled my throat. Man, I loved the uh uh the nasal version. I used that last year. Um, and I didn't even go tanning per se. It was like the the weather got nice and I went outside with my shirt off like a couple of times and uh walked around like we we'd go hiking for a day on our date day and I'd wear like a tank top, take the and I was only taking I think like 200 micrograms per day. So or and and that would be at most. Sometimes I might take a hundred, sometimes I might forget it. And I did that for like two or 3 weeks as an experiment. And like I said, got a little bit of sun and then going into the Olympia cuz that was my goal. I think it was the Olympia. I was like, "I'm going to get tan for the Olympia this year." And then I had a tan. Victoria was like, "Oh my god, I can't believe that works so well." Cuz I tend I'm Irish. I tend to get red real easily. And I mean, I always have a red tone. And you put me in the sun and I get just more red. But melanitin, and it's weird, Skip, cuz I think my skin is permanently changed. I went hard on the melanitin, you know, years back when a lot of people first started when I first discovered it, like 2006, eight in there, you know, and I got really dark, like too dark. And then I I found that after I stopped using it, cuz I'd used it for a while, my skin's never been the same since. Like although I still do burn now, for the next like five to seven years, I would just get golden and like the burn would go away. I so I do think that I've had some like some sort of like epigenetic changes because of melanitin. I'm not going to lie. I think if they do an autopsy on me when I die, I would imagine my organs probably will not be pink. They'll look like they'll probably be the color Yeah. of a of a of a a medium to well done steak. I'm I'm pretty sure. I don't I mean, you know, sometimes I will I'll get like on the inside of my, you know, lips even and I don't do high doses. It's just that I have used it for a long time. And I will say this, the easiest way for me to get out of a conversation when people ask me about my tan, it works every time. It works at the tanner. It just it just shuts them down is I tell them I'm like I'm French Polynesian. And that just they literally from they're like, "Oh, okay." Oh, like they don't Makes sense. They just don't even they're like, "What lotion do you I get that all the time. He came out of that tanner. I want to go in that tanner." I'm like, "I'm doesn't matter what I do. I'm French Polynesian." When in reality, I'm 65% German. I have I have like if I don't have a tan, I have blue You can see like blue veins all over me. That's how white I am. It's bad. Guys, let's talk about intraworkout carbs and saving money. So, like the past 10-15 years, intra workouts become super popular. It's a great way to support pre-workout insulin use. It's great for recovery and it's great for endurance and those long workouts. Here's the thing, it's really expensive. It's not only expensive for us, it's expensive for supplement companies. They really don't make a lot of money off of it. That's where True Nutrition comes in. So, True Nutrition, they're not only a retailer, they're also a manufacturer. They're actually making a lot of the products that you guys are already buying from other companies. So, just think about it. You're going to cut out the middleman. The only thing you're going to miss out on is the fancy labels and and the branding. Outside of that, you're getting the exact same highquality products, but you're getting it directly from the source. If you're going to pay for the price of highly branch dextrin, ensure that you're getting 25 g per scoop, not of a mix of carbs, but just of highly branched dextrin. We can mix the other stuff in later. You know, use our code think, get some savings. Plus, it's like voting for us. It lets them know that you support what we're doing. All right, Gazzy John, one of our guys from the UK, he says, "Uh, I'm in the process of re-evaluating my training, not through choice, but after a nasty snap in my quad stopped me from training legs for 8 weeks, and a nasty ping in my pec that stopped me from pushing heavy on chest for the last 6 weeks, plus a shoulder issue, tricep, lat issue, mid trap that keeps spasming." He's an older guy. He's been around. He's a mast's guy. Um, I've had to take a lot a hard look at myself in thinking if I want to keep doing this into my 50s. Um, I'm going to have to be smart. Throughout my bodybuilding, I've been lucky with injuries, but lately it seems like one thing after another. For the last 18 months, I've been going into the gym, especially on quads and chest day, um, where every heavy rep has been an oh crap feeling and thinking, is this the rep where it snaps? and the anxiety that comes with that. Now things are actually snapping uh is getting a bit more a bit too much to bear. But I really uh I'm really struggling to step away from the heavy uh sets and back offset progressive style that I've always done for the last 18 years. Even before it was cool, it was always made sense to me. And it scares me to think how will I progress if I'm not pushing my strength to the max and if I can't make progress, how will I be better version of than myself from last time uh that I was on stage? And it's scary to think of the days that improving is over after the last offseason brought my best results that I've ever had. So, this I'm hoping for will give uh give me listening to ease my mind and reassure me it's going to be okay. Is there any more to that? I mean, it's coming. He's coming. Two more paragraphs. And I listen, I know Gaz I know I know this guy. He's cool as hell. And if he's listening right now, I will return that email. We have a bad habit, the two of us, of not returning emails for like 10 days, sometimes two weeks. But I will return that email. He's a great guy. Great physique. He doesn't think so. He's very hard on himself. When when push comes to shove, and this isn't just for John, this is for anybody. As you get closer to that 50, and I know cuz I've been there, and I so I can say this, I have experienced. As you close in on the 50s, there is this realization whether you're starting to have pings or aches and pains or you just have flatout crappy injuries that you feel like came out of nowhere. You're almost 50. like the the clock is ticking. He said he's been training for 20 years. There does come a time where you can't train the same way and you can't can't train with the progressive overload because you're everything that holds that muscle to the bone is not going to be able to handle those loads like they did before. So you can either change it proactively or you can be forced to change it not based on aches and pains but brutal horrible injuries or those injuries that you end up with because you didn't make those changes make the decision for you that you can no longer train at that level or you can no longer compete anymore. I decided that I would rather be proactive and have control over I guess my destiny for lack of a better word and change the style of training. Yes, I gave up progressive overload. I have there are some exercises I haven't put up big numbers and will never top numbers that I did 18 years ago, but the development is still there. Is it at the same level? I think it's pretty damn close. legs? No, because I've had a lot of injuries. But you can hold not only hold a lot of muscle, but you can almost arguably increase the look or improve the look without continuing to gain the amount of muscle that you were g. It's just not it's it's not going to happen forever. So, the question really becomes this. Do you want to continue to do what you're doing at the highest level you can do it, or are you going to continue to tempt fate and let your body tell you when it's done by some horrific injury or catastrophic injury that ends it for you and makes that decision for you? I decided, and it's a personal decision, I just decided that I was going to be smarter about it and find a a more efficient or optimal way to train so I could continue to do it versus having that decision made for me. But it's a personal decision. It's it's it's up to that individual. What is strength? There's a question. I know. I'm just trying to think of where you're like like what you you're looking for as far My point is this. So, if you see somebody doing, I don't know, let's say a hack squat for like eight plates for a set of 10 and then you see someone else or even that same person maybe a couple days later doing six plates for like 20 reps, you would say both, they're freaking strong on both of them, right? H. So, my point being is that why not use your same mindset, but then extend yourself into rep ranges where it's less likely for you to get hurt or within that set when you get to rep 12, 13, if you do feel something going on, you can back out of that set and just no harm, no foul. You know what I mean? And I think I and I know Dante's talked about this too. instead of, you know, sticking to certain rep ranges that he might have recommended guys do in their 20s to 30s, you know, if you look at his training, he'll he'll do like leg press sets in the 30s, you know, with like two or three second pauses in the hole. You can argue they're much they're actually a lot harder, you know what I mean? To to sit there for 22, 24, 28 reps versus an allout hard set of 12 or 13 reps, you know? So, I guess my point is is you can still be really strong, but be stronger in higher rep ranges. Rep ranges that aren't necessarily going to hurt you. And I think when at the end of the day, intensity I I've said this for a long time, and I still believe this. I think intensity trumps the amount of weight that you're moving. The progressive overload can only go on for so long. It just isn't this infinite thing that just well I was benching you know 400 when I was 30 so I should be benching 600 for reps but it just doesn't it doesn't work that way. No. So got to make that decision. You got to got to make that decision. I'm looking over at uh the Facebook group right now to see if what we had for hardcore set of the week. Well, we had a good one from uh Josh Bunker who's got some incredibly strong legs. Um yeah, was he the guy that didn't send it on the group? He did post it in the group. He sent I he sent it to me and then I sent it to you, but then I told him, "Hey, post this in the group chat or in the um sorry, the group page." All right. And um and he did. And then we had a couple other submissions, too. Yeah. I think I just bumped them in the group, so they should all load here. Let's see if that worked out the way I wanted it to. Nope, didn't work. I thought if I commented and then hit the refresh that it would uh all come up. Yeah. Andrew, tell us uh you know what are we uh talking about here for what the inset in insane set of the week or Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Let me try to pull up this video real quick. Is that the one for like I've got it. I'll get the video. But tell the people like what is this for anybody who's Oh, I'm I'm sorry. Yeah. So, as as some of you guys know, we we've started we we brought back, you know, what we call the insane side of the week. And, you know, other podcasts have done this. We did it in the past and we kind of fell away from it. But, it's it's basically, and it it doesn't have to be there. There's really no rules other than it has to be an intense set where you're emptying the tank. And regardless of where your strength levels are, regardless of what exercise you're doing, I mean, we're not doing bicep curls, but you know, regardless of what exercise you're doing, you you're emptying the tank and you're and you're basically showing us what you're made of. You know, I remember I saw one in the group, a guy was doing a um an ascending and descending set of deadlifts, which was pretty wild. He started out with like he had four plates and he started with three reps and then he took a step backwards onto a plate and did a rep and then took a step backwards onto two plates. Tell you what, I got that one. Why don't we start with that one then? Why don't It's better to see it than for me to talk about it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. There you go. Perfect. All right. I don't think we're on though. That's the only problem. Well, that's okay. I don't think they can hear you, though, is going to be the problem. Oh, yeah. Well, let them see the set and then we'll talk about it. All right. I mean, that's pretty hard. Yeah, that's freaking crazy, man. Knowing you're only halfway done right here, too. Yeah. I don't know. Yeah, the PP right now. Oh, no. We can hear you, I think. [\h__\h] Can you guys hear Andrew and Skip right now? In the comments. Okay, they hear you. Good, good, good. Yeah, that's just crazy. So, what does he have on there? This is the last one when he gets back down to the ground. Come on. Oh, no. He doesn't do one step. Oh, nice. Oh, yeah. He's hurting after that one. That's a good set, man. That's a good set. Hard to top that one. I'm I'm going to go on record. I'm going to say this and I don't want to sound like that guy like you know when people are racing around on a viral video and they're having fun in a boat and then someone come comes out and goes that's really dangerous. Why don't they have life jackets on? But I'm telling you I'm not standing on four plates pulling a deficit. I kept thinking man that plate shifts. Uh did you did were you thinking the same thing? I'm like if that plate moved Well I watched it the first time I was like power to you. Yeah. Ah, yeah. Yeah, you you got you got bigger balls than I do, bro. I'm not doing it. Here's Levi. But even pulling deads and socks on a hardwood platform, I'm not doing that either. I still that makes me cringe, too. How many reps are we looking at here? Looks like he says he gets 12 on it. I mean, that's some good reps, too. Like, he's going all the way freaking down. He's like great range. He's not cutting that at all, you know. Nope. You know what? Damn it. I should have filmed this. He's going to do like Oh, it did until that one. Nice control still. Oh, yeah. Looks like he's got some great legs on him. Good. Look at that hamstring. He's got good legs on him. Nice. Have you guys seen Elite FTS Dave Dave Tupat? Nice. No, that was good. That was a good set. That was good. the one I'm talking about. I got one of these times like it was this guy that wanted one he wanted one hard set and like they started with five plates and he did like 18 reps with it and then they he gave him like three deep breaths and pulled a plate and then he got like eight more and then he pulled a plate like all the way down to just the rack. Just the rack and the guy could he couldn't even move his leg. He couldn't even bring the chassis up like it was that was it. You're kidding. Yeah, that's I'll send it to you guys one of these days. You got to keep you got to keep track of your the color of your pee for the next three or four days after something like that. We've got a uh female entry here. This is uh Jennifer. Let's see if uh my all of a sudden my computer didn't want to load. It looks like it's freezing up on me. I might have to hit the reload button. Or maybe I just do this. Let's see if I can play it here. I'd like to see a little more control in that negative, but I know Jennifer and she is absolutely holistic when she trains. Like, she's scary with her uh her strength and what she'll do with her like she'll push her body to the point where I'm like, "Oh my god." But she's gotten a lot better over the years. Yeah. Tell you what, Tom Plants was ballistic. Yeah, he was. Those legs are legendary, so there's that. Yeah. Yeah. She is a very intense I see what you're saying though. How many reps we going for here? I don't know. That's what I'm wondering too. I wish I would have counted. I want I just And you know what? The count really doesn't matter a whole lot. Like once you're over 10. Yeah. What happens here now? What is she gonna do here? Yeah. How slow? Because she's about shot right here. What you got? What you got, girl? I went for two at a time there. Very short break. Yeah, there's still Yeah. She's breathing, too. You can see that. Oh, yeah. That belly. She She's breathing. Girl, what is there? That's good. Yes. Come on. We're going. Go, go, go. Oh, how many more do you guys guess she gets? How many more, Andrew? Two. Two. I think she's got two. Two. Yep. I think she's got two. All right, I'll say three. I'll say four then. If you say two, I'll say four. Actually, I'm looking at the length of the video. Oh, you guys are right. Weren't you? She's like, get me out of here. She's like, oh my god, I can read those lips. That's good. Good. That was good. That was a good one. That was really good. All right. And I don't know. I'm scrolling down and grabbing them as I go. Brand was that was an arsenal. He had a plate and some little plates on there, too. Okay. All right. Yeah, there was at least I don't know what was on the other side, but at least on the one side there was a plate and what? A 10 and a five. Yeah. Yeah, that was brutal. I need a break after that one myself. All right, so there was our first one was Levi. There's Jennifer. When you watch stuff like that, do you get all tense? I was your glutes like you just watched me. What are you contracting your glutes for? Yeah. Actually, you know, I'm going to have a good one. I'm going to submit soon. We got We had Granite filming me a couple weeks ago. Um, and he's got it on video now. I think about it. Oh, yeah. Here's Josh. Nice. All right. Here we go. I'm just not going to touch anything from this. Yeah. Don't That's right. Just leave it. Just leave it alone. Yeah. How many plates does he have on there? One, two, three. I think seven and quarters. Five. I don't know. But you better hope and bar. Come on. I think it's ar it's it's arguably more dangerous on the side spotting it than it is even being underneath it the whole back goes up. Crazy. All right. Well, and he had another one where he did like 16 reps. That's this video right here next to it. Okay. I don't know what happened. And I'm not saying I wasn't impressed by that. Don't get me wrong. I have no idea what happened. That one for 16. He was just he was banging them like like a piston just one after another. I'm like, "Holy shit." And I can't squat like that. I never could squat like that. I had to stop at the top. Even if it's for half a second. I was not going to be able to keep going and just boom. No, I can do it on a leg press. I I don't know if it's a balance issue. I'm not sure. But I just would feel like it was I just felt uncoordinated when I did that. Let's do this because we can look up hashtags. That one didn't go over too well. Anybody who wants to submit uh pictures or video, excuse me, put a hashtag like hardcore set and then that way we'll be able to we'll be able to view it. I'll be able to pull it up easily for the next the next time. All right. So, here's his back offset of 495. Yeah. Back off. Oh, he did this after. Yeah. He's just popping these up. Yeah. That's just you know how you do like a really heavy set of five or six. Yeah. But you know how like like even like a heavy weight feels light afterwards. Like I used to love doing like a heavy set and then the back off set was the oh [\h__\h] set. I don't know what's going on with my computer here. Yeah. I've never seen my computer I don't disagree with you, Andrew, but I've never done a back off set at at five plates. So that part I can't relate to as far as the numbers. But I get what you're saying. And the back off the backoff set will almost always, you know, obviously you just you get underneath it and you go, "Oh, that kind of movie." Well, that kind of ruined it. I'm sorry. Josh broke our computer. Sorry, guys. Josh broke everything. I'm going to say it was like 16 reps, right? Yeah. 16 reps. Ridiculous. Yeah. I'm gonna try one more time here. We're gonna try one more time. And if Josh breaks it for a third time, then uh he's banned from from submitting sets. Yeah. Done. No more intense sets. So, I think some people might say like, "Hey, that's not deep." You know, what do you guys have to say to that? What? It's constant. It's constant tension, dude. Like, that's Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, come on. Tell me that's not going to grow your quads. Two and a quarter or three plates. Yeah. Tell me that's not going to grow your quads, you know. Yeah. The other thing, too, is So, wait, hold on. He gets 16. He just did like six or eight there and and he's still Okay, never mind. He took a little breath and now he's just going to pump a bunch more out. But people need to understand on the depth that it's the actual femur bone. It's not the top of the thigh. It's not the hamstring. It's the femur bone. So, parallel. The parallel is there. I don't I don't see that he's sh I would never look at that and say he shot. That was good. That was a crazy set. Well, I don't I almost feel like that to me was more intense than the 650. I don't know. You know, seeing the higher I agree. I agree. Oh, 100%. 100% 100%. Yep. Oh, what's this? Oh, yeah. Yeah, we had one Josh Brown sent us Instagram. Oh, this is the same Josh. Yeah, same Josh. All right. Yeah, I think it might be at a a Facebook issue currently because Instagram seems to load just fine. Now, how many are we looking at here? That looks like we're back up to This is 625 for six and then you got 405 for 25 after that. Oh. That's good. Just the pressure of holding that weight on your back. Yeah, that's a nice set. I'm impressed. That's a nice set. I think that might have been everything. I'm just going to look a little bit further down the group to see for sure. Yeah, I think that that was all we had here. Hashtag will help. Yeah, the hashtag will help us for next time, guys. So, yeah, let's just do hardcore set would be fine. That' work. Nobody else is doing hashtags in the group. I'm Everyone else did awesome, but I'm going with Josh. I mean, just because we all know what it's like to feel that put that weight on your back and then to do it that many times. That's that's that's that's crazy. It's Yeah, I I think I I think I have to too. Deficit. I tell you what, what he did with that that deficit thing with the plates was pretty unique. And I like that that that stood out cuz that's pretty rough. But I'm the same with squatting. I just Man, when you get up to those kind of numbers, I don't know. It's hard for me. And I don't want to take anything away from her her pendulum either because that was that was no easy set there either. So, three very good submissions this week. When you have a little less weight, you can dig into it further. You know what I mean? Like, god, if if if Josh could do that much weight, you know, with 405, like how many how how many minutes is he squatting 225 for, you know, like how many minutes is that before that? Like seven, eight, you know what I mean? Yeah. Yeah. It's hard. I I think I got to go with how you guys feel about it. Do you? Yeah. How do you guys feel about it? I think it's to me I'm always more impressed with the higher reps because I think there's more of a psychological component because you can almost always get one more where when the weight is heavy and it's in those lower reps three four not that that's not impressive but physically and I understand that people will argue there's a mental component too but I don't think the mental component is as strong as when those reps get higher when you know this is brutal I could pull out now and nobody would know that I could get another one or another two more. So, and I would say this, the the extent of let's say this, if Josh did that and he and and I don't recommend it, but failed. He went two more, like 16 wasn't enough. I'm shooting for 20 and he failed at 18 and had to eat it. I'd have been even that much more impressed going, "Bro, you didn't just stop." Like, maybe there was one more in there. You didn't even stop. But 10 plates for 16 reps. I mean, come on. You can't ask for much more than that. Yeah. Yeah. So, do you are you voting for Josh as well then, Skip? Mhm. All right. All right. And everybody else gets honorable mentions, though, because they were all really good sets. Yeah. No, they're all great sets. All right, guys. Well, on that note, thanks for tuning in. Leave us questions for the next episode. Go over to teamskip.com. You can reach out to skip there. You can hit up body.com. No. Yeah. Did I have that right? Yeah. Body Berry. Did I have that right? All of a sudden my my brain just blank. Andrew, what's your website? Yeah. Bodyberry.com. You called. All right. Cool. All right. I had it right. I just didn't trust myself. Barry Swall. Did Barry Swall get? Yeah. Yeah. It all started spinning in my head at once for some reason. I don't know why. And hit me up male diets@gmail.com, guys. And go to truenutrition.com to use our code think over there because you're going to need some protein powder to keep up with these other guys if you're going to get involved with the hardcore set of the week. And of course, check out supplements.ca for Canadians, guys, for another episode of Blood, Sweat, and Gear. We'll see you soon. All right. By the way, I don't think I've ever told you this, Andrew, but every time I see your Instagram, Barry Swole, I got to give you props because I always think that is really witty. It's just good. Barry, I didn't come up with it like that. I didn't come up with it. No, you you want to uh all these black dudes from Florida that were uh on my football team when I played college ball cuz like so you know like if you know anything about like college football, there's like guys that like like we needed to do everything to be okay. You know what I mean? like had to do extra weight training, had to do extra sprints, had to do, you know, take our nutri, you know, and then there's guys from Florida that just come up and like they can kind of sit around and like not do the exercises, not work out and they just fly past you and everything. They're just genetically better athletes, faster, stronger, jump higher, you know, whatever. But anyway, some of these guys, you know, they had like this this southern like kind of draw or like this this slang that they use and they'd always see me in the weight room after train after practice doing more doing doing extra workouts cuz I was I was obviously into bodybuilding too. And they would walk by be like a Barry swole Barry swole dog, he's getting swole and that just kind of became my nickname. And so like when I was setting up my first Gmail email account, I'm like all right, why not? you know, I was in college and then it just I kind of stuck with me for the next 10 years and I set up my Instagram moniker that way and other stuff too. So, shout out to to the guys from the Nor football team. The guys at Powerhouse Gym called they called me team Cavs back in the day and that was like I didn't never said it. I never used it. And they they put the hashtag on everything like they post their picture eight weeks out team Cavs #team Cavs. You probably still find that stuff today, you know?