Hey, what's up guys? Welcome back to Blood, Sweat, and Gear with coaches Skipp Hill, Andrew Barry, and myself, Scott McN. And of course, you know all the stuff. You know who we're brought to you by. You, the people at Patreon, truenutrition.com. Use our code think over there. Supplements.ca for Canadians. For real. Thank you for all the support from Patreon and from our advertisers. You can support us through Patreon or shop with our advertisers because uh you know you get something out of it at the uh end of the deal there. Um and we're happy to be here. We've got a bunch of stuff today including um insane set of the week. We'll see who's got some entries there. And uh we've got some questions. First question is from Patreon guys. It's a uh question from uh one of our listeners, Casey, and he said, "How far into your bodybuilding before you know if you have progenetics, six months, you know, pretty early is what you're saying." Yeah. Well, like other people will tell you because they'll look at your calves and they'll look at like your shoulders and they'll look at your forearms and then they'll see you in the gym and see like let's say like when I was a personal trainer, you knew a guy had good genetics when he's a younger guy and he comes in and within like six months he's already made more progress than you and he's just kind of halfassing it and [\h__\h] it, you know, and you're like, "Hey, you know, you need a coach. Have you heard of bodybuilding?" And they're like, "Oh, no. It's not my thing." And you're like, "No, like I think it should be your thing. like you want to go to the Olympia, you know. Um but yeah, wouldn't you guys say like you could usually tell if once someone starts hitting bodybuilding if they're putting on, you know, 25 pounds of good weight in their first year and all the muscles are are thickening up at the same rate roughly and shape, right? Like a lot of times, not always, but like good muscle shape is a thing. Yeah. You see the insertions and you're like, "Oh man, the joints look small." Um, yeah. And the body fat distribution is pretty even all across. You're like, you can have a career in this stuff. Yeah, I can't disagree with that. Yeah. Another fact just to I'm sorry. Yeah, that's what I was going to say, too. It's there are things we can't see. Uh, you know, how well the body because it I think there's more to being a pro than the than the visual than the structure. But, you know, I mean, as far as like assimilation of nutrients, how you respond to gear, uh, can you eat a lot of food, um, you know, there's a lot that goes into it, but usually it plays out quite well within that first six months to a year where if you're making insane progress above and beyond everybody around you, there's a lot of potential there most people that most people don't have. Yeah, I would agree with that. And I have seen some guys that like you wouldn't think they were going to be a 300 pound bodybuilder just by looking at them, you know, but then they start lifting. And I guess that I guess that falls into Andrew's category of, you know, six months later they've got the muscle. So well, let me let me add one more caveat to you. Like they you ask them what they're running and they're like like what do you mean like like running to the gym or on the treadmill? Exactly. And and so you realize, oh, and you're okay, here's a prime example. There was a guy that went to my gym years ago, knowing 100% he's never touched, doesn't even know what PEDs would look like, doesn't know their names or anything. He was pressing 160 pound dumbbells, like like 10 15 reps, like great form on an incline dumbbell press. He was, you guys remember u Javon Kur uh uh a defensive end, nasty football player like like Yeah. I don't even remember what position he played, but he's a defensive. Yeah, but he was in a physique that was a bodybuild like his arm he had like the the clear shoulder arm definition and no body fat and great. Anyway, he was like 6' three, probably 280 with like abs and that that's what this guy was. And he asked me for a little bit of help to he wanted to get over 300 for his he played semi-pro football. And I'm like, "Well, what are you eating?" And he's like, "Well, I get up and um around lunchtime I have a sub sandwich and like a soda." Exactly. And then like I have a bag of chips before I come to the gym and I do a protein shake afterwards. And then I have, you know, like a whatever for dinner, steak or I order something or I get a burger or something. So he's eating like 2,000 calories and he's already 280. And I'm like, "Oh, dude, this is easy. Eat breakfast. Start there, right?" You know, at one meal. And of course, he got he got to 306 just by adding I was like add four eggs, two pieces of toast, and like a glass of juice or something. And he got the 306 in a matter of like two months. You know what I'm saying? Like just the kind of stuff that you and you us we would kill for to be able to have that ease with gaining weight. Uh so that guy had he would have had pro-level genetics if he wanted to do bodybuilding. Hey, how about this one? Um from Terry. He says, "After watching the Detroit Pro and seeing Wesley get knocked for not having strided glutes and not having enough leg size, I find myself completely lost as to how classic physique is judged any different than open bodybuilding. I know that the criteria says uh I know what the criteria says uh but it seems across the board they are judged by the exact same standards. The same is true with women's physique and women's bodybuilding. I'm just using Wesley as an example. The question is, how is classic physique judged any different than open bodybuilding? Well, I mean, first off, classics a look. Like, for instance, Big Ramy couldn't try to hit classic poses, and we wouldn't all just sit here being like, "Oh, that's a great class. He's a he's a classic bodybuilder." Romneyy's a freaking mass monster. You know what I mean? Or Jay Cutler in his prime or Ronnie Coleman. like none of those guys embodied like a classic look. And the classic is kind of the throwback to where the waist is smaller. There's no overdeveloped or blown out body parts. And I'm not saying all open pros have big blown out body parts, but typically the waist lines are a little bit bigger because to be 250, 260, 280 on stage, everything grows. It's just is everything growing proportionally like it is with those guys. That's why they're still able to maintain some aesthetic. But I would say, well, first let me get back to Wesley because I would say that this just wasn't a good look for Wesley. Like Wesley's glutes were striated. He was just super flat and his legs were were were downsized. I think because he was flat and because he'd been going so long. Like remember he did the Olympia and then the Arnold and then he did the Detroit. There's not a lot of downtime. And I think he even said he's he was done for the year because his body's just kind of had enough and it wasn't responding, which would make sense. And he still, the thing is is like it's hard because he looked incredible. Like he still looked in freaking credible and he had such like just great shape, great condition, but yeah, the legs were just not the best. We know his glutes are striated. That's that's the thing. Like he didn't like show up to the Detroit four weeks after the Arnold and like suddenly lose his glutes. Like he was just super fat. Everything was a little downsized. And the other thing is it's about who you're going against, right? And in that particular show, it was him and Matt and and and Matt's, you know, strength is his quads. So, and his hamstrings. Like, he just kind of blew Wesley away from the waist down. So, it would make you think, "Oh, Wesley doesn't have legs." And it's like, well, it's like saying, you know, um, you know, I don't any other random probe next to Big Ramy's legs. Oh, he doesn't have legs. It's like, well, no, he just doesn't have. You put Brandon Curry next to him and all of a sudden like his lower, you know, his legs aren't as great. then they start looking weaker, you know. Exactly. Exact. But Brandon Curry still has some of the top 10 legs in the world argument, right? You know, so the argument there, but but then getting back to the discussion of like classic versus bodybuilding and I wish I honestly wish there wasn't weight classes in classic because to meet classic is a look. It's not about fitting a weight and a versus a height criteria. They do it I think to make it more competitive, make it more challenging. Um I like the weight classes. I like the challenge and I find that people excel with constraints is what I found and and because they impose those limits like just like 212. I love 212. It's what can you pack into what you're allowed? You know what I mean? I I don't know. Maybe part of it's the coach in me, but I I there's I get a little bit of a rush when it comes to making weights and and trying to work within the constraints that you have knowing that even if this other guy's going to be bigger because he's taller, he's got his own set of constraints. You know what I mean? Why not do similar weight classes then to like like the NPC in bodybuilding so that like the cut off is you know 197 and a quarter for light heavy weights and then okay you know what I'm saying so that there's a little bit let me give an example maybe if they did that though they might end up with a lot of guys that don't look classic because they could you know what I mean let me give you a counter that some guys look more classic because they can fill out the right way and I and where I was going with that is I'm a prime example of that me like when I did the Tampa Pro, I had to cut down to under 240. Okay. I had just competed three weeks before that at Yeah, you would be a good example of that. 253, 254. Okay. And I was in I was already in great shape. It wasn't like I needed to lose more body fat, but sucking down that 14 like I didn't eat Wednesday and Thursday or Friday or no, Wednesday and Thursday was the show on whatever. I didn't eat for like two days leading into that show to be and there's just no way I was able to come back from that. no amount of insulin, no amount of carbs, there just wasn't enough time to fill back out. So, it was actually arguably like my worst look in a number of years. Like, I was not happy with the look. Now, if I got to be like 248, okay, that would have been a prime spot for me. I could cut four pounds and be great, you know? Um, yeah, I could see that for you guy like you, I can see how that would be and you would still have that small waist. You'd still have the look. Let me also add about the 212s. Um, just because I I I've seen the pictures of Flex Lewis at 231 and he is every bit as conditioned as he is at 212 and the freaky side like amazing. I mean, I'm talking like check-in uh pictures for his coach type pictures where Oh, yeah. I mean, I'm sitting there with John Meadows and we're having sushi, I think it was up in Maine and he's like, "You want to see something crazy?" And I'm like, "What is it?" He shows me and like I dropped my fork. It was that freaking good. And I'm like, what's he weighing in at? He's already in shape. He's like 231. I'm like, he's got to lose 20 more pounds. Like where? So my point is is that these weight restrictions sometimes hold back the best look that we could possibly see on an athlete, especially in those like open, it's never going to affect you. Take Derek and what we got out of him versus what we saw before once he went to open. You know, I I so I can agree with you. At the same time, I I love it. I And I And I think there is something. It's brought there. I think there's a reason why you don't see fat guys in 212. You know what I mean? You're like, you got to be nails because you know that like you're squeezing in in a lot of cases unless you're, you know, 5 foot zero like some of the best guys are. Well, I think it can help say a handful of people to have a better look where it could go against the look of the rest of the field and basically make the majority of the field maybe far less classic looking. And just to piggyback off of what you said, Andrew, the waist, I completely agree with you, but I don't want to leave out when we're talking about the criteria between classic and open. I also think it's hips, glutes, and adductors because there's just a different look when you get into the legs and the leg development of classic where we don't have those really long meaty adductor. I call it um it's kind of like a posterior chain um impact from all that squatting and kind of you know what I mean where in open you have that and it's okay to have and it's part of the reason I am not as big of a fan of the open bodybuilding now because I think the glutes adductors hips and and the waistline of course from oblique just the midsection it's just too big it's too big for me I don't prefer that low. No, but I I think we all know when we look at open versus classic pros, we can easily distinguish. I I think this person what they're bringing what they're saying is what makes Matt more classic than Wesley, right? Like in a classic lineup, what makes this guy more classic than the other guy? That kind of thing. And a lot of it comes down to posing, how you're shifting the hips, how you're hitting the shots, because there's a lot of throwback shots involved with the classic where open, you only really see those when the guys are doing the routines. Um, I actually I'll say this, presentation is a much bigger factor in the classic ranks than it is in the open. Good point. Open guys walk out, they know they're big, they hit most musculars, they hit muscle shots, right? Whereas classic guys, they hit shots that, for lack of better terms, it's just classic. It's a throwback to, you know, the 70s, 80s, um, you know, Labrada, um, you know, Haney, all those guys hitting some of those great shots that that we loved back in the day. There there were guys at the Arnold that were saying that Mike Somerfeld wasn't classic. They're like, "Oh man, he's bodybuilding. He's bodybuilding. He shouldn't have won, you know." Well, okay. Well, we'll say this though, too. You can be classic and you can also be a really good bodybuilder. Like, you could also do well in bodybuilding because Yeah. All the things that make you great in classics, small waist, wide shoulders, you know, um just just structurally, you tell me that we don't want those in open bodybuilding, too. like Bumstead, best classic guy of all time, goes and does one open show and what do you finish? Um, third or fourth, I think it was. Yeah. I can't remember now. But I mean, who's to say if you gave him a year of diving in and saying, "I'm doing an open bodybuilder. There's no weight class. Would he have risen to the top and maybe gotten to the Olympia as a like like won a won a regular show and gotten to the Olympia as an open bodybuilder? I know he's grandfathered in, but would he have been able?" I do, too. I think he could. Yeah, give him give him a little time, some trend. Yeah, let's do it. Let's do it. I'm all for it. As a matter of fact, I want to see that happen. It'd be good for the sport. I would love to see it. I would love to see it. How about if we went the other way and we took some guys that were like real classic bodybuilders, guys like Cedric, uh, you know, and and, uh, we or or like um Shawn Rhoden, and imagine them less than they were. Would they be as impressive? I wonder if they could fit into classic cuz when I think of guys like that like they still were mass monsters to me but they still looked classic. Do you know what I mean? They they had that thing to your example of Cedric we might have actually seen Cedric get in real shape if there were the weight classes for him. Okay. Yeah. Cuz the knock on him was he was never peel peeled right and if he was forced to be two whatever 248 or whatever it might have been versus 260 that might have been a difference maker and it might have been one of the greatest physiques of all time. Uh, yeah. I got one for you. Who's that? How do you think Flex Wheeler would have been in classic? Amazing. Oh, yeah. Amazing. I think he'd be Mr. Olympia if classic existed back then. Yeah, that's a good point. Yeah. And the only reason I say that is because you said uh you made that comparison of, you know, best physique of all time. I'm like, I don't know. I'm sorry. No, I'm saying best classic physique to date that's been on a classic stage. Yeah, that's what I'm saying. Yeah. Yeah. Um, no. I think, yeah, 100%. I mean, has anybody been more dominant in bodybuilding through all bodybuilding divisions ever than Bumstead? I mean, Arnold, it's just I'm throwing it out there. I Well, Arnold, the argument though would be that his he wrote on his name a little bit because he shouldn't have technically. Yeah. And there wasn't a lot of competitors back there in the day. Clearly, he was, you know, next level. Don't That's the first name that comes to my mind. Sure. No question. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know. I mean, Lee Lee Haney was pretty dominant, right? He was. He was. Um, but that was even during my heyday. I mean, that's when I was getting into it and I knew, you know, I I laugh and say I was like Andrew then. I got one. What? Ronnie Coleman. Well, okay. Wait, wait. How about this? Ronnie Coleman before he started taking drugs. Classic. I'm saying classic. Kind of classic. If if these stories are true, he turned pro before ever taking any real drugs. Maybe took some testosterone or something, right? Just wanted a gym membership. Exactly. I mean, he had a pretty small waist and his posing wasn't great. That's the thing. He really would have had to spend some time posing, working the classic shot. when you're the king. He went out there as soon as he hit the front double. As soon as he turned around, hit the rear double. It's like, okay, who's getting second today, you know? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yep. All right. What else do we have here, guys? Um Doug Myers, he says, "4 years old. Labs pulled after two months into what I thought would put me into TRT ranges, 150 milligrams a week, a test sip, split into two doses, Monday and Thursday. Um this is 24 hours post injection. Estradi is 41 trying to optimize all parameter suggestions. Um what do these results say about my physiology? I don't see his like anything about his test. He's just telling us his estrogen. I think I uh the last text message I sent you has I put those two together because it wasn't big enough to cut. I got you. I got you. He threw some values up there. I think his test is his free test is SHP. Okay, got it. Got it. So, yeah, he's cranking, man. I mean, this test is uh total test is 260 uh 63 and then SHBG is 60 and free test is 422. Okay. So, he took his labs how many hours after he took his injection? 24 hours. Uh, I'm going to say it's probably underground test and it's probably a little overdosed and he probably should have waited at least another full day before he got his labs checked. And I and I'm not one of these people that like, oh, you have to get your labs checked in the trough like when it's going to be at its lowest. I want to know what the what the middle like the the median is, you know, where the where the where and that's why we like to do more frequent injections so that we're not experiencing these, you know, cyclical ups and downs. We want to try to make it more like this. Um, but yeah, I think his test probably a little overdose. It's probably um, and he probably tested a little early. Let's account for that. Let's say his testosterone comes down to if it's a day later 13,400 probably. Um, that's still pretty high for what? 150 milligrams. 150 milligrams. And yeah, that total test is over 2,000. It's 150 milligrams per injection or 150 milligrams total per week. Per week split into two shots. It's pretty good. Yeah, that's pretty good. Pretty good. I don't get those. The only thing that The only thing that looks off to me is the Did you say the SHBG was 60? 60. Yeah. Oh, and it's That's an odd one. And his free test is what? 422. This is a stumper. I Exactly. I thought the same thing. I'm like, maybe he said 16. No, 60. I would expect the H SHBG to be closer to what Skip's saying. 15 16. Yeah. Yes. Even um why is that so high? But also his testosterone and his free test is so high. Something's not His free test is so high. Exactly. It's an it's an odd one. I I'm almost calling lab air. Something's not adding up. Yeah. I Something's a little It wouldn't hurt to test again, right? Yeah. So, if Doug's listening, what I would do is I would I would take your testosterone dose like you did 75 mi on like a Sunday morning and then I wouldn't test until like Tuesday morning at the earliest. Maybe Tuesday midday. Okay. And get those same labs checked and let's let's see what's going on. Did he actually send the lab or did he just send the numbers? He took a screenshot of the labs. Yeah. Oh, yeah. So, it wasn't like a he didn't write it down wrong. Right. Right. We all know that creatine is great for muscle building, but were you aware of its benefits for brain health? Uh, I think it's pronounced creatine. No, it's definitely pronounced creatin. No, it's definitely creatine. I'm positive of it. Yeah, I that's pretty much what I said. Creatin. Creatine. Well, regardless of what you want to call it, creatine plays an important role in brain health. Research demonstrates that your brain needs a significant amount of ATP to perform difficult tasks. Supplementing with creatin will improve phosphocreatin stores, helping your brain produce more ATP. So, if you're not on creatin now, give it a try. Check out true nutrition.com. Use our code think over there. They got all your basic health supplements like creatin, protein powder, everything else you can think of. Use our code think to help support our programming, get some additional savings, and get a great supplement. Yeah, it's definitely creatin. All right, not sure where we're going here. And we're, like I said, guys, we're going to get to the insane set of the week. Um, Adam. So, by the way, guys, the questions that we've been taking here are from the Think Big Facebook group. That's also where we're going to grab the videos from the insane set of the week. People have been asking us where can I post that or how can I get that to you? Post it there. Think big Facebook group. Hey guys, so we posted in this group. I have a question I'm hesitant to hesitant to ask because I think I'm gonna get roasted for it, but here it goes. I've lost over 90 pounds in multiple phases of dieting with diet breaks in between. Often I'll lower fats during the diet phases as low as 30 grams per day and lower with periods of protein and fibrous carbs only. I do the Justin Harris method of only counting added fats since all protein sources are lean and it makes calculating things more simple. Um, always anyways, sorry I was getting kind of sidetracked there. Is that the Justin Harris method or is that just the method for counting protein? Because I do you guys count fats from like chicken and stuff? Lean protein. No, I mean and that's a parallel that Justin and I have for years. So, because I have like a spreadsheet that just like automatically, but it's not like a factor in my head where I'm like if I'm saying add 20 grams of fat today, I'm not like okay, if you if you're using one gram from your chicken. Yeah. No, it's like add 20 grams from peanut butter, add almonds or olive oil or something. So, yeah. Yeah, it's there, but it's like background noise. Really? I Sorry, I got sidetracked. That's a good question because people ask all the time about that kind of stuff. Yeah. Uh, I've noticed uh that when I take a break with added fats, I soon look worse. The more fat I eat, the worse I look. And it certainly seems like my body stores dietary fat as body fat very efficiently. I've noticed significant changes in the mirror from just adding in 30 grams of fat per day. It's just five grams added to each meal. It makes sense to me because fat is the macro most easily converted to body fat. But what puzzles me is that I'm astonished at just how little fat can make such a difference. Keep in mind, I measure weigh everything and I'm not just doing guesswork with the macros or cheating excessively. So, has anybody experienced this or know of people who just stay lean much easier on very low fats? uh maybe those people could get to their three grams of omega fats per day and not really worry about uh needing any more than that. I like to say when clients ask me stuff like this that sometimes your body just like the Lord works in mysterious ways and well well you know what I mean like it's kind of like when someone asks like you know I've been doing everything the same why did I gain a pound today you know and it's like if we were doing labs like twice a day and I could look at what your hormones are doing in the moment and if I could measure your fecal output and measure like all these plethora of other of you know minute variables that add up to some you know amount I could give you an answer but it's just like the trends right it's more more important to look at the trends overall and the trend is telling me what or from from what he's describing is that your body does better with less fat and you probably someone that does really well with carbohydrate refeeds yep did he say the whole time you were reading that I was thinking the same thing I'm like if you're having a problem with then keep the fats low and increase the carbs and see how you respond. But there are other variables too. As an example, if you're going to add five grams of fat per meal and it's oil or you're going to add five grams of fat and it's peanuts or, you know, a nut or peanut butter, you're going to get a lot more calories over time. Not a ton, but you're gonna get more if you go the nut or peanut butter route. Fat as well. Exactly. Exactly. So, the other part is that does need to be mentioned even though this may not be the case. He's lost a bunch of weight. Mhm. So I have to wonder if there's not a negative not feedback loop but negative connotation in his brain psychologically with because he mentioned it. I'm eating fat therefore it's easier to be stored as fat. Yeah. Yeah. That makes me wonder if there's not something there where he's kind of like okay this is what's happening and the scale is not the last word. So if you're gaining from that and it's scale weight, that does not mean, oh, I gained a pound of body fat because the scale is reading a pound heavier. It's not going to be any different when you take in carbohydrates because you're going to be, you know, storing glycogen, which means you're storing more water and and the weight has to go up a little bit, too. So don't consider the scale the last word, number one, and go based more on composition. And if you have a negative relationship psychologically with dietary fat intake um that can that can feed you that can that can feed you. Did he say he was using carbs when during the other portion he was using protein carbs? Was that part of it? Was there I think he was just saying his base diet is is like protein carbs but then when he see when he adds like five grams of fat to to some of his meals. Okay. So he's not removing the carbs. I don't believe so. Okay. Did he flatten out? You know what I mean? and not look, you know what I'm saying? Because then you may not look as good if you guess. Is he is he doing pictures too? Because like what Skip's saying is is he has this negative connotation towards any type of scale weight gain at all. And but are you actually like if you're doing pictures, are you actually feeling your intracellular fat stores and you look fuller, rounder in a good way, but you're kind of overlooking that or you're not even noticing that because you're not doing pictures. you're just looking at that scale and you think it should constantly be going down and if it goes up at all, you're like, "Oh, red flag. This is bad." Right. Yeah. So, yeah, I I would tell them to start taking pictures and and and really start tracking um the same way we do with clients um you know, with their check-ins and and do your own check-ins with yourself and, you know, keep your variables the same and then do another day where you're doing the fats, excuse me, the fats that you're talking about and look at the pictures, you know, see if you look rounder, fuller, um you might even look leaner even though you gained a pound or two. All right, listen. We have a lot of questions, so we can either rapid fire through a bunch of them or we can do one. I'll leave it up to however things go. Uh because we want to make sure we get in the insane set of the week. Um anyone have experience with EPO for endurance? No, I don't. No, it's it's not one of those things that most bodybuilders typically don't want to add in because we're already thickening our blood with the other stuff we're putting in and we don't you know, we've all heard stories. I can't remember what bodybuilder was using EPO like in the '9s I think it was and had a serious um you know hospitalization event because of it. Um I one guy that used it it's a gamble. It was uh one of the bigname coaches that you guys know well had him use it worked with him for all the national level shows and the the idea was to get like a more volumized look on stage was what they were going for. I looked at the literature, like the insert on it, and it actually says that they will test your blood daily. It's usually done in the hospital, IV injection daily, and that they're constantly monitoring to see what's happening with your blood each day before they give you the next injection. So, I I don't know if you're doing your 21-day cycle. I think it's a 21-day cycle. Uh I don't know if you're doing that on your own, though. Are you getting your your hemoglobin checked every day? Because yeah, it from what I understand is it can go from like just viscous to sludge and basically solid, you know, overnight if you're not careful with the next shot. It's just something I wouldn't play with honestly. Not having this would be something I would want like an expert doctor like like Scott's saying like testing you daily. So I just would I would never ask a client to take it. I would never recommend it. Not something I would do myself. How about a segue then or a side question to this then? He said he wanted endurance. What would be our suggestions for endurance? Say carterine SLU. Yeah. Yeah. Carterine SLU. Uh methylene blue. Um I think we're going to find some other compounds are are yielding some like data. I believe it's going to have Yep. Oh, dude. I've had some incredible experience with data as far as endurance goes. I'm not going to run it yet. I'm going to save it for when I'm not on SLU, but I wanted to get a feel for it. And there's some incredible like training cardio stuff going on there for me. Uh the other one um Pico too uh the mushroom blend there's a there's a lot of research uh uh you know a lot of companies sell it's a it's a patented blend of several mushrooms that is excuse me used by a lot of endurance athletes in particular. Uh so yeah how about MK-677 stacked into DECA in test? What's your opinions on adding that in? I was going to say I don't think any of the three of us I know Andrew and myself we're not fans of MK if I'm right but but MK plus deca to me is just like you're going to be a water buffalo yeah um somebody asked where they can get ECA in legally in the US you can get it from the drugstore right yep you just got to bring your ID typically and um you can only buy two boxes at a time bronade or from uh primitine primitine tablets. Yeah. Y I'm trying to get my legs to respond three times a week. Uh three times a week less volume or two times a week with more volume. 61 years old. Uh looking to start competing in classic physique. No restrictions on any movement. Just can't go as heavy or as much anymore. Three times a week is a lot. Oh. He's asking the difference between three times a week. Is he asking whether to do two or three times a week? Yeah. Yeah. Three times a week's rough. I mean, unless you're doing you have any intensity at all. I don't know how you're going to pull that off for very long. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, like, it's one thing we ask, you know, female bikini and wellness competitors to do three days a week with pretty good intensity, but they're also in their 20s, 30s, you know, some of them in their 40s. 60. Hey, man. I I I don't even know if I'll be able to train legs once a week. 60. You know what I'm saying? I'm 55 and I got legs again on Friday and I tell you, I'm feeling them right now and I'm like, "Yeah, I hope they're ready to go." Yeah. So, so let's just say two. Let's start with two buddy. Yeah. I Yeah, I would definitely go two. Yeah. How about this one? Is it two ver two if the options are two or three? Yeah. Uh, is this a suitable strategy? Polling test e 400 milligrams two times a week before the show. Increasing mast P from 400 to 600 and adding in trend at 25 daily giving me low estrogen conversion status. Uh furthermore, Winstro will be added to the regimen 10 days prior. 60-year-old classic physique. Wow, we got all these old classic dudes. How about that's the same guy. That's the same guy who wants to train legs twice a week. Nice try, pal. Let me see. It It is the same guy trying to get the same guy. Yeah, that's good. Okay. Uh, still a good question, but I would rather control the conversion than to eliminate it by eliminating the testosterone. I'd keep the testosterone in there and just make sure it's controlled. But would you run test e or C was it at 400 migs twice a week or would you use a test prop? Oh, I would definitely I didn't catch that. I, you know, I'm A-50-50 guy usually, especially if it's going to be closer to the show. I know that some people aren't. They're like, "Well, you can still control it. You won't have as much volume to inject." Okay, cool. As long as you can control the conversion, I guess. Okay. I would rather go 5050 split. And I'm just not an anth guy. I know sip can be argued that it's not very far off from an anth took two two. Yeah. I can't remember the last time I took an anthe. And you know what? I'll I'll be honest. It's primarily because back in the day there was bad ananthate uh you know in the supply chain and I just got away from it and I think I latched on to sipate and I've just always used siponate and recommended it. I don't know that it wouldn't work well you know 50/50 with prop. I just I'm a sip probe guy. I always use testy. That's interesting. Me too. And I mean, not that it really matters, but my my logic is that it's generally going to be higher dosed. Our gear is nowadays, like 300 versus 200. And that it 300 all day, too, though. But it'll better hold without crashing. That test sip is more likely. I see test sip crashes more than than test. Really? That's Oh, yeah. It does. And that's my Yeah, you guys didn't know that. Had that. Yeah, it's much more susceptible. I can't remember the last time I saw testip. You also live in Florida, so yeah, but our air conditioning is like sick. I walked into the gym today to do cardio. I'm like, who would set this at 67°? My nose was cold. I forget all of it, but I think that has something to do too with why it's dosed at pharmaceutical 200 versus testy is 250, I believe. And I can't remember what it is, but it does. Somebody chime in. Somebody chime in for me on the the, you know, the the comments. some they will explain it I'm sure like our listeners know that stuff but anyway um I don't think there's one question what's that you see you see the question about um using cyclic dextrin and um what was the other thing it's on the list there I don't know I was switching gears I pulled up Facebook to pull up the insane set of the week um to load for a show. Cyclic dextrin. Oh, and um whatchamacallit hydro I got it. Oh yeah. Yeah. Uh has anyone combined cyclic dextrin with liquid uh glycerol for enhanced curb loading? Yeah. So I want to that takes me back. I want Yeah. I want to because I feel Skip because I'll say yes. I have I want to hear Skip's take on this because I know it was a thing for a little while. 20 years ago, maybe 18 years ago. Yeah, it was it was back in the day. Uh Justin could chime in on this. Has some really good stories about gel sludge in your stomach not moving. And I mean it was you know what that was the that was in the prime or in our prime as an industry of just nothing but trial and error. No science to go off really science. There was some was there. Okay. Yeah. I mean, in theory, it makes sense. Theory in theory, but based on the science, it would have made sense. But in actuality, it didn't play out that way. Yeah, it didn't it didn't play out that way. And and I think it played I don't want to speak for him, but if I remember correctly, man, it's a long time ago. It was a hydration issue where there just wasn't enough fluid because we would all cut our Yeah. to get it to move. So, it just ended up I think he explained it as just a giant bowling ball of gel in his stomach that wouldn't I want to say it was uh Steve Kulo. Okay. Wasn't it? I think it was Justin with Steve probably. Yeah. So, at least Steve still got on stage and looked insane. Uh, you know, like whether it was it was me, I'd have been like, "A, this didn't work very well. I got to do this again." Steve was like, "Ah, I'm still killing it. I just have a bowling ball of gel in my stomach at the same time." Yeah. Yep. Yep, that was my experience, too. You look kind of pregnant and yeah, you need to pass something and it's just not not moving. I'm gonna jump over to this hardcore set of the week. Give me just a second here. What's up, guys? I got to jump in uh because I have to apologize. We freaking screwed up with the insane set. So, you guys submitted so many more videos than we thought you were going to and uh I I missed a bunch of them. So, we are coming up with a a better strategy so that we get it right next time. Uh, so we only got a fraction of them on this time. And I, like I said, I apologize. I'm very sorry. Uh, but we're going to come out with a better set of rules to make this thing work. And it's only because you guys blew this up so much. So, thank you. Also too, it's kind of cool because we have people at all levels in the group, you know, and you're inspiring people who are one day hoping to do what you do. So, I love that. I I love the community that we have, and I love the positivity. So, thank you guys for that. And, uh, now we shall carry on with the rest of the show, which, like I said, we kind of effed up on. So, all right, here we go. That guy looks vaguely familiar. Let's see. I think that's Devon. Am I right? See here if I can get this to Yes, it is. Dr. Ggo, he just went down into his first rep here. Is he moving this low or is it um just I like that nice control on the negative. Wow. Yeah, that's Yeah, and those are legs. That's That's a Men's Physique Pro right there. Nice. Yeah, those are good legs, man. I I really hope we can put the bed Men's physique guys don't have muscle. Um Yes. Yes, exactly. Anyone that has never been to a pro show and seen men's pro men's physique, you will feel like you've never stepped foot in a gym being backstage with some of these guys. Okay. No, for sure, man. Like impressive because their waist are also tiny. I haven't counted his reps here. I don't know how far in. So, but I mean, he's been going for a while here. This is we're decent ways into this. And I have my chances because he's a he's a friend of mine. Okay. Uh, and and it was a client. I just messed it up. We got to watch the whole thing again. I can't rewind it either. I can't rewind it either. So now I can count two. But I do like those. I like the control. I like the depth. I like the range of motion. I think it's good. Yeah, there's tension there still at the top. They're very uh each rep looks the same. Yeah. Solid. Solid. You look good. What's that machine there? Who makes that? Elite. Yep. Some type of pendulum. I' never heard of that one. You guys like the pendulum? Love it. I don't go to the gym, so I I don't know anything about it, Andrew. I've never seen one in my life. I take a pendulum over a hack squat all day long. Even though I did build my legs with hack. Blasphemy. Skip. I've got a hack at the house. Really? You You said blasphe. No. Blasphemy. Oh, I thought you said it was blasphemy. Even worse, blasphemy. I I would This is getting hard here. This is getting hard for him. He's got another one. Okay. Okay. It's good set. Good set. Let's see here. So, if I click off this, I can just scroll right on down. This is nice. I like this. This is good. See if I can blow this up a little bit more. Looks like there we go. Yeah, I was going to say you just have to count the plates and you're like, I see the elbow reps. That's Josh. I've got an incline chest press here on the Smith machine with four plates. All right. You got to tell me. This is slowed down, right? Maybe it's what you're seeing. Yeah, maybe it's what you're seeing. Skip. Does it look slowed down to you? It doesn't to me. Okay, then I'll shut up about it. He's awful quick getting off the bench right there. Yeah. Yeah. He's strong, man. He's going to do here. Going to go down to two plates. He goes 43. Oh, it goes 42. Okay. Yeah. When you see those cables on a suspension bridge, that's what he has for tendons. Yeah. He's going to freaking power. The guy's built like a brick [\h__\h] out. Look at those legs on him, too. So, it's funny, and I think I've told him this before. He used to come to the Vermont show and he back in the day, he's getting in excellent shape now. He's completely like he's he's getting in great shape for his shows now, but back in a couple years ago, he just had these massive legs and this huge glutes and we called him Dump Truck. Like, oh man, look at Dump Truck up there. It was always like, man, if that kid can just learn how to get in a little bit better condition, he's going to start really making some damage. And sure enough, last couple years, I dropped it down to a plate. For our audio listeners, we appreciate our audience with us. You ever got hit by a car? It would damage the car. car. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Definitely has that 212, you know, pro. Yeah. Size, shape. That's a good set. That's a good set. And my only critique there is he just needs a tan. That's it. Let's see. Do I need to Okay, I can just scroll. I like this. Wait, who do we got here? Is this Jennifer? Jennifer again. So, Jennifer, you can't win again. She looks incredible right now. Uh Dusty just posted something and uh Dusty sent me a picture of her back. I think they trained together and uh and Peter had posted a a video of her back. Like she's in really good shape right now. So must be doing the the Cutler, which we're Is that what's coming up? Yeah, I think we're 10 days out. I got a couple people doing that myself. Okay. Yeah, she's gonna look good. Are they up there right now or are they down in Florida right now? They went down to Dusty's gym in um Arizona. Uh no. Uh South Carolina. Oh, is that where he is? Yeah. Okay. Yeah, he moved a while. So, there we go. Peter said in his check-in that they were like I can't I never get it right. Are they going up or down? Um yeah, they travel back and forth up to the the home of New Hampshire. Yeah, New Hampshire and Florida going You guys know Peter there. You can see Peter in the video from uh the gun video that we did. He's grown a mullet apparently. He's he's making good progress himself. Um why are the kids growing mullets, Andrew? You telling me you're a little closer to their age by a couple years. I'm closer to you guys' age, though, so I'm not the hairstyle mullet guy. Should we start doing mullets to the younger guys in the live stream? Let us know. Should we grow good when you're over 40? It looks like you hard. Okay. Oh [\h__\h] This a good set. She's still going, by the way, guys, for our audio listeners. I'm like, I thought she was done. No, she's kind of crazy. I think that's what I'm seeing out of this. Now, sure didn't start over. Word to the wise, though. She is 10 days out. Probably the last super hard day you want to have. Yeah. On the on the legs. Yeah. Yeah. I think it started over, but she just barely she got caught in the one. Could it have started over? I don't think this starts over. Maybe I'm wrong. Okay. I think it does actually. Does it? Yeah. Because I mean that rep I don't know how she didn't eat it, but she was she stopped halfway and then was able to finish it. I was like, I can't control this video. She's going to keep going. Well, okay. Maybe you guys are ready. All right. All right. So, who is this? He's got Devin again. Oh, Deon with another entry here on the hack. I think he changed his clothes. It must be a different day. It's got to be. Yeah, exactly. See, those men's physique guys train their legs hard. Hack, squat, widow maker. This was five plates each side for 10. Really nice control. I love the control that he uses in this. Like you can see he's working this hard, you know? Yeah, I'm going to be honest. Everything is going like twice as slow for me. So like everything looks super controlled there. Now I can I can see how fast or I can see how far along we are. There's a there's a long set. Two minute set. I put my client through like a two-minute set the other day. Oh, he said this was after five plates on each side for 10. Nice. You put your client through a long set, Andrew? Yeah. But we did um we did this thing where after we did like single leg leg press and went pretty heavy on that. We went to the leg uh the hack squat one warm-up set and then we started with I started with like a plate on each side and you do five reps and then someone adds a plate. You do five reps, add a plate and you keep going until you can't go anymore. And you try to get like 45 reps total and I think I got up to like five and a half plates. She I think got up to like almost three plates which is pretty crazy. And then you rest for two minutes and then you go back down pulling for five reps. So I can see that. I used to do something like that with leg press where I'd put start with two plates on each side. I'd get 10 constant reps, put another plate on, immediately get back down, get 10 constant reps, put another plate on, and then do that until you can't get 10 constant reps anymore. Yep. And then put two more plates on and rest on each side. Rest for four minutes and then get as many as you can. Yeah, it's like those are great when you don't feel like going super super heavy. Like you're just like ah my joints aren't feeling it. So you go with something super intense that just, you know, is going to blow them up. We got Chris Chris Anderson here on the hack all loaded up. Nice and slow. Twice as slow for Andrew. I think we saw this I think we saw this one last week, didn't we? Did we? It's at the top of the list. Same jersey. He's wearing this. Maybe he wears that every time he does legs. Oh, I think we did. It says March 30th. Yeah. Okay. But we haven't seen this one. Good eye. So, this was new. True squat. Nice. This is good. Okay. Oh, that looks nice. True squats. Man, these are nuts. Yeah, they're Yeah, I like them. All right. True squat or pendulum squats. Skip. Um, pendulum because I don't like how the true squat shakes. It does wobble. It doesn't feel solid, I guess. And if I was moving dusty weight in, no way. I like it because it makes me feel like I'm squatting again. And I do like the shakes because it remind it makes me feel like I'm like rattling the plates. You know what I mean? Yeah. Both. How about that? He's getting nice and deep. Yeah, he really is. Yeah, he is. And And that's not terribly light. Nice control, too. It's getting harder and he's going slower on the negative. That was a beautiful set. Good job there, brother. Who was this? I would say when using this kind of weight, I like to have someone stand there. This is [\h__\h] right? So when I'm done, they can just throw the thing in the the safety latch in and or help me get out. Got Josh Brown again on the squat here. This is from April 6th, so this is the new one. I mean, uh Josh, you're retired, buddy. Yeah. Yeah. Him and Jennifer both. Holy crap. Yeah, no kidding. Holy crap. It's a weight on there. Holy crap, guys. He's sweating basically the whole bar. Boom. Boom. Oh my god, this dude is nuts. Still going, guys. For the audio listeners, we appreciate you hanging with us. He's got seven plates. Yeah. Wow. That was a killer set. Jesus, that was a killer set. Wait, is he not done yet? now. Oh, he's going to do Oh, man. So, guys, he has another rack set up and it looks like he has four plates. Is that four plates? Maybe there's three guys that are not in the screen who are pissed that they can't squat right now cuz Josh is hogging all the Yeah. And all the plates. No one can load the leg press right now. Oh, and he's just pumping out this. It looks like four plates. He's just pumping these reps out. Like, I couldn't start with this right now, guys. You realize that? Like, this couldn't be my best set even not having done anything else first. I don't really. So, I always had to do at least ham curls and some adductors before doing heavy. Oh, yeah. But what I mean is like I'm saying like even without doing the first part, I right now I could not I could not do that second part. You know what I'm saying? I gotcha. Well, can any of us more? We saw a page. Oh, these are from last. Yes. Yes. I think that was it then, guys, because these are all from like March 31st, April 3rd. Here's another new one. This would be new. Oh, it's Josh again. Josh, we've already watched you train for a half hour now, buddy. April 4th. Here's another new one. And this is from James. He's got a deadlift here going off the floor. He's got what does it look like? Four, three, three. I don't know what those other color plates are. I think um but he's looking really clean on this though, right? Yeah. I was thinking the same thing. He looks like he was born to do this movement. Nice. So, he stops after about a good dozen plus reps. And I don't think he's done yet, is he? Because he's holding on to the bar and breathing. Oh, wow. Oh, he's coming back up for one really brutal freaking wrap. That was nice. All right, another April 1st. So, I think we did see Yeah, we saw that Lachland. Yeah, that was a great set. That one was from the last one. Yeah, that was a great set. They did like 118 rounds. April 4th. This would be new. This from Brandon Little. Looks like Brandon got the leg press. Yeah, he's on the leg press here. I leg pressed for the first time in over four years. really the other night. Yeah. How'd it go? Yeah, it's not a lower back friendly movement for me because of intratheal and intraabdominal pressure, but it actually did feel pretty good. I think it might I'm going to use it as a finisher. Okay. For the next few leg workouts just to see. But as a finisher, nice depth here. Do you ever do single leg leg press? Oh yeah. As a main movement. Love it. Because a dead stop. Uh, I did when I was having a lot of knee problem because I wanted that's when I was balancing out strength left to right and it worked. Guys, is he dead stuffing this? Yep. I Mine is not showing, but you're showing. So, all right. Yeah, that's that's a lot of control. Yeah. Yeah, he's dead stopping this. Nice control all the way down. I love the depth on that that leg press. I used to always keep my legs closer and my chest would kind of get in the way. So the range was a lot shorter, you know. You guys ever knock a rib out? Your floating rib on a leg press? Yeah, I haven't. No. Oh, that's always fun. That was a really nice. Yeah, it's not. It's like, yep. I guess that was it. Guess that was it. All right. Well, guys, we have to make a decision here. What stands out? Well, seeing as I was seeing everything in half speed and I don't think I saw the full um benefit, I I think I still got to go with Josh with just the crazy weights he's using. I know. But can we can Josh win again, though? Do we give Josh the prize? We did win last year. That's how I feel. You know, I get boring. This set right here is freaking incredible on its own and then he drops down, but I feel like we need to give other people a chance. You know what I mean? This isn't a participation trophy thing, Scott. This is who had the best. He's just going to clean up every week then. He's a ringer. He's going to have to We're going to have to retire or everyone else has to up their game and bring some good [\h__\h] Eight plates. I'm not saying I'm not saying squat seven, eight plates if that's not what you can do. It's not just But I'm saying like to go from eight plates down or seven plates, sorry, down to what, three or four in the same back to back. So, it was 585 for seven reps and then dropped down to 315 for 12 on the other rack. That's ridiculous. He didn't catch very many breaths before he jumped right back in. No, he just ran right over to that thing. And those are nonlock. I mean, those are just constant. Those are like easy reps, you know what I mean? Those are like warm-up looking reps, like when it's not hard, you know? He's doing the I'd love to deny him, but I don't know if I can't. I can give an honorable mention. Uh, I thought the guy the guy's effort on the dez was great. Yeah. Um, I feel like everybody was good. Yeah, that dead stop on the leg press. It's hard to pick and Yeah. So, if you This was great, too. Like, this this technique on the squat was [\h__\h] incredible, you know? Yeah. Mhm. Like, and I know that was hard. Don't take anything away. Yeah. Take anything away from anybody's effort cuz I mean, these are these are great sets. And Devin had two great exercises in here. Yep. And uh, of course, the winner from last week can't win again. Killing the killing the pendulum as usual. Yeah, I thought Devon looked great here, too. All right, so that's that's that. Does that mean I don't know. Is this the end of the contest, then? Do we stop uh do we because we can't you know, we're not voting. You know what I'm saying? Is it Nobody stood out to me as being like Nobody stood out to me as being bad. You know what I mean? No, that's Well, that's true. No, none of them were bad sets at all. None of them were like not worthy of a mention. But I mean, in my opinion, just I I if someone would have taken four plates on a squat and then done two plates and that and put out the effort that Josh did and he didn't enter the show or the contest or eaten it. Yeah. I would have said that theirs was the best. I just think Yeah. Yeah. The hardest exercise in my opinion was squats and he did two really hard sets back to back without any rest. Like that the the the three plates times 12 was great. The five plates or six whatever seven plates times what is it? Seven or eight. Like, I'll tell you where somebody could have beat him. I just in my my perspective is if someone were squatting and they ate it or they had to dump it. Yeah. Out of failure. I'll give you failure in the squat. I'll give you failure in a squat over Josh's strength because strength is relative. Yeah. So, you know, you wanna you want to beat them, go with those constant reps and just either eat it and to where you have to set it down or you have to you got to bail on it. I'll tell you what, the intensity on that deadlift to me was right up there. He took that last rep on and he had to dig deep. You know what I'm saying? And when he tried that rep, I don't think he knew if he was going to get it or not. You know what I mean? That was a that was a really good set. I would put him right up there. If if we're giving it to Josh, then I would say my honorable mention goes to him, which let me let me find his name again. And I would say this to Josh, bro. Strong as hell, crazy good mechanics, everything's good, the non-stop reps, ain't seen you eat one yet, ain't seen you dump one yet. And and here in his defense, it's awful hard to go to failure with seven points. Yeah. And it's dangerous. It's dangerous. We're not encouraging to do that. Like, of course, game's over. But I am saying that is a level of intensity. Why don't we make a parameter intensity? You got to do 20 reps. Like 20 reps on a squat or a hack squat or a leg press or or or dead whatever you're doing. Yeah. Something that combines both strength and we'll call it an endurance factor of some level. Um so that it's not just like a strength contest, right? And I'm not saying that being wowed by Josh's strength. Well, while I am wild by his strength, I'm saying the the the the set plus the set, one after another. That's what does the intensity of what that takes to do. Yeah. Y All right. Well, it's good. We appreciate everybody tuning in and uh of course go to bodybry.com to reach out to Andrew and team skip.com to reach out to Skip. Hit me up at mcnal diets@gmail.com and of course truenutrition.com. Use our code think over there. I tried a new flavor, Skip. The um what is it called? Cookie butter. You ever had the cookie butter? Okay. Never had the cookie butter, man. It's Maybe I'm just dieting now, but I'm like, why did I not know? But it's new. It may be novel. I I I enjoyed it. It's not on the top of my list, but it's it's different. Not going to get that flavor anywhere else. Can I mention some flavor stuff? Do Do you guys um do you guys eat creamer of rice? Uh no, not very often, but I occasionally. Occasionally. Oh, man. You got to try the the flavored stuff. I work with Elevate Foods and Okay, we just came out with coconut cream and we've got Georgia peach, two different chocolate varieties, um cookie butter, uh what else we got? Apple pie, a few. You got to try them out. Use my code over there. Yeah, berry. It's It's And if you buy five bags, you get 20% off plus free shipping if you use my code. So Okay, nice. It's well worth it. Like I go through like 12 bags a month. It's a lot of cream of rice. And of course, check out supplements.ca. And thank you to everybody from Patreon, guys. Load us up with questions for the next episode on YouTube and on Patreon. And for another episode of Blood, Sweat, and Gear. We'll see you soon. Thank you guys. And thank you for all your positivity and everything. We literally have like the coolest listeners, you know? We really do. We've got great freaking people here. So, thank you to everybody in the stream, too. You guys are freaking cool.