 What's up, what's up guys welcome back to muscle minds with Scott Stevenson, I'm Scott Stevenson, I'm Scott Mcnaley and all of our programming is brought to you by truenutrition.com use our code think over there for 10% off all your orders get some high quality protein, I've been using the cookie butter whey protein, the cold filtered whey protein, that's the one that I've been going with, and of course supplement source.ca for Canadians, Patreon, I think we might have some Patreon stuff for the next show, so we'll circle back around to that. And of course, we'll circle back to that. And of course, we'll circle back to that. And of course, we'll circle back to that. And of course, we're brought to you by Scott's book, BYOBBCoach.com. You can get the hardcover through Scott's link, I'll definitely put that in the description. You have that available through your Instagram too, right? The hardcover. And then it's BYOBBCoach.com for Be Your Own Bodybuilding Coach. You can get the ebook over there. Literally plan your entire year of bodybuilding and beyond with this. We have people who say like, can I get more information, I want to learn how to be a coach or I just want to do this myself. This is literally the route to go. So check that out. Scott, you've got a big thing planned for us today. And first of all, man, I want to say, I just got to watch the last episode again. You know, we did the new study about clenbuterol, the new study about NSAIDs, basically clenbuterol, building lean tissue and NSAIDs being beneficial for muscle gains. That was a good show, man. There was a lot of really good insight in that. And I hope that people can get with that and pick it up, man. There was a lot of good stuff in that. I tell you, I had a, I can just say this now, I don't think I'm going to do it, but I had a fantasy once of being, creating an anonymous website. I even got to URL at some point. I did actually. And I was going to just go and talk about topical issues, you know, like that, those two studies that came out that people were talking about, or, or then just wage criticisms on things that I perceived as bullshit and, and try to do it anonymously. So I didn't get the blowback. Yeah. Yeah. So it could just be, you know, the, the anonymous bodybuilding scientist or whatever. So I wouldn't have people coming out. Cause that's the thing, you know, like you, if you have, you know, ideas that people don't like, then you just get, you can get so much hate. Oh yeah. Well, yeah, that's what those, those studies are so cool to do just cause I, it comes, I see those so many times that people are oversimplifying things sometimes, or just reading the abstract, being an abstract scientist. And I just think, Oh, there's so much more to that. I have so many things. So it's, it's cool. It's fun for me to kind of just let loose and dig in on a study like that and do a podcast like the last one we did. Yeah. So if you guys haven't seen that, definitely check it out. And I know you've got a bunch of plan. This is something today. This is something you've been working on for a little while, isn't it? Yeah. Yeah. It was, it's a topic that, Oh, I've been thinking about for years now. Okay. There've been, there's no, we'll, you'll see once we get into it and I'll just, we might as well just dive in because you'll, you'll know why you'll, you'll know where we're going from the very first slide. So let me share. I think I already have a suspicion from just some things you dropped last, last episode, but we'll, we'll see. Yeah. Yeah, I did. I did tease it last episode. So here we go. So there's this old saying like you can trade hard or you can train long. And the question is, but can you really train really hard for really long? Right. Yeah. So age all seeing like you just, eventually you have to pull back. You need to know when too much is too much. So this, this is kind of a look inside a more formal subtitle would be, does a central governor dictate resistance exercise training adaptations? Or in other words, does the sandbagging muddy, the dose response for the resistance training evoked muscle hypertrophy, for resistance training evoked muscle hypertrophy. And that'll, what that means will, will be clear. We're going to dig on in that. So this is me and this is for us muscle minds, baby, December, 2025. So you've seen this, you remember this, I've used this innumerable times. So this is the idea. I think I brought it up maybe the last podcast when I was teasing here. I'm not sure. I think I pulled this up. You did. Yeah. So this, this is the dose response. As I sort of conceptualize, we have a cumulative dose and that could be set intent. It's a combination of everything that goes into creating the dose. Right. Okay. And you train a little bit, you get some positive response. You train more, you get more response. And then at some point in time, there's some optimal theoretically, hypothetically, and then you start doing more and more. And this is where I think I probably have was at many times throughout my competitive crowd was doing more, still making progress, but it wasn't optimal. Right. Yeah. And then you can have someone who's got excellent recovery. They can maybe weather a higher dose and get a greater adaptive capacity. So this is the brain curries. For instance, we talked about, and you have some people who are maybe closer to the non responder end of the spectrum, right? Who just can't get away. They try to do this much training and they're going to go nowhere. And, and then there would be the situation where you do so much, you decided you're going to do 50 sets of chest for chest per week, what have you. And then you actually regress. You go backwards. And we see that in some studies. So the idea with a dose response in the farm, and I'm no pharmacist or pharmacologist, but that with a dose response or the way this is interpreted in the exercise science literature is that we can look at the number of sets. And of course, effort level make plays a role RPE or reps and reserve, et cetera, et cetera. And that as we continue to up the dose and do more sets and train with more volume, frequency plays a role, which is thinking really now about the idea of volume, that more sets would be more volume and that you would have a dose that's represented as a single set. So with drugs, a unit dose, sorry for the typo, quite exact, right? So you could compare a hundred milligrams versus 200 versus 400 with steroids. We do this to do with aspirin, what have you. And you know that the, the first hundred milligrams is the same as this last hundred milligrams. But the question we have here is, is the dose that comes from the first three sets, the same as the dose that comes from the last three sets. If you're just doing six sets versus if you're trying to do 36 sets in a week. So what dictates this cumulative training dose and its effort, RPE, as I said, the volume, and this is, this is where we're going to kind of dig in here. And important to know in this literature that particular one study and that meta-analysis is that we're talking about what muscles being targeted. So what's, what's been done more recently, this is, I think phenomenal. It's, it's still somewhat of a kind of, kind of waving at the idea is that we can have direct indirect sets. And this allows to have fractional sets. So we want to look at the volume or the dose in terms of volume for a muscle in question, biceps, quadriceps, vastus lateralis, what have you. You can count the number of exercises that are direct versus those are direct. So for instance, for, for biceps, if we wanted to measure, look at biceps growth, you could do biceps curls and each one of those sets would be counted as a direct set. So you get three total sets for bicep curls, but in the studies, oftentimes now rows are then considered to be indirect. So those each set of rows, if you did three sets of rows, would count as a half. Okay. So if you did three and three of biceps and rows, you would get a total of four and a half sets for biceps. Okay. The way that would be added together. So, um, that does definitely muddy the waters because if you're the rolling with the intent to hit your back, well, ideally your biceps should be really getting any stimulus, but of course that happens too. So, but, and it probably is playing some role. So there's, there's some just, uh, to, to make note of that. I think it's important to, to see that. So, um, here is a meta regression that came out in 2024. Um, they looked at fractional weekly set for volume for hypertrophy. So what we see on this x-axis is weekly set volume. And we're talking over 40 sets here per week. And their, their response ratio percent change in muscle size. So they lumped various different measures of muscle size together to get a percent change value here. And, um, each of these little dots represents a different study. Um, and the size and the color of the dots represents the, the number of subjects in the study and the standard deviations of those, of the, of the particular study. So we lump all the studies together.  looking at the number of sets per week, we see this dose response, this is the line of best fit here, if we look just down the middle, and it just keeps on going up to 40 plus, 40 plus, 40 plus sets per week, there is no inverted U phenomenon. So in this particular study, this meta analysis, they had over 60 studies, about 2000 subjects, about 2000 subjects, and 78% of those subjects, they consider those studies involved failure training, they consider those failure training, they consider those failure training, we don't see a clear plateau. There is a law of diminishing returns, things are tapering off, in their findings, if you went beyond 43 sets per week, there was an unclear benefit, so that would be like, okay, you don't know if more is better. But we definitely don't see things turning around and going down, there's no inverted U, and the highest volumes don't have a negative impact on muscle growth. So I'll just ask you, Scott, like, how does that set with you? Like, to think, okay, you might as well just do 40 sets per week, because it's not going to hurt you. Yeah. Does it seem excessive, or does it seem like, okay, more is better, pretty much? I mean, just based off of this, more is better, but based off the real world experience, you know, we know that there's a point where it just stops. That said, I feel like all of us have tried it, right? Like, you know, if I'm doing 10 sets for chest, and my chest needs to grow more than everything else, then why don't I add in another full workout? Why don't I do 20 sets of chest? Like, we've all tried it. And to a degree, it can work for a while, but that might be a whole other conversation. Yeah, there's lots of limitations here. This is the nature of these studies, where they're like average, like 10 weeks, and links, a lot of 8-week and 12-week studies, those sorts of things. Yeah. Mostly resistant strain. I think it was like 60 and 40 or something like that, 65, 35, if I recall. There's also a lot of variability here. Like, you've got, we've got these studies up here. Okay. You know, this study, I think mathematically, or these two, this study mathematically is at least equivalent to the greatest relative change in muscle size, and this was 12 sets. Okay. Right? Yeah. But we still see overall this idea, and this is where this notion that used to be just thrown around all over the place, but that volume is the driver of muscle hypertrophy. And it's substantiated by these data here in this way. So I want to kind of dig in on what the hell's going on here. So, again, this is fractional volume. It muddies the picture. And what you said, ecological validity. Can most folks train this hard for so many sets and not experience some diminished progress, apparently some, meaning that progress is not optimal or even then regress? So why does this curve not start to do that? Yeah. That's the question that I have and that I've been brought up innumerable times here on the podcast. So the thing that occurs to me is, like, what's happening to effort per set at these higher volumes? Is the dose per set when you're past 20 sets per week as high as the dose per set when you're only doing 12 sets per week? It can't be. Well, that's kind of my thought here, and I figured maybe we can see what the science has to say about this. Okay. So let's see what my – we froze. There we go. So is the dose per set the same as the high versus low volume? This, by the way – so this is – like, what would this curve look like? Is this where we have to go? Like, do we have to get to, like, 80 sets per week before we don't make any progress? Yeah. Yeah. And this just shows you the relative distribution of their studies in this particular data set. Like I said, 78% or something like that were taken to failure. There were some that were mixed. There was failure and non-failure, and then a very small percentage were non-failure. So they had no failure sets. But in large part, we're talking about failure training in these studies. So here's the other interesting – this is from the same study. This – here they showed the strength gains. Again, weekly set volume up to, like, 30, so we didn't quite code so far out. It's a little bit different data set. They don't always measure strength. They measure hypertrophy and vice versa. And the curve looks quite different, right? It plateaus off. Yeah. And you – we were talking about some study a few weeks ago, and there were some weird findings regarding strength. And you're like, like, huh, that's kind of strange. And I said, it doesn't surprise me at all. And I'll explain why in a second here. But this curve is very, very different than the curve we saw for muscle growth. Yeah. In fact, there was marginal gain in strength after five sets per week. So whereas hypertrophy is just – is going up like that, roughly. I don't know if this response ratio is the same, but you get the idea. The curve is shaped differently. I'm not going to go back and mess up the slides. But after about five sets per week, there's no increase in strength, which typically is a one rep max or the peak torque, depending on how you're training. Sometimes they even measure torque on a dynamometer when you've trained on with free weights. But typically, it's maximal force production. So this really isn't a skill that's part of the training per se. When they're doing progressive overload, they're looking at the logbook, so to speak. They're looking at the previous training performance, and they're adjusting the loads based on reps performed. They're not doing a one rep max test throughout the training. So it's not something that gets tested. My question is, like, why not publish this result? Like, what happened during – with the training loads and the training reps? It's just been like it's a traditional thing. I think we really need a paradigm shift because just back in the day, everyone would just measure strength. It was just your typical outcome. And I think more and more it's more relevant as to what happened during the training, which was progressive overload oriented. Given we're believing that progressive overload is what would drive muscle hypertrophy, what happened to the training weights? Because a one rep max doesn't tell you necessarily so much what happened in training, and it certainly doesn't seem to reflect what happens in terms of muscle growth. Because after five sets per week, you're not getting any really return on your investment in terms of one rep max. So this is really kind of a central phenomenon. There's a study where they did squat training, which presumably created muscle hypertrophy. And when they tested knee extensions, they increased the size of the quads with squat training. When they tested knee extension strength, there was nothing. Quads bigger, no increase in strength, but they didn't do knee extensions in that particular – in the Pithera study. There are other studies that have shown a dose response for muscle hypertrophy, but not for strength, which is kind of like this, what we're seeing here. Hypertrophy will go up, and strength won't. And there's also a study where they practice a one rep max for, I think, 21 days in a row. Train one arm just doing one rep maxes. Train the other arm doing bicep curls, regular training, three times a week, I think, three sets, something like that. Which increased muscle size. And the changes in the one rep max were the same. Just by practicing one rep max, you can get stronger by doing one rep maxes. So – but there's something going on here which suggests that one rep max training or max effort tests are a central phenomenon. This is – it's a skill that gets learned. If you don't train with that exercise, you don't get stronger in the exercise. You can just train for maximal strength, and it won't reflect what's going on with hypertrophy. But it doesn't really reflect necessarily what's going on in the training per se because it's a separate skill. Even though it tends to increase up to five sets per week, here we still get an adaptation, and it's not reflected in strength gains. Yeah. So there's something interesting going on here. So – hold on. I've got to move this thing out of the way. Okay. So there are some studies that show a different kind of dynamic where strength – with increased training volume, you get greater strength gains. And some of them – this is the – this is the meta-analysis here that shows what's going on if you lump all these studies together. But sometimes you do see with more sets greater volume, greater strength. And I wonder if there's a – and this seems to be potentially lab-dependent. A one-rep max is a different mindset than just getting under a load that you're going to pick up 12 to 15 times or 10 to 12 times. Yeah. So as an example, you can stand there as the neutral observer with your clipboard and say, okay, here we go. I'm ready. And you just watch. You don't say anything. Or you can get in that subject's face, everyone, and these are all the people that have pushed you throughout your training. And you say, come on. You got it. You got it. You got it. And then you can get a greater strength gain. And imagine you've got a scenario, just generically, where you've got one group.  The other group that spends an hour and a half, they lower volume with the experimenters, with the researchers and the other group spends three hours because they have a greater training volume. And so they spend more time with those researchers. Then you go in and do a do a strength test. Who's going to probably have the stronger dynamic with those subjects or with those researchers? The guys who trained just one and a half hours a week or the one who spent three hours a week? And we're with them for many more sets. And we're with them for many more sets. So there's a potentially some psychological phenomena that are involved here with strength testing because it doesn't seem to seem to seem to fit with the hypertrophy data. So some alternative way to look at what might be going on. So I'm going to just totally switch gears. I'm going to play the devil's advocate. I'm going to play my advocate, so to speak. And check. even if not a one rep max, also manifests to some degree beyond just five sets? What's going on at – sorry? Oh, I just – yeah, you would think. So what's going on after five sets? So what if at higher volumes effort becomes progressively less when you start doing 15, 20, 30 plus sets per week? Yeah. So a max effort is a one rep max. Strength is a maximal effort. What if maximal effort becomes progressively less the more sets you're trying to do? As if you're pacing yourself or you're sandbagging because you want to get through everything you've got to do. So maybe this practice affects transference from high effort sets thus diminishes, so you get minimal strength gains after five sets. Again, I ask the question of what about the volume – sorry, what about strength versus the weight used in training? So we've got sets and the weight that – a lot of ways to look at this. So what's going on in terms of the strength in the gym with multi – the rep max strength? What's going on with the training loads? We don't see those data. And then it just has a kind of interesting thought like what's going on here? If you just kind of look up top, we have all of these interesting – like look at this one. Look at this sucker here. Only five sets per week it looks like for this particular study, and this was a massive strength gain. And look at this one. So supposedly – I don't know which studies these were, but let's say that they were both failure training, right? Okay. And this person's – this group, they're doing 30-plus sets per week, some of which could be for the exercise. You don't know exactly what's going on because they were lumping things together, so you can't tease these out. These guys can because they have the original data set. I looked for it this morning, but it was corrupted, so I couldn't download it. But what's going on here? Five sets? Yeah. If you only got five sets per week, you're going to go all out. Yeah. That's going to increase strength more so than, okay, I got to do 32 sets this week. I think I'm going to pace myself a little bit, potentially. So what about overtraining? How can you even overtrain? Like, is it – if we look at the far end of this dose response, like, can you even do that? Like, how difficult is that? I've done it one time where I was just totally royally screwed myself, and that led to me developing fortitude training, and I kind of document that in the book. So there's an interesting review from 2020, overtraining resistance exercise, an exploratory systematic review and methodological appraisal literature. And I've talked about these terminologies, this terminology before, but this is one place where I've derived these topic or these terms. We've got functional overreaching, so you create some performance deficit of some point, so your training starts to turn around, go the wrong direction. And then you have a performance improvement, so it's considered functional. You have nonfunctional overreaching, so you get this performance deficit, and you have kind of a maladaptation going on in there, and then you have no performance improvement. So you just pushed it too far. And then you have outright overtraining. You have a prolonged performance deficit with slow recovery. This is an ideal situation if you want to kind of have a rebound. It's a functional overreaching phenomenon. There's a little bit of an art form to that. Good coaches can do that, right? This is what a taper is about, potentially. But if you push it too hard, it's nonfunctional. You just flat out overtraining, and then you're screwed for a long period of time. So they looked at 22 studies. In 12 studies, they were able to actually produce a performance decrement, and only eight of those followed recovery after the overtraining period. So this is not like a highly explored area of research. But of those 22 studies, in 10 of those studies, they couldn't even induce a performance decrement. So when the objective was to evoke overtraining, regression training, or in our case, it would be stagnation of muscle growth, even in the studies, when that's what they're trying to do, you can't get people to overtrain. You can't – people will not push themselves that hard. And these are – a lot of these studies were well-trained athletes. Okay. So thinking about what happens when you've got a tremendous challenge set out before you in terms of X number of sets per week, will you see this inverted U start to turn around? Well, people don't want to go backwards. Something will govern them, so to speak. So even with this imperative to overtrain, the idea is like, do this. We want you to train this hard. They set this whole study up to make you overtrain or to at least have a performance decrement. It doesn't happen. So this kind of supports the idea that there's some sort of a governor, a break, a central governor. This I'll talk about in the next slide. So this is different than if we're in a study where the intention is to progress with a fixed training plan. So in the one studies where the overtraining is like, okay, we're going to do this, train this hard, push this far, do this, that, and the other. We're going to really try to overtrain you, and you can barely get people to do it. Whereas in a training study that's going to last 12 weeks, you know how many sets you're going to do. You've got a plan set out for you. The idea is if you want to get paid, let's say, if you want to get the reward, or at least that's the task at hand, make it through these 12 weeks. Show up at least 90% of the time. You need to do this, X number of sets to failure or to reps and reserve or what have you. Those are different phenomena, right? So we can't even get people overtrained in the first place. And then what if you say, okay, we want you to make it through 12 weeks and train just as hard as you possibly can. Pacing yourself, if need be, would totally make sense. So that's where this idea Tim Noakes has come up with, which I really like, is that we have a central governor. So the question that we're getting at here is whether more sets are more difficult. So if I said, Scott, just before we even get into the data here, would you say 10 sets to failure is easier or harder than 20 sets to failure? I'd say 10 sets is easier. Okay. Okay. It seems pretty clear. So let's take a look at what the research would say here. Well, there's an interesting thing. Like this central governor idea is kind of cool. So in this figure, the idea is that we have sensory feedback from the body, muscle soreness, thirst, how hot you're getting, various other physiological related phenomena here. And folks can look, pause and look at this if they want. And I can send the paper if someone wants it. And then we have a lot of centrally acting performance modifiers. So things up in the brain that dictate what we can actually do that potentially hold us back. So the idea is, in our context with this dose response notion, is there a central government work? Are effort levels psychologically limited? And if they're limited acutely, what does this mean for long-term loading during a training program? We're trying to get muscle growth to happen. So we're going to have mental fatigue that accumulates over the course of many weeks or just over the course of a long bout, a long set, right? Sure. Of course, there's going to be some physiological fatigue too. You may have trained so hard that you have a hard time sleeping. That is something – sleep deprivation, for instance, will affect.  even though you've, even though you've rested, you haven't been done any extra exercise, simply being sleep deprived, simply being sleep deprived, has a central effect of course, and that will limit exercise performance. Level of motivation and degree of self belief plays a role here too. So if you come into a study, and people, there'll be some people just drop out, well, then they don't show up in the data, right? Okay. So it's the people who have the data, right? You're so if they're back, and people have to cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá cá There's the potential that if you don't think you can do it, you just won't. Yeah. And that's been documented in the research literature. Monetary reward makes a difference, too. Some people will, if you pay someone, you can get a greater performance out of them, right? And if there's negative consequences, too, socially, some people will be more motivated. John Meadows used to say one of the things that motivated him to get in shape was that he didn't want to disappoint anybody. Okay. But some people, they don't care. You're going in this lab, they don't know you. Why should I just push myself into oblivion for these people that I'll never see again? Yeah. So the lab dynamics, I mentioned this before. So you have some labs where they push you through the workout and some labs where they don't. Presidents of competitors' knowledge of endpoint, this is an interesting one, too. This happens, and this isn't generally applied, but it suggests that there's a limitation to performance. Tom Platz used to do this all the time. He'd have someone doing, and he does it with John Meadows, actually. There's a video of them doing those sissy squats that he did on the hack squat. Uh-huh. And he had John go until you think, okay, that's a pretty good set, and then he'd say, give me five more. Yeah. After he thought he was done. Yeah. So if you just know, and this is a way of manipulating the endpoint, it's like, okay, I just got to do five more. I can do five more. So they do five more. And then he does five more again. He does five more again. And next thing you know, he did 30 reps as opposed to the 20 that he would have done if he didn't continually put the carrot, dangle the carrot further out. They don't do that in research studies. Or maybe they do if they say, come on, keep going, you got it, you got it, you got it. So that will make a difference as to whether someone's willing to push when they're trying to do 40 sets per week. And then we have placebos, which you talked about a good time before. There is also, and this is a variable, but there's also Rosenthal effects and Hawthorne effects. So Rosenthal effects are effects where the experimenters know or have some expectancy about how you should be doing. So that could potentially vary. If the experimenters think, let's say you're the lab, you're the grad student, and it's your job to run these guys through this ringer, and you're thinking, man, I got to, like, this is crazy. I don't know if I could even do this workout this way. So they have an expectancy as to what performances are actually reasonable. They don't expect you to be just Tom Platz on the knee extension machines screaming, kill me, kill me, kill me, right? They have an expectancy as to how well you should be able to perform, and you're beholden to that. That's a Rosenthal effect. The Hawthorne effect can be variable as well. If people know they're being watched, they will act differently, right? So if they know that someone is there pushing them, they'll act differently. So this is all just substantiating this idea of a central governor. Yeah. I've used that, by the way, the knowing you're being watched. I've used to work out with other people because I used to train with my clients, and I wanted to set a good example. But then I rediscovered it knowing, like, hey, I'm shooting this video, and I'm going to put it on social media. So I damn well better make sure I give everything I've got. Those sets are always good, right? Yeah. You don't just go through a set. Right. You can give accurate or deceptive conscious feedback. So I don't even know if this is ethical in a study, but if someone is moving along and you just say, okay, we're going to stay at 120 pounds. And, I mean, this would be one thing you could do to drive people further is don't let them see where you put the pin on the stack, or don't let them know how much weight's on the bar. Okay. You should say this is the weight. Okay. This is what you should get for 10 reps, right? And you're thinking, ah, maybe they're sandbagging a little bit. So you add an extra 10 pounds and don't tell them about it, right? You deceive them intentionally, right? You can do this in various ways in different experimental situations. But that suggests, too, that there's a limiting. You can do this when you're training somebody. Like you throw an extra five on the bar, and they're just sitting on the bench. You throw the fives on. They don't know what's there. They think, oh, you got 185. It's really 195, right? And they get the reps that they were expecting to get with 185, even though it was 195. You deceive them. And their performance, it matched what they expected that they could do. Yeah. So there's also a phenomenon, the rate of increase in RPE predicts exercise duration. So how fast your RPE goes up will dictate what kind of performance you can actually have. So where your RPE is at, how hard things are will dictate what your performance is. And the idea here that we see potentially in the long run is that people may have – what you see happen is that – and this also fits with how long about is. Acutely, someone's doing a cycling effort. And they know that they're going to go 20 kilometers or 30 kilometers. And they know where – what they pace themselves throughout those 30 kilometers. And then they have a burst at the end, right? If you tell them – and this would be a deceptive thing – we're just going to go 20 kilometers. And they would do that 20 kilometers at a given RPE because they know they can hang in there for 20 kilometers. And then you say, let's just do 10 kilometers more. So there's actually a study we'll go through where this sort of happened in terms of RPE. At the end, there was sort of an increase in RPE in the last couple weeks. It could have been because they were getting bogged down or could have been because they just like, okay, I got it. It's like that final mile of the marathon where people really push. And performance can be better when you compare telling them it's 30 kilometers versus doing 20 kilometers and then adding 10 on there. They go harder for those first 20 kilometers. And then the extra 10 kilometers, they know, okay, I only got 10 kilometers more. Overall, their performance is better. They're faster. So in the long bout, it's like, okay, let's say I know I got to do 10 sets three times a week. We're doing 30 sets per week for 12 weeks, right? And all of those are to failure. If I only got to do this for two weeks, I can make that. I can do that. But if I got to do this for 12 weeks, eh, I'm going to fix myself a little bit. I'm going to hold back because they know that it's there. So anyway, there's a lot to say for this idea of a central governor. So if set effort is identical to failure, for instance, are higher volume workouts perceived as more difficult? You said, you know, you expect 20 sets to failure is harder than 10 sets. Or interestingly enough, does a central governor limit how hard people will simply train? Do they hold themselves back? Which makes total sense. Based on the central government, yes, it would. In other words, does RPE display a ceiling effect? Does RPE or perceptual measures max out with lower volume, for instance? Or is there some sort of pacing that's going on or conserved effort? Or in other words, is RPE governed around some maximum, regardless of increasing training volume? Because you only go so hard and then you're not willing to go harder. You're not willing to push yourself towards the point of non-functional overreaching and then eventually into overtraining, which suggests, the data suggests, it's a very difficult thing to do. So here's a Borg RPE scale, just for folks who don't know. I stole this. Here's the cleaned up one from a study. You'll see it this way sometimes. Here's from Borg's original paper. So basically you ask people, we can do this during a set or after a set or after a session. Like, what was your rating of perceived exertion for that effort that you just underwent? So the set or the whole workout. And so zero is like, well, that wasn't effortful at all. You know, a three would be as a moderate. ! steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps steps exercise, two months rest in between. These were resistance training, trained individuals, one year plus, 25-year-old men. They did two sets of squat, chest press, deadlift, bent over row, and Romanian deadlift. Two reps in reserve on this set. So they compared three intensities, 55% of one rep max, 70% one rep max, and 85% of one rep max. So what that meant was that both the relative load and the volume varied here. So it's not pure changes in volume. Same number of sets, but more reps basically. And what we see is that session RPE correlated strongly with the volume load. So the lowest volume here was 85%, one rep max. This is the volume load, 8,300 kilos. RPE, I think this is the session RPE, so they evaluated the entire session was 6.2. At 70%, their volume was 10.5, 1,000 kilos. RPE was 6.9, a little bit higher. And with the higher volume at 55% of one rep max, so more weight lifted, the RPE was 8. It's getting up there. So there was a correlation between volume and RPE, kind of what we'd expect, 20 sets versus 10 sets. In this case, they're using volume load, just the amount of weight you've lifted. So the weight times the reps. Sorry for all the lines here. So here's another study. Lodo et al., this is kind of a cool one. This is chest bench press exercise. Not highly trained, six plus months of resistance training experience, 28 year old. But all the sets were to failure, to a rep maximum failure. And the TVLL is the total volume of load lifted. So the same notion, same idea. So these are the data here. They had, in experiment one, three different workouts they compared. They had a strength oriented, so four rep max sets, 10 of those were three minutes reps, rest. They had an eight rep max, hypertrophy oriented, so eight sets of eight, two minutes rest. And then they had endurance oriented, four sets of 20, one minute rest. So what that meant then is that if you looked at the volume of training, there are about 2200 roughly here for the strength hypertrophy conditions. So the, these first two, and then endurance was lesser volume in the four by 20 scenario. So that's what depicted there. And then experiment two, they intentionally shifted the percentage of one rep max that they use. So the load that was lifted and kept the volume, the same, all the sets were to failure. And then they, they randomized the order that they did this, but there had to be in order to match the volume, they did one set that was just an X number of reps to get to match the volume to what they'd done in the previous condition. So they wanted to match the, the volume and, and you can see for both the 50%, so the lighter load and the 75%. This is about an eight rep max right here at 75% for a bench press. It was the same, right? This is also 4000 kilograms. Here was 2000 kilograms. So this was a high, the experiment to these were higher volume training sessions. So let me get all this together. So here's some of the data. I have some better plots to show you. So in this study, the Lodo et al volume and load volume, load and RP correlated across the subject, across the various conditions. So lower volume is associated with lower RPE and vice versa. This is an acute experiment with lower set numbers, one and done, right? In the Lodo et al. And the RPE seemed to top out around seven to eight. So in the strength, hypertrophy and endurance, we had an RP from range from six and it was up about seven and a half or eight. The session RPE. So this is the set RPE. This is the session RPE five and a half. How hard was the whole session? Five and a half for the lower volume one, the higher volume one, seven, seven and a half, right? And then when they doubled the volume, so this training volume here was about almost twice what it was and 70, 80% more. They still had only had a session RP of about seven and a half, 7.7. Okay. So a little bit higher. So, so I mean, they were actually at an eight here. Oh, yeah. So this was like, this was about 2,150 kilograms. Okay. And these were 3,700. So 80%, 70, 80% more. Seven at, at 2,200 kilograms, this volume, we're at an RPE of 7.5 to eight. Yeah. At nearly, not quite twice, but 70% more. Our session RPE is at about a seven and a half to eight. Okay. 7.7 is really no different. Yeah, it's the same. Basically the same. So we've already done these comparisons here. So it looks like the dose response is topping out at around eight, also around eight sets, regardless of volume. Okay. Okay. So I got a plot here to show you guys. So this is from the Lodo at our study. How can I get rid of this stuff? I will leave it there. So this shows the, the, the five different conditions they had, the two experiments. And this is my line of fit. I plotted this data myself in this. So this is the volume load, right? And this would happen to RPE. It basically just plateaued off. And this was around eight sets here for the hypertrophy, eight sets of eight RPE max. I got another plot. And then I combined the study, the Gennar and Wetson study from previously, where they were doing 15 sets total. This was the full body training. Okay. Right. And where they had higher loads here. So this, we're up in the 8,000 kilograms. I combined those two studies together. These are acute studies. Basically, you just got to do each one of these bouts one time. Give us all you got. And the one in the second study was rep maxes. This one was not rep max. These were two reps reserve, I believe. We see this. This is kind of like my line of best fit. And the 15 sets, we're still not getting any higher RPE than down here around eight sets. So volume is basically increasing. We don't have a whole lot of lower volume stuff, but it's increasing RPE. So how hard these sessions feel. And then basically, you can do more, but you just hop out. So this tells me that the effort, perception of effort, reflecting the amount of effort that's put in, doesn't go up when you do higher volume. You're governing yourself. There's a central governor. This is my interpretation. There's one possibility that there's some central governor that keeps people from pushing beyond about a seven and a half or eight RPE. Yeah. I mean, if someone told me we're going to do 15 sets, all the failure, this wasn't a failure, but let's say, let's just come up with, I'm going to do 20 sets, all the failure for the full body. Eventually you think, oh, this is going to have to get close to a nine or 10. Yeah. You would think one would think, but that's not how people rate this. Huh? So it's interesting. So this is just, I'm sorry. This is our, our strength curve here. And I talked about the alternative interpretation of our, the meta analysis for strength, where it topped out at about five sets per week. It's about eight sets per week, where RPE, at least from this, it's very limited data set, but somewhere eight, 10 sets, RPE isn't going any higher. And somewhere in the meta analysis around five sets, you're not getting any stronger. If we take all the studies. So if maybe effort is being metered here, it's being held back. And if effort during training with eight, 10 rep sets or whatever is the thing that is closest to a maximal effort test, like a one rep max, then if effort goes down, once you get beyond five sets or eight to 10 sets, it would make sense that you don't get any stronger when you do that many sets because your effort is going down. Yeah. The one rep max tests maximal effort. So the question is where there was there pacing going on? Was there some sort of sandbagging pacing going on here? This is just a cute, this is a singular study. So, um, so now we have, this is the study that just came out that sort of got me say, okay, I'm going to put this into a PowerPoint presentation. Let's take a look at this. So they, this was, um, uh, this, they had a, uh, um, a study that just came out now looking at the psychophysiological responses. So RPE, they have another, um, another measure we'll get into in just a second, but the study published previously that was, was, um, talked about a lot online. You may have missed this, but it was kind of a big deal because they did a lot of training.  So, they trained either, they're at workouts with either six to eight reps or 10 to 12 reps or 10 to 12 reps with two reps with two reps, and reserve until the last set of an exercise, until the last set of an exercise, which is a failure. So they were training a failure. So they were training a failure in some of these. These were the exercises, all lower body stuff, squat, leg press, knee extension, remaining deadlift, knee flexion. And this was, you may remember this stuff, it may ring a bell, maybe not, but they had a consistent volume group that started off with 22 sets per week using these exercises. And then they had another group that increased by four sets their training volume every two weeks. throughout the 12 weeks, throughout the 12 weeks, throughout the 12 weeks, throughout the 12 weeks, throughout the 12 weeks, throughout the 12 week program. And the other group, and the other group, bumped it up by six sets per week, every two weeks. Six more sets. Six more sets. Six more sets. And they, so they, they, they progressively increased the volume over the course of the training. So it wasn't, they started off with higher volumes and maintain them, but they progressively increased them in the four set group and the six set group. Okay. So they ended with 22, 42, and 52 sets per week. Yeah. For a lower, for the, basically, for the thighs. And these are guys that can squat 300 pounds. Yeah. At a body weight of 176. So they're strong dudes. Right. Um, so if, uh, his example would be, um, this was, uh, they would do, um, let's see if we can read, make sure I make sense of this. Oh, so the weekly, if, if you were in the CG group for these three exercises only, this isn't the whole workout, but they would have done eight sets of squats, eight sets of leg press, and six sets of knee extension for the quads. And they would do that. That was all the 12 weeks of training in the four set group. They would have done 14 sets of squats, um, 14 leg press and 14 knee extension by time they got to the end. And in the six set group in the last two weeks, I believe, um, 18 sets of squats per week, 18 sets of leg press, 16 sets of knee extension. So the volume got pretty dang high, right? Um, this is, we can go through this. If I have this, this is just their basically the, how they strategize the whole, whole thing, but they did a nice job with, they made some baseline measurements. They had them reduce their volume from their previous sets. Um, and then they familiarize them for a little while and then they had them train. So they tried to even them out, so to speak, before they started the training regimen. Cause you would have some people that were, if you just bring them right in, this is a problem with, with studies. People are doing various different training regimes. And they may be very close to overreaching or even over training when they enter your study. And then what happens during the study will reflect their previous training state. Sure. So, or vice versa. So they tried to, tried to, um, account for that with this, um, volume reduction familiarization period to try to get them on this, on the same, uh, playing field, so to speak, in terms of recovery status. So, um, here, oh, sorry about, I'm missing. There's the figure. Sorry. Okay. Put this in backwards, but so this is what happened in the CG, the, the four set, the, the continuous, the four set and the six set group, their strength actually was higher. The more volume they did. This is the squat run rate max. Okay. So they saw a dose response in terms of strength. Cool. Right. Again, this is not what we see in this overall in that meta analysis, but this was an example of where that actually happened. Okay. Okay. And there, I, I've mentioned these things before, but hypertrophy doesn't necessarily mean strength. Um, there's a, you can have the other thing happen. You can have a one, one, a dose response for hypertrophy, but not strength as in the meta analysis or in this Schoenfeld study that I, that I've got cited here. That was a really, um, well talked about study. Um, we'll go ahead and go into all that, but people who are paying attention will know that Schoenfeld study from 2019 was really big because they did like 45 sets, um, for the quads per week. And they saw hypertrophy was a dose response, but it didn't happen with strength. So here we have a strength dose response. Um, unlike this other study, which was quite similar. So we've gone through all of this. Oops. So here's what happened. In the vastus lateralis size. Um, here is muscle thickness. I have a muscle volume. It's going to come up for me. There it is. Muscle cross sectionary. Sorry. So here's the, it sort of looks like a dose response for muscle cross sectionary in the vastus lateralis muscle thickness, but this was not significant. There was too much variability. So there were no significant differences here. Okay. They did not get more muscle growth with higher volume in this particular study. So just shows you how variable things are. I'm not trying to be confusing here because this is, does not match the meta analysis per se. It kind of is the opposite of what the meta analysis suggests really. Yeah. Um, but this was a study that people were suggesting that they, that they didn't pay attention to stats, that there was a dose response, that all those sets, were better mathematically. Yes. But statistically not really. Um, so why was the training performance, um, or was training performance better? And why was the strength performance better? Um, was there a practice effect going on here? Were there Rosenthal effects or Hawthorne effects going on with these subjects? So the experimenters expected that they could continue to get stronger. They set up the program. So you would think that they would expect that. And maybe these guys rose to the occasion. They were already pretty fit and pretty strong. This might be the type of subject that would, would go all in and get stronger, the more volume that they do. Okay. But there's variable responses here. So these are the different groups, the pre and post measures, um, for the vastus lateralis cross sectional. You've still got folks, the lowest volume group who actually regressed. Um, and here's one for the highest volume group. So it's not the same for everybody. And that's just the point I like to make. Um, but these, these are just averages here. And this is the, these are distribution curves. So here we, now we're coming to the big, big shot. So what happened in terms of how hard they perceive the psychophysiological responses to this training? 22 sets per week all the way through or ending up at like 42 or 52, where they increase the volume. You would think 20 sets is harder than 10 or 52 sets is harder than 22, right? Um, there were no disc group group differences across the weeks of training in terms of RPE. So here are the fixed set four set six set. They use different acronyms for the second publication. This is the CC, the four SG and the six SG. They just, okay, they just decided, but this basically shows you the session rep maximum RPE, sorry, RPE, um, over the course of the study. There was no differences by group training with higher volume, um, did not affect their perception of effort when they were asked how hard was that training session. And guess what? We're hanging out here around seven, seven to eight, same kind of value, right? Although interestingly, it went up the last two weeks in all the groups. There was, there was a time effect for all the groups. There wasn't a time by group interaction there for the stats nerds out there, but RPE seemed to go up at the very end. It did statistically go up for the last two, last two weeks. For all the groups. Say what? And that's for all the groups. Yes. For all the groups. Do you think that was a thing like they knew it was coming to an end? So they tried harder? Seems to make sense to me. This is, this is like, okay, you got the last push. Like, you know, this is your last set, baby. Give me all you got. And all of a sudden you do this set that looks like, well, why did you do that for the previous 20 sets? That's amazing. Well, cause I knew it was the last one I had to do. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Here's, they had a pleasure, displeasure scale. Yeah. And this also did not differ. It was, sorry, it was a little bit lower for the six set group. So they didn't really enjoy the workout so much with the higher volume versus the fixed sets of the lower volume, but it didn't change over time. So there was no progressively, ah, the, I'm starting to dislike these workouts more and more over time. It looks like maybe it's kind of going down, but statistically that wasn't the case. You can see there's a lot of, a lot of variation here. Okay. So they didn't have a sense of these workouts are sucking more and more over time. Although they, the, the guys didn't seem to like the, ah, the six set increase. So the one where they progressively increased by six sets every two weeks, as much as if they just stated at 22 weeks. So there was, but the main point here, I think is that they, it was consistent and it wasn't, ah, it didn't change over time. Um, so no time or group, so higher volume training is less fun, but this didn't get worse over time. So that also suggests like, okay, so they. Okay. So they.  They weren't, they weren't pushing themselves so far, like they still were above, so this is above is like, they find it pleasurable, they like the training session, and negative would be, I'm not really liking this. On average, they stayed pretty much, I have to see if this number is somewhere, but they stayed pretty close to zero. There were some variation, some people were like not digging this at all, but they managed to stay where like they were okay with this. Now, imagine a scenario where someone tells them that's not enough. They got a slave driver who's a lot of a slave driver who's a lot of a slave driver who says they got a slave driver who says they got more, they got more, they got more, they got more, they got more, they got Tom platts pushing them through every workout. Yeah. They might be lying awake thinking, I don't want to freaking do this again today. I got to do 52 sets this week. Hell no! And they, and, and, and, but what would that have done to the pleasure displeasure? I presume it would have affected it. So are they regulating themselves in some way around, effectively around how much, how much displeasure they can, they can take on? So again, training volume, training effort or RP was unaffected by volume in this training concept context. So yeah, like you said, they were nearing the finish line. This is my, my thought to exact same thing. So the question then is, are the trainees, are they metering their effort perhaps to stabilize their emotional valence, whether they like it or dislike it and pushing harder when they, when the finish line is in sight? Like I can do this for two more weeks, but I'm not going to push harder when I still got eight weeks to go. Yeah. You got to pace yourself at that point. Seems like an explanation. I can see that. Yeah. So we have other studies here. Same group. They did a barbell squat and back squat, I'm sorry, bench press. They did hard sets. So there are two reps in reserve here. Train three times a week, three versus six versus nine sets per exercise, per workout. So three and three of bench and squat versus six and six versus nine to nine. So nine versus 27, nine versus 18, 27 sets per week. Higher volume, of course. They did actually see greater strength with higher volume in this study. So this might be just this lab. They push people and they evoke this. I don't know because you don't see this based on the meta-analysis. But the psychophysiological perceptions were similar for all groups. The volume of training per week didn't matter. They basically perceived effort the same, the pleasure, the pleasure was the same. Here's a study from University of Tampa. Some of the same folks involved. And this time it was lower body training, resistance training, eight weeks, 12 versus 18 versus 24 weeks. They used reps in reserve again. This is a model that was used sometimes. Two reps in reserve for the first two sets and the last set to failure. In this case, again, no impact of training volume on muscle size. Again, no impact on RPE, no impact on pleasure, displeasure. Right? And RPE is topping out at about seven to eight. So here's RPE, the 12, 18, 24 set group. They were basically staying in the, they started off in the seven to eight range and they stayed in the seven to eight range. Right? And this is their feeling scale. This is the same scale in the previous study. And these values didn't change over time. So regardless of the volume, people are still coming up with the same RPE and they're still feeling the same about how hard the workouts were. Same story. So what's going on here? So in the context of a limited or short-term series of exercise bouts, it seems like training volume, the low lifted dictates perceived exertion to a point. But more volume isn't harder even if the rep, even if rep maximum sets are of all. So at some point, once you get to a certain amount of volume, people don't perceive it as harder for some reason. Right? Right. The RPE, the session, the set, when you ask them after a set or at the end of a training session, seems to top out around seven to eight, regardless of training failure or not. A question I posed before, why is an RPE ever approaching 10? Yeah. Probably for some individuals. You look at the standard deviations, there's going to be some people who are in the nine and 10. But on average, and we're talking about in a meta-analysis, like the Pelland meta-analysis, which we're talking about, in a sense, averages across all of these studies. So my take here is that some subjects train with a high but governed effort and not beyond that, even if the volume is more. Per the NSL study, the one with pacing studies, RPE seems to maybe increase near the finish line. Right? Yeah. This would be an interesting study. Could you take advantage of this? You'd have to deceive individuals. Say, okay, we're only training for four weeks. You know? And they say, can you make it another week? And what if you gave people monetary reward? We'll give you another, you know, $100 if you make it one more week. And the next week's worth $200. Yeah. You know? And then we give you a Dianabol placebo on top of that. Yeah. And then see what happens. I'll give you a Dianabol placebo. Right? Look what you can do now. Like, you're unstoppable. Like, give me the volume, baby. Yeah. So the other consideration, are there some ramifications for junk volume? And this is the main thesis here, is that the effort and quality of stimulus potentially could be limited with higher volume sessions. So junk volume could be sort of the idea that, you know, the extra volume doesn't create an extra stimulus. Maybe it could work just sort of physiologically. Once you sort of hit the nail with the hammer, like, hitting it more doesn't help. Right. But those extra sets also, if you know you're going to do those, might be less effortful. Because it seems like effort tends to be limited by a central governor, perhaps. So there's something to consider in the context of junk volume. And it seems like during long-term training, one rep max, a skill, are generally not greater with higher volume. But it could test out that way. Sometimes we see that, right? Which is interesting. Why that discrepancy? What does that lab do differently than other labs? We've got a central governor at play here, potentially sandbagging at higher volumes, maybe. And I just reiterate here the idea that one rep max is a skill and those other things I've talked about. So in the meta-analysis from the very first, the second slide, muscle growth was not adversely affected by higher volume. There wasn't an inverse U. It didn't start backsliding. So is there a central governor breaking effort, some protective role in the brain that then dilutes the effort and disallows you from training excessively or overtraining? Why do some individuals overtrain with regard to muscle size or even regress? Is this an ability or an inability to push past physiological barriers? Or is it the inability to adapt physiologically? So what's going on here in terms of those who can push themselves that hard or those who can't? So if you can push that hard where you start to regress, well, then you maybe have the psychological strength to push that hard. But physiologically, you're not able to adapt. It's just too much. And some people can do that, but it's pretty rare. Whereas you may be, and I'm going to show this in the next slide, in a situation where psychologically you're not able to push as hard at those higher volume levels. Although you may get more and more growth at higher volume, which the Pell and et al. meta-analysis suggests, there may be a central governor at work, which if you could supersede that, if you could go beyond that, maybe you could get better growth. Who knows? So what if, what if, we're going to come full circle here now, for some individuals, we release the governor, release the kraken. Remember that from the movie? Yeah. If it's possible. So you do controlled training to failure, every set as if it were your last, right? And then deload as needed. So you're not trying to pace yourself through 12 weeks of training. You just train as hard as you can reasonably, not just destroy yourself in one week with one training session. But you sort of release that governor and extend as possible. And then realize, I can just deload. I can have a functional overreaching phenomenon. I can take a break. So what if we had a situation here where we've got two different scenarios? We're looking at this dose response here. And now on the x-axis, we've got training volume as sets, not just the dose. So it's a little bit different paradigm, but still the same idea. And we've got the idea of just generically of someone who paces their training, who's limited by a central governor. At this RPE of seven to eight, I'm going to be able to have to make it through x weeks of training, as in a study perhaps. And that is my, maybe you would find that more and more training is better to up to high volumes of 40 sets per week or 43, right? And that gives you this dose response, a lesser maximum dose response. But what if you are trained harder as if every set with your last were last with periodized deloads? You're not always.  And, of course, of course, if you train, if you train, if you train, if you're able to do that, hypnotize yourself or get hypnotized, there's also data to that effect that hypnosis can impact strength. Oh, I bet. Yeah, that's a cool, I wrote an article for Elite FTS on that. So maybe in that case with the harder training, you can't do less, right? You try to do 30 sets per week, you're not going to make the same gains as if someone who's pacing themselves, but you get a dose response for X number of sets, And then. And so you're a bunch of products. And so i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i fourteen i Um, also, but it seemed like maybe it was the opposite for someone like Jay Cutler. Jay trained hard. I mean, I remember a story where Phil Heath tried to hang with him when they, when Phil was first turned pro and, and Jay kind of buried him. Yeah. Jay trained with really short restaurants, but you don't see Jay doing sets where he's just grinding to absolute muscle failure. Right? So this is just, this is why I said for some individuals, and I would even be willing to guess for those who maybe aren't the most genetically gifted in terms of muscle growth, that the green curve, not the Doreen Yates wasn't, but the green curve versus the black curve, this might describe them. But Jay Cutler, um, or someone like Brandon Curry and those guys train hard, but I don't think they're going to absolute failure all the time. They can, because of their genetics, I presume there's probably some, some, they're different fin, they're different, um, categories in which you could place people. Let's, let's call it, say it that way, where some could get more muscle growth with doing more sets being not grinding to absolute failure. And some, some need to do more of a DC style training regime. Um, and just the thing before I leave this slide, um, this is all in the context of muscle growth evoked by doing full repetition muscle, full repetition resistance exercise, standardized, like these are the reps is how you do this. We're not talking about adding forced negatives or forced reps or drop sets or doing a bunch of partials. Um, there's a guy named, uh, Andre Smaev. Do you know who that is? He's a, he's a Russian. We could maybe even do a video on him. He's totally going viral. This could just be my YouTube algorithm, but he, he, he's an absolute monster. He has a, people can check him out. He did a video, a couple of videos with Larry wheels. Oh yeah. Okay. I know who you're talking about. I saw one of them. Yeah. He's his range, like it's just partial range of motion on everything. Like, and he does like tons of partials and like there's a video of him doing like 20, it does like five hours of pull-ups. Yeah. Body weight. Right. So this whole paradigm is in within the small sort of segment of what can produce muscle growth that involves traditional resistance exercise with full rep, full range of motion training, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. There are other ways to skin the cat is what I'm saying. Yeah. So take home messages here. Greater volume and more sets may mean muscle growth. The research raises the possibility of this central governor. Set in session RP is about seven or eight. That's the most, most people are willing to put out. Number of sets may not scale linearly with dose. So the session effort, an RPE seems to max out around eight to 10 sets. More data is needed on this, but this is just kind of what from the little bit of data I've able to find, it maxes out at some point in time. So back to the original slide, you're not comparing 100 versus 200 versus 400 milligrams of X drug when you compare 10, 20, and 30 sets. Each of those sets is not an equivalent dose to the total training dosage. Yeah. So a more powerful training dose or stimulus and thus adaptation may be possible, may be possible with fewer sets at a more maximal effort or closer to the extent you can possibly do that. So thoughts to leave folks with. Are you sandbagging any of your sets? Just ask yourself, right? If your life depended on, if someone had a gun to your head, could you train harder? Could you, could you do more? What if you trained harder, as hard as you can, but did less and allowed more deloading for a finish, for a finish line effects? Like, okay, I just got to make one more week of this and then I'm going to take a break for this functional overreaching. So DC training does that. Fortitude training does that. You can pick your volume tier so you're training with the right amount of volume. There's lesser amount of work sets to failure in those programs. The thing about DC training is you know you only got one rest pause set and then that's it. You can't go back and just futz around and do a couple exercises to make up for crappy effort. Right. You got all out and that's it. So the chances of the central governor being pulled back is more so there. And progressive overload is a part of these things. So pushing the log book until your progress stalls versus just hanging in there for X number of weeks. Right. So you push and you push and you push and you push and fortitude training, DC training, et cetera. And then you take a break when you need one as opposed to, well, you look like you're kind of stalling and we're six weeks in. You still got six weeks to go. This is what happens in study. You got to do 12 weeks. They don't pull like, oh, you need a deload. I haven't seen studies unless they're studying deloads where they just say, oh, this person we deloaded based on these criteria. No. Yeah, it doesn't happen. So in these sorts of training regimes, there's no reason to hold back when you do train. You can take a day off or it's part of the program. Make a rebound possible. The goal is stimulating progress in the context of optimizing the balance with recovery. recovery. There's no need to pace your way through X weeks of training and perhaps unconsciously or risk being booted from a study. So like some guys were like, if I keep doing this for another, I'm going to tear something or I'm going to have rhabdo or it's going to be bad. And they're like, well, okay. They're not going to tell you to do that. Well, see if you can hang in there. I think it's probably different in every program. But it's a totally different scenario that in a certain way, this is why there is some validity to that was in a research study versus what people would do in the gym. Because even if someone is like, hey, you know, my effort is to make it through 12 weeks of this and train as hard as I can. As opposed to my effort, my effort, my intention is to train as hard as I can, make as much progress as I can, and then smartly deload when I need it. And that could look at a very different pattern of training progress versus I got to make 12 weeks versus, hey, I did six weeks, but now I need to deload. Yeah. So hopefully this was exciting. They're the pups, Jesse and Fox. It was more exciting than what it was for them because they are over there sleeping exactly like that right now. Yeah. So. Well, nice that Jesse is finally relaxed enough to sleep. I know. We've had many podcasts where she couldn't do it. She's on my lap. So I guess my big question to you, or not really to you, but the big question I come around to as a coach in working with, I'll say, a lot of people who are newer or intermediate is that if I, and sometimes they come to me and they're already doing like too much volume. You know, they're not getting the, if, if I pull that volume back, are they then intuitively going to raise their RPE? You know, that's, that's. Yeah. Kind of where I'm going with this. That seems like that. That's the answer. You know, if you give somebody less sets, you got to get it done. And instead of 20, cut it to 10 and, and see what happens, I guess. I think the thing too, like this is, I ran into this. I've seen this with DC training. I've seen it with Fortitude training. I was talking to a buddy of mine too, who said the same thing. And Jordan Peters is a perfect example. Like Jordan lives and dies by the log book. Right. And he's thinking about whether he's going to get more reps on the leg press or whatever, like two days beforehand. He's losing sleep over this shit. Yeah. And that's a lot of pressure to, to know you got to go in and you only got five sets to get it done. Right. Some people, that's not optimal for them. They, they, they wouldn't, they wouldn't want to do that. They, they lose the love of training. Yeah. It just isn't going to work for them. So you've got to optimize how their effort level versus the number of sets and with what they can sustain over the course of many weeks of training. Yeah. Remember Sasan. Remember when we had Sasan on. Yeah. Like 2016, 2017. And he was just like, I can't get with this. Yeah. But look at him today doing, you know, training the way he enjoys training. It's like, he still figured out what worked for him, obviously, you know? Yeah. I mean, those two curves with the green and the black one, I mean, it, that's just hypothetical. I think it's probably different. The, the, the, the relationship between set volume and RPE. And then.  is not always the same for everyone. There's some people who will go to what they perceive as a 10, right? Yeah. Or until they get to X number of sets. There's some people who can be, I think, pretty honest with themselves. They're like, now I just know I shouldn't be doing more sets the way I like to train. Like this is just, this is just, this is just, this is just not smart. I'm done. The nail has been driven in. And then there are other folks who just don't want to hit anything with the nail. Right? They're got, they're got, they're got, they're got, they're got, they're got, they're got, they're got, they're got, they're got, they're got, they're got, they're got, they're got, they're got, they're got, they're got, they're got, they're got, they're got, they're got, they're got, they're got, they're got, they're got, they're got, they're got, they're got, they're got, they're got, they're got, they're got, they're got, they're got, they're got, they're got, they're got, they're got, they're got, they're got, they're got, they're got, they're got, they're got, they're got, they're got, they're got, they're got, they're got, they're got, they're got, they're got, they're got, they're got, they're got, they at one point in time, and maybe this is still kind of the case, like this was science-based bodybuilding training, just do more is better until you, you know, it's just like the line just keeps going, right? And what I, the science points towards, it's pretty, it's thin for sure, but hopefully I built an argument to at least considering the hypothesis is that there is some sandbagging, there is some central governor, there is some pacing that goes into play when you're doing all of those, and the other alternative is to just do fewer sets and learn, which is also a skill, learning to train really, really hard, and the possibility then is that you could get better faster if you do that. Okay. Yeah, so, but it's different for everybody, the dose, some people can't handle more than 10 sets per week if they, as hard as they train. Yeah. So, there's so much variability, it's like a giant, even with all those studies, you saw like, you know, like all, like the highest strength gain was at the study that was like five sets per week, it's like, okay, that's crazy. So, yeah, there's, it's, when people, it's an oversimplification, I think, to just say more is better, and this is a scientific, um, substantiated way of looking a little bit deeper as to what, why is it that you can't get people to overtrain, like what, when you do, like, it doesn't, it doesn't pass the reality test, it's not ecologically valid, I think, in my mind, for someone who really likes to train that hard, and I think, I mean, if you, if I went, oh, there's a study going on, you know, I'll go do the study, you know, and if you said, you, I might be as part of a study where I would end up doing 52 sets, by the end, I would be like, I mean, I'm gonna, I, I, I don't want to create a liability, I think I'm a liability for you guys, if I literally train to two reps in reserve. Yeah, maybe a guy who trains hard like you might not even get into what you're saying, you might not even get into the study, versus a guy who's maybe less experienced, or does high volume already, he might be more likely to say, sure, yeah, I'll do 52 sets. There's a selection bias, potentially, in those studies where you're going beyond 20 sets per week, or whatever, for, especially, take, let's say, this is interesting, you take somebody who's been training for five years, right? And they try different things, and they find that a lower volume, or they, they just love training really, really hard. And then it's like, hey, you want to get in this study? Like, no fucking way, I'm not doing that. I'm not doing that for 12 weeks. Like, I mean, I could do it, I could survive it. You know, and I'm, are you gonna make me a Navy SEAL when I'm done? Because that's just gonna be Yeah, what do I get out of this? I certainly am going to, I probably will go backwards. And you, like I said, you, I showed before, we've seen this, there are people who go backwards in these studies. Yeah. So, yeah, I think the question, like, are you sandbagging? Is something worth, so it could be that, like, you're just, if you believe more volume is better, or you're just used to doing more sets, maybe that's what your coach has told you to do. That has an effect. If you believe that that's what you're supposed to do, you'll do it. But then to take a step back and try to try to pull back the veil and say, okay, am I really sandbagging? Like, when I, am I just going through the motions to some degree here? Could I, I know that I did when I increased, well, I mean, I remember at a point training seven days a week, and knowing, like, this is not good for my body building, but I'm gonna do it anyway. And guess what? I did progress in that window of time. It was probably, like, four or five months, man, that I literally trained seven days a week. And eventually, I got to the point where I was like, I know I can't do this, but I still want to do something. And I started doing yoga then. So I was like, all right, there's a Monday and Thursday yoga class. Those will be my days off, but I'm still doing, I'm going to go into the, you know, the gym still and do that. But I, I remember the best way I could describe it is it was eventually like punching a clock. You know, I'm not really here to push and train hard. I'm just punching the clock, do my tricep extensions, you know, like just move on to what's next. You just, and I think that, gosh, man, I think that so often, so many people, people that are most likely not watching this podcast are in the gym without making any progress. You've been in the, some of you guys, you've been in training in the same gym for how long, right? Look around you and look at all the people who are there every freaking time you're there and how much progress have they made in the last four years. You know, like realistically you should be able to all transform a lot. Everybody should be able to make some major changes in four years, but how common is that really when we actually get in the gym? And I think that's a big part of what that comes down to, Scott, is that people are just there to just do it. They go through the motions. They're, they're not pushing themselves. Yeah. Yeah. And you're maybe everyone's different as to what they were willing to take on board, but the difference between a seven and an eight RPE is, can be substantial. Actually, that could be one or two reps in reserve. Yeah. So, you know, someone might find like, you know what, I'm going to just, all I got to do is two sets. I can do that. Two sets. I'm going to go to real failure, you know, and I'm going to, I'm going to make everyone in the gym think that this guy is just off his rocker because look how hard he trains. Right. I mean, that's all I'm doing. I'm doing two sets per exercise, doing three exercises and then I'm out. Yeah. And if, if you can, if you can take that on board, it's like a lot, I can do that. I can do two sets, three exercises, as opposed to 12 sets. I'm going to do four exercise, four sets for three exercises. It's like, ah, okay. Then you know, you're just not training as hard as you, you know, you just won't do that. You just, I'm not doing it. It's not going to happen. Right. I, I remind me of a funny story. I probably told this story. I was training with, um, one of the, uh, the very first trainer we had at my gym when I first opened the gym up and I had stepped away from DC training for a while and I was coming back to start DC training. And, um, he wanted to do DC training with me. He's like, I need to get big, man. So let's do it. Let's train together. Okay. Cool. Pick the time. And our first DC training workout was lower body. And we went through the whole thing. I was like, okay. And we got to the widow maker. We did Smith squats for a widow maker and I did a widow maker and I, you know, have decades, you know, 10 years of widow maker experience at the time. Not that point I had not that many, but it was a good widow maker. Right. Yeah. And I, you know, I ended up at the bottom on the Smith, you know, and I crawled out and I stood up and kind of caught my breath. And, and I went over to the bar and I said, what do you want on there? I figured he's going to maybe go down a little bit and he's still just sitting on the bench. And, and, and I said, Andrew, what do you, what do you want on there, man? He's like, I don't want to do that. I'm like, he's like, no, I'm done. Like, that's it. I'm not doing that. This is, I hate, I'm going to have to bow out. Cause I know I just, I just don't want to do this. Yeah. That's not how he wanted. He wanted to go on train and get a pump and check out the girls and all that kind of jazz. Right. That was kind of his thing. And I, I totally respected that. Like he, like didn't waste my time or whatever. Like didn't start, start not showing up or what have you. Right. But clearly doing widow makers was not his thing. Whereas some people are like, yeah, I can't wait to get after this widow maker. I just can't wait to do this. That's their, that's their jam. Right. And I think there's, there's various things, ways in between some people like, you know, I could get after doing six sets to failure to my eyeballs are popping out of my head. Right. But yeah, I know that I sandbag, if I try to do 12 sets, I know I just, I've got an, I, you can, I have an internal sense of this that I'm, I'm, and some of the central governor stuff is stuff you don't, you don't know. But this is why, for instance, getting with a training partner who, with whom you vibe, with whom you resonate, who will push you harder, who's maybe stronger than you, that will, that will improve your performance and you'll push harder. So, um, you just got to be careful that that person isn't training with more volume than what you can handle. Cause then you end up with another mismatch and that you're actually doing too much cause you're training so hard with too much volume that you're on the wrong side of the curve. Um, but I think just, I want to just open folks eyes to one, the research, um, uh, aspects of all of this. And then the practical aspects is like, Hey, you, you could, you could only train so hard, you know?  The way, the way I said at 42 training, the different set types are like, they go to failure, or they're auto-regulated in a way, but the muscle rounds and the loading sets are to failure, at least the last one, and how hard, what that is for you varies, and there's some people, you look at them, you're like, I can't believe that guy, I thought he was done like three reps before the end and he just kept on going, like most people would not have gotten more reps, that's fine, that's fine. Those set types are set types are set up for people, those set types are set up for people to train to whatever their failure is, right, and some people, like their failure might not, if you put a gun to their head and say I'll give you a million dollars, right, you can see my boobs, whatever, you know, you can motivate people, I saw that in a movie the other night with kids, like, oh, let's just show them my boobs if you do it, motivate them, and then they can get more, right, and that's why I then have the different volume tiers in a four-year-old training, because some people just don't want to train that hard, they've got a central governor that just set up that keeps them from just being the craziest animal in the gym, right, and they can use volume tier or volume three, volume tier three, or they just recover better, and I told this story, like, when I did my beta testing for the program, I had a former client who was, he won his weight class at Canadian National's bodybuilder, he's a former WDF, WF, I think, I think at the time wrestler, he was bad ass, he was strong, and I had another guy who trained really hard, he was training with a client of his who eventually became an IFBB pro, and they trained hard, and the first guy, he was doing volume tier one, and he's like, man, I'm going to have to have, like, a massive refeed all day long on Sunday just to recover from this, because, like, he, because it just said he went to failure, Yeah. And for him, that was a big deal, right, but he could only recover from volume tier one, and the other guy was, I know, was trained to failure, he trains hard, but he had just better recoverability, so those are two guys who trained really, really hard, I would guess the first guy maybe trains a little bit harder, because I just know he's an animal, he's just had this, you know, crazy lunatic mindset, but everyone will be able to train to a certain degree based on how they're set up mentally. And then you need to match your volume to that. So for some people, more volume, because they just don't train as hard for whatever reason, is better. But more volume for the sake of more volume, without realizing you could train harder and do less volume, is maybe the wrong direction for some people who are capable of training harder if they're just doing fewer sets. And I think experience is a big part of this, too. What I could get out of a limited number of sets with four years of training experience is different than what I could get out of four sets with one year of training experience. Absolutely. And what I can get out of four sets now is enough to level the workout. Like, I'm done after four sets versus, gosh, 10 years ago, I wouldn't have been capable of doing that even. You know, so I think that initially we're using like we don't know how to we don't know how to fail in that target muscle. We're kind of using everything, you know, to fail. What we and we talked about that before versus like truly being able to control the weight. Mm hmm. You know, during the eights found that was the case, the more advanced he got, the lower his his set number needed to be over time. Yeah. But one way to explore that for someone who's been at for a while is like, OK, I'm going to just go to a low, a really low volume program. Like just choose DC, which people consider to be pretty low volume. Yeah. And then and then see, OK, all I got is one respaw set or like all I've got is these three sets. And then that's it. I don't get nothing more. And then I got to go and I have to nail that hit the nail on the head with these three sets and do that and do that repeatedly over time. And while you're progressing and constrain yourself to that and resist like I should probably be doing more. Yeah. So that you get like whatever OCD type of psychological urges come into your mind. It's like I want to do more. I want to do more. It's like, nope. What I got to do now is learn how to train harder. Yeah. Learn how to train harder and harder without being stupid. Right. And like when I do my Widowmaker. This is going to be the set to end all sets. This is going to be the set that they will write about for centuries. Right. The set to end all sets. Right. It's the death set. And you do that for X number of weeks or months. Right. And like you live and die by the logbook. You know, you watch Jordan Peters training beforehand. You know, you watch all the motivational videos and you just go to town. And then when you try to go back to a higher volume training, you're like, okay, now I can see how much I was holding back. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I think one of the, this is, I guess, related, but just something that kind of came to mind. One of the mistakes I think people make with John's programs in mountain dog training is that he had there. If you just look at it, some of it looks like a lot of volume, but he didn't want you to, there was like focused moments of like, this is the set. This is the real hard one. You might be doing four sets of this or three sets of this, but really you're working up to that one set. Although I think that sometimes people, I think that people would just do three sets pretty hard, you know? And I, and I, I've seen people get lost in mountain dog with that. Cause then there's so much like dazzle in change and there's different exercises. And, you know, it's like, you can almost get lost in that. I think that that was a critical mistake I maybe made early on with John's stuff was that I was just going like, you know, hard for everything, which then means I wasn't going as hard as I really could have in the spots he wanted me to. You know? Yeah. He's got that exercise effort index. He's got a scale with different videos and links where he's like, this is a 10, this is a seven. This is to give you an idea of what he means. Right. And that's one of the beautiful things about John's program, which you were kind of saying is that, is that when the volume is higher, he tells you like personally, you know, these aren't, these aren't just kill yourself sets. Yeah. He pulls the effort down intentionally to match the elevated volume. Right. And then he waves through that throughout the program. And you can, like the thing I've said before, when I did, um, with Derek, when I did, did the program that John was sending us or sending Derek actually. And you come in like one of these days and I wouldn't look ahead necessarily, just going to do it, you know, and I'd, I'd get it and look at it before I went in. And I'm like, I knew, I'm, I eventually after he was like, I knew John would know that this is the, not the day that when we're doing legs to do this exercise, we do something that like pulled back was less central nervous system, stressful, et cetera, et cetera. Cause he just, cause he did them himself, of course himself. Of course. Right. So that's another, a whole other level of periodization. Yeah. Oh God. Yeah. Yeah. Which is the beauty of John's pro that's the kind of the art of, of mountain dog training. You might say it really, it is. Yeah, it is. But, but this is, this idea is this, this, this talk that I kind of put together encapsulates that idea is that there's this, there's this, a give and take between coming right back to the very first slide. You can train hard or you can train long, but can you really train really hard for very long? Right. Yeah. And John knew, you know, you got to pull back sometimes. Yeah. And sometimes you, you know, you, you let loose. Um, and I think exploring those extremes is, is what people could do if they, if they're not quite sure what to do with this podcast, they want to do anything with it besides just say, that was cool. Thanks. Go to the next, next video. But I say, you know what? I'm going to explore what happens when I only have limited volume with which to evoke my stimulus. I'm going to train as hard as I can and then I'm done. Right. Yeah. And, and you want to sometimes leave the gym with a little bit of an itch for some more. One way to do that. Right. Yeah. Yeah. And, and body, it's typical for bodybuilders. Like they don't feel like they did what they need to do unless they're just at, they've lost the pump and they've obliterated themselves and they're, they're sore as all hell. You got to go too far to know you did enough. Yeah. Right. You know, most of us. Yeah. I'm, I'm trying to go the opposite route with my training, Scott, because I, you know, we've talked before about how if I completely crush myself, then it, it throws me off, man. And I have like a longer term, takes me a few weeks to get back into it. So, and I'm finding that I, I kind of am intuitively building my intensity to the point where it eventually gets to be a little bit too much. And then I almost need a deload. Mm-hmm . . . I'm going to do three sets of, you know, these four different exercises and call it a day. I'm just going to get a pump. So I start back there. And then before you know it, that intensity builds up a little bit, builds up a little bit. I'll just do two exercises of this. And so I'm kind of playing with that line of, you know, going from the complete, like low RPE and getting more volume in to then slowly reducing that volume as it gets a little bit more intense. And then . . . 报naa报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报报 And those involve failure. One failure point or one, the last set to failure, depending on which kind of exercise you're doing. That's another story. But then there's also the pump sets. Yeah. And that's another dial that you can turn on the dose that you create for yourself at a given volume tier. So those pump sets can be really diabolical. You can fives into the hole and triple threes and reverse 21s is one. You can just use that, right? So you end the set and you get to where, okay, I'm not even going to get a full repetition, right? And now I'm going to see if I can do 15 partials. So you're in that effective time under tension zone where you're not doing full reps anymore, but you extended the set doing partials because you feel up to it that day. Your perceived recovery is at the right spot where I want to do this. This feels right. And then you do the stretch that matches your recovery status and how the muscle feels. So I'm going to do a extreme stretch. Give me the dumbbells. I'm going to do, you know, crazy dumbbell fly pec stretch. I'm up for that. Ah, this other day, no, I'm just going to do a flexibility stretch. I'm going to even just that whole component can be a substantial addition to the dose that you provide, or it can be basically zero addition, just want to get a flexibility stretch in there just to go through the full range of motion. That's not a bad thing health recovery-wise, injury prevention, et cetera. So you can have a component in there where you can manipulate over the flow of the weeks what's happening to the muscle based on what the previous workouts were like or even what you expect to do the next week. So you could set up volume tiers to do kind of what you're talking about where you start low and go up, right? And you could just say, I'm going to do volume tier one this week. It's going to be an easy week. Volume tier two. Still doing the sets the same way. In volume tier three, I'm just doing more of these sets. And then I'll auto-regulate based on whatever I want to do. So that's a hard thing. Like kind of one thing, an undertone of what we're saying here is it's hard for people, because we have sort of our psychological compulsions, to have the perspective and maybe the maturity, the wisdom to step back and say, you know, today is not the day to try to, you know, break an all-time record or whatever. Today is the day. Not even go to the gym maybe, take a day off or to start a deload or to pick a different exercise or to go just leave a couple reps in the tank, what it may be. So a program like Fortitude Training gives someone a structure where they can say, okay, how many scoops of this do I want, right? How many, what volume tier do I want to use or which way do I want to do my pump sets, right? Yeah. Do I want to add this spice, you know, this hot spice, this super hot spice or this not so hot spice? Any of that looks like because I want to make it, shouldn't be too spicy today. I'm just not in the mood for spices. Whereas some people are just like they've got good perspective like you and they can, like John for sure, and he just was a wizard in the kitchen and he knew exactly what, you know, we need some nutmeg in here, we need some cinnamon, and he would just whip it all together. And he didn't have to have that structure from which to choose the ingredients. Everything wasn't compartmentalized in volume tiers and set types, et cetera, et cetera. So I tried with Fortitude Training to give people a program, but they choose the exercises. They choose the volume tier, et cetera. And John would take you on a, he would take you on a journey and he had that RPE scale as well. And that, of course, matches the individual. So he would say, you're going to have a moderately spicy set this time, right? And whether you, what spice for you is moderately spicy depends on how hard you're willing to train. Right. So you were, you were auto-regulating how hard that training was. And John was taking you through all the different ways, all the different exercises and the modulation of volume and the modulation of, of effort, et cetera, et cetera. Yeah. So he was, he would take you on the path, you know, kind of like a park ranger would if you're going through the Grand Canyon. Whereas with Fortitude Training, you've got like the map, right? And you get to kind of choose your way. And, you know, what spices you pull from the kitchen cabinet is kind of up to what spices you like. And you learn that on the, in the course of doing the program. So similarities there, there's definitely some things to compare with Fortitude Training and John's training. Cooking with Scott. Yeah, exactly. Cooking Muscle Math with Scott Stevenson. This is good. I hope that it gives some people something to think about, you know, and, and I hope that you guys can apply this. And it's, you know, it's one of those things where like, even if you didn't, if you didn't pick all of it up, that's the reason you can go back and watch it again. I guarantee you, if you watch this two times or three times, you will pick up more each time you watch it. I'll be watching it again. That's for sure. And of course, go to byobbcoach.com. You can get this book. Be your own bodybuilding coach. And of course, go to the link. If you want to get the hardcover, put the link below. Go to truenutrition.com. Use our code THINK over there. Get 10% off all your orders, all your basic bodybuilding stuff, protein, creatine, and your workout. Supplementsource.ca for Canadians. We'll check out Patreon next time around, see if we had any good listener questions to attend to. And Scott, thank you for taking the time, man, to put all this together and share this with us. Kind of give us a peek inside of your brain and help us to maybe better understand how to look at studies and maybe be a little bit more, what's the word I'm looking for there? Critical minded? Critical minded? Yeah, critical minded. That's a great way of putting it. Yeah. If folks have studies, like the NSAID study, the Climbuterol study, people have studies like, hey, Scott, what do you think about this? You know, I'd be happy to. That would be fun. We could do that. We could, you know. That'd be fun. Yeah, do every other podcast, do a study exploration. That'd be cool. Guys, for another episode of Muscle Minds, we'll see you soon. Thank you, Scott. Peace. You're welcome. My pleasure.