What's up, guys? Welcome back to Muscle Minds with Scott Stevenson. I'm Scott McN, and all of our programming is brought to you by Scott's book, bobbcoach.com. You can get that at bybcoach.com. be your own bodybuilding coach or um Scott, do you still have the hard cover signed that you're offering? It's on eBay. Yep, it's on eBay. Cool. So you can, you know, you can order the hard cover, but right now Scott's got the best deal if you get it straight through him. And are you still donating like 15% of the proceeds to the ASPCA? Yeah, I am. And I have a a quick thought on that if it's okay with Yeah. Um, someone pointed out to me um too that the the president of the highest highest up CEO of the ASPA PCA makes like $700,000 per year, right? Nonprofit. Nonprofit. It's a it's a nonprofit. I'm like, "Oh, man." And I I looked into that. Um, and there was also some misinformation from what I could tell as to what percentage of their the money they take in actually goes to dogs. Um, so there's so I looked into that just to make sure for a second. I'm like, I'm going to have to change charities or do something different. But that number is in with the amount of money that comes in through that organization. That number is in line. all the CEOs for basically not maybe not all of them but the vast majority it seems of CEOs with at high-end um big number charities take in around a million dollars per year because they're CEOs and it's kind of like I think this is this is just how our society is. If someone's able to bring in that much money then that's the salary that they want they deserve regardless if it's for a um a charity or not. So, it's good that they're working for the charity because then it benefits the charitable cause. So, I was like, I don't know about I'm like, but you're okay with that? Ethically, I'm I mean, ethically, it's the it's sort of, you know, it's the lesser of two evils or it's just kind of what comes with the deal. If you want a if you want a badass CEO that manages things well and brings more money in and makes the charitable charity more successful in doing its charitable work. I see. You got to pay him accordingly. It's just kind of how it is. I want to be a CEO. That's the lesson out of this. I need to become a CEO of something, Scott. Yeah. I mean, if if you want to make you have to I think there has to be a certain mentality for someone who um because it's you're money driven. You're hired. You're fired. Closed by that. That show's back on now. I saw that. Yeah. All of our is also brought to you guys by true nutrition.com. Use our code think over there for additional savings. Uh I got to order my collagen, by the way. I'm running out of collagen. Uh, like I said, code think over there and supplements.ca for Canadians. We've got some Patreon stuff. In fact, we might have some I think we're gonna lead with a Patreon question today. I think it was from Payton. Um, where was this one, Scott? It was about uh Okay. Would love to hear the different opinions on organic versus non-organic and grass-fed versus grainfed foods. Do you think it is worth the extra cost? So, I thought the f the best way to address this, I thought I like I I mentioned before, it may not be in the this recording, but I have a two-part article on John Meadow site, mountain doggiet.com. It's a few years old now, but you don't really need to know as far as answering this question and making your own personal decision. You don't necessarily need to know unless you have some very specific health concern like you know that you have a particular cancer something like that that is is highly probably um caused by a spec specific pesticide or you have a um you're imuno compromised in some way or something like that. But um the basics of what what is what I'm about to sort of explain here still hold. So you can kind of get an idea if you want to make the call. And it's a great it's a personal decision, right? It's not black or white. So um so a couple thoughts. I'm going to I'm kind of just going to read these and try not to sound like I'm just reading out of a book here, but here's some ideas. So uh so USDA organic. I didn't know what this meant before I wrote this. I thought organic like like anything with a carbonate is organic. I'm thinking like a chemist like what does organic mean? But it's a it's a specific it's a it's a label um that the USDA approves based on how um produce is farmed or meat as well. So it's an agricultural label that you can put on the product. It's different than natural. Transitional is and I'll talk about this. Transitional it refers to a farm that is um doing the things that they would have to do to be labeled organic. So and there's a whole list of those. You can read those online. But not using pesticides, certain farming methods, and you have to do that for a period of time. So, let's say you start off and you've been using certain kinds of pesticides. Um, it takes x number of years for those things to leave the soil and no longer be in the proto situ. So, you're transitional for a period of time. They sort of put your probational so to speak, and then you can become organic after x number of years. So, it's different than antibiotic free. Free range is different. So, you can look into all that. what what that means in terms of eggs and other terms that may or not be approved by the US food and drug administration. So organic food tends to be lower in pesticides but some other difficult heavy metals bacteria bacterial levels it's not as predictable. Um organic produce produce has higher higher nutrients lower in nitrates. So nitrates can form nitrosamines which are DNA damaging. potentially carcinogenic. Um you tend to see that organic pork and chicken is less likely to be bacterial crosscontaminated but the bacteria are less likely sorry um may they may be cross-contaminated because that just happens but the bacteria are less likely to be antibiotic resistant. So to contextualize that that's sort of a factoid that you see in the in some of the research but when was the last time you got sick from eating pork or chicken? You're not eating it raw. So is that relevant? It's a good point. Don't know. Yeah. So it's important to conte all this is sort of about context. Um uh the variation in toxin and nutrient levels in organic products are a matter of how long the farm has been practicing organic methods. So this would be relevant. So um other farming practices, the climate and seasonal conditions, species or breed of the fruit, the vegetable and animal as well as the country of origin. So, it's going to vary depending on if you're getting organic from Mexico, like if you're in the southern United States, that's a a common thing where it's coming from, which farm. Um, you can ask like I used to go to uh farmers markets a good bit. And sometimes there were farmers there that were basically according to their word and I trusted them in most cases. you sort of have to go by instinct whether you believe someone but there said we're following organic but we haven't actually um done that because I think there is an expense associated with being um getting the USDA's approval uh as being organic. So, there's something there. And like for instance, um the best example, Hoba Beef Company was out in the Arizona area, and I used to buy like I would buy 100 one-PB chucks of ground beef from him from this guy. And he could actually pick the cow that he would pull that from or the cows sometimes. Um because I like to get the leaner stuff just to keep the fat low and he could sort of size the cow up and I could just see from the marbling, right? and and and I was buying, you know, 100 100 pounds at a shot. He would deliver it to the gym and sometimes I was like I would distribute the meat like other people would want some. So I would put put it in my freezer and then you know I give 20 pound or sell just not sell but just give for the same price 20 pounds to like Dave Henry got some when we were training Mike Gustoson I think may have gotten some and other friends there people at the gym like hey you guys want some of this you know um so if you look Dave Henry meet it's now now the secrets. Yeah, that's that's what it was. That's, you know, it's all about that. I think he still is in contact with that guy because that's the business. Special sauce. It's a special sauce, baby. Yeah. It's not hard to find. Um, so there's a um a price lookup number, a PLU number, the little sticker that's on fruits and vegetables you can see. And if it has a nine, that means it's um organic. If it h if it has an eight, that means it's a GMO for what that's worth. So if you're concerned about that um so uh or your reasons for going organic canot are going to be it's going to go hand in hand. You have to educate yourself on the product that you're looking at the farming practices if you possibly can. Um if you're buying in the store or direct from the farmer. So it's it's a complicated scene you'll have to kind of navigate. Um organic beef just just kind of switching to beef here and grass-based diets etc. it'll have a favorable fatty acid content that's more like what you see in grass-fed beef. Um, it's the feed that the animal is fed that that changes what you find in the meat. So, cattle are ruminants. Um, they have a very different digestive system than we do as as humans. Um, so what they're fed, how the um the bacteria and the ruminate digestive system then takes that feed and then makes fatty acids and also how much antioxidants are found in the beef. Depends on what they're given. So I kind of use the example like if you take a human and just say, "Okay, there's your vending machine right there in the corner. You can have anything you want out of vending machine. All the stuff that is, you know, will survive a a nuclear apocalypse, right? get all the stuff in plastic bags that will sit there forever um that's highly processed and eat that for a year and then compare that with someone who goes grocery shopping and they just stay on the outside. They buy only the stuff that was once alive and is, you know, still semi alive, right? Or more recently alive, not processed. And it's going to change the composition of of what's in your body, right? You're going to end up you are what you eat. Like I've seen different numbers so I can't say which is which is exactly true but somewhere around n it depends on the tissue and the turnover rates the tissue but somewhere around like 90% of your body's molecules are replaced in the course of a year. Okay. Wow. Yeah. So you're you're like a new person each year and that's that's from a bodybuilding perspective that's really really cool to think about. So you know that's why you can become have like nutrient deficiencies. uh if you don't have any vitamin C for instance, you're going to get scurvy. Like there's the classics like that. But what you eat is, you know, your your DNA, your body's biological system does a good job of maintaining all those things. Otherwise, you would you just get very very sick. But you are the the molecules are turning over. They're breaking down and they're turning over. So that's same thing happens with the beef. Um so grass-fed diet. So, if we're talking about beef now, and I'm talking about the meat now, um it's going to be higher generally in anti-inflammatory um omega-3s and conjugate conjugated linoleic acids. Um it's important to know the omega-3s that are there are not really a major source compared to fatty fish. Like if you just ate um I don't even know. You'd have to go and figure this calculate this, but just eating grass-fed beef versus it's not gonna uh not gonna satisfy your omega-3 um needs unless that's maybe all that you ate and nothing else. All your calories came there. It's not really a major source. It's a nice perk. Yeah. But it's not really that significant in the grand scheme of things. Years ago, you remember a little podcast called The Swie Trinity? Yeah. Yeah. I remember Alan Aragon broke that down into detail like the specifics of what you're actually getting from omega fats from beef, man. And it really was eye opening, but it just a tiny fraction compared to like you said fatty fish. I never knew that. Yeah. So, so you'll see that that's like the thing that's advertised. It's like, oh yeah, I'm going to get my omega-3s this way and I really don't like salmon or steelhead trout or mackerel or what have you. Yeah. Um, you know, you can just supplement with those things. Um, as far as fats, like for instance, Hoba Beef Company, um, uh Oh, sorry. I know. Yeah, we got we got to protect the house. Yeah. Um, you're not going to necessarily end up with a leaner cut of beef, per se. There's that varies, of course, depending on which cut of beef it is in general. But like I said with the Hoba Beef Company, like he kind of chose he he picked that out for me, right? And it wasn't always the case. It's like this is the lean stuff and I could tell there was variability there. Yeah. Um but I just like getting and and some of the reason why I got that was at that time there was a period I probably me I know I've mentioned it here but there was a period of time when I was eating 90 plus percentage of my food raw. Oh wow. Which was awesome. I felt amazing. It was so I didn't have to cook anything. So a little aside there on those days we were going and going to farms and picking my own fruits and vegetables. go into a place like Trader Joe's where I could get organic stuff um that uh that I would I would still wash it off a little bit um just as general course of action. But everything I just throw everything in a big cooler um and throw a couple ice packs in there including like a chub of beef and I would beef raw. I'd eat the beef raw. I was eating uh turkey raw. I didn't eat chicken. I stayed away from chicken. I' I'd eat tuna sushi grade tuna raw. Yeah. Yeah, of course. The really the only cooked food I was eating was sushi and that was the rice and the sushi. That was the And I do that a couple of times a week. If you were to do that again now and you've documented the whole thing with like a high quality uh cell phone camera, I feel like we could get you 100,000 followers overnight, you know, with uh Yeah. You know, it's a breeze to do. I just have to seek out a place that I trust for the meat. I I've never eaten raw meat. Never, you know, I've had sushi. I've had sushi. I'm not a man. I couldn't imagine this, man. I could not imagine this. But I'm sorry taking us a side note there. No, it's funny cuz like I've even in the last it's not been so long like like I sometimes I refer friends that are back in the Tucson area. It's acupuncturist that are there that remember me from when because I was doing this when I was in acupuncture school and I say, "Hey, tell them I said hello." And then they'd come back to me like, "Well, they say, "Hey, is he still eating raw meat?" Like he didn't heal over. Yeah. I still remember that, right? Um Wow. Wow. So, so yeah, but I but I trusted, you know, I trusted his stuff. I you know, so that was not a problem, you know, and I and I never got sick doing that. Not once. I tell you what, like like corn, like raw corn on the cob. Oh my god, it's so good. It's so sweet. Oh, really? Um yeah, I mean, as an aside there, there was um you won't even be able to find it. It's not even on the internet. There was a form of eating called anopsology um that a guy named a French guy the name of Beer I have I have like the a print out of like his document as to how you do this but he was the idea from this this is total aside now we're kind of having fun here but was that um when we started cooking food maybe 10,000 years ago or so um you change the chemical content and that then disallows us our brain and we know this like you there are certain things that people just tend to overeat. We've got so much fat and sugar and and you know, foods are manufactured in and and also presented to you in ways to get people to overeat. I mean, got look at look at what happened to our rates of obesity and and overweight. So, um, but when you eat this way, he believed in this idea of a taste change. And I've actually like sugar, you can do this with sugar snap peas. I did this in my anatomy and physiology class I taught at the acupuncture school. You give people sugar snap peas that are raw and you say just start eating these, eating these, eating and some people eat 30 or 40 of them and all a sudden out of nowhere they get a taste change. It goes from being sweet, yummy, just tastes and they'll even spit out, right? Some people eat three or four and then they'll be like, "Oh, what the hell?" And like, is it a bad one? No. Like, it's not brown. It's not the nasty one. It doesn't have some ick on it or something. And then I just go try another one. And so they're something has changed in terms of their sensory system. Yeah. In their body. And the idea is that this was his idea is that this was an evolutionarily evolved system for allowing us to navigate with our appetite. Um making sure that our nutrient needs are met. And and you see people when they're become nutrient deficient, sometimes you see this with with dogs, they'll end up with having like pah it's called where they'll start eating dirt and non-food items. dirt has lots of minerals in it, electrolytes, which it the idea would be that those dogs, I haven't seen this documented directly, this is just the notion, but those dogs are doing that because they they want something there or they eat poop, which gives them um bacteria for their microbiome, of course, right? So, um the idea is that your system, your your appetite control system is somehow engaged in ensuring that you eat get the things that you need. Pro protein leveraging, we've talked about here before, too. That's the idea that um some your the appetite your overall appetite is is based on ensuring that you get enough protein in your diet. So if you eat more protein then your appetite goes down and glucagon gets released with more protein that actually inhibits appetite. So we we know some mechanisms at least on a hormonal level related to that. So you'd eat this I just eat this food and I just brought a whole like a a smorgus board like a little mini buffet of the things that I wanted that I thought like I might like and then I just eat whatever I want and I and I I like I always like the beef and I was still training at the time so that I had an increased protein need so I always like to be and then all a sudden like I'm done with the beef. I'm going to have some have some carrots. I tried to do things that were seasonal um and regional specific, you know, that's, you know, so and I just eat until like I didn't want to eat anymore and I just would kind of graze throughout the day. End up being I had to cuz I was in classes and I had clinic and I was had a busy day. Um so I couldn't just like, you know, pop open the cooler and start eating during my lectures and that sort of thing. But um but anyway, so but I was getting grass-fed beef that had like nothing on it. these the Hoba beans were it had a certain flavor and he had Africanized cows that were really well adapted to the heat of in this case Africa but now they're in um Arizona so they're not out there going oh my god this is they're just not they were they were really well climatized and genetically adapted to being in the heat so they were a really good breed of cow to have was really humane and they lived to be um like 10 years old on average 8 to 10 They've lived full lives. Wow. Took him a while to get there. It's the It was It was so much the opposite of what you typically see in the in the agricultural industry where they just they like if they're grass we can get back on track now. If they're grainfed, they gain weight more quickly. They have a greater feed efficiency. Right. Right. Um and you get more marbling that way potentially. Um which is can be a good thing or a bad thing depending what you're looking for. Um and then they want to basically optimize how much food you have to give the animal relative to how much meat you get from it. Right? So once the animal is sort of reached its you know after x number of years less than I think less than 50% of its expected it is life expectancy it's not growing anymore. So why keep feeding it? This is the perspective from the agriculture. It's like so they just that's when you slaughter. So the animals are couple three years old something like that. I don't know exactly the number. Whereas he was keeping his animals for 8 to 10 years and he just had enough of them so they could live a full life and they're out on the range doing what cows do. Um so what you feed the the animals then um will change for instance uh grass versus grain-fed this the saturated fatty acid contents overall sorry the composition but not the content per se unless you find someone who you know has lower um fatty acids or lower fat content. They'd have to do an analysis. But you tend to see more cholesterol neutral fatty acids in the grass-fed animals. And remember that grass is is the food that cows were sort of meant to eat. Feeding them grains is just a financial hack to get them to grow with a greater feed efficiency because it costs less to do that. Um. Yeah, of course. Yeah. So, the grass-fed dice, you have more vitamin A and E, so those are good. um glutathione and even superoxide dismutase. Um so those are antioxidants um are higher in the grass-fed versus the grain-fed. Um so you might get lower uh fat content but not necessarily. There also is a different flavor. Not everyone can tell this, but there's a many people can tell. And it's, you know, I think once you've, if you've been eating for so many years, so many abre areated, so many food sources have so much [\h__\h] so many chemicals in it, your taste buds probably lose some of their ability to distinguish the finer differences between a grain-fed or grass-fed. I'm sure you may not even like, you know, you may not even like the grass-fed because you've grown up eating grain-fed and then it maybe comes as a comfort food, right? Um like this hobo the hoba beans that was a that grows there in the desert. So there was this hoba beanie flavor to the meat which I thought was great. So, and the last important thing here is that um you can grass-fed animals and sometimes when they're then taking them to slaughter or or moving them in that direction and then they will just grain feed them for a couple weeks that can undo a lot of these changes you see in the fatty acid content. Um on the other hand, you can grass finish. Yeah. Right. And then that shifts things back. So, it's relatively quick. It's not and and the time frame I don't know exactly. I'm sure it varies. Um but you can so getting ideally would be grass-fed, grass-finished worst case if you're care if you're concerned about grass versus grainfed would be grainfed grain finished. But if like if they say grass-fed and then they grain finish for 3 months, you're like, "Okay, it's basically grainfed. It doesn't really make it much of a difference." But if um you know so we have to grab we have to grain feed for like the last two days when the animals are you know being moved and they're waiting in line for slaughter so to speak. Um then that's not going to that's not going to matter so much. So in this case the the guy the Hoba Beef Company like he was doing all of it personally. So they had grass like right up till the day they said goodbye. Yeah. We recently got some Pedmont beef that uh is really good, man. Delicious. Low super low in fat. Yeah. Yeah, it really is. You know, the the lean Yeah. The lean ground beef has very very little fat to it. The steak is absolutely delicious and tender. Unfortunately, it's not something that I can afford to always do. You know what I mean? It's kind of a specialty item for us. Um, I've heard certain things like with fruits, pesticides, bananas for instance, are pretty well protected from the pesticide. You can definitely like buying an organic banana is not going to be as advantageous as say certain other fruits where you're actually consuming the skins or berries for instance. Berries. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Bananas you just eaten the inside so it doesn't really matter. That's what the you know the peel does for you cuz Yeah. That's a huge like you you could do I mean I'm sure there entire podcasts that are dedicated just to this topic and they go through and they talk about specific pesticides and how toxic they are and what the research suggests. Let me ask you this because I I think with our audience uh the big question then is Scott, do you think that it will make a difference in your bodybuilding if you were to pay say strict attention to this? Let's say, let's say you could take a guy who was eating all organic and was eating all grass-fed. Uh, and and he had a twin that was just eating whatever was cheap at Walmart, you know, whatever whatever you could get for the best sale. Do you think you'd see a difference? Let me add one thing before I forget. This is sort of important. Um, it's kind of and but that's that's the question. You were just rephrasing. That's the important that's the essence. So, I'm not blowing past that. One thing I wanted to add it is that you will see grassfed protein powder. Oh yeah. Like a whey isolate or what have you and the grass or grain feeding changes the fatty acid content. But then when you make a whey isolate, you're removing the fat. So that that that was becomes an ethical rather than a product quality concern the way I see it. So you're going the proteins are going to be essentially the same, right? Yeah. Um and you're you're so once you get to the point of having a a whey um protein powder that's devoid of fats, it's not a big deal. There there are actually if you get undened whey whey concentrate so just um there actually is a an antioxidant effect to that which has been really it's been well documented some older studies. So but you don't really see that people don't they're avoiding those fats let's say. So, so yeah, that's that's the question. Um, is is this going to make a difference? Uh, so I can think of several ways that it potentially could if you are someone, so there are people for instance on one side of things that have multiple chemical sensitivities, right? Um, so they they go into some businesses and um like we had to have this in my in my clinic years ago and if if someone came in there's some um sometimes both men and women they wear lots of cologne or lots of perfume and you and you're like oh that smells nice and it doesn't go away like the smell is like so overwhelming. Yeah. they leave, it's still there, right? But but so it's strong. And so some people like literally will start to have allergic reactions. So they're that sensitive. So you could some someone if these two twins if if they both were so genetically predisposed to have chemical sensitivities to things that are in non-organic foods that they're unaware of. that could then have an impact especially if they started um taking in uh large amounts of one particular food like a lot of bodybuilders do cuz I really like this that and the other this particular berry is like that's going to be my fruit source right um that might that might end up uh putting a kind of a a kink in the cog of the cogs of their their progress um this is an aside and different but there's been a couple bodybuilders um uh one One of whom is one of our fellow podcasters uh who went started eating lots of sushi grade tuna. Oh yeah, Andrew. Right. And they ended up with mercury issues. So a more moderate um consumption wouldn't have been the big of a deal. But when you're doing what bodybuilders do who are busy just trying to get the food in, you start having you eat that same thing over and over again. then that toxin, especially if you're particularly sensitive to it, could be something that could have an impact on you. Yeah. Um the other thing I I wondered too, it it depends on the person. Um and I haven't seen this study. This is just from like experience. For instance, with all the raw food was eating is I mean that's one version of clean, right? I was about as clean as you can get, right? Not cooked, like just straight from nature. We were picking the picking the fruits and vegetables. I put them in the fridge. I pull them out, wash them off, and eat them. That was it. Just to get the dirt off. I was eating raw sweet potatoes right out of the ground, baby. Um, and it was good. It tasted good. My my taste for things was substantially changed. So, let's say someone's dieting down, right? And they do and and you you know, there's um uh like Aaron Singerman did this. He tried to use an if it fits your macros uh approach. This is the kind of the famous one people can see. He may have gotten rid of these videos, but this is a long time ago. I think before he even started his supplement company way before. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You remember this, right? And he did not look good on stage. Everyone was watching him like he was, you know, kind of like Sam Sulick. Everyone was like watching like how's he going to do? And Aaron was doing men's physique and he didn't look good, but he was just going to a diner in the morning, you know, and he was just eating whatever. And he didn't really care about, you know, anything other than the calories and maybe his protein if it fit his macros. Right. Yeah. But if you're dieting down, let's say, and um you're eating foods that have that are that aren't organic that um are more processed that may tend to cause you to want to eat more of those things versus foods that are much more satisfying. You froze up on me, so hopefully you can still hear me. I'm going to keep talking. Um, this could potentially impact um actually your your micronutrient status to some degree. All the things I mentioned before and your uh um Oh, you're still frozen, so I hope you're good. Okay, good. I'm good. And your appetite. Yeah. And how Okay, good. And how and how well you were able to sort of manage the diet. Um because the foods will taste better. They may then be more satisfying as long as they're not causing you to binge. But like you eat and people many people can tell the difference between organic fruits and vegetables and non-organic. The taste can be worlds apart in some cases. And and that depends on again where you got it from. Maybe how long it's been in transit. Um uh there's coatings that they're putting on some of this stuff now to keep it fresh for longer. Yeah. Or to ripen it to ripen it. Get your ripen when you want them to ripen. All this stuff. Right. So this is organic kind of is a is a major step in protecting you from all this junk and and I and like I said this article is a little bit old so there may be some things like who knows I I don't want to be conspiratorial here but there may be some things that still happen to organic USD organic fruits and vegetables that you know that really shouldn't if you based on the on the nature of what organic is supposed to mean. Tanya was with us and she said worth mentioning organic uh produce uses pesticides too and those pesticides aren't regulated like conventional so you know what else there certain ones that are allowed yeah and you so you have to look that up I can't remember it's been a while but yeah there are certain that they can and those are ones that were deemed so yeah you got so the kind of to get to so that's one aspect of the question um you know would it make a difference in terms terms of your appetite levels or whether you have chemical sensitivity. The other thing is um you know ethically uh in terms of like what let's say you're you're talking about beef now you know what do you what do you think about the agricultural industry in terms of how they um how they're treating these animals in general right or in terms of eggs you know are they free range if they're not like they I mean you can see some horrific there's horrific um information out there on what happens with chickens where they just jam them together and they pump full of antibiotics and some large percentage of them die off because it's like one chicken per square foot or something like that and and there's just they just they die and they trample on each other and they're running around in their own feces. It's just awful. Yeah. Um so just how you know your psychologically how you feel about eating lots of eggs. Let's say if eggs are a mainstay of your diet, right? Um could be affect. So how you know how well you going to do with that? Like are you going to think, you know, gosh, like I've got this luxury that I'm that I'm uh enjoying as a bodybuilder and eating all these high protein foods and all beef and chicken and these things and I can't with good conscience do this. This is why some people are are are vegetarians. So, they're animal lovers and they just like I just can't be involved with this at all. Right? But if you feel like, you know, I'm not going to be able to bodybuild as a vegetarian, right? Necessar, there are ways around that too. to this other topic. But, you know, at least this way I can know that, you know, in the sort of cycle of life, these animals are um are being treated relatively well. They're on the on the side of the spectrum where they're being taken care of. Yeah. So, but yeah, so lower in pesticides and different pesticides is is important. So you have to like and with each with each type of produce there's different rules and regulations and and I don't I really honestly I don't know exactly where it stands now and I mean especially our or who knows what our new administration may be doing down the line as far as that goes too that could all change because everything there's so many things that are getting turned upside down. Yeah. So they may abolish the US or USDA organic program. So there's those aspects, the the So you're saying kind of the the moral side of it. There's the like the allergens side or the sensitivities, the sensitivity side potentially. Yeah, possibly. Um nutrients. Are you getting that many more nutrients? I wonder if that in itself over the long haul is going to make a difference. Man, I can tell you that if you're supplementing, you know, you but you see somebody who's like like Amish people and I've seen I've seen people that are kind of removed from our society and I'm just like, man, they look so healthy. These people just look healthier in some cases. I I know that's a big generalized statement, but I've seen people that like they haven't been exposed to everything, all the chemicals we've been exposed to over the years. And if we're if we're supercharging all the stuff as a bodybuilder, you're not just eating, you know, uh, pesticides and all that. You're like super eating pesticides. You know what I'm saying? Eating more food. Yeah. Your consumption might be twice that of a normal person. Right. Right. So I I wonder, man. I I do wonder. But it is it would be such an expensive experiment to to figure out, you know. So the thing like Amish is a good example like you you see this with I'm no expert here but with many health related behaviors that they they will tend to coexist. So every once in a while you'll see someone who's like wow you're it's so contradictory like you're a vegetarian and you only eat organic but you're a smoker. It's like yeah like what are you doing? I mean that's probably just because they're addicted to it. But a lot of times you know you you don't see you know people who eat really well. Sometimes you see this, but it seems like you don't see people who eat really well and they exercise really well and then they're just horrible alcoholics. If they have one really powerful vice, it's seems like um you said eating seasonally. Yeah, I was Yeah, seasonally and and local too. So, they were able to grow their own stuff. That's kind of what I was what we were doing. I go to these farms that were local to Tucson. Um and so you I was eating what was available. So it wasn't anything that was being forced to grow, right? So there's Yeah, there's like this is, you know, closer to what you know, I mean, interestingly enough, I mean, agriculture's only been around for maybe 10,000 years as well. So we're we're even agriculture is somewhat artificial. You would only eat the things that grow in your region naturally without being farmed. Um, it's like for indivi an individual, it can be done, right? It can be done. you can grow all sorts of produce and those sorts of things. Um, if that's what you do, if like basically, you know, you make enough money to run your own personal farm and eat that way. But that's just not a typical modern lifestyle, but that can be done um uh you know, in a very sort of traditional sense. But but anyway, so you know, the Amish and looking at those examples, those aren't those aren't controlled examples. Those are kind of natural experiments that we see. And they're doing like like they're eating seasonally. They're also much more physically active. Ah, yeah. Right. They're moving around. So there's there's there's a whole lifestyle. And that's just one piece of it. So whether you change like one thing went to organic and here and actually this is I'm glad I'm glad you brought that up because this is probably the mo one of the most important points for a lot of the listeners is that if you're someone who's enhanced, right? So, you're using gear. Um, you've got potential contaminants if you're on the black market. You've got benzylenzo, benzyl alcohol, um, ethylolate, whatever solvents, things that might potentially have, um, toxins have the carrier oils that could have possible negative effects, um, inflammatory effects. Um, you're super physiological in terms of your gear use, so you're just not doing TRT and try to keep yourself balanced out. you've got a toxic load there of sorts, right? I think there's there's no doubt about that, right? It's this like this is what kind of comes with it. You know, there's this is one part of enhanced bodybuilding. It's just part of the deal. So, um, how much you can could offset that by by eating a super clean. I think if you take someone who's just eating just tons of processed stuff, um, versus someone who's just going staying in the perimeter of the grocery store, so to speak, and only choosing the organic, grass-fed, um, or be better yet, going to a farmers market and, um, talking to the farmers themselves and finding out what they do as farmers are as far as their farming practices. Um and for each of these food stuffs like eggs um you know the luteine content in eggs for instance is different depending on what they've eaten right so um but if you did all those things at least what what I think tends to go along with that and this relates kind of the the notion you brought up with the Amish is that if someone has the mindset that you know I I'm going to I'm taking these risks. I'm going to do enhanced bodybuilding. I know there's some things that are maybe beyond my control. I'm trying to use farm grade stuff. I'm choosing the right carrier oils, blah blah blah. I know there's still some unavoidable risk that goes along because my hematocrit goes up and my, you know, when I get on orals, my my cholesterol profile goes to hell. But I'm doing everything I possibly can and taking minimal risks. I'm being progressive with my doses and everything else. and I'm doing all this stuff on the other end, the organic, which is an extra cost. Yes, it's not cheap necessarily to do that, especially if you're eating a lot of stuff. It can cost a lot. I think comparing that like I'm I've got I'm turning all the dials to keep myself as healthy as I possibly can be and I'm choosing the as wise as I can in terms of safety of the things that aren't necessarily intrinsically safe, inherently safe. um versus someone that just says, you know, I'm just gonna eat whatever I want. I'm just go I'm going out and I'm burgers and fries. I'm it's an all you can eat, you know, diet, you know, fast food and junk and just boatloading all the peeds, blah blah blah, and not pay not doing um blood work, etc., there's going to be a difference. And and and the and the question is I I think if you have someone who's really smart and meticulous about it and they're taking care of their health, being healthier, I have the sense, you're not going to see this study, but being healthier and feeling better, like one of the things just empirically that when someone when you're trying to bulk and you're on a bunch of junk, what have you, and you don't feel good, you don't make good gains. Sure. Right. So if you're doing that sooner that sooner, I know. It's like, "No, I'll just I'll just force it." And there is some forcing like you go in the gym and you force yourself to get more reps, get more weight. There is some you have to you're pushing you're hacking the system and pushing it to its limits to exploit your biology, become the biggest, most monstrous version of yourself that that your genetics will allow, right? So to have you have to have that mindset to a certain degree. But I think if you if you can the better you feel when you're bulking as long as you're making progress and even the better you feel when you're dieting down too the better that's an indicator that your system is is going to do better at making those adaptations to the hypocchloric diet and the train everything. So, you know, doing all those things and this and organic being and grass-fed and all these things, your diet in terms of the sources of food that you're taking in um I in various circumstances can make a difference and you will notice that potentially in how you feel, but it can take a while and and the the studies aren't this long. So, like I said, like if if 90 plus some large percentage of your molecules are new over the course of a year, right? and and and you know toxins will end up many of them are lipohilic so they'll end up in your fat stores. I mean people this is I haven't seen this study directly either but this there's this notion you'll see it propagate over the place is that when people start stop eating lots of processed stuff and things that have pesticides and some of these lipopilic toxins that they will go through like this phase where they're feeling really shitty especially if they're losing weight too. So now the storage volume where those lipopilic toxins is is located. Um and you see this this happens with saunas too. So you can actually sweat out um the um LR sauna method. You can Google you can go to Google Scholar and find that it's actually was associated with Scientology Elron Hubard. You do lose toxins when you exercise when you drop body fat. The the depot is available for toxin storage. So if someone cleans up their diet and eliminates the incoming of toxins, but then and this is the idea. I haven't seen this study directly um be a hard thing to do because you're not going to get many people who want to take these lifestyle changes, but then you start you could lose those toxins. You're clearing them from your system. Yeah. And that takes time. That takes some time. So it might be, you know, a year until some of those toxins and their metabolites, depending on which ones are kind of out of your system. So, it could take a while, but but you run. I mean, like I said, I I did the the raw thing for like two years. I felt phenomenal. I felt great. Felt really good. Yeah. And I was just eating. I wasn't trying to bodybuild at the time. I was in school. I was studying for my board exams. Um I was actually working at the school and I was the academic dean and training for the school and full-time in school and still training and running my gym. Like, I would have I had a bunch of things going on at once. I was overloaded, but I felt phenomenal. I had just boundless energy. I wasn't drinking a bunch of coffee in the morning or anything like that. I wasn't I wasn't doing any no peeds, bodybuilding related, none of that jazz. Okay. I felt great. So anyway, yeah, it's a personal choice, but um it's a it's a it's a big thing is I think and last thing I'll say in this is that I think sometimes I I I don't know if there would be anything noticeable or anything that you would notice or that actually would take place if you just haphazardly shifted and say I'm going to just pick this and this. It's not that it's bad, right? But I think for something to have a market effect that you on an individual basis would notice, you may because you don't know which of those things may be problematic, which of those pesticides or which of those features of the beef, you know, maybe you're someone who just can't do well with an aoggenic diet. Like if your fatty acid composition of your meat, if you're eating lots of red meat is very important for what happens to your blood lipids if that's just your genic genetic proclivity. So you like you go all in so to speak on the healthy route. That's when you're going to be most likely I think to see an effect. You just say, "Oh, you know, I got looked like here's the organic apples with the non-organic apples and it's only 5 cents more per pound. I'll take the organic." And you do that and that's the only thing you do. Yeah. You're not going to notice anything, right? Yeah. So yeah, that makes total sense, man. That's incredible, though. And of course, leave it to Scott to to give us an hour indepth look at this. I did. It's good. I don't even know this area very well at all, but that's my those are some thoughts. It's good. It definitely I think it it it maybe answers the question for a lot of us. And uh heck, you know, I I don't know. I I I'd love to be able to push further into that myself, but just the cost, man. It's uh it's a lot. Do you think I don't even know if we have time for uh anything else today? Oh [\h__\h] Okay. Sorry. No, that's all right, man. I I think we uh we went deep into this one and we have a bunch of stuff for future episodes, too. So, we still have questions. And uh not only that, uh guys, you can leave us questions because if you leave us something really good that catches Scott Scott's attention, then there's no question. I'm sure that he's going to say, "I want to do this one next week." So, I think that that's a good move. I'd love to talk more with training with you and and like I mentioned um in text earlier. I'm hearing more people talk about MK now. So, uh 677. Yeah, it's coming back, right? It it seems like it is, man. Pendulum swings back, right? So I I would love to maybe even take just 15 minutes one day to revisit that topic and look at the research you had shown us previously because it definitely changed my perspective on it uh after we talked about that and just hear your your perspective based off of, you know, what we're looking at. That'd be cool. I'd have to go and yeah and see maybe there's some new stuff that's come out since that. Um I don't know. Maybe Oh yeah, if you can find it, it probably you could find it easily and link to that old podcast for folks too. Not that I want to, you know, eliminate that topic again, but I don't know how much more new I'd have to say unless I don't even know where it is. I'll have to dig. I think it was on the old channel and it was a piece it was a piece within the old content. I don't even know if we could find it. I'm sure it was on audio only, you know, that kind of stuff. So, it'd be cool to revisit though, like I said, if anything, if you'd be up for it. Um, I wanted to ask you, too, since we, we know, we're we have a couple minutes here. I just wanted to ask you how your training is going and how the hips are doing. Oh, hips are, you know, it's funny. I've I've got a um someone I just um met who is has gotten a hip replacement and it gave me some contrast. Very very about as healthy as you can possibly get. Massive amounts of pain. Just got one hip replaced. Um, and the hip replacement per se was was like it's I don't even like it was nothing. It was literally because I was so well trained beforehand. My issue, and this is just to me, is that I got a hematoma on the right side. The left side bled out, the right side did not. Okay. Um, I think I I probably mentioned this. So, after I got done, I was on the on the floor waiting to be checked out, and they didn't check me out. They had a change of shifts and I was walking around the nurses station. So they said I could and I walked around for like an hour like right after like two hours after I got out of surgery and they didn't I'm like hey are you guys going to check was like yeah yeah we'll be with you. She's like okay. So I was talking to people and I'm like oh this is awesome. I don't have a limp anymore. This is great. Got home bled out. It was I had to go back to the ER. They shouldn't have let me do that. Like there's like no no you shouldn't be walking like you can walk around for a few minutes but not an hour. Yeah, we talked about that back after it had happened. But did is that causing issues now? Yeah, I have I have pain. I have a massive amount of scar tissue. I have pain um at the location. It goes down my sartorius. And then he went in like 7 weeks later to uh the hematoma there was not but he wanted to get an sample to see if it was infected. I don't know why they're checking this seven weeks later, but maybe who knows it wasn't. But he he nailed the um lateral femoral cretinous nerve. Um uh so he he didn't go directly in. He went went sort of at a diagonal and I felt it zip down my leg. So I have there's nerve damage there. Um okay. So it just I mean I just train through it. The training isn't like I just train through it but it hurts. Um I I know what causes it to hurt and hurts. I like the lying in bed and like right now just lifting the leg up. It's just it's like you've been bodybuilding, you know, for decades, too. Like there's always some that ache. So, I don't even like I think the average person would be highly annoyed by it. And I just don't even they just I blow it. I kind of just blow it off. But every once in like this is this is silly because the right side was asymptomatic. I had no problems. They were coming. The symptoms were coming. The the hip was a wreck. It was actually worse than the left one. The left side is what hurt. And now I'm, ironically enough, the right side gives me problems. It's it's relatively minor, but um but I just train through it. Training is going good, man. I'm I'm training here in my barn. Nice. Um I'm doing the fortitude training family man plan. Okay. Um is that three times? Three times a week. Three times a week. Yeah. Yeah. Just taking care of the dogs and and I it's a full body three times a week basically. So So yeah, it's lots of fun. And I, you know, every once in a while I think like yesterday I did um I did glute bridges uh which I don't like I throw them in every once in a while because it was the it was the muscle round day. I did glute bridges with like it was like almost 500 lb I guess is what it would have been. Um, and sometimes I think, man, what happens if you if you break your break your femur, you know? It just amazes me that these prostesises, like they're so solid. And people can check out Roman Fritz. Like Roman Roman's now, he's had both his hips done. He had two two surgeries on each side cuz he had problems each time. He had to get his other one done a second time. Yeah. Yeah. And he's, you know, he went right into squatting. And it's just sort of amazing um how much these can handle cuz there's like sometimes I think like man I I got to remember there's a piece of metal stuck into the bone of my the the shaft of my femur and it's you know it's held in there. This is modern medical science. This is badass. I can squat all I want. I can do 600 lb leg presses and 400 lb glute bridges and and it's good to go. And I could probably I couldn't lift it, but I could probably do it with 2,000 lbs and it would still be okay. Yeah, cuz so that's just I'm super grateful for that, man. I mean, I have this like it was it was kind of medical negligence that this all happened with the thing and and they don't care, right? Doesn't matter to them. Um there's it was like medical shenanigans. I have a whole medical shenanigan story, but um but uh I just I just feel so lucky that I, you know, I can still do this stuff like cuz I if if I hadn't gotten that done, if that weren't available. Um uh what is Satania writing? Yeah, she says it's uh funny how we always we're always like how do normal people uh think feeling like crap normally is uh is normal. Oh, okay. Okay, we we can fix him. Yeah. I I mean, but that's one of the things, one of the gifts of bodybuilding, kind of leave it with this, you know, is that especially when you're dieting down or even like there's so many struggles there. There's so many challenges that it resets your perspective cuz we don't get this in a in a normal modern western world. Like life is pretty freaking easy. You know, we drive our cars places. We don't have to do manual labor. We don't have to hunt our food. We don't have to grow our food. We just go to the grocery store and we we collect it up in baskets. We don't even put our baskets back in the rack. You know, that's how freaking lazy like we are. As I'm generalized, I'm stereotyping, but like I always bring the baskets back. I'm like, "Oh my god." Like, where's it at? So, you know what though? I'm going to tell you, I've got a beef with people cuz there's people out there who are like, "I'm going to judge you if you don't put your basket back. That says everything about you." So, what people don't know is that the bag boy, the guy who's getting the baskets, he has some different alternatives that he has to do at work. There's a few different things. One of the jobs is he has to clean up the poop out of aisle 7 that some elderly person left. He's got to clean up the toilet. Haven't seen that part yet, but go ahead. He's got to clean up the toilets that somebody plugged up. And then after that, he's uh, you know, got to do several other tasks that nobody else in the job will. And then from there, the manager tells him, "Hey, I want you to go outside and collect all those carts." And he gets to go outside and screw off for the next 30 minutes. So, the further you put your basket away, the longer he gets to not have to do those other things. So, that's my that's my uh my clap. That's how you rationalize this. It's like, no, I cuz I've worked in the grocery I had worked in the grocery industry for years and I know exactly that's when they're smoking weed and their vapes and their cigarettes and all that and they're they're not dealing with their boss for 20 minutes unless it's freezing cold where nobody wants to be outside or raining. Yeah, those times you better put your basket away. But if it's a nice warm sunny day, do your do your uh b your grocery store uh clerk a favor and leave your cart as far away as you can because he's going to take his time. Believe me, he's going to take a sweet time getting it. Yeah. And and while you're at it, like leave it right in the middle of the parking place. So if someone wants to park there, don't do that. You have to move it out or or or or leave it behind another car or just floating around, smack it into somebody else's garage. It's crazy. They're all over the I see people do it, you know. I just walk over and say, "Hey, let me get that for you." You know, but it's it's like it's it's like putting a little divider on the conveyor belt when you're there checking out. Like I forget to do it every once in a while, but people don't do that. There's all these things that just become our norm. Yeah. Um but you know what I do do? I like they folks ask me it's like hey do you need help you know help out with your groceries? I I'll just say I said you want a break and they're like I was like what do I say you want you want? Yeah I I could use some help. Come on out. And I'll just walk out say I figure you need a little bit of a break. You know and look to see like there's no like you know other person behind me like there's no one there or something. Yeah. the manager like a huge line where people need to be sped up. But if it's just like empty, I'm like, "Hey, you want to break and come out? It's a nice day. Like, come on out here." And I'll say, "I just want to give you a chance to get outside. I actually don't need your help." Um, so I do offer them that. But you're But you're right. I like that. Yeah. So, well, maybe what I'll do from now on, Scott, is I will gather together the carts and put them all together and push them to the end of the parking lot. Right. Yeah. So, what's that guy out there doing? Yeah. So see, so they don't have the extra work to do. So that's nice. I'm doing the But they still get to get outside. They have the long walk. So it's a kind of like, you know, splitting the difference between your strategy, right? I have yet to see poop in the in aisle 7 at the grocery store, though. I haven't. Yeah. You're lucky. You've seen that. You're lucky. You're lucky. Yeah. Yeah. Ron told me, Ron Partllo told me that he worked at a department store that was connected to a mall and that there would be a point in time where they'd say, "Okay guys, like I want everybody, I want you three, there's like three guys who did the bagging and stuff. I want you three to go collect carts." And they would literally three teenage boys for work would have to go walk through the mall for a half hour. So, you can imagine the antics they got into, you know what I mean? Looking for girls and everything else. They would go on for an hour and 45 minutes going. It's a big mall. We went in every store just in case there ended up one like, you know, back in the changing room, you know, of Victoria Secret. They had to go back in there and check. You never know, man. Never know. Oh jeez, that's funny. I'm glad you're doing I'm glad you're doing pretty good with it, Scott. We'll wrap this thing up. I know you got other stuff to do. And guys, uh definitely check out Scott's book, bycoach.com. I'll put a link in the description uh to get the hard cover autographed by Scott and to donate some money to the ASPCA. We're also brought to you by trinutrition.com. Use our code think over there and supplements.ca for Canadians. Thank you guys for Patreon. This was an entire Patreon episode. Thanks to uh you and thanks to Payton. So, thank you very much. Yeah, good question. And for another episode, guys, Muscle Minds, we'll see you soon. Peace.