of it's not what I ordered. Take those trees and burn them down now. Just take those trees and [\h__\h] burn them. Just burn them. And you know, he wants his bookshelves to be the right type of mahogany. Yeah, you can't blame him. He's a, you know, a man of taste. He knows what he wants. That's He knows what he wants. He's covered the bookshelf in little blue tape squares with all the mistakes, all the chunks of wood that have to go. Yeah. That's That's my That's what I'm going to That's the way you visualized it at least. I think that's fair enough, man. I think that's fair enough. All right. So, we're There we go. We're live. We're live. You know, I see some questions I really like already, but I know that we I know that we're Are we committed to YouTube questions or are we just We're not committed to them. Um I think them I mean, I think if we have time, we should, but I know you and I were both on our own adventures this week, and you had quite an adventure. I went to Columbus, which was 3 hours drive away. So, not quite as far as you went. And uh I I unfortunately Dusty isn't with us today. Uh he Yeah, we got to let people know. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Tell them about that. And then tell me about Dubai. Okay. Well, Dusty is not here today. Like I just said before we went live. I'll have to repeat it. Um I went and wasted a good joke, Scott, but Dusty Dusty is not here. He has a issue with one of his contractors. And uh he has to deal with a construction situation. I think it's obviously um like I said they may have used the wrong type of mahogany for his uh study and uh he's very upset about that and he's making the change it immediately. So he's dealing with you know very very first world problems. Yeah. And uh he will not be joining us. So no he's not he's not dead again. Not dead again. Not dead again. Yes. There you go. But we're gonna try to entertain you. We only got an hour. Yes. But we're on it. So Oh, I see. Uh first negative 10-minute crew. So the the the the the uh the pre-recording 10-minute crew. We had a few people in. They were good. It was good. Yeah. Good to see you, Lucas. Good to be a degenerate. There you go. I love it. So you guys went to What was it exactly? We went to the Dubai Muscle Show. Yeah. So, um, we I went to Dubai. I think it was 2018 or 19. I can't even remember. And, uh, best time of your life, right, outside? It was the worst trip I've ever been on cuz I was super sick the whole time. Um, so I was hoping this trip would be a good redo of my previous Dubai experience. Way better. Wasn't sick, you know. And, uh, the only thing is it's such a quick turnaround, man. That's a lot. I was there for I I mean it'S-23 hours travel time to get there. Wow. You know, from Vancouver to Frankfurt's nine and a half hours and then Frankfurt to Dubai is like six and a half or something. And um you know with the layover and everything. So I got to Dubai Thursday at midnight. I got to the hotel. Okay. Straight to bed. I had like whey in water and went straight to bed. And um next morning we were straight to the expo. Boom. Up, breakfast, go to the expo. Day one, boom, just right in your face. No warm up, nothing. Yeah. And uh it went great. Uh day one was pretty slow cuz it's kind of like a almost like a a B2B day, like almost like it's all distributors and it's not as many fans on Friday because, you know, a lot of people are working and stuff, right? Yeah. So, uh, Friday was a little slow at the expo, but it was still good business. You know, I talked to the sales guys and they're like, "Oh, it was awesome." But we were kind of like the booths were kind of quiet. And then, um, and then Dusty and I went and trained on Friday night. Went and got a workout in. Nice. And, uh, you know, you know, ram some food, tried up, and then again, Saturday all day expo. And it was busy Saturday. That was like, you know, typical expo, you know, boom boom. Yeah. shaking lots of hands, lots of pictures, that sort of thing. And very happy to see that we had viewers like people coming up saying, "I watch a show. I watch the show." You know, like we we look at the I mean, you look at the stats more than we do. So you see like, you know, England and America are like our, you know, number two and number one and two locations. You know, can Canada's are number what three or four in there? Usually usually Canada is number three. UK was, you know, battling with uh for two and three with with Canada, but but UK's pulled through, you know, pretty solid now with a a solid second. So, I know. So, so we're kind of used to that. And then you you go over there and, you know, I'm meeting people from I, you know, people from Pakistan that watch a show. Oh my god. And India that watch a show. And you just start to go, "Wow." Like, okay, it's just really reaching, you know, cuz you see the numbers on YouTube and it's a it's a very small percentage of our viewers. So, you're like, "Oh, am I ever going to run into any of those people?" Right. Right. Right. And then here you go. There they are. Boom. I watch the show. I love the show. You guys are funny. Blah blah blah. Where's Scott? You know, like some stuff like that. So, it was pretty cool. And um uh just sort of a reminder of like how small the planet is getting. Yeah. You know, that's mindblowing, man. Cuz that that was my biggest question was like were there people there that that listen to the podcast? Which that that's cool, man. And that makes my day actually to hear that. I mean, cuz like you said, I see the numbers, but it's different to actually meet people, you know? Yeah. Yeah. Like, you know, a guy from Oman says like, "Oh, I love your show. I watch it all the time. I listen to it on my way to the gym." And that sort of [\h__\h] So, just pretty cool, man. And um and like another one was a guy from Palestine. Okay. You know, like when we think of Palestine, like we think like, you know, most of the people in Palestine, do they have internet? like, you know, it's it's pretty rough to live there, right? And and this guy's like, "Oh, I watch your show. Listen to your show." And I'm just like, "Man, this is [\h__\h] crazy." Like, yeah, you know, people that have like, "Oh, looks like I lost Looks like I lost Ron for a minute. Ron, did you did you go off your mic? Did you touch something?" No. No. Oh, well, I lost your mic. Yeah, I lost your sound. If you can't reconnect, we could always uh just have you hang up and call back. Yeah, I'll just come back in in just a second here. All right, I'm going to entertain you guys for a minute while Ron uh figures that out. This happens from time to time when we record. I mean, sometimes we don't edit it out, but sometimes we do. But yeah, anyway, let's see. We got Ron back here. There you go. Again. Yes. So, you were saying, yeah, like Palestine, I'd be curious to see what some of these guys' gyms look like. Like, where are they training? What are those gyms? You know what I mean? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I know. That's That's cool. I met a guy from Africa. Um damn, I can't remember the name of the island, but he lives on an island off the coast of Africa. Wow. And I I I meant to I I committed it to memory and now I can't remember the name of it. So, uh so, but I just want to say hi to all those people that came and and chatted with us. It was pretty awesome. And um and then Saturday night we went to like a team dinner at the Dubai Mall. Yeah. And for those of you who who who want to know what the Dubai Mall is like, it's like the craziest mall I've ever seen in my life. And I grew up near West Edmonton Mall, which was for a long time the biggest mall in the world. You know, had a water park in it and a ice rink and all that crazy [\h__\h] So, it was like the biggest mall in the world. And this mall is, you know, 40 years more advanced than that one was. You know what I mean? Yeah. And um you know they had a giant ice rink and uh and like I said the biggest aquarium I've ever seen inside. You're kidding me. I love those things, man. Yeah. Well, I posted it to my story and people were like, "What the fuck?" Like, you know, I don't know. Was it a million gallon tank? Like just [\h__\h] crazy, you know? Like the size of our gym. Like the tank is the size of the gym, you know? That is mindblowing, man. Yeah. And full of sharks and all types of fish. and just crazy to, you know, people standing there just watching it for hours. So, we're sitting at the Cheesecake Factory eating and there's like the biggest aquarium ever just right there outside of drostanolone. It's amazing. That's so cool. So, it was cool. And then another thing that was neat was um I don't know if it's cuz it's so hot during the day or if it's just a cultural thing, but like the mall at night is packed till midnight. Really? Till midnight? Well, we finished eating at 11:00 p.m. and we're walking around the mall and it's just packed. Huh. Like family skating together. Like the skating rink was full of people just skating in circles like, you know, just out for family skates and Wow. All the restaurants were jammed. You know, we had to wait for a table and and I think it's just the night life there. And that might be it might be because, you know, daytime's just kind of, you know, a little rough outside if it's if you're trying to go doing stuff. But it was pretty cool. And um and then of course another expo day Sunday. Dusty and I went and trained that night and then 11:00 p.m. Sunday head to the airport. So that was a quick trip then. Really quick trip. Yeah. So I basically was there for 72 hours. Okay. Yeah. And that's a long trip to go. Two workouts in. You met about like a zillion people. I'm sure you got to go to the mall. That sounds like a pretty good 72 hours, you know. Yeah, it wasn't bad. It was rammed full, you know. of course hanging out with Jamie the Giant and and uh Ashkin uh our guy from Sweden was there and he's he's cool to have around because he knows everybody you know he he used to work for a really big distributor in Sweden for years. Um so he knows all the supplement company guys and he knows all the you know what I mean that whole like culture of people he knows everybody cuz he was you know selling everybody's supplements for a long time. Okay. So, um, you know, he's he's very ingrained in the industry and, uh, so he's fun to have around and and, uh, yeah, it was a good time. So, I'm happy to be back. I was very jet-lagged. I bet that's a long flight. You know, I was lying to myself like, I'm fine. I slept on the plane. But then I'd just be I'd be like, you know, I got up at 8:30 in the morning yesterday. I was like, "Oh, I'm back on clock." Right. But then I'd be working on my phone and I would literally just start nodding out right there. And like I woke up so twice yesterday I knotted off and quickly woke up and my phone was on the ground like I dropped it fallen asleep and dropped it just so it was kind of a kind of a funny day but um I feel like I'm a little bit back to normal now. You know what I mean? That's cool. So I got to ask you some questions. Couple questions and I I I don't see somebody else had asked. Okay. Yeah. Here we go. It was uh JRo55 said um how is the bodybuilding fitness 5 in Dubai compared to the US and what was the I'm going to add on to that too. What was it like at the expo compared to a US expo? Um well I mean the fitness indust industry there technically is is exploding. Okay. You know what I mean? Like it's it's a it's a huge growth market. So it's getting a lot bigger. Um, but uh there was, you know, you see you see a lot of bodybuilders. It's I mean it's just like anywhere. I mean I don't know what percentage to like rate it as far as like you know how many bodybuilders we saw and stuff, but you see um I noticed the competition had like an insane number of men's physique guys competition because our booth was right next to the stage. So behind our booth was the kind of the tunnel for the athletes to go to the stage. Okay. Yeah. You know, like they had it kind of fenced off, right? So, every time they'd bring new weight classes back there, the the little holding area was right behind our booth. So, every once in a while, I'd look behind the booth to see like, "Oh, who's who's going up next?" Yeah. And you know, it's the bodybuilders. I'm like, "Oh, yeah. Some [\h__\h] good bodybuilders." Like a lot of guys are jacked, you know? And then the classic the classic guys when they were doing all the classic guys, I was like, "Oh, these classes are big." Like 20 guys in each class. That sort of. That's good. That's great. And and then the men's physique guys was like the last day on Sunday they did those guys. And I looked behind the booth a few times and there was just like a [\h__\h] massive group of guys back there. I was like how big are these classes? So you know and of course like all the other classes were big too. There was a lot of competitors. I talked to one uh bikini competitor from uh Liverpool. Who lives there now. And she's like oh you know blah blah blah. I got I think she got like fifth in her class or something. Oh, how many people? Well, she's like, "Oh, there are 30 girls in my class." Dang. I'm like, "Oh, that's like that's like, you know, like team universe level of people." Yeah. It was very very, you know, very big show for them. So, yeah, it went good. It was a fun trip, man. You know, that's cool. And then what about the gyms? Yeah. So, we went went and trained at Vinus twice. Okay. And um you know, the gym you see on Instagram a lot with the Captain America plates. You see Sergio training there and Andrew Jack training there and like all those guys, you know. So, we went and trained there and um it was interesting. It's it's uh they have a a you know, they have a great setup. They got these giant screens inside showing bodybuilding videos and you know, they got a ton of equipment like 20 leg presses. It's it's one of those big super gyms, you know. It's probably 30,000 [\h__\h] 30,000 square feet maybe. I don't know. Yeah. [\h__\h] maybe more. Like I don't know what the square footage is. It's just huge. You know, several big rooms all connected. Um, you know, you could train there for a week and not see your friend. Yeah. Oh, you've been here? You know, like there was people there that we didn't run into. Like they messaged me after. They're like, "You guys were there tonight?" I'm like, "Yeah, like two hours." Wow. Are the machines the same or are there different brands there that we don't have? How does that work? Um, I saw a couple brands that I haven't seen in North America yet, but I've already seen them at like the expos and I've seen them at they have their, you know, I've seen the brands at the have their booth at the expo and stuff. So, um, but yeah, all the same stuff like, you know, there'll be the Hammer Strength and they had Prime and they had all, you know, but they also had a few brands that I I hadn't heard of yet, but they okay, you know, it was interesting. I tried some we tried some new stuff, but um the the only and you know, I don't like to gripe about anything, but the only gripe I had about that gym was there's no weight trees. Okay. And I really like weight trees. Huh. Because you they you know, they're just good for organization. And there's no weight trees. So all the plates were just kind of like on all the storage pegs. Oh, okay. Yeah. And of course, if you do that, you can't really organize them. So there' be like a be like a 5 pounder and then a 45 pounder, right? Then a 25 pounder and then a 2.5 pounder and then a 35 pound. So there was a little bit of that, right? If if if that bothers you, then it's it's a little hard. I I imagine training legs would probably be difficult because you'd have to kind of hunt for plates and stuff, but dig through. Um Yeah. Yeah. But I mean, they they seem to get by. No one else seemed to care. I'm just I'm I'm a real weight tree guy. I like my weight trees. Yeah, I I can hear that. I got rid of mine, man. I had I had a weight tree when I this gym closed down during the pandemic. And the guy was like, "You know what? I was going to close anyway." He was like, "So, I'm just going to get rid of my stuff now." And that's where I bought my leg press, my hack squat, and my hammer strength rack. Got it all from the same guy. He gave me a good deal to buy it all. And I was like, "You know what? I'll take that weight tree, too." And I got everything in the basement and it's just too much. It's like I I don't have enough room. I was like something's got you know what I mean? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You don't need You could keep your plate straight. Yep. But yeah, I know what you mean. And um also the people there don't put their dumbbells away. Oh, well the dumbbell if you ran the place, Ron, it would change and give them a week. I would be camping by that rack. Yeah. [\h__\h] telling people, you know, that was something we were really big on when we opened the gym. We policed the [\h__\h] out of the rack for the first while just to make sure everybody was on board. And then once you get like your foundation members really on board with keeping the rack straight the tone. Yeah. Yeah. You know, you know, every once in a while I come into the gym and there's some dumbbells out of place, but our staff always checks it and they always make sure it's organized and You know, I'll go I'll go up to people and go, "Hey, those 40s don't go there." Oh, yeah. You put them where the 35s go. They go one over. Yeah. Like make sure you don't like I'll tell people that. So yeah, it was good though. Um great trip, you know. Uh it always thankful to come home, you know, just because home home's so comfortable. Like there's, you know, I like being on the road, but you know, a hotel is a hotel. It's just not the same as coming home to your own cup of coffee. You know, I miss my coffee mug. You know. Yeah, I know what you mean, man. It's nice to wake up in your own bed. You've got Jedi there. You know, your girl's there. She's at chick here too. There you go. Yeah. Yeah. So, so we we went out of town this week. This weekend it was Swiss, which now Swiss, are you familiar with Swiss? Yeah. The the uh that's like that strength and conditioning uh uh all the Yes. Yeah. Big summit. Yeah. Yeah. So, Victoria was speaking in that and I don't get invited to summits. You You'd be great at it, man. We just have to find a topic for you. I I'll I'll get you in if you want to go. Okay. Get me in. I'll do my little TED talk if you get me into a summit. There you go. So, I got to hear of course Victoria. Um I heard Eric Serrano talking and I had never met Eric before. That's you know, do you know Dr. Eric Srano? He was John Meadow's doctor. He's John's doctor. Yeah. Yeah. So, I I got to meet him and Victoria is good friends with him. So, I had like that instant in and I heard Stan Efering did a talk. Um uh a whole bunch of people, man. It was crazy. Rick Collins was there talking about steroids and law and then I met Dave Tate. I had never met Dave Tate before. Oh, really? So, yeah. So, I met Dave and then after it was over, he was having a barbecue out at Elite. So, I got to go visit the compound for the first time. I had never been to Elite before. Oh, nice. Dude, that gym is like mindblowing. You know what I'm saying? It's not just the equipment, but like every handle, every band, everything you could possibly want in a gym. Literally an entire that entire place had bars against the wall just lined all the way down. It was crazy, you know. Yeah. I I haven't been to that compound yet. I was at the location before he moved. Yeah. Yeah. The original one, I believe. I Well, it I think that that was actually S4. Oh, was it? I thought that was the that's the only only other one I knew, right? Yeah, cuz there were a few smaller locations before that main one that we remember with him and John training together. Okay. Yeah. And I believe that was called S4 and now the new one is called S5. Okay. It's nice, man. Yeah. Yeah. That's the big money spend. I think the the fancy place Dave always wanted. Yeah. It's cool. It's definitely fancy. There's that, man. They even had So, what really like confused me almost I didn't ask him about this. When you go in the bathroom, first of all, there's a sign when you go to walk back out into the gym and the sign says something like some of the strongest humans in the world have trained here. Yeah. You know, train hard, something like that. And I just I saw that and I was like, you know, that gives you chills. Um, but if you look in the bathroom, they have individually rol wrapped in plastic uh toilet paper. All right. So, they've got like their little their little roll of toilet paper and it's in a little plastic covering that says Elite FTS and has their logo on it. Why do they have toilet paper with their logo on it? Ron, you own it. Jim, answer this for me. I think it's a powerlifter thing. [\h__\h] They take [\h__\h] very seriously. Okay. I think they're like powerlifters. They eat a lot. Oh, yeah. I think maybe they're eating a little bit messier. Yeah. Maybe a little bit little bit worse of a [\h__\h] experience going on in there. I think they're not having those healthy bodybuilder fiber shits. They're having those those uh McDonald's drive-thru powerlifter shits with a case of beer, you know. Yeah. Yeah. We'll have to We should have Dave on and he can explain the uh the toilet paper toilet paper like, "Hey, there's three things you need in life. Need a coffee mug, you need a hat, and you need toilet paper." Maybe that's why he's brand branding the things he's branding. Maybe it is, man. It was cool, though. And then Skip and I did uh a live podcast at like we we decided to do it at like 11:00 at night and we set it up in the lobby at Swiss like after everything was finished. Uh there was like this after hours party. So we set up just outside of that. We got Ed Cohen to to join in for a minute. We got a bunch of different presenters to stop in. Everybody was getting drunk. So we had a good time, you know, getting people to pop in. So we had fun, man. Skip was there. Skip I I didn't mention that. Skip was there. We had a good time. We both learned a lot, too. Ah, damn. That sounds like something I might want to go to next year. I'll I'll keep you posted when it's coming up next time around, man. It was good. It was good. I see someone asked. They said, "Uh, did you see anybody with their shoes off in the gym?" No, not a single person. There were like There were like 200 people in the gym that night. Yeah. And I I kept my eye peeled. I didn't even see a single pair of flip-flops. Okay. Um, but they do have a bunch of boxing rings in one area. So, I'm not sure if they let people I know boxers typically wear shoes. I know boxers wear those lace up, you know, those like almost like those uh, you know, those real flat bottom like shoes that boxers wear. So, maybe they all wear those. I don't know. I didn't see anybody in the rings. Yeah. Um, but I did have my eyes peeled for uh for for people that didn't have shoes on, you know. So, what was your highlight of the trip if you had to pick like one aspect of it? Highlight probably just training with Dusty at the gym. Yeah. Yeah. Just cuz Dusty and I have so much fun when we train, you know, and you know, you're doing road workouts, so you're just trying new machines and having fun and you're not like, you know, putting too much pressure on yourself. And you know, we're both uh we're both retired, so we're able to train real hard, but also like enjoy just being out at the gym. And you know, it's not like it's like, "Oh god, I have to hack squat six plates for 12 today or I'm going to die." Like, it's not like any of that pressure. You just go in and let's just have fun on, oh, let's try this machine. I don't know how much to put on it. You know, and you blast out it. You accidentally get 20 reps on something. You're like, "Oh, that was a little light, but that counts as a set, you know." Right. Right. So, we just had a lot of fun, you know, just um you know, it was cool. Like the the Sunday night when we trained, we were kind of in a hurry because we wanted to work out and then we had to go shower and go straight to the airport Sunday night, right? Oh, yeah. So, we're training and like, you know, Dorian is right beside us training a couple guys and filming, you know. So, we just kind of like Dorian kind of looks at me, gives me a nod, and I'm like, "Hey, you know, I didn't want to, you know, he's training guys that are paying for his time, right? So, right, just, you know, I didn't get a picture or say hi or chat with him or anything, but we just kind of, hey, what's up, you know? Yeah. And, um, you know, you see, you see a bunch of other guys around the gym, you know, just giving nods to people. Like Victor was there training. Okay. You know, just walking around, you know, he was just training by himself. Just looked like he was just having like a pump cuz he's retired now, but [\h__\h] does he look good. Oh, yeah. You know, and Dexter Dexter Jackson. Um, I talked to Dexter for quite a while because his booth was right across from ours really. And I've known I've known Dexter for a long long time, too. So, um, we chatted and I said, "What do you weigh?" And he goes, "I'm 205." No kidding. He He looks fantastic. I bet he does. He looks like, you know, he looks like just really tiny. Like his waist is like this big. Yeah. And he still has like awesome just incredible arms hanging out of his t-shirt. I bet his blood work is great, too. You know what I'm saying? Like, I bet he's just healthy. The only reason you know that he's in his Well, how old is he actually now? 50some. Easy. Yeah. He looks like he's like 40 except he's got a except that he's got a gray beard. Okay. Yeah. You know what I mean? It's just funny. He looks great. That'd be cool if we could get him on at some point if he'd uh if he'd hang with us. That'd be cool. Yeah. Yeah, he he will. He'll come on. He'll come on. We should do that. We should do that. We'll have to get Dexter. He said now he just he said he's just all about the grandkids. He said like that's all he cares about is the grandkids. That's like his whole day revolves around the grandkids. So, it's kind of interesting just to hear Dexter talk about, you know, life after bodybuilding a little bit. Yeah. So, what about now? Lucas has uh what happens in Dubai stays in Dubai. Ron, any spicy stories? Uh, no spice when you're in the You don't You don't do anything even questionably. Uh, I'm glad you made it back. Yeah. When you're in the Middle East, you don't go like, you know, trying to do any funny business. You know, you just, you know, mind your business, stay in line, don't get in trouble. You know, well, what do you say we take some of these questions? Like, there is a bunch. That's awesome. I don't know if you've seen any. I've been talking the whole time. All right. I mean, I I missed them, too, but I've got them all here so I can go back through them. Um, and I favored a few because Okay, here's a great place to start since Dusty isn't with us. Uh, the spawn of Steve hits us with an overrated, underrated Halloween. Well, you know, here's here's what I'm going to say about Halloween nowadays. Underrated or over? Oh, okay. It's underrated. Underrated now. Yeah, I'm going with underrated. And I I I and I will admit I'm terrible. I never dress up. Yeah. I just feel like it's always October 27th when you start thinking about it. Ah, [\h__\h] it. I'll dress up next year. Yeah. You know, but I remember how much fun Halloween was when you were a kid. Oh, yeah. Doesn't get better than that. You know what I mean? So, I'd say it's underrated now. I wish we put a little bit more fun into it. Like, I admired the um I It was great. I got home on Monday, right? I landed at 2 p.m. So 2:00 in the afternoon, I got off the plane and I thought, "Okay, if I go to bed, I'm just going to be even more [\h__\h] up." So, I made myself stay up and I made myself go train. Okay, good move. Yeah. So, I went to the gym at 5. I met up with Braden. We had a workout and there was some people training in costumes. And I thought, "You people are awesome." like, you know, I I wish I had a little bit more like participation when it came to Halloween, but I I really like seeing it. You know, we had some staff members dress up, you know, like that sort of stuff. It's it's it's a it's a really it's really fun and I think it's underrated now. And um and I'd say that I'm part of the bad team that un that that causes it to be underrated because I don't take part. So, it's it's one of those things out here. So, this is uh Victoria's first Halloween in the US, right? And we wanted to walk, we always walk the dogs twice a day. Once in the morning, usually around 9:00 a.m., and then once again in the evening when we're both done with our work. So, we said, "Hey, let's try to walk the dogs a little bit early tonight, you know, before the sun goes down. That way, we miss the trick-or-treaters. We're, you know, we're not trying to walk down the the sidewalks with them." And guess what? They had already started. And it was so here people they make it almost like a tailgating party. You have like people are pulling up like fire pits in their front yard putting little tents up. They've got like music playing at their house. People sitting around, you know, talking about everybody's costumes of the kids as they come up. You know, parents are drinking beers and all that. Everybody's like doing something, having fun. And Victoria said, I that's not the way Halloween is in Canada. She's like, I've never seen anything like this. And in the whole leading up to Halloween, I was like, "Hey, we want to put out any decorations." She's like, "I don't really like, you know, I don't care about Halloween." She wanted to put out like the fall spread with the pumpkins and the, you know, the fall looking stuff. And uh she's like, "But I'm" She wasn't into Halloween. And then people are putting up decorations through the neighborhood. And she's like, "Huh, people are really into Halloween." And then once she saw it, she was like, "This is really cool. This is like it's like a block party basically." Yeah. So she enjoyed that. And I think that now she thinks that I think to her it was overrated and now for her it's underrated as well. That'd be my guess. There you go. Yeah. There you go. That was a good one. All right. Let's see what else do we have here. Ron, did you finish your Iron Maiden binge? Yeah, pretty much. I mean, I listened to like I think almost all their albums. I still have a few of the new albums I haven't listened to, but I really got like a heavy deep dose of Iron Maiden. Like at least 25 years worth of albums I listen to. And um yeah, it was very interesting. Very interesting. They're fantastic band. You know, they're not one of my like favorite bands ever or anything like that, but I just thought that I wanted to collect a little more like historical knowledge of of of metal. Yeah, I felt like, you know, can you really talk about music if you don't know Iron Maiden? You know, it's one of those bands I thought, you know, I didn't really know all their stuff. Like I said, I knew their hits and their obvious stuff really well. And I've had lots of Iron Maiden on my playlist in the past, but it was always like the same, you know, 15 songs, right? And uh so it was just good to hear like the rest. They're um they're unbelievable. Yeah, they're good band. We had several people when you talked about them on the last episode, several people commented in. and they're like, "Oh, yeah. I love Iron Maiden." So, you got some people excited. There's the this the the bass player, Steve Harris. Yeah. He's the principal songwriter, which is very unusual. Like most bands, it's not the bass player. Right. Right. Um but Steve Harris is the one that that writes these songs and he writes them as a bass player. So the fact that I started playing some bass gave me a lot to I was like oh these cuz most of the time it's you know someone comes in with a song and then they figure out the bass to go with it and make and enhance the song right you know like what can the bass player do here to help to serve the song right um whereas Steve Harris writes these songs as a bass player so the bass is very integral to Iron Maiden it is the foundation of the of of the melody and the rhythm and there's a lot of crazy stuff going on almost like he's a lead player in a way. Huh. And um so when you listen to Iron Maiden as a bass player with my new ear now that I appreciate a little more. Yeah. Um I'm like, "Wow, this guy's [\h__\h] you know, this guy's got like, you know, one of those just, you know, unbelievable levels of talent for creativity and all this stuff comes out of this guy's head. This is crazy, you know. That's cool." So yeah, I didn't know that. I didn't know that. Yeah, it it that's one one of the reasons why I wanted to listen to them was cuz I I kind of realized all this as I was like going down my little my new little bass playing uh uh adventure and I thought, "Fuck, I got to go back and appreciate these a little bit differently, see how they sound." So, yeah. All right. Have you guys you know how it is? I do. Have you ever had a a wife/significant other as a training partner? I've been training with my wife for the last month and it's absolutely awesome. She trains hardcore. I have never done that. No. In fact, in fact, I think I mean Emily and I have been together 10 years. I think we did shoulders once in a hotel gym. Yeah. It's always just been like not not it's just not been the the thing. It's just been it's just not a thing that I usually do. Um, but I I see other people doing it and it's [\h__\h] working really great for them and they love it and it it's their time together and I see lots of people at the gym training with their husbands and wives and they're, you know, giving her and it's it's, you know, goes well. But um I have never really been that that that guy. But uh hey, if it works for you, I guess I've always spent a lot of time with my significant other. So the training time was like my time. Whereas I see other people are busy and maybe they have kids and maybe they can only get out of the house together for an hour and they go work out together and it's like their time. So I I I guess that would change the dynamic, you know. Yeah. The closest we get is sometimes we will be in the gym training and our gym is obviously the basement at the same time, you know, so she's doing her thing, I'm doing my thing and then we finish up, you know, more or less around the same time and that's kind of cool. I I still I enjoy that getting to spend that time with her. We don't really talk, you know, we're not like being social dur during it, but it's kind of cool, you know. Yeah. I I still like when when we happen to have a day where one of us isn't already at the gym and and we get to drive to the gym together. That's cool. Yeah. Train and then drive home together. Like that's almost feels like a little almost feels like you you spent some time together just because you you know you shared the same training schedule for a day. Yeah. It uh it seems to make you know make it feel a little bit different. But you know, she's always got so many clients and I'm always in and out of the gym. It's like we never go at exactly the same time. I see her there all the time training, but you know, you're not driving there together and all that stuff, you know? Right. Right. It's one of the fun parts about a holiday is you go, "Okay, let's go work out." And you both go to Starbucks and you get your coffees and you drive to the gym and and you're like, you know, that sort of thing. So, it's fun. Uh, one for me, I'm a fellow Michigander. Want to coach me, Scott? I would be happy to. That said though, I don't coach people like, you know, I work with people that live in Michigan and I hardly see them in person, honestly. Like, we still I still work with them online. That's where I do my best work. You know what I mean, Ron? Do you have I'm sure you have people that you that are probably living close to you. But you do have the gym. Do you have people that you don't see that you work with that are in that proximity? Yeah. I mean, I have clients that train at my gym and I hardly ever see them because they're morning guys or whatever. Yeah. that's still all about photos and check-ins and all that stuff. I mean, it's still online training, right? I And I make sure I tell them that like, I'm training you online. It's great if I see you at the gym five weeks out, we can go have a quick look in the posing room so I can gauge what your pictures actually mean. Yeah. You know, but you know, obviously if I'm training like five, six people from my gym, I can't see everybody that, you know, I can't just be running up to the posing room every time I run into somebody. I got stuff to do. It's like, you know, you got to like kind of keep your your schedules Absolutely. set. Yeah. Yeah. So, but it's very helpful if they're close. Obviously, you can that that's one thing that seeing somebody in person doesn't necessarily make it easier to get them in shape. Like some of the best work I've ever done was people I've never met. I know what you mean, Yeah. But seeing them in person, even once helps you gauge what their photos really mean. It does. At times, it can it can be helpful. Yeah. So, your your kitchen photos actually mean this. Yeah. Especially if they're not great photos, you know. Yeah. Um, what else do we have here? We had a bunch of them. Uh, do you guys recommend a fitness tracker? I've been using my fitness pal. you guys have any suggestions about uh NAM n I don't know maybe that's I don't know what that means uh I I I just I downloaded uh an app one time and I just couldn't get into bothering entering all the data and I just don't care. Yeah, I just don't care. I know what I'm eating. Yeah. I I it's that's not like after 30 years of of using nice round numbers in my head and going that's 50 carb, 50 carb, 50 carb, I've had 150 carbs. Yep. Like and then you start using the tracker app and you're like it's 47.5 carbs and that's 52.7 carbs and that's and all of a sudden you got decimal points in your head. Ah, [\h__\h] I that's [\h__\h] up. It's still 150 carbs, you know. Yeah. I want nothing. Yeah. Yeah. I just I want nothing to do with with that sort of data. It doesn't mean anything to me. I don't care. PE people message me all the time like I burned 800 calories on the stepper. I'm like says what? Says the stepper. Like I don't care. Doesn't mean anything. That number means nothing to me. I don't even care to hear it. Yeah. I hear you, man. That and the when I see the people have their um electronic body fat scales at home and they're like, I I went, you know, I changed a half a percent this morning at our check-in. I'm like, uh, you know. Yeah. So, the one thing I will say about those scales is I have a client, a natural client who has one of those scales. Uhu. And she would send her, you know, every every check-in I'd get photos. Yeah. Body weight and her body fat percentage from the scale, right? And and you know, I I never asked for it. It was just always in the check-in. But it did it did come down almost every single check-in. Did it? Okay. So, yeah. So, it became sort of like, you know, when you're using a broken scale that's like four pounds off, it was consistent to itself. It's consistently to itself. And it dropped like one, you know, some weeks she'd be maybe she's 112, right, at 12.5%. And then the next week she's still 112, but it says 11.9%. Well, that sounds like that one worked out. I have never seen it that way. I've seen it where people use the scale that tells them their muscle mass and their like the inbody scale and then they say like, "Hey, I lost a half a pound of muscle today, you know, but they're they're just depleted." And it's like, "No, you didn't." You know that. Yeah. No, cuz Yeah. I would say this, you could have just missed a dose of creatine and you'd have less muscle mass on the right. Right. You know. Yeah. Yeah. So, yeah. Yeah. I would say with the fitness apps like My Fitness Pal, if you just are getting started, it's a great way to start being more like cognizant of that stuff. But absolutely, the biggest mistake is people look at the to the total protein. They see, oh, I'm getting 500 grams of protein, when in actuality, or you know, I'm making that number up, but in actuality, the complete protein they're getting is far less. Like when you talk to Ron, do you figure the total protein in somebody's diet or do you figure the actual the the um the complete proteins like do you figure the protein from oatmeal for instance? I never ever ever I round I I I monkey things right down to nothing. My diets are all done with round numbers. Y no decimal points, no single digits. It is 50 carbs, 50 protein servings, you know, you know, like very very very basic. That's why when people start using the apps, they start saying to me, well, you told me my protein was 250, but on my app it's actually 262. Yes. Yes. And my answer is, I don't care. Like like I like don't jumble the numbers that are working. like look at your just let's just keep this simple, you know? Yeah. Um but so part of that is just because I'm so good at doing it my way that I why would I change? Like it works it works really well for me. So but but the fitness apps are fantastic for people who who who are new and don't know these numbers and they don't know how much carb is in in the rice they're eating and they don't understand how many trace grams of fat they're getting from different types of meat they're eating and they're like, "Oh yeah, you're right. that does add up, you know, that's why you told me to have, you know, this cut of beef instead of that cut of beef, you know. You know, so so that that stuff helps those people. I'm not saying they're useless. I'm just saying for me, I just I prefer to just kind of avoid all that stuff. Okay. So, we're past Halloween here in the US. We're heading into Thanksgiving. You guys already had Thanksgiving, so the next thing is Christmas. Uh what do you think you What's your opinion on Christmas music being played at the moment? because it's already happening somewhere. I know it is. Yeah. I I'm not I'm not I I I like walking into a store and hearing some Christmas music. You're like, "Ah, here we go. I don't mind that." Yeah, I don't mind that. I'm not at all a Grinch. I like Christmas. Christmas is great. You know, I I hope that people um can be really nice to each other this year. We had a couple of Christmases where people were a little bit [\h__\h] up and it'd be it'd be good if we had like a return to like the real friendly, you know, say hi to your neighbor Christmas and uh I'm hoping for a little bit of that. Yeah. Um I know. I got to hear some Mariah Carey or it's just not Christmas. Yeah. Let's see. You know, and we have a Christmas playlist for the gym. Like there's a couple of Christmas metal albums. Yeah. you know, like assorted artists doing Christmas songs and and my favorite Christmas song of all time is Run Run Rudolph by Lemy Dave Gro and uh Billy Gibbons from Zezy Top. Do you hear that one very often in the in the Oh, okay. Oh, well, no. I I make sure it's on the gym playlist on Christmas like you run Run Rudolph with Dave Gro on the drums and Billy playing guitar and Lemie on bass singing. I make sure we play that one. That's that gets in heavy rotation. Let's see here. Fouad's podcast. Um or two, he said uh he's sponsored by a TRT clinic, Merrick. Um he said he got like 40 vials of blood taken. What's the most you have taken, both of you? Oh, I don't know. I just when I get like uh you know really extensive blood work done like you know you know normal blood work they take several vials for my normal blood work. Yeah, but I I did get like really extensive blood work done. Um, one time I so I actually had a skin cancer on my back. Oh, no kidding. In 2013, I had some basilc cell carcinomomas, which is technically like the best kind of cancer to get if you're going to get skin cancer cuz it's, you know, pretty mild and they just cut it out and put some cream on the spot for a while and, you know, you should have it. Um but uh when I had that they did do like uh I remember they they must have taken 10 or 10 or more vials of blood that time just to do a safety check. Everything came back completely fine. So they said, "Oh, you just happen to have these basil cells." So they just removed them and you know I was fine. But that would be the most blood work I ever had. Yeah, I bet. Man, I never look like I don't count the vials. I just turn my head the other way. I don't want to see it. They do their thing and then when they're done I'm like okay. Hey, I breathe the side of relief, you know. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Uh Ron, have you ever finished a box of cereal? 364 grams at a time. Yeah. Yeah. I've done some cereal binges. It's not hard to do. You know, it goes down easy. No, that that actually used to be a high carb day thing. I would eat a box of cereal. Like if I was dieting really hard and like my coach said, "Okay, it's too high carbs. Let's do this." I'd be like, "Oh, [\h__\h] I'll plow a box of cereal." Yeah. You know, um, what about ate a whole box of mini wheats one day? Mini Wheats? I'm trying to think. What? Frost frosted mini wheats. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Those are They're like the big pieces, right? Yeah. Yeah. Like the big squares with the icing on them. Yeah, those are good. I used to be to eat a whole box of mini wheats. You ever have Weed a bit? It's like a UK thing. And they're like shredded wheat. Yeah. They're without the without the frosting on them. Yeah. Yeah. That's a They had them in Australia, too. Used to dump protein shake on those. Finn asked us, "Any guidance on the mental side of aging? Being okay with not training like you're 25, being okay with not going as heavy, etc. I mean, yeah, I've had to go through some of that lately, you know, like there's lots of things I'm not going to do anymore because the riskto-reward ratio is just ridiculously bad, you know? Like, am I going to try to squat four plates for reps all the time now? No, I'm not going to squat four plates anymore. You know, I there's no need for me to do that. The last thing I want to do is get [\h__\h] hurt. Yeah, I got too much going on. I'm enjoying being able to move around so much that I'm not going to do anything to get hurt. I'd rather train in the 20 rep range with lighter weights and just train really hard than risk any sort of injuries, you know? Like I still train really hard on leg day. Like I'm going to absolute failure, but I'm keeping my reps up a lot higher than I used to. So I'm not uh you just have to, you know, I got that use it or lose it mentality. And the last thing I want to do is get hurt and not be able to use it, you know, and then it's hard to get it back, you know. You know, the older you get, the harder it is to get back from an injury. It is, man. And uh Yeah. So, you got to be really, you know, aware that everything you do has a risk to it. And, um, you know, I like to train to see another day now, you know. Yeah. I think I put my time in, I put my time in taking risks in the gym, you know, the seven plate hack squats and all that sort of stuff. And I just, you know, have no interest in that level of risk anymore. You know, and you're So, you're okay with that? You You're okay with not training the way you used to? I mean, it's I think it's an evolving thing. It's something I have to deal with, too. You know, I'm not a kid anymore. It it I think it's like it's important to be able to reframe stuff. At the end of the day, you know what? I didn't start training because I absolutely loved pressing the 125 lb dumbbells. Like, that wasn't the reason. I love training because I loved the experience. And I can have a really good experience in another way. So, I think if it's like if I want to keep training in my life and I'm going to stay keep staying healthy and not getting hurt, that helps me to keep it in my life, I'm going to figure out what I can do to keep it there, you know? Yeah. Yeah. And it it does help that you I've put a lot of work into trying to look good. Like, and I don't mean like for other people, I just mean for me. Like, I want to look good. I want to get up in the mirror and go, "Fuck, I'm really lean." Like, I'm staying nice and lean. And you really are too. And and and it it and it does help like obviously we don't do this for other people but it does help when your your peers um you know people like obviously normal people are going to think you know oh you look great but when your peers say like man you look really healthy. Yeah. And and you look great like I hope I look like you when I'm you know totally done this [\h__\h] And um and when you hear that you're like okay that's awesome. Like I know I'm doing something right. I'm just going to keep doing what I'm doing because, you know, we all see people that retire from bodybuilding and some of them stay in great shape, some of them don't. You know, some of them still have the offseason look, but they're just smaller. And other guy like I don't want that. I don't want to be 240 and look offseason. I'd rather be 220 and look really good and feel good, you know, and feel good, you know? So, I have no qualms about getting lighter or anything like that anymore. I'm kind of over it. But the feedback that you get from people, like, you know, when I saw Dexter, like I told Dexter, "Man, you look like a million bucks." And he goes, "You look great. How how much do you weigh now?" Like, he's giving me the same thing back, you know? So, it felt good to uh to just know that, you know, people appreciate that you've stayed in, you know, you're doing something right. Dang, man. Do you remember Well, you don't remember. You weren't there. Do you remember Dusty and I telling you about taking a little video tour of one of our listeners gyms? He he just commented and Michael Dero and he said, "Scott, I just added a what's this brand? Gym, what is it?" Jim Leo. Jim Leo seated chest press and a core strength seated row for the gym. Some incredible equipment, dude. Yeah. Yeah. The Gym Leo brand is I I can't remember what country they're out of. Uh, it's a European brand, I believe. Okay. And, um, I've only used a few of their pieces. They've got a real small footprint. Oh, that's great for a home gym. Yeah, I know. I know Destination Dallas has a few pieces of Gym Leo, and there's a couple other gyms I've been to that had a few pieces. And, um, I haven't tried many pieces, but I know they they do have pretty small footprints, which seems to be an advantage for some people. Um, so yeah, check them out. I think Okay, hold on. Okay, this looks cool. If I wonder if it's this one. This is a Jim Leo seated chest press. Yeah. So, that'd be like the pin loaded one, but they've also got all the plate loaded [\h__\h] You know what I mean? I like a chest press like a plate loaded chest press that has that foot plate to kick it up, you know? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, those are cool. Yeah, that's cool. Yeah. Um, we had another one. I don't know. I can't remember where it was. It was was up a little ways, but he was saying that uh he's I think working on a PhD, but he asked us tips on on being more effective studying. Oh, damn. Well, I mean, I don't know. The right people. Well, I just know that when I'm into something that I'm actually trying to do, like I guess last night, last night I I sat and played guitar for like almost two hours and I was watching a you a YouTube video. Oh, yeah. Jim Leo is from Sweden. Yeah. Um, thank you. So, uh, um, which would explain why Destination had some ahead of everybody else because Gasp is from Sweden. Oh, I didn't know that. Yeah. Huh. Yeah. Yeah. Gasp is from Sweden. Better Bodies. It's a Swedish company, but their headquarters is in Dallas now where the gym is destination, right? And they were like the first people I knew that had gym Leo, so that would make sense. Okay. Um, so, uh, as far as studying goes, like you know, last night I I I had this almost two-hour little guitar binge. I was watching YouTube videos and and you know, kind of I'm kind of basically taking lessons online through YouTube. Um, and you know, you you don't like get off your phone like you know, Emily went to bed. You know, there's nothing turned on. No one's bothering me. It's just me. You know, you have to have your focus zone. um you can't be distracted. Don't have the TV on and [\h__\h] checking your phone and yeah get you know that sort of thing. It was you know I I set that time aside for me and and I knew that I was going to be able to just focus and I didn't look at my phone once the whole time. I was was like two hours of just me watching these YouTube videos going over them. I rewatched the same video three times and you know worked along with it and tried to, you know, pick up what the guy was teaching and um so yeah, I mean the only advice I have about studying is, you know, just commit to the focus. You have to just set that time aside. Yeah. And and don't have distractions, you know. That's that's a big one I find too it helps. So I'm thinking of like when I'm doing work and I need when I so not as much studying as much as like focusing to sit at my desk because I'll sit here for hours you know a day 10 12 hours sometimes maybe longer and a big part of it is having things like blocked off you know where I know right now I'm working on this and then I focus on that thing and then when I'm done with that I'll take a break like I'll get up after a couple hours go walk around get some food let the dogs outside walk them around the block even you know But definitely don't just sit there. And I know Victoria does that too. She actually has like these blocks that she sets and they're two-hour blocks and she takes a 15-minute rest or break to, you know, re reboot basically. Uh and I think that's important. Like you can't just sit there for like eight hours straight, you know? Yeah. Yeah. You become less productive, you know, over time. Yep. Yep. Yeah. You got see anything else over there on the side, Ron? Anything you want to tackle? We have so many people commenting. Yeah, I know. It's just awesome to have this many watching the show. It really is. Damn, you know, it's um Let's see if I I'm just looking here. I really like some of this stuff. Yeah, we had some people say like uh Anthony here. He says it's the first time he caught a live show from us. Oh, yeah. We don't do them often, but I I like them. The last one we did, the last one we did was awesome. Um, you know, it wound up getting really good views, too, you know, which is amazing. M, uh, I'm in. He said, I forgot he was he said he took a a photo with you and he got to meet you and Dusty. He said that in another comment. He took a photo and he was supposed to tag me in it. So, he got a chance to meet you out there at the uh at the expo. Yeah. Like that was like I said, that was just crazy to meet people that watch a show, you know, that far away. it. Uh, body by Dale. Dy L D. Body by D. Must be Dylan. He says he's coming out to train at West Coast Iron. Uh, visiting uh, Vancouver. He lives 16 hours away. So, that's kind of cool. Oh, so I mean 16 hours away would be I mean, damn. I mean, where I'm from is only a 12-h hour drive away. So, he's even farther away than that. So, he must be from like, you know, he must be from or he may be from the States. He might be driving up from like Oregon down where Justin Shire is or something like that. Who knows where he's coming from. Where's Justin at? He's in Oregon. Okay. Okay. Yeah. I don't remember the town, but he's in Oregon somewhere. Yeah. You know, let's see. What's up, guys? From the mic. Let's see. Did you see Hollings Head's uh costume? No. Was it? Oh, he was like God of War. No kidding. How did he look? It was good. Awesome. Yeah. Pull up his Instagram. All right. Yeah. I want to talk about this for a sec and I'll tell you why afterwards. All right. Give me just a minute here. Yeah. Pull up Hollings Head's uh Hauling Heads Instagram. Here we go. Oh yeah. I see it says profile picture now. Yeah. So, scroll down just a little bit. He's posted a [\h__\h] ton in the last two days. Okay. You'll see the crowd. See the Oh, here we go. Yeah. Well, this is just like a highlight video that he appears in from the Comic-Con. But look at all these costumes, you know? So, Hauling's head is like like perfect for this whole world. This whole look at that. Like, imagine him walking around the expo like an actual [\h__\h] god of war. Yeah, he's a beast, man. So, scroll down one. There's another picture. If you just scroll down one more, there's him there. Looks like he's just meeting some fans. Like, look at the line around him. Oh, yeah. Taking photos, you know, like that's incredible. Look at his legs. Yeah. So, those people those I love this. I love this. So, those people are used to seeing muscle costumes. Yeah. And muscle suits, right? And pe people who've put an enormous amount of work into their costume and their makeup. But then this comes along. [\h__\h] Hollings Head walks in at what 285 lbs like shredded, Actually [\h__\h] like as big as the video game character looking exactly like he should. That's amazing. With like I mean that's a world-class costume. He that's looks like a very professional job. He's obviously had somebody do his makeup for him and everything. His whole body's covered, right? um that he must just be like an incredible sight to the to that crowd cuz that's not the bodybuilding crowd. No, look at his calves. His calves just [\h__\h] exploding out of those boots. And so I I just love that he he he must stand out there as like, you know, one of the best possible costumes. Let's see if he's got any on his stories here. Let's see. We know he does gaming. Hold on. He might have like a highlight. Who knows? If you look at his highlights, he might have one like Yeah. Right. You know, so I talked to Hauling his head. We we left each other a bunch of voice messages. Yeah. Um yesterday we were Instagramming voice notes back and forth, right? And um and I was just telling him I was like, "Fuck, dude." You know, [\h__\h] He said he's got uh there's a new God of War video game being launched like next weekend. Okay. And he got an invite. There's this giant store downtown London. Yeah. Yeah. It's like the some video game store that's really popular and they're doing this big launch. And uh so they've invited James to come down dressed as Kra. I think it's Katros. Is the name of the character. I forgive me for you nerds out there that Ron doesn't know the name of the character. But um he he got invited down to resume that. He's going to dress up again, get the full makeup, and it's a midnight launch. You know those people that go like they're going to be standing in line, you know? Yeah. Yeah. That sort of [\h__\h] So, he's going to go down and [\h__\h] help launch the video game. So, I don't know what they're paying him or whatever, but you know, he said, "Fuck it." You know, he only lived once. Let's get the exposure. That's a blast, man. You know, well, just think of how many guys getting ready for the Olympia would be like, "Oh, I'm dieting." Yeah. No kidding. It's like whatever. [\h__\h] go down there, get some exposure, freak people out. It'd be awesome. There's a guy I know here. Um he they actually made a documentary called Quest of the Muscle Nerd and it was a documentary about two guys that were both weightlifting and they wanted to put costumes together to do like this I can't remember the term he used if it was like like fit cause or you know something like that. But anyway though, they had like this big fitness cosplay thing that they did in Georgia at one of the uh at one of the cons and they turned it into a legit contest where they you would be judged. You'd get on stage and you do like some sort of little routine like swing your axe around or whatever, you know, and you would be judged on both your costume and your physique together. And he's he's been getting some uh some, you know, interest in that. So people are doing that now here. They'd love James. Oh, [\h__\h] He's perfect for that [\h__\h] you know? Yeah, he is. So, I I I like that stuff. I like seeing the guys get out and reach the mainstream somehow. Yes. Yes. And I like seeing I like seeing, you know, [\h__\h] how many years we been doing this? I like seeing bodybuilders having fun. Yeah. Yeah. Like really, you know, like I don't like how many videos about your chicken can we watch? Yeah. As much as we love Jay, as much as awesome as Jay is, like during his pro career, he was not that fun isn't a word I would use to describe his his life at the time. So that's why Jay that that's why I actually think Jay Cutler is super fun to watch now cuz he's dogs, his [\h__\h] dogs. He's holding his puppy. He's holding his little dogs talking about his, you know, like it's just so funny to see like the real Jay cuz I mean we were getting the real Jay before, don't get me wrong. That was the real Jay. That was Jay. That's why he was the champ. Yeah. But but you know um you know we see pictures of them on the longboard now you know going out for like a neighborhood surf you know and um I guess I get the same the people message me about seeing me you know do my stuff they think it's just like really great to see someone having fun and um so you know seeing James embrace this this Comic-Con world cuz he loves the games you know I almost envious I I'm a little bit envious of some of the guys that really love the gaming world cuz like gaming is just something I never really made time for. But I always thought like those games are awesome. Yeah. You know, but they're intimidatingly good. Like I feel like I'm too removed from gaming now to [\h__\h] relearn how to use all my fingers. It's a whole other world too, man. Like those those people are so good. I got into a firstp person game, first-person shooter game for a while and I stopped a couple years ago and I got really good at it for a little bit, but man, just like I'd noticed if I took like a week off or something, then my skill level would go down on it. And it's such a time suck. Like, you know, you can only do so many things in life. You got your bike, you got the gym, you got your guitar, you know, you got your relationship. It's like any more than that, you would have to you'd have to do less of something, you know. So, here's here's a topic that we talked about earlier. We talked about remember when we talked about Andrew Huberman and the dopamine. Oh, yeah. Yeah. And how he was we talked about that at Swiss too. I thought of you cuz there's a bunch of good stuff there about dopamine. Okay. Okay. So, one of the things that Huberman says is we have to be cognizant like again he's not trying to preach too much about like you know not enjoying the small things in life. Sure. You know, but he's just saying be aware when you start to prioritize things that easily give you the dopamine hit without any work. Yeah. Right. Because that's that's a very demotivating thing. You like if you're getting dopamine without having to work for it, then the motivation to do the work gets affected. Yeah, that makes sense. And that's that's the root of a lot of addiction. and not just drugs, but like you know, bad habits and getting into ruts and stuff cuz you're getting your dopamine just easily, right? And um so, you know, so I and again like I'm not I'm not have I don't have to like change my life anything. I don't have any like terrible dopamine habits, but it sure has made me more aware of like the dopamine reward. Like I rode my bike yesterday morning. I went out, made myself do an hour on the bike because I had, you know, I've been away and stuff and it was, you know, it actually was great. I I thought I would be I'm going to be rusty because it's been like a full week. It was [\h__\h] surp I did surprisingly well. That's cool. And and I felt so great. Like it was, you know, noon and I was heading back home and I was like, man, I feel like a million bucks. And I thought that's exactly what Huberman's talking about. I had I went and I worked I worked and put effort in for that dopamine. And the re and the reward was a much larger more satisfying amount of dopamine than if you do something like quick hitter for dopamine, you know. Yeah. Yeah. And um so yeah, just sort of just being more aware of of where you're getting your your you you know your positive uh rewards from. Yeah. Yeah, cuz we're all just [\h__\h] we're all just like, you know, Pavlov's dog, you know. Absolutely. You know, here's a sound, it salivates, you know, like we're all just like programmed, you know, we get in and that's what habits are. People don't even realize they're bad habits. Yeah. You know, they don't realize. I talked or with uh Dr. Mike Miltech. He he was out there. Victoria works with him. He spoke and he spoke about overtraining and and it kind of related in a way because he was talking about that, you know, actually I have a couple notes here. It'd be easier for me to look at them, but he was talking about um Okay, so we've all seen and we've been there. I mean, I know I've been there where we are training more than we should and you know, we get a lot of satisfaction from training. Dude, you're a gym owner. You see people in the gym, and this is, you know, no disrespect to people, but people who have been going to the gym literally every day for years, and that they're not changing. And I think that we get kind of like just hooked on the idea of going to the gym and training and and we aren't really looking at the progress. And so, like, the gym kind of becomes the end result, not the progress. And to tell sometimes people like, hey, you got to, you know, if you want to grow, you're going to have to take at least two days off a week. And that idea can be kind of, you know, troublesome. Anyway, he was talking about addiction to training and he said we stop finding pleasure uh in other things that our dopamine release only happens when we train. And I know I've been there where I'm like, oh man, I feel my best when I train. I only feel And then you get to that point where you're like, I only feel good when I train. Like life is a drag. You got to get through that other [\h__\h] you're doing. And then you get in the gym and you're like, [\h__\h] yeah, this is exactly what I needed. I feel so much better now. which is it can be a positive thing but then from there we start to dissociate you think about it man when you get to that phase it's like then you stop that's at that point where we start risking injury get this cuz he says we stop feeling pain okay think about like when you're just numb through your day you're like I just I don't care I just want to get out of this job I just want to get to the gym and lift I'm going to be squatting today it's going to be the best workout ever we we stop really connecting to our bodies we don't have as much of a connection on like you know that's how we end up getting hurt and then he says from there we start experiencing like a constriction of our personalities that like I'm nothing without my sport. You tell certain people like hey you're going to have to take two days off of training per week and then they're like well what am I going to do? I don't have anything else to do. But it all goes back to that that addiction to training which I thought that was really interesting man. I absolutely agree. I mean, I probably had a huge I think all bodybuilders at a high level of competition have a a certain degree of addiction to their process. Sure. Yeah. Cuz it's every it's everything to them, you know, like um and and I also think too like I know I know a lot of people who've struggled with addiction and you know, alcohol and stuff. Yeah. And um I noticed that almost always they want to train every day, right? Yeah. because it's it's there, you know, obviously there'd be some anxiety um about what if I don't train, am I going to, you know, fall into a a bad day? You know, if I don't get my training dopamine, am I going to fall into a bad rut where I maybe try to, you know, get it from something else? Um, so there's, I think, an element of that, too. But yeah, I mean, we all have addictive personalities. anyone who's like been bodybuilding like hardcore and competing, I think there's a bit of addictive personality in all of us. So, yeah, you know, I sort of feel a little bit lucky that, you know, I was able to, you know, recognize, you know, not maybe understand it, but be at least aware enough that, you know, that was a thing that existed. Yeah. You know, And uh and and now just reading more about it and getting more science about it, it's it's really fascinating to me. like uh this Huberman guy has been really really uh I don't want to say helpful because like I said I you know when he's talking about a lot of these really bad ruts that people get into I'm like okay well that's at least I'm not thick I know like I can look at parts of my life and be like okay yeah I understand what he where he's coming from with this totally totally and also as a coach right cuz now you're like oh this is my one client right this is him totally this is why he does this all the time and doesn't [\h__\h] and doesn't take his days off. And doesn't listen to me. And this is why he keeps doing extra cardio. Yeah. Exactly. And this is why he keeps cutting carbs cuz he's like the being like like I'm doing I'm work. Look at the work I'm doing, you know? Yeah. Um but it's it's just not it's not how how it actually works. You know where you get a good dopamine hit is in contest prep. Every time you check in, you see progress. And then you hit the offseason and things don't really you don't see that week to week dramatic change. Oh my gosh, there's these lines in my back. There's these lines in my glutes. Oh my gosh, look at the way this is, you know, my abs are coming in or whatever. You don't get that same kind of dopamine hit, you know, 15 weeks into your push and bulk, you know. Yeah. So that's one of the things when when I was watching Huberman talk on this one video, I thought, man, this is exactly why people don't want to stick to the plan because they're seeking like I I saw a funny meme the other day about, you know, if if if um if the if the Instagram influencer trainer people actually posted the real workouts they built their physique with, all we would see is the same shirt, different day. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Right. So, you get this like advanced physique who's got all these fancy new things that they're teaching on their Instagram and they didn't actually build their physique with any of them. No, their physique was built with 20 years of leg pressing, hack squatting, squatting with a barbell, [\h__\h] barbell rows, all the same [\h__\h] Hammer incline, the fanciest chest machine their gym had for the first 15 years. You know, right. And and and now they're posting all this other stuff and and it's it's a lot of content. And then the another slide on that same post was um um uh you know uh client um I think I need to do more of this trainer it's only been a week. Yeah. Yeah. Client hey this new exercise looks really good. Trainer again it's only been a week. You know like that whole pursuit of like there's got to be more reward. Yeah. And it it's like, no, there's not like you got to understand it's it's going to be a lot of the same shirt or same same [\h__\h] different shirt. Yeah. You know, it's a good way of putting it. Yeah. You know, so and I think that's part of it, too. You know, you get that dopamine release from something novel, too, right? Just doing something novel, it gives you like a Oh, you know, we did something new today. Like when you go to a new even like little things like going to a new restaurant and having a good meal. Yeah. is is is a bit of a dopamine release and you're like ah like a little bit of adventure that paid off, you know, right? And and so you can you can it's it's just it's being aware of this stuff is just uh really been interesting to me and I just think that there's a lot to a lot to help us understand why we behave the way we behave and the decisions we make and the choices we make. It's uh um I'm looking back on certain stages in my life and going, "Oh, that was just [\h__\h] that was textbook this. uh dopamine happening back then. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That was definitely didn't even aware of what I was doing, you know. So, um and it's like it's mindfulness, you know, is kind of what you're talking about because you're able to instead of reacting out of emotion, you're able to step back and recognize, oh yeah, that does make me feel really good, but it's making me feel good because of this. You know, it's not because otherwise like I I can say as a kid and and even this is me before recovery was that I would just react out of my gut feeling. Whatever whatever whatever drew me toward it, that's what I was going to go toward and I didn't necessarily think about the ramifications of it, you know? I I just was thinking about like with with with emotion really versus being able to step back and and be able to break those things apart. I think that was the biggest tool that I learned to like help me grow up basically. Yeah. It's when you think about dopamine as your um motivation chemical. Yes. It it starts to make you go, "Oh shit." I I see why it's bad to like constantly consume junk dopamine. Yeah. you know, because it's just it demotivates you to do the work on the things that you would actually get a huge reward from. You know, you get the the rush from buying that item. I remember so when I did get to recover online shopping, yeah, there was this rug that was a beautiful rug and it was like $400 and I couldn't really afford to buy a $400 rug at the time and dude, I wanted it so bad. I was like, I just I want this rug. And I didn't buy it for that sole purpose because I was like, I know that I'm gonna spend $400 on this rug and it's not gonna like it got to the point, man, where I was like, oh, just the living room would look so nice with the rug and it it's just exactly the rug that I want. I had it all built up in my head, right? But had I gotten the rug, like two months later, I would have been like, "Fuck, it's getting dirty." You You know what I mean? Yeah. And then what else am I going to buy after that? Yeah. Yeah, I know what you mean. So, yeah, it's a it's it's it's it's sort of my new little background. It's good. You know, you always you always have things that you're kind of aware of running in the background, you know. Was there was there anything you've picked out that you're like, "Huh, I wonder if this is something I should cretail like even like, you know, getting coffee or something small." Um, yeah. So, it made me aware of a bad habit that I Well, it wasn't a habit yet, but I was noticing it. Okay. You know how Instagram feeds you what you click on? Yes. So, I had sort of like I think I was sitting in an airport or something and you get clicking on a certain type of video and I was clicking on videos of fights. Like, you know, people getting in fights at concerts and people getting in fights at the mall. You just went down a Yeah. fight rabbit hole. Fight rabbit hole. and you click on like a fight at the mall. You see some guy get knocked out at the mall and then of course the next 10 reels it presents to you are, you know, two chicks fighting at a [\h__\h] bar and then the next thing there's a girl slapping another girl out in a parking lot and then you're watch two guys [\h__\h] fisticuffs in the street, you know, right? And you're watching all these like fight videos and you're like, "Yeah, [\h__\h] get them. Yeah, get them." You know? Yeah. And and I must I must have watched like over the course of like a month, I must have watched a couple hundred fight videos that Instagram put in my face. That's just like all you were getting anymore. Yeah. And then when I I remember that and that was like right before I watched this Hubberman video. And when I watched him, I was like, "Oh my god, this is like poison for my brain." Like I'm drain I'm like I'm putting like poison in my brain. Like the last thing I want is to feel a an emotional reward from watching [\h__\h] losers fight in the mall. Yeah. You know, like what the [\h__\h] Why would I waste my time on that? So I started like like purge it out. Yeah. Just don't click on that. Yeah. Don't click on that anymore. That's like a that's like junk food, you know, cuz the whole thing like what you know, our diet our diet is more than what we eat, right? That whole sort of thing was like I was like there we go again. That's a exactly what he was talking about cuz you know how excited you get when you watch 10 fight videos in a row your heart rate goes up. You know you I'd find myself I'd find myself like watching you know I'm sitting in the airport watching fight videos and I'm like I'm tense. Yeah. Oh yeah. Yeah. That's there's a Yeah. physiological response. And you're like the last thing I want to do is be [\h__\h] giving my Why am I doing this? putting yourself in that sympathetic nervous system like you know fight orflight mechanism. Yeah. You're triggering that. You literally are triggering that. And that's the opposite of like d-stressing, you know, and then you get on the plane and you wonder why you can't fall asleep. Yeah. Right. Exactly. You know, first two hours of your flight, you're like, "Fuck, I was so tired before this flight and now I'm wide awake." Well, yeah. you just watched, you just flooded your system with [\h__\h] rush, you know, adrenaline and, you know, so just trying to be aware of that stuff. And I I think a lot of people don't think about any of that. No, they just they just follow it, you know, consume consume. Yeah. Keep clicking, keep consuming, and wonder why their anxiety levels are [\h__\h] crazy and they're all stressed out and they get home and their partner says one thing to them and they ah, shut the [\h__\h] up. Yeah. And you know, so anyways, that's my little message. Dave, no fight videos. Uh, Jihan comment. I wasn't looking at the comments. He says, "Dave Palumbo says anything that gives you results is in a way addictive." Which I I guess I could see that. Hey, that's why you got to one of my favorite things of all time is you got to choose your addictions wisely. Yeah, because we're all going to have something, you know? I I'm trying to get addicted to guitar lessons right now. I guess it sounds like it's working. It sounds like it's working. It's hard. It's hard, you know, because sometimes I'm like, "Oh, I gota like my brain is not wanting to listen to this guy right now, you know." Yeah. It's been a long time since I like, you know, took a lesson from somebody or like sat and listened to somebody talk about, you know, what's technically pretty boring. You know, but what I focus on is the reward at the end. Like if I learn what this if I learn what this guy is saying, if I can absorb some knowledge from him, it's going to make me better and then I'll feel the the the reward will come. You know, they say that that's what keeps our minds young, too. You know, that's what literally fights off dementia. Yeah. Yeah. And also, um you know that how the all the the stuff they say about learning a new language. Yes. How good that is for your brain. Yeah. And well, playing an instrument counts. I've heard of that as as the language. It's right up there. Learning music is is is another language. So, um and I'm sort of thinking like, oh, I can kill two birds with one stone here. I can I can get much better at guitar, which is like a lifelong dream that I never really pursued. Like I said, I've been a riff hack for 30 years, right? Like, oh, you want to hear Ender Sandman? Yeah, here it is. But I don't know why. Yeah. Just a bunch of power cords, you know, where to put I just memorized it. Yeah. But I don't understand why those notes relate to one another. I don't know what key it's on. I don't know like you know like and I mean some guys are talented enough that they never ever learn music. Like slash for example, He doesn't know a single he says famously, I don't know a single thing about the guitar. That's crazy. There are some people like that. My friend VJ, it's all here in his ear. VJ will hear a song and he literally can play it afterward. Yeah. Yeah, that's that's odd, man. That's odd that you can do that. You know, I think as like an arrogant young kid, you're like, "Well, Slash never took lessons. I'm just [\h__\h] Right." But you're like, "Yeah, that's where talent separates him." Uh-huh. Yeah. Right. Like if you don't have the talent, you need the knowledge. It's just like bodybuilding. Like the less the less talent you have, the more knowledge you need. And I'm I realize now that I wasted so many decades of guitar playing by thinking I could just learn songs. Yeah. And you know, and then what happens is you only have so much room in your brain. Like half the riffs I knew. Like I used to know like 20 Metallica songs, right? I don't remember a single hardly any of them now. No kidding. Because I didn't I didn't tie them to any knowledge of why they were the way they were. Yeah. And you made room for other things, you know. Yeah, you know, got other stuff I need. You know, it's important in there. You know what I'm seriously contemplating is I I wanted to take a class somewhere where I actually go to a classroom. And one of the things I've been interested in is understanding like how to help people physically. So, I've done I've done like a um a CPR class before, but then I looked and the Red Cross offers like a a basic uh life support class and then they offer like an advanced life support class. I I kind of am thinking I'd like to to me I would love to learn those skills like if something bad happened to somebody that I loved or to myself even what do you how can you cuz like if something bad happened what do I do? I can call 911 at this point, you know, put a tourniquet on it, but that's it, you know. So, I don't know. I thought it'd be fun, too. Just something I probably never would need to use, but it would be, I think, interesting. Maybe if it was like once a week for a few hours, I could go to a classroom and learn something like that. Any any knowledge that makes you feel more useful. Or empowered is great to add. So, yeah, I'll keep you posted on that. Thanks, buddy. Well, we're uh at our time limit. I got a doctor's appointment. I know you've got [\h__\h] you got to do. Yes. I'm still trying to catch up and and yeah, catch up from the weekend, man. It was uh it was a long weekend as you had, too. Yours is longer, I think. No. No. Okay. So, good to be back. Thanks for the live show. Thanks to everybody for tuning in. Uh remember, Mutant sponsors the show. They're fantastic to us. Um please support them. Go on immutant.com. Um, you can order anything you want off the website. You can use Dusty's code, Dusty 20, but he's not here today, so use my code, Bingrod 20. Be much appreciated. Um, and you know, again, all the support for the show, everybody that came and said hi at the expo and stuff. We love you guys. Thanks for listening to us uh talk about dopamine and uh nonsense and uh uh next year I got to come to Swiss with you, buddy. That'll be awesome, man. I'll keep you posted when it's coming around again. This has been great. Thank you guys, everybody, for uh, you know, chiming in, everything. We appreciate you guys. Appreciate the hell out of you. We'll get the story about the mahogany dilemma from Dusty next show. Yes. Okay. All right. And remember everybody, it's just bodybuilding.