 rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica, rica So deep. That looks awesome. And he goes, you got big legs? And the kid goes, yeah, yeah. He goes, we'll probably be bad here. He's like, let's go to the bathroom so I can see your legs. And the kid stands up. I go, hey, that's a schmo. And he's going to fuck off to this later. And the kid looks at me and the guy's eyes get really big. And I go, fuck off, dude. Here we are. Welcome to It's Just Bodybuilding. I'm Big Ron Partlow, Dusty Hanshaw, and the producer Scott McNally. Of course, like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. God damn, I'm going to ring that bell. And remember, Iammutant.com. Go to Iammutant.com. Get your ISO surge. Get your all in. Get your Mind FK. And of course, everyone should get on the gear. That's the best stuff, Scott. Oh, I love it. I've been going without it for a few days. I don't get to get it every day, but I did want it today, and I didn't get to use it because it came late. Tropical Punch, I haven't tried this flavor yet. Oh, that's my flavor. Yeah? I'm a Tropical Punch, or, like, for my aminos, I like the iced tea. Okay. Yeah. Yeah, there you go. I live a simple life, Scott. I don't need fancy flavors. Remember code BigRon and Dusty. Get your stuff. Avoid people. Stay home. Yes. I'm preaching to everyone. So, what the hell did we just see Keyon guest pose? Woo. Yeah. Like, let's talk about this right off the bat, since everyone's kind of like, oh, okay. Pulling this up. Yeah, let's pull that up. Yeah. My first thought was, he can't fit any more mass under his arms. Like, just the muscle around his pecs and lats and arms is just crazy. Yeah, he was so good before. Oh, my God. What does he weigh there? How does he compare against open guys, I wonder? Well... You know? I disagree with everyone that he needs to stay in the 212. I don't... And I don't even think he needs to put on size. Just get in shape and show up. Just get peeled and show up, whatever you weigh. And I would not be stunned if he won. He's cartoonish in a way that I don't know I've ever seen. Yeah. Look at that waist from every angle. This is... I think people are so spoiled now by all the amazing physiques that we have. Like, look at what we're looking at. From Nick Walker's last appearance to Derek at the Arnold to Samson being Mr. Olympia. Like, we're just seeing some of the craziest physiques we've ever seen in our lives. So, Keon, because he's quote-unquote smaller, gets, like, mentioned 6th or 7th. Like, when people are naming the guys that are the top guys right now. He doesn't get named right away. Everyone says, oh, Derek, Howard, Samson. Right. But, like, this is a reminder. The reminder of, like, what he... Like, this is not the 7th or 8th name you mentioned when you're talking about the best guys. Like, this is crazy. Yeah. He's incredible. That waist just blows me away. Yeah. You know? And that's essentially what bodybuilding is about is, like, how do you look on stage posing. Right. Right. And I know... That shot. Wow. You know? You pick a muscle that needs to come up. I dare you. Yeah. Tell me what's lacking. I don't know. Yeah. I dare you to find a muscle that needs to come up. You know what I mean? And that's why I think... Nothing. There's the... There's... I really like the idea of saying, okay, the 212s have proven that they can be open guys. Right. Hottie. Derek. I'm saying him without him even doing it. Clarita. Clarita winning open shows. Like, put them all out at the end. Like, bring the winner of the 212 up with the Olympia. Like, he doesn't have to enter. Just he slides right over and does it again. And I think everyone will find out quickly that he will fuck up everything. Yeah. Like, you know? And I would not be stunned if he won both shows. And I know that sounds crazy and it's not a shot at the... How good the guys are in the open. But I mean, come on. I don't think they would argue that that's impossible. Is he holding himself back by staying in 212 in any way? No, because he has room. Yeah. He's, from what I understood, he wasn't at the top of the 212 already. Yeah. As far as I know, he's not making way to come up in that. So, there's that physical perspective. But I'm saying... He just looks like he's 260, so it's hard to understand. But I'm saying, so, you know, yeah, there's that. So, physically, he has that room to come up. I'm under the impression he had a lot of room. Is he holding himself... Is he holding himself back as far as being, like, seen as the best bodybuilder in the world? Because, you know, people will kind of qualify it as, well, he's the best 212. Do you know what I'm saying? There is kind of... He's not... He's no, you know, whatever. I can also see... I can see the logic of purposely hanging out there and collecting a couple titles. Yeah. Yeah. Like, I can see that just really cementing in the, oh, wait and see. It's coming. It's coming. I could see that. You know what I mean? We kind of went through that unofficially with Derek. Like, he never said that was happening, but we all kind of watched it happen. Yeah. You know, like, he started getting too big to look good at 212. Do you remember what happened with Derek? Yeah. He started having to make weight and then that would... And then that's when he started looking worse at 212, which is a weird thing. But if you think about it, that's what would happen. You know what I mean? You eventually get so much bigger that you have to just be super depleted to be 212. And then it's hard to look good. His legs would always come down. Yeah. Yeah. But we don't... I don't think we're going to go through that phase with Keon because by the time he actually has to make weight... Yeah. He will be done with the 212 division and fully blasting off into the open is what I think he's planning to do. That would be crazy. That's all I'm saying. Maybe he's training his hamstrings for like a week and a half. So that's cool. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know. Maybe we're just too excitable, gentlemen. Some people say we like to get super excited about things. Yeah. Oh, no. They're having a good time over there and it's just bodybuilding. They're getting excited about stuff. Do you remember how many people disagreed with us when we said Derek should move up? Yeah. Yeah. Oh. Yeah. I remember that. He can't possibly be in the mix with those guys. He's too weird looking. He doesn't have the structure for open. He can't hold that much size if he does that. I think that they forget that Sean Ray was 212 pounds, 205 pounds taking top three at the Olympia against what everyone claims, and I don't necessarily agree, was the best era ever. So it's like you've got to throw away the scale and I think more people need to do that in general. I remember people used to, even when I was a kid, they're like, oh, well, you're way bigger than the Olympia guys. I mean, look what you weigh. And I'm like, that's cute. My bones are made of cement and theirs are bird bones. Yeah. They are so much bigger than me, 40 pounds lighter. Yeah. Yeah. It's back to the illusion. And every era has had their small guy. Do you know what I mean? Yeah. Like, I mean, you know, Arnold's era had Franco and then we had Danny Padilla and then we had Lee Labrada and then we had Sean Ray and Lee Priest. And then Clarita showed up and was like the craziest extreme of it. And Keon has developed into this. I mean, it's crazy. And think of all those guys are like legends that will never be forgotten. Right. And they're like the small guy. Well, do you think I saw a thing on Instagram the other day? And I don't know who posed the question, but Keon answered it when they were asking how he would do against Lee Priest. And he said I would beat him. Yeah. And I love Lee better. It was 20 years ago. He absolutely jumps in on anything. And at the point, maybe he hadn't seen it, but he hadn't said anything because I don't disagree at all. And I am the biggest Lee Priest fan. But I'm like, there's just too much. Well, yeah, it's supposed to advance. That's yeah. Yeah. There's that. But structurally, Keon's perfect. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, you know, usually we always gene pool. You know, usually we say like, imagine if he was 5'10". I don't need to do that. I'm like, imagine him right what he is. It's yeah. It's frightening. So. But yeah. So I don't know if I agree with you, Dusty. You said that that era with when you said like, I think it was the Sean Ray era that that was like the best era. That's what people think. And I don't think so. Oh, OK. Because I was going to say, I put our era, this era right now up against it. Yeah. Just looking at that, you know, top 10 at the Olympia this year, because literally every single one of those guys is going to be an all star now versus, you know, it's not like just the top three and everybody else, if you're a big fan of the sport, this is like some serious stuff going on here this season. I was like when they interview like the really old greats. Yeah. And so, you know, bodybuilding has that problem that people have talked about that we don't need to talk about, but how like some of the old greats kind of shit on the new bodybuilding a lot. Right. Yeah. Right. But I don't see that with other sports. I like with, you know, sports sports. I'm not sure I think bodybuilding is a sport. But like I saw Wayne Gretzky interviewed not long ago and they asked him like, you know, where would you fit in nowadays playing with these guys? And he'd go, I'd get killed. Yeah. I was 174 pounds and like the forwards now are 215. I get smashed in the corner and like broken. Like, what do you want me to say? Like I played in the 80s, man, in the 90s. Yeah. It was a different era. And they were like, oh, like they were hoping he'd be like, oh, I think I'd still get a thousand points. Like they were expecting him to say that stuff. He's like, I know I'm the great one, but like, come on now. Like the average weight of a hockey player now is like, you know, 197 or something. Like I just get, it would just be, it's just a different game. Yeah. Guys are 6'3", 240. And are faster than he was. I mean, there's seven foot tall players. You got Pronger was seven feet tall on his skates. And Chara. Yeah. Like Gritsky's 174 pounds in his day. Like what's he going to do against Chara in the corner? Yeah. Like, like throwing a baby around. Yeah. No, I think it's great though. I mean, it's also good for him though that everyone's pushing it. Yeah. Because then when he makes the step. No. Whenever he chooses. I mean, he knows he could do it now. He doesn't want to. Good for him. These guys are great. And I'm excited to see what Keon looks like at the O. Because he keeps getting better every time. Like the condition was better at the last show than ever before. Because that was always a knock on Keon, right? Mm-hmm. People would say, I remember multiple times. Oh, I saw Keon and his face was still fat. And then he'd show up on stage and win. Yeah. Right. And now like at the last O, his face was like noticeably. So like the condition is getting better. Like I want to see him show up with a Skeletor face just once. Right. And it would be like mine. But what's that going to look like? You know? Yeah. So. I don't think of him as like a smaller guy. You know how you're saying like that each. Right. And I get he is, right? Technically. I remember seeing. Yeah. It's like a technicality. But he's got a weird illusion. Because I remember seeing him. He was doing an appearance at one of the booths next to Mutant at the Olympia. And I look over and there's some guy in a tank top as I'm kind of walking by. And I was like, oh, which Olympian is this? I thought it was one of the open guys. Right. Just seeing him stand there, seeing how big he looks. Because he wasn't. He didn't look like he was like five foot nothing and as wide as a house. He just looked as wide as a house, you know? Yeah. Yeah. I think I saw him and Hunter like sitting together. Yeah. And you know, Hunter weighs like, what? 50 pounds more than him? Yeah. Right. Hunter's a big dude. Like big. Hunter's big. But sitting on stools side by side, they're like kind of same size. That's what I'm saying. Yeah. So. Here we go. Okay. I asked our people in our live stream here. They want to throw any questions in today. Now is your time, guys. Get the questions up. I'm watching the stream. We need you. We're at the live page. By the way, anybody who's watching this, you know, after it's been recorded and released, we do their show. We've been doing it live lately on Mondays. Without telling Ron usually. Yeah. We don't let him know. We just go live. Yeah. Well, first two, the first three we did, I didn't know there were any questions on the side. Yeah. Now you know. Ron's not knowing anything. Scott and I are fielding questions, wondering where they're coming from. I'm like, wow, these guys brought a lot of questions. Why do they keep saying the person's name? Yeah. Yeah. I know you guys, you had one, didn't you, Ron? About, I can't remember what it was. Yeah. So I had an exercise question. Oh. What are some bodybuilding, what are some exercises that you used as a bodybuilder that you look back on and think, eh, that was a waste of time or that was probably completely unnecessary or rather unproductive. I might have gotten more out of something else. That list is long for me. Yeah. Yeah. Because I did things, like for example, I was big on behind the neck pressing. Okay. Right. I thought they were a great movement and I still do think they're a great movement. Like you stayed to the end. But I had a, I mean, a shoulder injury is why I got out of hockey and got into bodybuilding. And then you chose to behind the neck pressing. Let's choose a movement that with healthy shoulders is a bad decision. And I would have to like, to set it up, I'd have to put my left arm on first and basically force it into position and I can just throw the right arm up, no problem. And then you wouldn't rack it. And let's, you're also, I mean, it's me, so I'm not smart. You know, let's see how heavy we can go with this. Yeah. I don't have comfort to get behind my head anyways. So it's literally like hitting the back of my head every rep and coming down. I'm like, this is a, this is a great idea. Yeah. So I did those forever and I was adamant. And I will say that I did like, I could feel them more through my whole dealt, but it's like risk to reward when you're young and dumb that you're. And then eventually I just went, ah, maybe I'm getting older. Let's not do this anymore. That. And the other one for me was squats. And we've talked about this before, but it was just because I was strong and ignored the fact that my legs weren't growing. Right. I remember seeing an eye force video of you barbell squatting six plates for reps. And I remember just at the time, like, I mean, five plates was the heaviest I ever barbell squatted for like a fucking heavy ass set. Like I'm psyched out of my mind to squat five plates back in the day. Yeah. And you were like just walking six plates out and taking it for a ride, you know, a spotter and everything. But I remember just watching that eye force video going like, oh, I was not that strong. That's different strength. And that's where people don't see that it doesn't change necessarily, though. You know, and there's a lot of movements that we're all strong on. Yeah. But you have to ask yourself, what do you what? What's your purpose in the gym? Yeah. Why are you there? There's a lot of energy to expend to not get big quads. They did nothing. Like I think of I know what you went through to put six plates on your back. Like, you know, people who we talk about these exercises, but having been through it and having done what what I did to be a bodybuilder and all that, I just I have a deep appreciation for the effort. And when I see guys moving big weights, I know what's going on and how much like you have to be in that lifestyle. Like you have to be in that fucking moment. And like it's not easy to do that. Like that's a high maintenance type of thing to do. Squat six plates every leg day. You got to be like, you know what I mean? Like you can't you're not missing meals. You're not you're not you're not getting less sleep than you should be. You know what I mean? So I think Scott lost power, but he's coming up coming back on. He looks great in his freeze frame, though. Yeah. Like the one that I froze on was. Yeah, this is his is really solid. No, I think you're right, though, Ron. I mean, I think the one thing I will say that probably kept me on too long was a that I enjoyed them, but you're frozen out to run. Oh, I saw you stop. You stop. Maybe you did. But it was loving doing them. But also the fact that when you'd start doing them in like a gym that wasn't yours, people would they see you put six on and they watch the first rep and they're not really paying attention when you hit like six, when you rack at like 10 or 12 and you look in the mirror, you realize the entire gym has stopped. Yeah. They're like, oh, you're going to do 600 pounds for 12. That's sensible. It's always weird when you're come from your home gym where you train normally. Like I remember training back at Hardcore Gym in Edmonton and then you go somewhere and that happens and you're like, oh, this doesn't happen to my gym. It's like you don't mean for it to happen, but it just happens. Like I remember I was at it. Yeah. I remember I was at like a gym in like a small town. I had to go to a wedding and I remember putting three and a half plates aside on the Smith machine for a set of inclines. Right. And that was pretty much as heavy as I ever went. Yeah. But I did a set and there was a guy asked for a spot and he gave me a good spot and everything. But after I racked it, I realized the whole gym. Yeah. The whole gym was just like, what's going on? You know, I had the stranger doing where we're lifting heavy. I was doing a guest posing. I can't remember where I was, but I had worked up to five plates and I just I use the outside of the of like the power rack to rack it on. And a guy walked up, you know, he set up next to me and I went to do my set and I pull it off and I did my set and I put it down and he goes, I thought you were doing shrugs because I was doing bent rows and he's like, I've never seen anyone do five plate bent rows before. And I was like, oh, anyways, that's funny. This is a normal part of the day, but OK. But like I said, yeah, after a while at your gym, people don't even he's just doing what he does. You know, I remember funny examples of that, too. Like I went and I trained in another small town gym one time. I would have been probably 19 and I remember just, you know, putting the pin at the bottom of the stack on the row and doing a couple hard ass sets of the row with the whole stack. And then it's like older guy come over and he's like, no one in this gym has ever put the pin at the bottom of the stack. Like I was like, really? You know, it's just a seated row machine. Like, but yeah, you know, some people don't, they're not exposed to any of that. So it's like amazing when they see it. But, you know, you, it's just normal. There's like 50 people at your gym that use a stack on that. Right. Yeah, no, it's definitely a different thing, but it makes it fun. But I remember it in reverse, though, just like you do, Ron. Like the first time I saw guys do stuff. Right. And especially in the old school days, like same thing. Like there were some power lifters at the first gym I started bodybuilding in and they would gather the plates first. Yeah. I was talking about that when my buddies would squat. So you just see like all of a sudden, and I mean, I was young. So like everything was insane. If I saw three plates on a deadlift, I was like, oh my God. You know, so you see these guys, I think they might've only been doing five plates on dads, but in my brain, as they're pulled 10 plates over and I'm thinking, what are they? And I mean, I probably wasted half of my workout watching them. It's a quarter of the plates in the whole gym. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No, I, uh, those are good memories of like seeing that stuff. And then when you realize you're the guy that's doing that now. Yeah. At the time, you know, that's, uh, it's, it's cool though. When you look back and see stuff, Nikki always reminds me that you remember things better than they were. Yeah. You know what I mean? I'm always careful. You know, but, but I found it in reverse. It would be things that I was impressed by when I was younger, but it was because what I understood wasn't what I understood later. So like the, you know, a light heavyweight bodybuilder peeled in the gym to me was like the freakiest thing I'd ever seen. And then my first show, uh, Garrett Downing was the guest poser. Oh. And he was like two 95 and like full blown offseason. And I had never seen anything like that before. And I remember backstage, I was just looking at him. Like my brain was trying to understand what I was seeing. Yeah. You know, cause I had never, you see the magazines, but you don't realize that they're bigger than the, the light heavyweight that you see. Right. And then when you see him in person, you're like, Oh shit. Yeah. This is a different thing. So I got some questions while we're waiting for Scott to get back on work. Yeah. Scott, Scott lost power. Scott couldn't handle this show. He just wasn't ready guys. So system wasn't ready as usual. Ron and I have to pick up the slack. Um, okay. So I had, because we had a guest plan, we had to come up with our own questions on some of these. So Nikki threw some questions our way training on vacation, overrated, underrated. And why? I love this question because I just saw a couple of other people kind of do it. Um, first thought that comes to mind is I don't know how other people's lives are, but you're on vacation. Mm hmm. Be on vacation. Try to be on vacation. I understand it might not be that type of vacation for everyone, but I see people and I think, Oh, your bodybuilding is interfering with you enjoying your vacation. Right. And maybe it's because I'm older, but trust me, I went through it. I did it all the different ways you can do it. It's your vacation. It doesn't matter if you miss a couple of workouts. It doesn't matter if you enjoy some meals at the buffet. You're it's your vacation. I just don't like seeing people being this mono person that can only be a certain way all the time. I'm fine. I'm fine now with hotel workouts and I am amazed at how simple of a hotel workout I can do three times that week. I'm gone and have my body completely not change at all. Right. Like people a little bit too fussy with that. Having said that, I love a good vacation workout. Do you know what I mean? Oh, for sure. I'm fine to just go to a gym twice that week as well. Like I don't need to have a hotel gym workout. It's just you got to try to be loose about it. Don't let it ruin your vacation is what I'm trying to say. That's my contribution. Scott. Hey, good to be back. So the question was. I heard it. Okay. I heard it. Yeah. I'll say this. I can't disagree with anything Ron has to say there. I'd say I'm trying to think, is there anything I can add to that? Because I think that that's the truth. You know, get outside. Here's your opportunity to to like, you know, maybe give something back to your family, especially if it's like after a prep or something like that. Don't plan vacations. Let me say this. Don't plan your vacation like right after your show. You know what I mean? Like the week after your show, because you're going to want to be able to eat all sorts of fun food. And it's not a good time to like go out and start like just going crazy with the food. Give yourself eight weeks post show. I had a guy who scheduled a vacation in the middle of his prep. Like we just had this opportunity to go to Florida and we're thinking about moving there. So we're going to just let you know, coach, we're going to be going to Florida. You're six weeks out. You know, you're six weeks out. We're working here. Yeah. It still worked out. Everybody did good. You know, I'll add those things outside of that. I'll just say I agree with Ron 100 percent. And be careful because your hydration is not going to be the same. You don't want to go do no PRs on new equipment that you haven't used before and, you know, possibly hurt yourself. End up in the ER. You know, that's going to definitely ruin your trip. And if your girlfriend didn't already hate bodybuilding in the fact that you do it, she will after that. Yeah. Yeah. I was going to the only thing I was going to add, and this is from my younger days, is I used to like to go to different gyms. Like, that was part of our vacation. Yeah. Right. Because my wife and I, she competed. She loved to go. So for us, it fit. And it was literally like it was part of what we looked forward to. It was like, oh, well, we're going to hit the we're going to hit San Diego World's gym while we're down there one day. They're going to do this. But we used to let it go too far where we like didn't miss a workout. Yeah. And, you know, in hindsight now, it didn't make sense. And furthermore, like we just spent four days in Florida. And first off, you couldn't pay me to train when I'm out of town. And when I came back, today was the first day back in the gym. My whole body felt amazing. I was like, oh, I needed that because we so we left Wednesday and I took off. We were back Saturday night. I didn't train Sunday. I was like starting fresh Monday felt great. And like you said, Scott, even though you're eating, I mean, I don't bring food. I'm retired. I just eat what I'm going to eat, whatever it's going to be. Put on three pounds. So it's not even like the same fat. I wasn't drinking enough. And you look great and you feel great and you enjoy the vacation. So to me, I think, you know, more people need to do that. And on your other comment, Scott, I always remember. So my first big show that I won the overall for border states, we went directly from California to Vegas. Yeah. Because we're like, all right, we're going to go tear up Vegas. We got there. It was the first time I took my body like all the way. Yeah. I slept for a day and a half in Las Vegas. I mean, I literally couldn't drag myself out of bed to do anything. I wasted it at the time and we didn't have a lot of money. So it was like, you know, we had three days set. No, a day and a half. I stayed in the room because I was just smoked from the show. Yeah. You know, I did the show, a photo shoot for iForce on Sunday and then we drove straight there Sunday afternoon. Wrecked. So I definitely agree with you. Give it like four weeks after the show. Get your body four weeks minimum. Get your body kind of recalibrated into normal and then go take that break. But OK. So here's another one I thought was solid. Dealing with negative clients. How do you help manage those negative thoughts? Depends on what kind of negative would depend on my. The type of negative when you say negative client, the type of negative dictates my response or my tolerance for it. Well, when she says, I mean, she added negative thoughts. So to me, that's more about either comparing themselves to other people or worry about where they are. So not that they're just like negative bitches. But here's something to consider. And I'm not saying this for everyone, but your coach is not your therapist. They're not your life manager. They have a specific job to do is try to help you with this goal. Obviously, we we develop relationships with people where we offer them other advice. That's that just happens. That's with all businesses. But some people come to the coach for like some like I've had people tell me stuff like they start talking about their wife cheating on them and what should they do and all this stuff. And I'm just like the neighbor. Yeah. Do the neighbor. That's what you're saying. Sorry. Sorry. Her sister. Her sister. Revenge. But like it and it and it's not that like it's just I don't know how to help you with this. And that's not my job. And I don't want to feel like I have to help you with this. Right. So like stuff like that. But as far as negative, like one common thing is, oh, this guy is looking really ripped. He's going to be in my class and they'll send you Instagram. Instagram, I just tell people I'm like, dude, the amount of people that looked amazing on Instagram and then wound up being in like the back half of my class. Back in the day in my last few shows there is like too many to count. Like, don't pay attention to the other guys. Like, you got to try to stay focused on yourself. So that's one thing that I do have helpful advice for. But you have to you have to work on being positive and your self-talk. I mean, I can't solve your self-talk problem. Right. You know, what do you what do you think? I think when when I think of those things, first off, I've told clients to get off of social media during preps. Like if it becomes a problem, I just tell them like this isn't helping you. And I really suggest you get off because in a lot of these guys, too, the problem is is or say guys, I mean, clients, men or women. You're looking at the best bikini girl in the world and you're getting ready for your first show. Yeah. And you're having a panic attack. I had one girl and she was a great competitor. I actually still work with her. And I just sent her a picture of, I think, one of the top two or three girls ever because she had happened to have posted her first show next to her most recent one. I just forwarded that. I'm like, stop trying to compete with the girl who's top five at the Olympia. She's not coming to your show. You know, right. I'll regularly tell people to get off of social media. And then the other thing is I like to remind people the same thing if they're starting to stress about the time is closing in. The show is getting closer. Am I ready? Am I going to be ready? They want like assurance. And I'm like, listen, what you can control and where your focus should be, your urgency should be is on execution today. Yes. I don't even want you to think about what you look like. That's what you pay me for. Yep. You just execute. You do your job. And if I do my job, we're going to be fine. But if you're worrying about my job and it's taking away from you doing yours, we're screwed. And then, of course, if you want to go further, cortisol. I can't beat you with cortisol in your system. Like I like to remind people stress. Like cortisol is amazing. If you're trying to gain weight, you won't. If you're trying to lose weight, you won't. It just goes against everything you stand for. Great counselor. Yeah. You know, so that's kind of what I jam on people because I don't know why and I'm really thankful. But in my bodybuilding career, I just I trusted Chris so much that like we would my I had a training partner meet with the gym. He'd snap the pictures. I'd literally go to my iPhone, select them, email them and not look at him. Right. He'd go, how do you feel? And I'm like, I didn't look like it doesn't matter. I have no emotion to this. This is I'm doing what you say. Yeah, it's a great place to be. We used to on that note, Dusty, the idea would be in your prep would be to wear clothes that covered you up. We didn't like show off every workout. Yeah. And the way I saw it was almost like you were kind of you had like a tarp over the statue to unveil it at the end. So that was always the mentality. It was very like monk like to kind of deny yourself that pleasure of like looking in the gym and flexing. And, you know, because it would make me strive to want more. And you couldn't see what you look like in the clothes you're wearing. They were generally like unflattering. But it helped me to drive to push to be my best. You know, we would. You know what? I think there was. You're on to something. You're on to a conversation here. There was a didn't mean to be doing it, but we were purposely avoiding compliments. Yes. Purposely avoiding positive shit because we didn't want it to make us soft. Yeah. Like, oh, man, you look so awesome. You don't want to get really getting ripped now. Yeah. I don't want to hear that. I don't want to hear that. I'm zipped up. I'm covered. I've got long pants on. I want I remember being so driven to make people comment on my face. Right. Yeah. Like I want people to start saying shit to me and I'd be on the cardio. It's like sludging away going. No one said anything to me. My face isn't drawn enough. People aren't commenting to me because my face was the only thing I would show anybody. And I would I would always kick in. I'd be bartending one night or whatever. And someone would be like, are you dieting? Your face is like is I getting caved in? I'd be like, oh, here we go. That was the type of compliment we were working for. We weren't working for like, oh, man, your arms look awesome. Yeah. And you really that your chest is really strided when you're doing pec deck. We didn't train in tank tops hardly ever. No. Nope. And it was the opposite. Like, I don't want to make myself soft with this with these comments. I don't want people to say good stuff to me. I want to just drive to the end. Yeah. Yeah. And I remember doing that on purpose. Yeah. No, that was I mean, I've talked about that before. That was JJ's rule to me when I first started with him. I wore a tank top once and he put that to sleep in a hurry. When you look like in a sweatshirt, then you're big. Yeah. So I got into the oversized. So I think at the time I was probably like a 2X. So I'd buy 3X long sleeve T-shirts and then wear like Adidas pants or like gas pants at the time and shoes. I mean, you could see my hands and my face and that was it, you know, and it did help. I found, too, when I was younger, I was always when I would wear something that I could see myself. I even when I'd look in the mirror, it wasn't in admiration. It was I got to bring my biceps up and be thinking about things. I'm training legs and go on. My arms just suck. You know, it was it was never good. So, yeah, no, that was I definitely agree. Those were it's funny because you it's all about what works for you. It's fine if you like to show as long as it doesn't affect you. But, you know, being mindful is be mindful of whether you're letting that stuff feed you. Like, yeah, like, you know, they say don't feed the trolls. Yep. Don't let yourself eat too much of that. Like, I post this picture so I can get the comments. Oh, you're looking shredded. Oh, you're look at your abs. Your abs are shredded. You'll be ready in no time. Can't wait to see on stage. I get the temptation. I'm just wondering if it helps. I think that's why it was good back in the board days, because you could put up a post of your of your mandatories. And you would say like right in it, you just say, tell me what I need to be better at in your eyes. Like so like in people knew who you were. So they wouldn't stroke you. And if you needed something, sometimes they'd be ruthless. And and so I mean, I got some great posing stuff on the board. Right. They're like, honestly, your back looks great. But you're posing like shit. You need to do this. And then I would do it. I'm like, oh, another thing, too. When we used to post to the boards occasionally, you were posting to other hardcore competitive bodybuilders. Yeah. New. But when you post to Instagram, you're getting all the jibber jabbers who don't really know what they're talking about. And you got all your friends that have been to one bodybuilding show to cheer you on. And you've got all the people from the gym who just kind of train for fun. And, you know, who Samson is, but they don't really follow bodybuilding. And they're just, oh, man, you look incredible. No one's stopping you. Unstoppable. Yeah. My mom always thought I was going to win. They're all. Yeah. Your mom, right? Yeah. So I just think like, don't let that noise get in your head. I've seen it mess up some people. So separate subject that I thought was a great one. Question for each of you. What does your current diet, training and cardio plan look like? And what are your short-term physique goals? I've got one, too, after that, Dusty, one that I've been thinking of that I want to ask you guys. Mine's easy. Write it down. Don't lose it. All right. I got it. It's locked away. Steel trap. Mine's easy. It can take 30 seconds. I have egg whites and toast every morning. Yep. And then I have some chicken and rice in the afternoon or oatmeal with isolate. Yep. And then I train. And then I have almost always beef and rice and vegetables. And that's kind of my biggest meal of the day. Yep. Sometimes I'll have a piece of milk chocolate with that meal. Nice. Sometimes I'll have a chunk of a cookie, a little treat. And then before bed, I have isolate fiber, big serving of fiber, like 35 grams of fiber. All the fiber. With isolate and creatine and greens. Yeah. Big greens and mutated greens. I throw all the best live forever shit in that shake. And I take all my vitamins for the whole day. I know it might not be optimal because the magnesium might cancel out. I don't know what the hell. Put them all in a cup. I swallow like two giant mouthfuls of vitamins and I pound that shake and I go to bed. Okay. And I do that almost every single day with the odd variation. It's pretty much just four meals. And for cardio, I ride my little bike at least once a week for two hours. And my heart rate's about 110 to 120 for like pretty much the whole ride because I'm pretty active. And then I do a little bit of gym cardio depending on that and sometimes some bike sprints. And that's it. Right. Nice. Scott? My system is something like this. Food-wise, meal one is one whole egg and a cup of egg whites, a scoop of whey protein, and then either potatoes or oats or a mix of the two. Not in the same bowl, but a combo. And I put the potatoes in the eggs. Like I put them in the air fryer. Oh, I love that. I love that. Crunchy, throw them in there. Do you dice them up? Yeah. I get the ones that are already pre-diced. They have these hashed brown potatoes. All it is is just chopped potatoes. So you're not having potatoes. You're having hash browns. No, no, no, no, no. These are just chopped potatoes. They're diced up. There's no fats added, no nothing. You've got to season them yourself. And you buy them in a big old bag so I don't have to worry about it. I had potatoes. He had a bag of chips. Yeah. So that's meal one. I was about it. Doritos. Potatoes. Interesting. Potatoes. Meal two and three are both chicken and rice. And then meal four is a shake. That's usually about the way that it ends up going. Okay. Then I'll do one cheat meal a week. Training and cardio. My cardio has been, I'm shooting for, I'm getting back into it. So I didn't really tell you guys, but I had like a six week dip where like everything went downhill. I couldn't train again. All the long stuff was acting up, but I'm back into it now. And so my current goal is for like five days a week, I'm shooting for at least 30 minutes of cardio plus training. So that's good. And I put my vest on my plate carrier because it's 10 pounds and that helps me get my heart rate up. So I'm cranking at like level six incline as fast as I can walk with the 10 pound plate carrier on. That gets me up to like around 130, 140. If I do that with training, like any training before the cardio, I'll be able to get that 140, even 150. So I don't care. I'm cranking the heart rate and I'll do that for like all the way through 30 to 40 minutes. Have you seen the math on doing cardio with just a bit of added weight? Recently I did. Yeah. Yeah. Which encouraged me to keep doing it, man. It makes a big difference. It's like making extra mortgage payments. Yeah. Like the difference is not big on the small scale. Right. Right. But when you look at how many calories burned over the course of like five years of doing your cardio with a 10 pound vest on, the numbers just get out of hand. You're like, holy shit. I can't get my heart rate up as high without it. So that's the reason I've been using it, you know? Yeah. Okay. Dusty? My diet is the easiest ever now. I do five whole eggs. I call DoorDash four times a day. With two slices of that Dave's Killer bread. Yeah. In the morning. I do a David bar before I go to the gym. It's like 150 calories. And then after I train, I do 10 ounces of steak with 250 grams of rice. Next meal is 10 ounces of 93.7 ground beef with 250 grams of rice. And my last meal is eggs with the two slices of toast again. And if I'm hungry, I'll do two scoops of ISO and of the ISO surge and a tablespoon of peanut butter. We'll call it two tablespoons of peanut butter. Since I don't know. It's a tablespoon with a giant mountain on the top. It's 30 grams, but I didn't weigh it. It's 36 grams that I'm calling one tablespoon. Yeah. But yeah, that's it. I mean, I think. And then as far as I do cardio six days a week. Okay. I already was my obsession. Now I do 30 minutes on the bike. I can usually do about 10 and a half miles in 30 minutes. Ah. So I just, I'm like, fuck you, Lance Armstrong. I'm coming for you. I, I ordered a heart rate monitor because I want to actually see what I do when I'm on my bike. Oh, cool. Uh huh. Because like we rode for two and a half hours. My buddy Jamie and I rode for two and a half hours the other day. Yeah. And like when I got home, I was soaked, like soaked, like my shirt was like I was in the shower. Yeah. Right. And my, took my pads off. They smelled like hockey equipment. Oh, like, Ooh, I was like, I need to figure out like, I don't know what I'm doing. I have no idea what's going on. I'm just out there having fun in my, every time I check my heart rate, I'm like, Oh fuck. It's up there. You need a whoop. Yeah. I'll be interested to see what you get up to. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I was thinking about getting another. So I use the Apple watched and that was one of the reason I got it. It was like to measure that, look at my sleep. And I don't think it's really that good. So I'm thinking about getting something else, an aura ring or something. Yeah. No, it's, it's, I think what's cool that you find out later in your career, which I was told the whole time is how hard it is to lose. Like knowing what you've done wrong to get down and wait, I, you made it look easy. I had no idea you had to starve yourself to death to make that happen. Like, I mean, we went on vacation for a couple of days. I came back. I was two 75. I'm like, I eat four meals a day. Yeah. And then it piles up. Like it won't go, you know, you're like, you're taking TRT and sitting at two 70 while being on a, I mean, outside of traveling, we do one meal a week, two occasionally, but it's like one meal a week that we eat out. And I mean, I have to fight if I want to see two 65. It's like, yeah, no meals a week, you know? So Ron definitely made me think it was easier than it was. I'm like, I told Nikki, like, I'm not going to be able to train you danced with the one who brung you for too long, Dusty. Like, I mean, literally I had no, I'm like, so I'm gonna have to not work out to shrink the way I want to, and then starve myself. Right. So what I'm saying is I'm going to die early because I probably won't be able to do it. I don't have the commitment that Ron does. It's funny. To losing weight. I'm like, Oh shit. So my genetics are just shittier than yours. And I just shrank easier. No, you told me and I didn't believe you and Dante told me for years, it's going to be hard. And I'm like, I just stop eating so much and I'll just shrink right up. I will for sure say that like now I'm 235 to 240 every morning. Wow. And, but for me to get down into the 235 range, I did like, I was very strict for several years where I would not like, I wouldn't have a bite of cookie or anything unless it was like Saturday. That's why you wouldn't hang out with me. And, uh, and when I was away, like even on the road trips, I would be a little more clean because I was just really trying to get down. And then once I got down there, I started eating a little more freely and I can just sort of manage it now. Like, you know, I go away and hang out with Dusty and I come back to 45. I'm like, Oh shit. And then within five or six days, I'm 238 again. I'm like, okay, okay. I'm back, you know, burned off. You should get like down to like 230 before the Olympia in preparation. Well, the lightest I've seen is 232. Cause we're going to be eating a lot. Yes. I'm dragging him all over Vegas, whether he likes it or not. I'm going to go broke while we're there again. All right. I've got, I've got a question for you guys. Now it might take you a minute to think of this. I was thinking back to a story I heard PJ Braun tell on a podcast, like a decade ago, he had this crazy story about guest posing with Evan and the place where they showed up, like the people who ran this show were strange, right? Like it was the craziest thing. And they're like the whole Epic PJ type story. And it made me wonder, you know, you guys have flown around to show up and maybe guest pose at shows or Ron, you've done mutant on a mission. You guys are meeting all sorts of new people everywhere. I don't want you to put anybody on the spot and I don't want you to blast anybody, but can you think of any really weird experiences that you had where you showed up to a place, Ron, maybe it was mutant on a mission. You're going to train at this gym and things just turned out to be very different than you initially expected. I have them so fast. They jumped in my head so fast, Ron. Dusty, you go first. All right. And I have two. I'm going to start with one because they're along the same lines. I can hear you, but I got to go for one minute. So go ahead. So one of the first big guest posings I did, Scott, we like the show's going on. So we go backstage, it's me and another guy. I'm not going to say who because I'm trying to keep the where we were out of this situation. Was it Jose? No, it wasn't. And it isn't about the person. I just don't want anybody to get an idea where we were. So we're backstage and we go back to get sprayed before we go on. Yeah. And so we go back there and it was the first time in my life where I realized how many hoes are in bodybuilding. Because we're back in there and girls come into this room that it's just me and this other guy and a spray tan lady. Yeah. And they come in and like just change. Oh, yeah. And it's not like they were turning around. I'm like, this is a show. And I remember thinking like, does this work for you? Is this a normal experience? So, yeah, that was really odd. And then the other thing, which is in the same lines, I was out of town one time and a girl asked me if I could help her with posing because I was doing that at the time. And so I was like, sure, you know, it'll cost me just like anybody else. She's like, no problem. So we're in the back of this gym and we just kind of go in the back corner and she peels down into her suit and I'm not even paying attention. I turn and she's in like a transparent bikini. Oh. And I'm like, and then I feel weird. Like I'm a part of this weird thing. Like you told her to put this on and pose for me. I'm like, oh my. So I'm like, all right, we're just we're gonna just do this and see what happens. You know, so I mean, I'm like eye contact while trying to see her physique and ignore the fact that she's basically naked. Yeah. The only thing great about it, Scott, is we pose for 20 minutes and somehow Jesus stepped in for me because no one came back there. Not a single person. And I was I was mortified that someone would come back and they're like, what the hell is this guy doing? Dusty makes this guy got going. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Open gym corner. I'm like, oh, OK. So, yeah, I don't know. I brought the worst out in people. Apparently, my reputation preceded me. Amazing. Ron. Ron, what do you got for us? Keep yours clean, would you? Well, now it's not going to be any fun if I can't tell the dirty one. Tell the dirty one. No, I'm just kidding. That was a good one, Dusty. That was awkward. Yeah, that would be awkward. That was not fun at all. Yeah. I had a very similar thing happen where I met. There was this one girl I was coaching and I hadn't met her. Yeah. Just been coaching her through email. This is back in like the email days, like email only. And then she's like, I'm going to be in town. I'm going to come by your gym and you can pose me. And she was like, no messing around. She was like a good client. Yeah. She was like, yeah, my husband and I are in town. I'm going to come and you need to have a look at me. I was like, yeah, sure. So they came by for a workout and everything. And then he's just all casual. He's like, yeah, you guys go upstairs and pose. And he didn't even come upstairs. He was downstairs talking to people. And I went upstairs and like we used to use a tanning room. We'd go use the tanning room. It's a good mirror in there. So we kind of like pile in the tanning room and I'm kind of in the doorway. And she just strips down naked in front of me. And I remember just being like, oh, like, but she was just one of those people. Like she didn't give a shit. Like didn't she's talking to me, like standing there completely naked. Like, yeah, you know, so I got my entry forms like and just gets like and you're just like, oh, these folks. Yeah. Damn. Like some people like say she's equivalent of a hockey player. Like, yeah, this didn't care, you know. And then we go down. We pose and it's all good. And I like turn my back again. And we head downstairs and we come around the corner and her husband's like standing there talking like the gym owner. And he's like, so she get naked for you. And I'll never forget. He said it like joking, like, you see your pose. Yeah. Oh, that's all he meant. Oh. But to me, I'm like, oh, oh, because I'm like 29 years old or whatever. Yeah. I was like, oh, we posed. And he's like, yeah. You know, like he was. I just realized these people are just so casual about it. She get naked for you. I remember freezing. Yeah. Yeah. You know? Yeah. Yeah. Oh, that's so funny. And I also, I also sometimes forget. You know how this is. You know how this is, guys. You're sitting in the airport and you're just waiting for your flight. So you're doing some check-ins. Right. Oh, yeah. You're scanning through your check-ins. Oh, yeah. You know? And you do three or four check-ins. And then you realize that somebody is like watching you do check-ins. And they're thinking like, what the hell is that guy doing? He was like, I saw half naked dudes on his phone. I saw three dudes in their underwear and then a chick in a bikini. This is like collecting naked pictures of people. You know, I always wonder what they think when they get a face. An eyeful. A face. Yeah. Eyeful of the iPhone. Yeah. Yeah. I imagine if I died and someone got into my phone, they'd be confused. Because I have probably pretty close to equally the number of half naked men in my phone as I do women. Right. Yeah. So he played for both sides. Right. Right. No, I'm just a judge. Very judgy. I remember there was a guy at one of the big national shows. And I was dating a girl who was competing. And this guy, he's one of the dudes who's got the backpack on. Not a lifter at all. Right. He's got the camera in his hand. He's got the backpack on. He's like walking around taking pictures of everybody. You know. And he's videoing stuff. And, you know, girls are like checking in. You know, and he's like got the camera on him. And he's just like filming people walking around the lobby and all that. And he made his way up to the tanning room. And they had to tell him. He's just standing there. There's a naked girl. She told me later. She was like, yeah, that guy, you know, with the glasses. He was just standing there videoing all the girls. And like nobody instantly caught on to it. You know what I mean? It happened for like several minutes before somebody was like, what are you doing in here? You need to leave. And he's like, oh, okay. Filming naked girls. Yeah. What does it look like I'm doing? You just got to laminate a bunch of tags and have like a whole bunch of tags hanging around your neck. You look like you're supposed to be there. And then people just go, oh, he's documentary. Yeah, he's doing this thing, you know. Yeah, he's supposed to. He's with one of them, you know. No, he was not with any of them. You reminded me of something, Scott, that I have to share. This is for the young bodybuilders. Yeah. This is important. So I'm at the USA's my second time doing it. And we're waiting for weigh-in. So we're just sitting outside of the room. And we're just on like a planter edge that they had at this hotel. So I'm sitting there with this kid, young guy, and a few others. And this guy comes up. And the kid's in like a tank top. And he's like, man, you look good. Let me see your arms. So the kid like hits his arms. He's like, oh, man. How big are your arms? And the kid's like, oh, they're whatever, you know. And he's like, can I see your abs? So the kid stands up and gives him an ab shot. And the guy's like, oh, man, they're so deep. That looks awesome. And he goes, you got big legs? And the kid goes, yeah, yeah. He goes, it would probably be bad here. He's like, let's go to the bathroom so I can see your legs. And the kid stands up. I go, hey, that's a schmo. And he's going to jerk off to this later. And the kid looks at me. And the guy's eyes get really big. And I go, fuck off, dude. And he looks at me and then runs away. And the kid's like, oh, my God. He just saved me. I didn't know what was happening. He thought it was like a bodybuilding thing. Yeah, yeah. He was getting compliment bombed. And it was his first time. He'd never left his small town before. Oh, I was like, I let it go for a minute. When he was like, let's go to the bathroom. I'm like, I have to step in. You let him go right to getting in the van. Yeah, getting in the van. Didn't let him in the van, right? Hey, kid, I got a bike. Come in this van real quick. Go get in the van, kid. Yeah. I just remember the kids. He sat down. And you could see he was flustered. He was like. Changed his life. Thanks, man. I'm like, you're welcome. He's told that story to his friends now, you know, down the road. He's told he answered that to the state. I was supposed to be abducted. Yeah. It was. You know, when you've been there a long time and you've been in the game, you know what's happening. You're like, hey, that's a schmo. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I'll always remember. I could see it happening. I was like, got to step in before he goes to the bathroom. It's like I can hear like a discovery documentary. Yeah, exactly. You know, the young cub was unaware of the predator. But the veteran lion wanders over to give him a tip. That was so bad. Oh, man. So, do you guys know who Jesse James West is? Yes. So, he did it when we were out at the Olympia last year. He did an interview with Victoria. He was doing a whole project on female bodybuilding. And it was huge. Victoria's in it. She was kind of like the grounding force through this segment because it was like, you know, like what drives women to do bodybuilding. Cutting to her for the insanity. They kept cutting to her for like the, you know, the scientific background of it kind of thing. So, we were in a studio. It was pretty cool. It was a cool setup. He met, Jesse James West met some guy who had a cool podcast studio in Vegas. And he was like, yeah, Jesse James West, you're welcome, man. You use my stuff. You know, you can use it for free. Just like, you know, whatever. That's awesome. Yeah. So, this is where it took place. And they had cool lighting set up and everything. And she introduced him to the idea of schmoes. Because we're talking about female bodybuilding, right? Right. And they didn't end up using any of that footage. Like, any of it. But his face was like, what's a schmo? Wow. And then he's just sitting there leaning into the mic like head turning and listening as she's like, what? Is this really a thing? It's an entire sub industry running on them. Yeah. I had a friend that lived in Venice. And a guy paid for her house, bought her a car. Wow. She lived there for years. And he was really older. And I asked her because I knew her well. I'm like, be honest. What do you have to do for this? She's like, he likes to go to breakfast four days a week. Huh. And I'm like, tell me the rest. And she's like, that's it. Wow. And there were like three other girls on the same payroll. They all had their own places. And imagine, I mean, you could walk to Gold's from her house. Yeah. I'm like, so you're living in a million dollar small place driving a Mercedes and this guy's just covering it. I mean, that's a good game she's got going there. I'd go out to a breakfast with a dude four times a week for that. I'd go out to breakfast with him four times a week for him to buy me breakfast. Right. Yeah. Yeah. I'll sell it for less. I'll sell it for a little less. Just give me the hash sprouts. Give me the hash sprouts. Give me the hash sprouts. Give me the hash sprouts. Yeah. I was like when they interview like high-end escorts or something. And they're like, so what do you have to do for you? And they're like, some of the guys just want to spend three hours talking to a girl without getting bitched at. Huh. They're like, some of my best customers I've never had sex with. Wow. They just want to go on a date where no one complains about anything and says thank you. It has a nice night. And smiles and laughs. Yeah. It has a nice night. And it's pleasant. It has a meal and pays for me. Wow. Beautiful. Wow. Yeah. Wow. It's freaky, some of the stories you hear. You know? Never what you expect. Yeah. No, no. And then, of course, there's the stuff you hear about where they fly to Dubai. It's never good. Yeah. Don't get the van. Don't get the van. Exactly. It all comes back to that. Okay. Do we have any more? That was good. That was really good. I like the direction we took that. That was a new direction, I'd say, for the show. We haven't done that stuff before. Shmoe's abducting women. Yeah. Young kids, I mean. Shmoe's abducting teenage bodybuilders. I don't know if we can say those words. Yeah. You know what I mean? Yeah. Mark the time on that one, Scott, for your editing purposes. Hey, what about this one? One of our listeners asked us, and I've got a few good ones here from the last show. And by the way, guys, comment with questions for the next show. Actually, we have a guest next week. But you know what? If you comment with questions, I'll save them for the following time. He says, when you guys got started out coaching, how did you go about getting clients? Thanks for answering my last question, two boys. I don't remember what his last one was, but you got it, man. I accidentally became a coach. I never meant to. I never wanted to do it. I helped a guy for a show once, and he looked really great. And I will admit, he looked awesome. Yeah. Like, I helped a guy for a show, and he was one of those guys that gets in good shape. And he was literally the most shredded guy in the show. And so then the next show rolled around, and there was three guys from the gym. They were like, can you help me? And then they did really well. And then the next thing you know, a friend of mine was like, you need a website. And I was like, what? Yeah. Because I used to build websites. And this was in like 2002. He's like, you need a website. I'm like, oh, shit. Yeah. So I got a website, and then I started getting emails. I was like, oh, my God. What's going on? And I just accidentally became a coach. And I never advertised, and I never handed out business cards, and I never contacted a single person and said, you need coaching. You could be fuller. Yeah. Yeah. I never did the old client steal. I never did the old, hey, your coach did a pretty good job. But, you know, it could have been a little tighter. Maybe he's not aware that you could have, you know, done a, like, died a little harder. Like, I never did that to anybody. The thing is, too, Ron, is I felt that way at times earlier on in bodybuilding. Like, I looked at somebody, and I'd be like, oh, he looks good, but he could have been better. You don't. But I didn't realize at that point, though, because I was genuine in it. I didn't realize, like, well, what did it take to get to this? Because you're not, you know what I mean? You don't have that whole back story. You don't know. Yeah, it might have been like, oh, he's been on, like, two hours of cardio and no carbs, and he was this heavy before. He's got problems with insulin, you know. Yeah. So I think the first thing I got to cover is it's way harder now. Because when we started coaching, coaching wasn't a thing. No. That everyone wanted to do. Yeah. It wasn't called coaching. Obviously, Aceto and all those things existed. But, like, because my story is exactly Ron's. I helped my first wife get ready for her first show. She looked great. We were backstage. I was helping her. I had a couple girls ask for little basic things. I was like, oh, yeah, I do this. I'll do that, you know, because they were just doing it themselves. Show ends. Next week, I have four clients. And I was doing it because at that point, I was like, I don't do this. Yeah. So I didn't charge them. I was like, okay. Yeah. So I probably, I worked for over a year doing multiple shows for people and never charged a penny. And then when I got to the point where I had, like, I was working because, you know, I had 10 clients for one show. I was like, I need to charge something for this. And I just started doing that. But it was just a different time. But what I will say for people in the moment now is there's something to be said about giving away some information to get clients. Yes. You know, I had a guy just barely. He flew down last week, week before. He was in town. He said, hey, I saw that you trained Scott's client. And it hit me that I could use some of the same things. And I said, sure. You want to, you know, you want to do a training session? I said, you know, here's what it costs. And he was like, okay, cool. He came in. We trained. We were talking throughout the workout. I was just giving him bits and pieces of things I think he could do. Yeah. And about a week and a half passed. And he just emailed me. He goes, you know, I thought a lot about it. And maybe I should just hire you. Huh. Yeah. And I was like, cool. And we just, I mean, I just sent him his stuff yesterday. Because when he wanted to hire me, it was right when I was leaving on vacation. I'm like, hey, I can't get it done until Sunday. And we're off and running. But I didn't try to sell him anything. He hired me for a workout. Yep. And conversation led to the idea that it would be good. And, you know, I think that that's another key is, you know, I could have been like, oh, you should, you probably really could get help if you, I don't have to do that. You know, so I think you should think about that when you're younger and you're trying to get rolling is you have a job or you should. So if you get one person to pay you $150 a month, that's a big help. You get three, you're good. Like, don't try to quit your job immediately and become a coach. No. There's a guy here locally that did that. And he had to go back to selling cars because he found out, like, oh, this is hard. Because, you know, I told him when he was telling me it was tough, I said, well, I'm not trying to be an ass here, but look around this gym. I mean, you got Jeremy Poppin in here. You got me. You got all these people. It's going to be harder for you to get business. Yeah, there's that. Because if they can hire you or they can hire me for around the same price, I have 20 years experience. Who do you think they're going to hire? Yeah. You know? And I said, but it doesn't mean you don't know what you're doing or you can't get started, but just it's going to take time. So I think being patient and, like Ron said, I mean, how do we both really get clients? We had people that got results. And people were like, who did you get? You know? And it got to the point, I mean, I've told this story before. I don't know if it was on the show or not, but I went to a show years ago in Arizona. I stopped going to shows, the local shows. And I went to a show because I had a couple guys in it. And so I'm sitting there and a guy's like, oh, you came back to the show. He's like, oh, you got some guys? And I said, yeah. And one of my guys walked out and he turned around and he goes, that's one of them? I'm like, mm-hmm. And then two guys later was another one. He goes, that's another one? I'm like, mm-hmm. And he could just pick them out when they walked out the door. And it's like, that's how you get clients. Yeah. When someone can pick out your clients without asking, then you've proven you know how to get people in shape. I've had judges say that to me. Mm-hmm. Like, I took it as a compliment, but I've been, like, you know, in the bathroom and you run into a judge. And he'd be like, hey, that light heavyweight with the green trunks, was it yours? Mm-hmm. And I'd go, yeah. And he'd go, thought so. Yeah. You know, like, and you're like, oh, I think that's a compliment. Oh, yeah. That's good. You know? And then sometimes I've heard them say that they could tell from the way he was doing his mandatories. Right. And I was like, oh, that's a good compliment, too. You know? Like, standing properly, you know? To the hips. Yep. To the hips. To the hips. To the hips, yeah. You know? So basically, Dusty just poached Scott's client? Is that what that was? Kenny PL? That wasn't Scott's client. That was from the show. No, he didn't have a client. That was, when you say, were you talking about the training? Because you said, you worked with one of my guys on training, Zach. Yeah, that's what I think he means. Yeah, that's what I meant. Yeah. You're a client. Which, I got to tell you, by the way, so he picked up a lot from that. You know, here's the thing is that I remember, so I'd worked with Zach when we were young. He was younger. And he was competing. He just started competing. I helped him through his shows. And we had worked out together a few times. This was, like, back in 2015 or so. And when we reconnected, you know, just a year or so ago, I looked at his training, and he just didn't have the intensity. And I was trying to teach him how to get that, and he just wasn't. And I was like, dude, you live by Dusty. He's like, oh, I'm training at Dusty's gym now. I was like, perfect. Perfect. So that upped his training. That, like, turned a light bulb on for him. And to take it a step further now, he's training with somebody else. He's got a good partner who's a competitor. Oh, it's game-changing. Yeah. Yeah, he's, like, he's really taking off. And it's all the difference in the world, too. Like, he was making progress. You know, good-looking bodybuilder. Great physique. Yeah, really nice physique. It looks way bigger than what he actually weighs, which is a great thing. You know what I mean? He looks 20, 30 pounds bigger than his actual weight. But I could see, like, if you're going to reach your goals in this lifetime, we have to get that intensity up. And now he has that thing that he needed. So, yeah. When people have the mindset, and you guys know this, like I told the guy that came down here, he's like, how many sessions do you think it's going to be? I'm like, one. Yeah. You're not asking me about form. You're asking me what you can do to make your workouts better. And I could tell community, he's a very smart guy. And as soon as we were in the gym, I could just see, I was like, you need a bump. Yeah. Because he's already, I mean, this guy's lost, like, I can't quote it, but like 100 pounds on his own. Wow. Doing his own nutrition, his own training in his house. I mean, he's got the things. And he's like, I just need a little tweak a little further. And that's when it's fun to help people because you're like, you walk away from the workout, you're like, you'll never need me again. Have fun. Yeah. Yeah. And that's what you should be able to do, whether it's a one-time thing or even coaching itself. Like, eventually I want people to, like, have figured that out. I don't know. Yeah. I've got some stuff I wanted to add. I agree with you, Dusty. It is probably a harder market than ever to get into now because literally everybody's coaching. Everybody who's watching this podcast is a coach. And then their clients are coaches. You know, all of my clients are coaches now, it seems, or at least a lot of them are. And I'll say that I didn't intentionally get into coaching at first, but I did get into helping people. And it went back to exactly what you said, Dusty. I heard Dave Palumbo on a podcast say, whatever you're doing, if you love it, then keep doing that. And eventually it will pay. And I was answering questions on a message board. And I started my own thread. And I had so many people asking me questions that I ended up getting hired by a supplement company to run a Q&A and help people just basically answer their questions. And I did that long enough to the point where people were like, hey, do you coach? And I did coach people locally already, but it wasn't like there was no overlap between online. And eventually that's when I started doing it. But I think the hard part is what do you charge people early on? You know, what is your information level that you can impart, say, compared to me or Ron or Dusty, if we've been doing it for 15, 20 years? You know, I've been coaching for 15 years, last decade full time. You know, at the same time, if you don't charge enough, then are you going to get the commitment? I remember early on being like, I'll just help you for free. I'll help you for free. You know? And then those people don't always have, they're like, okay, yeah, I'll do that. But then they don't really have the commitment either because they don't have, they like, they weren't as invested. They didn't financially pay for it. It doesn't feel like it's worth as much to them. So I think that that was the hardest part for me was trying to, like, turn it into getting people that were invested, you know, I guess, is that early, early stage of coaching. Because then I wanted more experience. And so I was willing to help people for little money. But then those people weren't as invested. So, yeah, I don't know. I think there's two lines of that too, Scott, because I know Ron's prices too. We both charge less than most people who've been doing this as long as us. Yeah. I don't know what you charge. But, and I've had clients ask because they've reached out to other coaches. And they're like, he charges 200 more a month than you do. And I'm like, yeah. Yeah. And they ask why. And I say, because I don't want to limit who I can work with. I love working with young guys that are coming in. And, I mean, I remember when a few hundred dollars was a lot of money. And I need them to have enough money to also do all the things I need them to do. So, that's why I choose to do it that way. Like, I don't, I don't, I'm like, this is enough for me to make it worth the time I put into it. But you have to ask yourself what you want to do and who you want to work with. So, if you want to charge a premium and you get to the point that you can, that's fine. Just understand the pool of people who can afford it changes. Yeah. And if you, like, because I don't, I don't have an obsession with training, like coaching Olympian guys and, you know, that. I really enjoy taking somebody from the beginning and then going through the process. Or moms who have forgotten that their name is Julie. They're not just mom and wife. Yeah. And kind of like reminding them they're a person. Like, that's the fun stuff to me. So, you factor that in. But you'll laugh about this, about the money things got. So, my mom had asked me to write her diet many times. Right. And I always did it, of course. Boom, boom, done. And one time she's like, hey, I need you to write me another diet. And I said, okay. It's $500. And she's like, what? Yeah. And I was like, you got to pay me $500. Yep. And I said, and in six weeks, if you're still doing it, I'll give you your $500 back. I love that. And she's like, why would you charge me? And I said, I'm not really charging you. I'm literally, you can write down the numbers on these bills. Like, I will give you these bills back. Yep. Yep. But I need you to part with them for six weeks. All you got to do is follow the plan. I love that. Just stick to it. She was so pissed. Yeah. And I'm like, I'm sorry, but you've had me write you so many diets. And first off, you don't need to diet. You look fine. Your health is good. But if you're going to do it, I need a six-week commitment. Yeah. I love that. Yeah. We got one from Dr. Marv. He says, a question. Would love to hear about your guys' light bulb moments during your bodybuilding career. He said, an example would be my chest sucked for the first seven years of lifting. Right. It still does, but less now. And I've always remembered the first time that I didn't just press the weight but flexed my chest before pressing and felt my pecs fire for the first time ever. Not even beyond my dominant shoulders taking over. The next day, my pecs were absolutely ruined, and the lesson was learned. I vividly remember two that just came to mind because of the training you mentioned. I was at Gold's Venice. It would have been 96, I think. My dates are actually starting to get foggy. I'm getting old enough. Attaboy. And I remember Flex Wheeler was there, and he was training with Charles Glass, and he had on a big purple sweatshirt. Okay. And I remember they were doing chest, and I had lost him in the gym for a little bit because, you know, it's a big gym. And then I saw them again, and they were on the flat barbell bench. And I don't know what they did before that, but I remember that Flex Wheeler had two plates aside on the barbell bench. And I remember Charles Glass unracked it, and he did, like, a set. And, like, it wasn't a lot of reps. He didn't get, like, 20. He got, like, eight. And Charles was, like, spotting them. And they racked it. And then I remember they went down to a plate and a half or something. Okay, yeah. And he, like, repped out again. And I was kind of trying to watch, but I was training back. And I remember thinking, like, God, he's so weak. Right? This is the young, dumb, 20-something me that thought everyone just inclined four plates all day long. And then he took his sweatshirt off after they benched. And it was, like, you know, the cartoonish bullshit that you would expect from Flex Wheeler exploding out of his sweatshirt, looking ten times bigger without his sweatshirt on. And I remember just being, like, oh, it doesn't matter at all. Yeah. He's training. As long as he's training. He's training hard. Yeah. He's training hard. He's doing all sorts of different stuff. It takes more than just one thing to build a physique. And he doesn't need to do that thing all the time or whatever. Like, I just, I realized that there was more to it than what I had been, like, solely focused on. And then I remember fast-forwarding to a guy that I knew from the gym back in the day. And he was a small dude. And he started getting ready for a bodybuilding show. And I remember thinking he was going to be, like, a lightweight. And he was one of those small guys that had, like, good arms. But I just never expected him to look that crazy. And he was always in there training hard. And one day he was squatting. And I remember he was squatting two plates a side. That's as heavy as he ever went. And he was doing his ass to grass, like, super deep. Looked like a European weightlifter. He's sitting up so straight, you know. He just had that perfect squat form. And I remember he was squatting. And the guys were like, oh, your show's coming up. And I remember he pulled his pants down in the rack. And I was big. I was, like, 320 pounds. And he pulled his pants down in the rack and showed us his quads. And mind you, he's training legs so, like, legs don't look as cut when training them. Yeah, all blown up, yeah. He pulled out his quads. They were still striated. Yeah. Totally striated. And blown out, balloon, ridiculous looking quads. Yeah. And in his pants, they looked like this. Okay. They looked like he had no legs. And he dropped his pants. And I remember just thinking, oh, my God. This guy's lower body is mind-boggling. And he squats two plates. Yep. And looks like he doesn't train in clothes. Yep. And I remember it just, and I remember, like, hurting my leg. I was, like, oh, my God. Like, insulted me. I was, like, that guy's quads were, like, were they better than mine? Are they bigger than mine? Yeah, yeah. This guy weighs, like, 160 pounds. Like, I was just irritated and upset and impressed all at the same time. And it was, like, a light bulb moment. I was, like, oh, man. And then I remember thinking of his form when he was squatting and how he was sitting and using, you know, like, just everything he was doing. I was, like, fuck, it makes sense. Yeah. Mm-hmm. Damn. Damn. You know, light bulb moments. Where you're that advanced. I was already way over 300 pounds. Huh. But you're still always, like, kind of realizing little things that you, ah, shit. What's yours, Scott? I'm trying to think of one I haven't shared before. I've told my story about figuring out back. Still a great story. I love that. And it was all in just, like, changing my technique. And it's the quickest thing. You know what? That's one of the things I can pick out now. Because I figured that out, I see it in other people. When people come to me that I'm working with and they don't have as good of a back, I'm like, let me see your training. And I see, like, oh, that's what I used to do. I see that a lot of times, like similar mistakes. But I'm going to go way further back. All right? So this was about, you know, I trained as a kid, right? And I didn't know anything about diet. I knew about protein shakes. I knew about Carboforce. And I knew about Ultimate Orange. And I knew about creatine. Of course you did. And that was it. At, like, 15 years, 12 to 15 years old, those were the supplements I knew about. I knew nothing else about food. Ultimate Orange. But I learned about, like, three-way training splits and two-way training splits and all that. Nothing about food. Didn't make any progress. I was also 12 to 15 years old. 19, 20, I trained again for another year and a half, two years. Still didn't make good progress, but I got stronger, et cetera, et cetera. Didn't know about nutrition. Then it was finally when I was about 30, I was like, you know what? If I'm ever going to make good progress in bodybuilding, I need to figure this out. I need to figure out what I've been missing. And that's when I learned about protein. And honestly, it completely changed my perspective. I realized, and I know this is real basic. Everybody knows how important protein is to their diet. But to me, it was such a big moment because I realized, okay, this is the key. That you get enough protein in, and then the muscle is going to grow. And to me, I was like, it was such a light bulb moment because before that, there was, like, this magic of, why was this guy bigger? It was maybe genetics, and this guy isn't. And I just, all of a sudden, like, there was no question in my mind I was going to build a physique that I could compete with. And I weighed, like, 125 pounds at the time. But I said to myself, like, I don't know when it's going to happen, but now that I know this, I know that it's in the nutrition. And I just need to keep working that nutrition and then figure out gear a little bit after that. And feed that nutrition with the gear. And I will get to the best whatever my body is capable of. And it was, like, such a cool moment for me. I started it out by eating a steak every time I worked out. I did, like, my normal diet, and I trained really hard, and then I ate a steak. Like, every day, that's what I was doing. There's nothing wrong with that. I still do. Mine was actually real simple. And I think that this is an important one that I jam on my clients all the time. When I got more advanced, I started getting into the programs. Okay. And, like, going to the gym, and I got a plan, and I'd go to the gym and train. I'd train hard, and I did all the things. And my results kind of plateaued. And I'm like, I'm more organized than I've ever been. Like, I've got a plan when I'm going in. I'm executing. I'm not doing anything else. Why am I not getting results? And I got frustrated after a while, and I was, like, throwing the plan out the window, and I'm just going to go back to doing what I was doing and just train. And I started seeing results again. And I was looking, and I'm thinking, what's the difference? Like, is it the volume? Is it this? And then I realized something really stupid and simple that I push to clients all the time. I was going to the gym to have fun. Yeah. And when I have fun and train hard. Imagine that. I get the result. It's got to be fun. The amount of people, and even my own clients, like, I give people programs, and if it's not clicking, I'm like, stop doing my program. Yeah. All I really need you to do is train, especially because when you're younger, or I should say younger in the game, everything needs to get bigger. So we're not nitpicking on how we're going to get your, you know. Lower pack. Upper, you know, rhomboid thickness in there. You know what I mean? Or whatever. Just grip and rip and have fun. And so that became, that's how I fell into Dante's training. It fit my mindset of a scoreboard, because I was an athlete. I need a scoreboard. Bodybuilding is a, you know, year, two years long process between shows. I need immediate gratification. That made me have a scoreboard every day. Yeah. Which made it fun. And so I can't push that enough. If you weren't having fun training, I promise your results are not as good as they could be. That's like guys who, because I've had this talk with myself too, because you know how once in a while, if you can imagine, I get grumpy. What? And I think that I'm right, and everyone else is an idiot. Right? Just saying, that might happen once in a while. Every now and then. So every once in a while, I remember, like I'll see guys training, and I'll think, like I know these guys talk about making gains, but it almost looks like they're having too much fun in the gym. If that makes sense. Yeah. Yeah. Like, and then I think, no, no, this is good. They, like, sometimes I see it as chaotic. I spent so many years as like a bodybuilder that my life was all systemized. That when I see guys who sort of, for example, train with lots of different people, you know those guys? Like there's a bunch at my gym, because there's such a community there. Maybe they do chest with this guy, chest with Dave, back with Steve. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Going to do some hamstrings with, actually Tina's hopping in on hamstring day with Dave and Jim. You know, like. Yeah. And I think, man, there's not enough consistency here. Like, I trained at 4.30. Yeah. And I trained, it was me, or it was me and my partner, and that's just how I was. Yeah. But other people, they have a lot of fun training like that with a lot of other people, and it keeps them really motivated. And I'm like, I can, I've got to, what I'm saying is sometimes I think that that's a negative, but it might actually be, for them, a huge positive. Yeah. And I try to not be so judgy. Work on that. Work on that, Ron. Trying to work on that. I'm judging you for sucking at that. Do you know what I mean? Yeah. No, I totally do, though. And I do think it's an enormous part, because a lot of people, especially when they're competing, I've had this conversation with clients when they're dieting, I'm like, hey, this is fun. Yeah. Don't forget that while you're chasing this goal. And if it's not fun, stop doing it. Yeah. Like, you know, but yeah, I thought that was a big groundbreaking moment, and it helped me decide the rest of my career. It's the same reason that, you know, with some of my training, I left it the way it was because I liked doing it. Yeah. I told this before, but I remember one day I went to the gym to do shoulders, and my training partner, there was not every day we'd be training partners because of work schedule and stuff. So I showed up at the gym to do shoulders, and my training partner was there to do shoulders with his buddy. Yeah. But it's just, we weren't supposed to be there at the same time, but it just kind of fell into the same time. He's cheating on you. And in my mind, I thought, well, he's with his buddy today, so, like, I'm not, you know, he doesn't train with this dude all the time, so they're having fun. They'll train. I'll just do my own thing. So he goes, hey, do you want to come and hop on this machine with us? And it was a machine I never used. Yeah. And so I said, no, that's okay. I'm going to do these next. And he goes, oh, okay. If you don't ever want to, you know, don't ever want to change. And they walked away, and they started using the machine, and I was like, fuck. So I scrapped the workout I had planned, and I went and did the press I never used. Tore your labor. Because he was bigger than me. He's bigger than me. He's a better bodybuilder than me. So if he says that to me, I'm like, oh, fuck. So I went and joined them and finished the workout and did movements I wasn't normally going to do. And you survived, and you learned something from it. You were probably sure it was healthy. Right. It probably was. You know, had a great workout. I love those little lines. It's okay if you don't ever want to change. I had that a couple times with, like, young training partners. They're like, dude, I'm done for the workout today. I'm like, all right. Well, second place isn't bad. And I just walk away. Next thing you know, they're right behind you. What are we doing, asshole? Did I ever tell you the story about how Braden and I became training partners? No. I don't know. It's in the episode that I did at his gym for Mutant on a Mission, his home gym. Okay. But we had kind of become buddies at the gym. You know, there's those guys you kind of say hi to, and they seem cool, right? Yeah. I was like, hey, buddy, you know. And we joked about having a, I'd be like, yeah, we should do legs one of these days because he trained pretty hard, and it just never happened. And then one day I showed up, and I saw he was on, like, the extension or something. And so I was like, hey, do you want to do legs? And he goes, oh, I'm actually, like, at the end of quads. Yeah. Like, I already did pendulum and leg press and, you know, lunges, and I'm doing extensions now. And I was like, ah, that's too bad. And I went over and I started warming up on the hack or something. And he, like, thought about it. And he was like, fuck. And he comes over and he goes, okay, I'm in. I'm going to do legs again. And we did hacks, and we did leg press, and we did pendulum, and we went back to the extension. He did two quad workouts in a row. Wow, he was smoked after that. Animal. And we have a photo from it. And then he said afterwards, he was like, yeah, that was, I just couldn't, I was wanting to train with him for a while, and I just, fuck, got to do it. And I thought it was so badass that, like, I was, like, obviously impressed that he hung in there. And then we became training partners, and that was, like, seven years ago now. Nice. That's how it all begins, man. It's always in the weirdest ways. Yeah. You know Ryan Hummison that does all the YouTube videos? He was my training partner when I was, when he was young. I was young, but he was younger. And he used to come into my supplement store, and he'd buy all the supplements and stuff. And one day I was like, hey, what's your eating like? Yeah. He goes, eh. And I'm like, dude, I want to see you eating all the time. I'm like, and I didn't even give him a diet. I was like, yeah, you just get to tell by the genetics. You're looking at him. You're looking at him. You're looking at him. Just looking at him. And then you fast forward, like, the next time he came in, he literally had a chicken breast on a fork. When he walked in. And he's asking me questions about his nutrition. And I was like, this kid isn't all there. We might be friends. And so I said, you want to train sometime? He's like, yep. And we hit the gym, you know, like shortly afterwards. And then we trained together for like two years straight. Nice. That's awesome. Because he was a complete animal. And you could just set him in motion. And I mean, if he wanted to be anybody who knows who that is, when you see him, I want you to know that he made the decision to not be a pro bodybuilder. Because he was much better than I. I mean, he never caught me. But if he'd have kept going, he would have smoked me. Yeah. Way better bodybuilder than me. So he's smart. Is what you're saying. Yeah. Apparently. I think the YouTube's paying a little better than bodybuilding would have. Decision to not be a pro bodybuilder. Got one more, guys. Yeah, yeah. We had a movie question, too. So I'll ask that after this. Last serious bodybuilding question. What's your opinion on natural bodybuilding? And do you have any favorite natural pros or physiques in general? Well, I mean, I love bodybuilding. I mean, I don't care if someone's natural. I think it's cool. Super hard to do. Yeah. I mean, especially once you know, like, once you know where all the fun is. Right. You know, it's like, you know, do you want to go back to the range, Scott, with just lever action rifles and revolvers? No. Not that super safeties exist now. Now that I have that, we don't want to go back with force reset triggers. You like lever action. You like lever action rifles. You're nice. You like a good 30-30. Yeah, a lot of respect for them, too. A lot of respect for them. They helped forge the great frontier. Exactly. And helped build America. Exactly. But you want to play with other toys. Yeah. Yeah. You want to hack squat eight plates aside for reps. And you want to do, yeah, okay. So I love natural bodybuilding. I don't know all the natural guys in the world. I just, I remember actually training at the same time as Doug Miller at Dino's one day. Okay. Doug's an animal. And, like, Doug's a great guy. I don't know Doug Miller very well. But I got just, like, met him a handful of times. He's an awesome dude. But Doug Miller was in a tank top at Dino's, like, a few years ago in England. Yeah. And I remember just staring at his arms. And I was like, oh, my God. Like, do you know what I mean? Oh, yeah. I was like, that's just crazy. And he is a strong mother. Yeah. And he was strong and just, like, off the wall. And, like, of course, that's just one dude. But I had to mention him because he was very, very impressive. And I've seen lots of impressive natty guys. I've helped a lot of people get natural pearl cards. Like, I don't even remember how many because there was a little stretch there where I seemed to have one every year for a while when I lived in Alberta. And they were INBF or WNBF or something. I don't know. Natural guys can be a lot of fun to work with, too. Yeah. I found that when guys are, like, committed, like, I'm doing this and I'm going to do it naturally. A lot of times, you know, and I'm not saying it's not like guys on gear aren't committed. But at least the guys I've worked with, they're, like, willing to do whatever it takes, you know? Yeah. And, yeah, it's hard for me to say that because it does sound like I'm then dissing somebody else. You know what I mean? But I don't mean it that way. But, no, it's just that the guys I've worked with that are natural are generally very impressive as far as their work ethic goes. I remember Greg Doucette. Everyone knows Greg Doucette. Yeah. Yeah. Greg Doucette was a natural bodybuilder for years in Canada, right, before he got his IFBB Pro Card. And I remember I did a photo shoot with him once. And his conditioning the year he got his Pro Card was just, like, insane. Yeah. Like, just mind-blowing, ridiculous. Like, oh, fuck, one of those guys. And I said, yeah, you got peeled. I'm like, congrats on how peeled you are for, like, this ridiculous. And he's like, yeah, you know, I had to get that when I was natty. I had to get that attitude. And I was like, he used to be a competitive swimmer. So, like, we used to swim. We'd go to the pool and swim for four hours. And that was just, like, our training. So, for me, getting on a treadmill for three hours is nothing. Yeah. Right. Yeah. I'll do that. And I was like, oh, yeah, you'll do three hours of cardio? He goes, oh, yeah, I'll do whatever. I don't care. Yeah, you only have so many cards to play. As a natural guy. You know what I mean? He's like, as a natty, I would do, if I had to, I would do three hours on the treadmill every day. Yeah. For a while. Yeah. And I was like, oh, shit. Yeah, that's, like, really hard to do. Because it's like, a lot of people, but bodies can't take it. And something happens. Like, you know. Let's not forget, they don't have your recovery either. Yeah. Like, their foot gets bleeding blisters on it, or they fucking. I have two. It's fine. You know what I mean? Like, something fails. Something on their body fails. Not everyone can do three hours of cardio at all. But, yeah, he's just that sort of mindset, you know? Yeah. No, I've always, like, so I started. I mean, my coach was a natural bodybuilder when I first, like, touched my feet. I didn't even say coach. The guy that wrote me a diet. And so I really went that route for a while. And I went and saw Skip LaCour a couple times. Oh, yeah. I do seminars. Yeah. And he was awesome. Like, incredible. Like, he helped me a ton. You know, I read his books, the whole thing. Skip had a great book, didn't he? Yeah. Yep. Think Big was one of them. Yeah. Oh, no way. Yeah. But I probably still have it. But he was fantastic that I knew at the time. And then, actually, Tommy's training partner, Jacob Dallara, I think, is his last name. He's the Brinks on Instagram. Okay. He just turned pro at Nationals last year, natural. You're kidding. What division? And he's, one sec, I'll pull it up. Let's see here. I want to say light or middle. I'm not sure. So as a bodybuilder, he's not, like, men's physique. Yeah, opening bodybuilder. No, no, no, no. And so he, I trained with him once or, I think, twice now. And the kid is an absolute animal in the gym. Like, he's the guy, I even give Tommy crap sometimes because, like, he's failing. So you're, like, spotting him and he's, like, three more. And you're, like, I don't want to do this for you. No, I'm doing rows. But, I mean, but I loved it. Crazy physique. Like, and also, I mean, like, he gets heavy and he also, because he's a smart kid, I mean, he markets the whole thing, his off seasons. I think he spent, like, two years in an offseason before he did last year's shows. Yeah. Won everything he did. But I would put him against anyone in the gym and he'd be fine. Yeah. Because think about it, too. Like, when you're training with, you know, Tommy and I and your natural bodybuilder, like, doesn't, his intensity, he might not be doing the same weight, but his intensity is off the charts. Yeah, yeah. And he's strong as hell for his size. So, I don't know. I think anybody, but I have respect for anyone who's willing to train hard and suffer for prep. And I was not shocked at all when he won. I was like, of course you did. Yeah. Yeah. Beat a lot of guys juice to the gills because he was peeled. Ryan, what's this picture you sent me here? Oh, yeah. I sent you a natty picture just because we were joking about being natty. All right. Give me just a second here. I did a junior show. Just a, like, local show when I was 17. So, I did a little diet for it. Yeah. And this is, like, I think this was, like, a week out from the show or something just at the gym. You look good, man. Check this out. Good lat spread on me? Yeah. 17? Yeah, you look good. You still had that neck. Look at the neck, Dusty. He still had the neck even then. He and I always had the neck. It wasn't. Yeah. We don't have giant heads. That's the support. See, that's a proper lat spread, gentlemen. The pecs are striated. Looks good, man. See? The pecs got to come up and striate in front of you. Your pecs aren't flexed. You're not properly hitting a lat spread. Yeah. I sent you a picture, Scott, of Jacob's, Tommy's training partner. All right. I'm about 202 pounds there. You're kidding. Yeah. 202. 202. And what would you have started at at that time? I started dieting at 225. Okay. I was in grade 12. 17, 225, ladies and gentlemen. Yeah. Yeah. Squatting four plates and benching three plates, and I just finished my last season of football. And as soon as football was done, I kicked into a diet. So I started at 225, and I competed at like 202. Okay. That's awesome. Man, this guy looks incredible, Dusty. Right? Yeah. Yeah. I had to highlight him because, I mean, he's awesome. He's just a cool guy, but. Yeah. This dude looks freaking out of this world. And to think that he's natural, too, man, on top of that. Oh, wow. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You know what I always love on a good natural bodybuilder is when you can tell they got a thick tricep. Oh, his arms are bananas. See the back of his arm there? Yeah. You can see his triceps are really like, he's got a big, full muscle belly on that outside of his shoe. How about the cross-reaction and that far pec? Yeah. And then the far pec is just wrapped. Glutes are striated, dug out in the hamstring. Yeah. How much does he weigh? I don't know. I couldn't find it on his Instagram, so I don't know what the size is. But he's. Probably 175 or something. Bananas. You know? And his waist is like, there is no. Yeah. Yeah. You know, you're like, huh, that doesn't make sense. That's wild. That's wild. He looks young, too. He looks like he can keep doing this for a long time. And naturally, man, the stress on his body is going to be, you know, so little compared to somebody who had to get so geared up just to get the pro card. Like, yeah, it's out of this world, man. Now I want to see him take some gear, though, and see what happens. That's the problem. That's what I thought. I was like, maybe just a little bit. Right. Right. Just give it a drop, man. Just a drop. I'm working with a kid who's 16, getting ready for his first show right now. And I'll tell you, this kid is, his work ethic, I'll say that it mirrors that of, like, better than some guys that I work with that are in their 30s and 40s. Right. Oh, absolutely. He follows a diet 100%, trains 100%. He has his own gym. Like, they have, like, an outbuilding on their farm. Oh, awesome. And he's got all this equipment set up in there. And obviously, you know, 16-, 17-year-old kid, I assumed his parents just bought it for him. And then he told me, no, he's cutting lawns in the summer. And he set up a business with his buddy. And they're making, like, real money off of that every summer. And he paid for all that gym equipment himself. He's got thousands of dollars gym equipment. Yeah, yeah, he's got, like, a nice. His buddy's driving an F450, and he has a gym. It's like, yeah, I've got to finish this high school thing, you know. But the kid's in great shape. In fact, I've got a picture here. It might take me a minute to pull it up here. So, obviously, keep in mind, he's never competed before. And I'm sure he would not mind if I share this whatsoever. And he's just got the freaking heart of a lion. So, he's. Oh, that's the guy you said this the other day. Yeah, yeah, this kid. So, he's. Oh, yeah. He's very young, you know. The legs. I mean, he's got to be the strongest kid in his high school. You know what I mean? Yeah. And. He's also the only one that doesn't have any skin. Right, right, right. So, we're going to do. So, MPC, he's not allowed to compete in yet. They changed their rules. Yeah. You have to be 18 or older. So, we found a show, and it's going to even be out of state for him. Give him a fake ID. Yeah. It is. So, him and. Why'd you get a fake ID for a bodybuilding show? His mom's into it now. She's like. She did. I asked her. I was like. What did you. Your mom and dad think about, you know, bodybuilding. And he's like. Oh, my mom wasn't really into it. But now she gets it. And now she's. So, she's going to go to the show with him. They're flying out there together. A couple days. Oh, that's awesome. And he's going to compete out of state. So. Yeah, I'm pumped for him. That's awesome. He's got, I think, about another four weeks from here. So. Look how split up his arms are. Yeah. I mean, when you can see the separation of the bye and the try from the front. Right? Yeah. He's. You're in shape. Really quick to pick stuff up, too. Like, when we've worked on posing. And I've told him. All right. You got to turn your feet this way. Like, he just does it. You know what I mean? Yeah. Some people, you have to tell them, oh, I guess it's like a young brain is still, like, very well easy to write new programming versus old guys. Don't ask me to learn anything. Right. Awesome. Well, I think we salvaged that, guys. Yeah, that was good. Yeah, I'm really upset. I'm really disappointed we didn't get the guests we had lined up. We'll get them. I really want to get that done because that's going to, people are going to love that. Did you guys ever see a movie? Here's that. Sisu? Is that how you say it? S-S-I-S-U? Oh, no, I've been told it's fantastic, though. How about Strange Darling? No. Somebody asked us if we had seen those movies, and if so, what do we think? So Sisu, it's either Finnish or Norwegian, I think. Okay. So it's subtitled. Oh, I can't do that for a whole movie. But it's apparently, like, an awesome revenge movie. Oh. Kind of a, kind of like, hardcore Viking type of guy taking revenge on a bunch of guys that you want to see. Yeah. Revenge taken on. Yeah. Yeah. Supposedly very, like, immediately action-packed and just, like, my friend told me, he's like, you have to watch this movie. And I just, I can't commit to the subtitles yet. I can only do a couple subtitled movies a year. So, no, I haven't seen Sisu. What's Perfect Darling about? I don't know. He didn't say. He just was wondering if we had seen it. I'm about to finish Mobland. We slow down toward the end. Because it's getting real good. And we're like, we only have a couple episodes left. But I do the opposite. I'm like, we got to close this shit out tonight. Yeah. Yeah. We slow it down a little bit, you know. And then we start watching something else and, like, get that going, get into that groove, and then overlap. That way there's no. I'm glad that we talk about this on the show. Because a friend of mine, Patrick from Arizona, messaged me. And he's like, here's three other show options for you, since I know what you like now. Yeah. And we just watched another one that he had recommended, Collateral. It's only four episodes, but it was fantastic. So, I was like, well, now that you sent me three, which order do I watch them in? And he did not disappoint. Okay. Because, you know, sometimes you can't trust. Like, we go to Google sometimes or, like, Rotten Tomatoes to see before watching a show. I'm like, oh, it's got good reviews. And we go watch it. We get, like, 20 minutes. And I'm like, no. Yeah. Start over. We just wasted 20 minutes. Find another show. Oh, okay. Collateral. I saw the thumbnail for this, and I was told it was good, but I didn't. Yeah, it was good. Patrick, thank you. We watched that. Now we're on to the next two. So, what a funny thing. We're watching Fargo Season 2. Yeah, yeah. Awesome. Good. Like, the cast is so crazy. And, like, the chaos. Oh, my God. I'm so glad you finally got into this, Ron. I've been waiting for this. Oh, yeah. Because I knew it. I'm glad you got hooked. And then the hilarious part was Season 2 starts, and there's these two twin brothers. Yes. Right? And they come on the screen. I'm like, oh, my God. They train at my gym. What? No. Yeah. They literally, to this day, train at your gym. Yeah. You're kidding me. Yeah. Brad and Todd Mann. Holy crap. Ron, how many people around you that you don't know? I mean. Yeah. They're actors in the Vancouver scene, and they're identical twins. Yeah. And they're, like, 6'2". Oh, they're so good in this, too, aren't they? Broad-shouldered guys. They're big, fit guys. And so they've done all sorts of stuff because they're identical twins, so they get hired for certain things. Like, I think they did a project where there was, like, flashbacks. So the one guy had a beard, and the other guy didn't have a beard, and they kept it that way for, like, several months to film this project where they needed a flashback dude and a, you know, whatever. And, I don't know, they do all sorts of things like that. And I remember seeing these photos on their Instagrams of them dressed in those costumes and didn't realize it was Fargo. Yeah. And so we're watching, and they come on the screen. The Kitchen Brothers. And we're like, the Kitchen Brothers. And we're like, oh, my God, it's Brad and Todd from the gym. Yeah. Like, they're, I see them all the time. Did you tell them? Yeah. I haven't seen them yet. Okay. So it's been, like, over a week since I've seen them because they train a little earlier. Do they train together? Now he's looking. Yeah. Do they train together? Yeah, they train together. Okay. Train together all the time. Wow. They make all kinds of, like, wild videos at the gym, too. They're really great guys. That is so cool. They love that gym. I'm kind of starstruck by that. Like, if they were at the gym, I would be starstruck, Ron, to meet them. I'm honest about that. Imagine if we were in Ron's gym and he didn't know and you did, Scott. And you're like, oh, my God. It was so funny. Like, the next time I see them, I'm going to, like, talk to them about Fargo because it's, like, so good so far. And they're great in it. They haven't had any lines yet. I don't know if they speak, but they've been good. They've been perfect. They really are. They play the roles well. Just, oh, yeah. The Kitchen Brothers. So we'll see what happens. Yeah. Kitchen Brothers. Yeah. Hilarious to me. I love all the stories that you have, Ron. When you told us what happened with your client after the Joe episode. Oh, yeah. We haven't told that on the air. You have to tell that story. It's so good. Look, I have a client. He's a great guy. I've been working with him for a long time. He's a football coach. He does some coaching. He does all kinds of stuff. Yeah. And he watches the Joe episode. And he messages. And he's like, yeah, you know, it was a great episode, you know, hearing about him. You know, as a, as a, someone who's legally blind, I really related to some of the stuff he was saying. And I'm thinking like, I've been helping this guy for like years. Yeah. Like, I don't, do I remember him mentioning he was blind? And then I'm like, I think I do. Is that ringing a bell? Yeah. And I had this like moment where I'm like, I don't think this guy told me he was blind. I mean, he doesn't need to, I guess. Anyways, it started messaging with him. I'm like, you never bring that up, dude. And he's like, oh, yeah, I'm legally blind. And I was born with ocular thing. And it's just, just, but like, you know, he doesn't, he doesn't wear it on his sleeve, like his identity. Yeah. I thought that was so great, though. He just never brought it up. Never mentioned it to me. There was a problem. It didn't matter. It wasn't important to you. And I thought, did he mention it to me once? Yeah. Now, in hindsight, I'm like, I don't, because I tried to search our conversation. I even typed the word blind into our WhatsApp and hit search, and it does not come up. Yeah. Just that last time. And I've never canceled, like I've never wiped our chat, right? Yeah, yeah. I'm like, oh, my God, I'll take this guy. It's just amazing. But that tells me something about him, too. He's like, yeah, huh? No one needs to know. Yeah. Just amazing. Hey, I was talking to my good friend, Flatland rider, Frank Lucas, out of Germany. Ron, you should get to meet him sometime. Yeah, yeah. So we watched our episode of the Andreas Munzer reaction, and he sent me a message on Instagram. He said, when I was studying sports science, our professor used Andreas Munzer as an example in the human nutrition lecture to illustrate what can happen with excessive protein consumption. I stopped going there after that point. Frank is such a good dude. So Frank is one of those guys. He's this, you know when you meet somebody and you're like, oh, this guy can smell bullshit instantly. Yeah. Right? Yeah. And you're like, it's good to surround yourself with people who can smell bullshit and don't fall for shit, right? Yeah. I always respect that a lot. And so Frank would say that. Like, I stopped going after that. Yeah. I asked him, I was like, well, did you- That's a Frank thing. I was like, did you call your professor out? And he said, no, but since then, I've been questioning the entire education system. A true red pill moment. Yes. True red pill moment. We've talked, me and Frank and I have had some, shared our red pill moments about the world in the last 10 years. That's for sure. And that'd be one of them. Yeah. That's awesome. A great finisher, Scott. I love it. Yeah. Definitely a red pill moment. Yeah. Okay. Well, thanks everybody for joining us. I had fun on that. Like we said, just remember that we had plans. Yeah. They got canceled. I always want to make that up. Like when I let down a girl, I always tell her, I had plans. I'm usually a lot better at this. They fell through. It's never happens to me. It never happens to me. I was supposed to have more support for this. Okay. We scraped together an episode and thanks to everyone who joined us. I'm trying to see, we missed a bunch in the chats, but it's so nice to see everyone. Yes. Yes. Oh, sometimes legally blind means partial. Yes. Yeah. I know. There's that. I know that. Yeah. But it's still legally blind. Something you still would mention, I would think. So, yeah, yeah, yeah. I would. But would you though, Dusty, if you were like capable in every way and you were like, hey, I want to hire a coach, would you be like, he doesn't. I would if the asshole was me and I say something like, do you see how when you're doing your row? And the guy's like, no, I don't see anything at all. You idiot. How are you doing the row? If you look at the pictures, you can see your quads have more separation. I mean, anyone can see it. Yeah. Just look at the photos. I have to share a funny story that's going to kill Nikki. So when she was in college, she's in college. They all experiment in college. It's downpouring rain one day. And there's a girl in our class that's blind. And so she's like, hey, how do you get home? She goes, I walk. She goes, let me give you a ride. And she goes, oh, thanks. So she gets in the car and they're driving and it just starts downpouring. And Nikki goes, I can't barely drive. I can't see shit. And then she goes, oh. Me either. Yeah, me either. Literally. Well, just let me out here then. Might as well let me drive at this point. Yeah. She goes, I don't think she cared at all, but I was mortified. No, that's the type of stuff that they probably don't give. They don't even hear it. Yeah. Right. But we just. Oh. Yeah. I mean, think about it. She was in college and she tells me this story now. That's how much it ruined her life. She remembers it to this day. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, good stuff. The horror. Remember, like, share, subscribe, comment, and. Ring the bell. Yes. And remember, imute.com. Go to imute.com. Dusty or Big Ron are your codes. Save money. Get stuff for cheaper. Cheaper. Yes. Write how the government is inflating your fiat currency by the day. I'll try not to go off on a spiel. Save yourself more. Yeah. Consider us. It's like buying Bitcoin because you're saving. You're actually. Yeah. Something like that. You're countering inflation. Your money is worth more with us. It's a hedge for inflation. Shopping at imute.com. Okay. Thanks, everybody. Remember that MindFK. Get your all in. Get your isosurgeon. Everyone should get on the gear. Thanks, guys. Remember, it's just bodybuilding. Beep. Beep Beep Beep Thank you.