you know, when people can see some visual stuff in the early weeks, it it kind of really gets them motivated, gets the ball rolling a little faster. Um, you know, the eyes get crossed or eyes get dotted, tees get crossed a little bit faster, that kind of stuff. People are like really in prep when Trent enters the chat, right? And it's not like we're going to leave it in there for longer than four weeks. It's it's it's literally four weeks and it's a very low dose. It's it it it's almost, you know, not much to write home about. We're talking 20. Yeah. 20 to 40 millig. These are the listeners right now. They're like more trend. Yeah. What's up, guys? Welcome back to Blood, Sweat, and Gear with coaches Skipp Hill, Andrew Barry, myself, Scott McN, and of course, we are brought to you by you, the people of Patreon. Thank you guys very much for your support. We do have some Patreon questions today. And everybody from Patreon, of course, you guys all get priority. Uh Skip, Andrew and I, we've been coaching full-time for a long time. Especially Skip, he's been doing this for longer than all of us. And we are here to basically freely share our education, our experience with you so that you guys can get the most out of this freaking sport called bodybuilding that we love. We're also brought to you by true nutrition.com. Use our code think over there. supplementsource.ca for Canadians. And uh yeah, I think that that covers us, guys. Oh, also too like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. If you're enjoying our stuff, then please do hit the like button. And if you're new here, we'd love to have you along for all the shows. We have several shows that come out each week. Andrew, we got a question today. I guess he doesn't want to hear what we have to say. He just asked Andrew. He's like, I want to hear from Andrew. So, I guess we're just gonna skip, we don't have anything to do, man. He says, um, all right. Well, there's a couple of them. Let's see. So, the one we're I was looking for here though says, "Uh, I'd love for Andrew to weigh in on something that I've been wondering. I've heard him mention kickstarting a prep with lowd dose trend, but I'm curious. Could someone run test with NP instead of test primo or EQ to drive strength early on? Also, would it be viable to add a low dose of Tren to test and NPP stack for the first eight weeks of prep or would that be doing too much damage to your lipid profile? Big fan of the show and all the content that you guys put out. There's a lot in there, but um first off, adding any PED to a cycle is going to have undoubtedly some benefits on your strength and your muscle mass and all that kind of stuff. But let me just kind of briefly quickly say I like to use trend for like the first four weeks of a contest cycle, you know, and it's not like everyone gets that's what they're doing, but I like to use it initially. Everybody gets trend. Yeah. Trend for trend for you. Trend for you, trend for everybody. Everybody gets trend. It's it's more so to a get some increased insulin sensitivity, especially if you're, you know, coming off of a um, you know, heavy offseason and maybe you didn't have a like a pre-prep cleanup, you know, which is very popular now to kind of prep before you prep to make sure that, you know, you're going to be in shape in time. Uh, but let's say, you know, I see this being probably the most beneficial with the old school way of dieting back in the day when the guys were would do like shorter preps and, you know, they would just get as big as they as they could in the offseason and then they just race the diet off. Like it would be common for guys to lose 40 pounds in 12 weeks, which today I don't think a lot of us do that anymore. Would you guys agree? Totally 100%. Man, this question was for you. I'm just playing against you. Well, anyway, throwing trend in at the beginning of a cycle, you know, think of it, you know, not that it's going to cause you to burn fat, but it's kind of like a cleanup phase in a sense for me where, you know, we're going to lose some uh hopefully some fat quickly, get get rid of all the bloat. I don't want anything that's going to aromatize heavily, and we're going to increase uh nitrogen retention very quickly, and we're going to improve your insulin sensitivity quickly. So, it's kind of like get the ball rolling. And it's also, you know, when people can see some visual stuff in the early weeks, it it kind of really gets them motivated, gets the ball rolling a little faster. Um, you know, the eyes get crossed or eyes get dotted, tees get crossed a little bit faster, that kind of stuff. People are like really in prep when Trent enters the chat, right? And it's not like we're going to leave it in there for longer than four weeks. It's it's it's literally four weeks and it's a very low dose. It's it it it's almost, you know, not much to write home about. We're talking 20 Yeah, 20 to 40 millig. These are the listeners right now. They're like more trend. Yeah. I like that ender guy. Yeah. But but get to, you know, the second part of the question. Could you use NP um early on in a prep? Absolutely. You can you can use any drug you want at any phase of prep. Yeah. I mean, there's absolutely nothing wrong with that. I'm not going to say I don't do that. You know, like I think people think when they come to coaches that they have their one protocol and they just give it out to everybody, which is the dumbest thing in the world because you could just go on to one of the forums or one of the Reddit links and probably find some of the cycles that any one of us has had written and think it applies to you. I think people sometimes maybe get annoyed with me with when I ask about compounds because it's like I really want to know what do you have experience with, what has worked for you, what hasn't worked for you in terms of side effects, um you know, whether it's mental, physical, whatever. and I like to take it from there. So, especially if you're a guy who's been who's done, let's say you've done three or four shows at this point, like you should have a pretty good repertoire of drugs or knowledge in terms of drugs that work for you and drugs that don't because how many times you guys, it's not common, but I would say one out of every five guys now is like, I don't want to use trendless prep. And it's like, cool. I make a big note, no trend. I might write it four or five times just so I don't mess up and throw it in at some point. Right. Right. You know what I mean? So, it's like uh I'm not going to say it's completely collaborative, but it but it's like, you know, as a client, you come to us with a with a body of your own experience and and we'd be stupid to just say, "No, it's my way or the highway." So, I'll leave it at that and let you guys take over. What do you got, T? Yeah. Uh I put my cribage game away. I'm a big cribage fan, so I thought I just play game cribage. Okay. So, um, yeah, I really don't have much to add other than there are some trainers, and people might not know this, there are some trainers that really don't put a lot of focus or attention on the gear. And their clients may be considered more advanced in the sense that those trainers accept that the people who are coming to them as competitors already have a very good understanding of the compounds that they use and how they respond to them and kind of leave the cycle a bit up to them. They want to know what they want to use, but they're not necessarily reprogramming cycles. And it it's not everybody. Here's what it comes down to. The reason I bring it up is this. There are a lot of different methods from from coach to coach where most people probably think that we all kind of have this same methodology or or do things the same way. And I'm learning that right now because of finally, you know, working with I've never worked with somebody before. So did you assume then that like let me ask you this. So, working with Justin now, did you assume that he was going to do things differently than he is with gear? No, I think a lot there's there's still a lot of parallels and that was part of the reason that I went with him. But there are some things that where I go, I wouldn't have done that. But then I laugh about it and I go, well, that's why I'm working with him. So, there are a bunch of different avenues. It's, you know, I've always said to get to the, you know, top of the hill or whatever else, there's just all these different roads and it's the destination is the same. There's just different ways and different methodology to get there. He hasn't done, for the record, he hasn't done anything where I went, yeah, that's [\h__\h] up. And and of course, obviously, you know, that's not so it's cool. Even my wife has said, "Well, gosh, he wanted you to do he wants you to do this. You know, you're going to do that, right? What the would I not do it for? What are you kidding? I'm not going to I'm not questioning. It's really nice to not have to make those decisions, though. I'm telling you, this is a stressfree ride right here. I'm I'm riding for free. I love that. Can I add to that for a second? Uh cuz how annoying is it when um when you get like I say, a new client and they're like, "Well, I wanted to go with you because I I knew you'd think the exact same way I do and and you'd want you do the same things I would do." And it's like, "Okay, thank you, I guess, but like save your money." Yeah. Like, why don't you prep yourself then? You know what I'm saying? Exactly. Like I I like to me like I would just like you said, Skip, I would go to a coach knowing or expecting to hopefully learn something and and not like I'm sitting here taking notes that I want to use to my own clients, but but more like hopefully the coach is going to see things that I can't see internally because they have an outside look outside in viewpoint and they're going to see some things a little differently than I would and hopefully get me to where I want to go a little faster, a little quicker. Yeah. And I still say number one on the list when people ask me, it's easy. It's trust. Yep. And and that is just so vitally I've always preached it, but I've never been on the other end of it and had to literally go now. There are times where I go, uh, I'm usually a lot leaner and sunk in right now. I'm also the type that drives myself into the ground. Yep. And dig such a hole that the ladder isn't big enough to get out of. So, it's easy for me to justify that and go, "Oh, there's something I was doing, you know, wrong. He's pulling me back and he's got his pace." And it's it's just there. Mhm. I love that, man. It's it's reassuring. And knowing you for so long, having seen you diet before, like this to me is like this is the this is the first time that it's different. Let me put it that way. This is the first time that it's different and I think it's going to be to your advantage. I I'll say this about the, you know, adding compounds earlier on. The if I were to say, is there anything that I'm against? Like I would prefer not to. I generally don't like using orals at 16 weeks out. You know, I I I feel like there's nothing an oral is going to do that I can't also achieve with an injectable. And my thought is like I want to try to keep stress lower. So, I probably I I mean, if you really twisted my arm and you're like, man, I respond so good to anadrol. And you know, maybe the first four weeks of like maybe we're 20 weeks out. Let's say 20 weeks out and we wanted to run some anadrol for the first four weeks. Let's go for it. I don't think it's going to be a problem. But in general, I would I would never come to somebody and say like, "This is what I want you to do. We need to get on a roll at 16 weeks out." You know what I'm saying? But I do something similar to that. He Andrew was talking about that front that which honestly I never thought about before. And I've I mean I I when you've said that the first time, I thought, man, I've never even considered that. And it's and it's a good idea. But I do something similar with like Scott is saying every now and then I'll throw in four or five weeks of anadrol and you know people will call it a jump start. Yeah. Um you know call it what you want but it does it's a it's a ball rolling type of type of thing. Not always but sometimes. Would you guys agree that like the time to do that would be let's say you're starting a prep at 20 weeks out like weeks 20 to say 16 or something like that versus weeks like 14 to like 10 or eight. And and I think and I think and and I I thought you guys would agree and the reason why is you know what we're doing is already stressful enough especially to the liver and we don't want to stress the liver out and decrease our ability to recycle estrogen and burn fat and convert T4 to T3 that early in a prep when we know we still have 10 12 14 weeks to go. So like I like I don't think what you said skip four weeks of anrol or so 20 weeks out that's a great you know that's a John Meadows thing you know he he was big on that u oh is that right? Yeah, that was a big popular. We always did that with me. I feel like for majority of preps. And I feel like, you know, something I mentioned in the one of the last couple episodes was that idea of the psychological get up and go, you know what I mean? Like if you can really get somebody plugged in, I think that there's a benefit to maybe doing a little bit more than nothing, you know, at 16 20 weeks out. Maybe we don't really need to be hitting the hammer hard yet. But man, if it gets you feeling like I'm in the zone now, like I'm in my groove, then I think that's only going to benefit us for being able to make progress and and all of that. And and overall having a good experience. And I think part of what we're talking about here is weighing out the risk to benefit like is there a risk like using an oral at 20 weeks out or 16 weeks. Is there a risk? Sure, there's there's risk to taking an oral anytime or taking any steroid anytime, right? But we're weighing that out and in our experience it's not something that I think we we you know it's not going to be detrimental. So how about the second part of that same page with that? How about the second part of that question about adding um trenal to um NPP? I've done it and I have no problem with it. Um I don't know that I you know I don't make it a point to do typically I switch them out. Yeah. I will run the NPP early and then I which is exactly what I'm doing and I don't give away anything with my gear usually but yeah I'll pull the uh I'll pull the trend uh and I usually I'm sorry I'll pull the NPP and I usually pull it about a week prior to starting trend because acetate kicks a lot quicker than the NPP. The NPP will kind of I call it a self taper. Call it what you want but that's the label that I use so that I don't kind of overlap the two any more than I have to. So, I'll leave the NPP out for a week when I bring the trend acetate in. And I've said before, I'll say again, I'm not I'm not a fan of any other trend other than acetate. I think personally, I could do just fine with myself and my clients if there was never any like the supply of trend hex and and anth just all of a sudden disappeared tomorrow. Yeah, I'd have no problem with it. I agree. I'd agree. I'd agree. And yeah, I I'm I don't know. I'm not really a fan of mixing them either because that's and I'm not saying that that's a hard rule but I've generally used one or the other and I could say that when we talked about like our best cycle you know that we and it was like test EQ NPP my take on it is 16 weeks or maybe longer the first half of it NPP the second half of it wouldn't be a bad idea to get some trend in there maybe eight weeks of test and six weeks eight weeks of trend after that I I'm a man. And and it's nice to have the something to go to. You know what I mean? If you're taking everything already, then what are you going to go to later? You know what I mean? And he did have a comment asking about would it be more detrimental to his lipids? And you know, having some experience. Um I can say yes. It was vastly more detrimental to my lipids when I did something like this maybe 10 or 12 years ago. It wasn't NPP. It was actually DECA. So I should be clear about that. Uh, but it was Deca and I did throw Tren in and I could not remember the doses to save my life. But, you know, it was offseason and I was 10 or 12 years younger. So, it was probably a fair amount of each and and I tell you what, I did my labs 6 weeks in and it was enough to make me quit the cycle completely. So, and you were young and you quit the cycle. That says something. I was younger than I am today. I was younger than I was probably 30, you know, but when we're younger, we tend to take those risks a little bit more. So, if you pulled the plug then versus now, that says something. Well, thinking back about doing it, I actually did it cuz I wanted to see um you know what it did in my lab. I was running test NP trend and there might have been probably EQ in there too if I'm being honest. And let's say it probably topped out around I would guess 2.5 grams a week I would imagine with no orals. Okay. And and I remember my HDL I've got these labs somewhere cuz I did a whole I did a whole paper on it for Mountain Dog Diet showing this stuff and it was like I feel like my HDL it sunk to like I think it was like sub teens. It was like nine or 10 like you said and I and before the cycle I was like 50. Okay. So it was a drastic drop. And then but the cool thing is with the cholesterol program that I ran afterwards, I got my um HDL back up to like 52 within another six weeks. So nice. Yeah. The main point of the article was like throwing the kitchen sink of of you know lipid uh supplements at it and fixing it and it worked. So can I can I add something that I think you know to us would be quite obvious but may not be to the viewers. Maybe I'm not giving them enough credit. There might be some who go we're not that stupid. Okay, fair enough. But there are some people who may not understand this. I am f I'll just speak for myself. I'm far more concerned about a tanked HDL than I am running high LDL. I think so many people isolate and they pull those numbers out and look at them, you know, separately. And that ratio and and also time period. Yeah, if you're only tanked for a short amount of time, okay, you you know what, you were smoking for a short amount of time, you were drinking a lot for a short amount of time, that stress on the body really isn't. And essentially, these things are cumulative. So, you don't want that if you're tanked, you don't want your HDL tanked for long periods of time because that that's just a really bad situation. But understand if you don't know as a viewer that I think you should pay more attention to that ratio. So, if you are running high, and I've had even just average people who aren't even in, you know, bodybuilding, they'll be like, "Oh, yeah, my doctor said my LDL is too high. It's got to come down." I'm like, "Your ratio is fine. Your HDL is off the chart." Like, why are they even concerned about this? I don't even understand why. But I think a lot of doctors are that way, too. Probably not the doctors we go to because we tend to look for more advanced uh more of an advanced knowledge or understanding. try to get a uh a knowledge base from a doctor that is a little bit geared toward what we're doing. Geared. I said geared um toward what we're doing versus the average person who's going to, you know, get that. Oh, LDL is too high. It's the ratio. All right, let's move on. We got a bunch of stuff you and you guys left us a bunch of great questions. If you want to have questions on the next show, then definitely comment below. And for all the Patreon people, of course, comment on Patreon. Um I So, I didn't even really read this completely. It came off DM. I happen to see it like right as we're getting ready to pull the show together. So, this will be the first time I'm reading it. Hey, Scott, please keep my name anonymous along with my coach. I know that you know him. First time caller, longtime listener. I've been working with Skipp Hill for a long time. No, well played. Well played. I like that. Uh, question for the next show. Preferably Blood, Sweat, and Gear. My favorite trio from Think Big Bodybuilding. Um, what is the average rate for a coach for the NPC level and the IFBB level? Um, is there a difference in your opinions? Um, I seem to be going through a divorce from my former coach. It wasn't personal. I competed uh my show. My was satisfied uh with what we accomplished winning an overall at my first competition. I came in peeled, polished, and walked away with the hardware. We are planning to do, we were planning to do nationals, but life happened, things changed, and my body wasn't responding well enough to justify a possible poor showing. Uh, we decided to pull it. Bodybuilding being a passion of mine, it isn't something that I can put too many resources into. And at the same time, I needed to focus more on other aspects of my life. After just over two years together, I decided that I wanted to do an offseason by myself to save the money. Needless to say, my coach wasn't happy with this decision. Um, talking to other athletes from this former coach's roster, I found that I was being charged a rate almost double of what most athletes were paying, some of them IFBB pros, $400 a month was what I was paying my coach, which I thought was standard practice in the industry. Uh, I know good coaches are valuable, but knowing other athletes under his name were being charged at various rates made me feel cheated. Um, I only caught half of that because Rachel's doing dishes. I was waiting for that. I was just waiting. I patiently waited. Yeah. No, I'm kidding. Okay, so there's a there's a few things in there. Um I Okay, from a coach's perspective, it could be because I want to touch on this first. It could be that he was disappointed that like, holy [\h__\h] we we nailed it. We you won, you took the overall and was already kind of anticipating, expecting, okay, we're going to build from here. It was a it was a great start, you know, that type of thing. understand that that as a uh coach that first prep is vitally important because there's so much to take away uh not only for the client but but for the trainer for the future. It's harder to get and this is where good coaches are, you know, end up being good coaches. It's harder though to get it get it right and nail it the first time versus all the shows that come after that because we gain so much knowledge of the peaking process how you respond to things as those show as the show gets closer. So it was probably like oh crap like we got it all figured out. Let's move forward. So it may not be just because you were going somewhere else because of money I I would like to think. But then there's other things in there that you're saying that, you know, he was saying he was uh, you know, the fees are kind of uh I don't want to say negotiable, but they change from client to client that and I want to be careful with this because I don't know, you know, who it is or anything else, but I'm going to I'm going to say this because I feel this way. I think that's unethical. That's just my I don't think it's very good business. And if you guys have like if you have something you say, okay, well, what about this? Then I might be able to see it a different way. But on the surface, I think it's unethical because it does show and can show kind of a favoritism or something like what what do you mean like uh what I make more money so you charge me more money? You know, that type of thing. I don't know. Let me rebut that one. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Fair. And I got a couple thoughts, too. Because what if you're a coach that rewards loyalty? Like let's say you have someone that's been with you for six or seven years and they started out at let's say 200 bucks a month and you have gra you've gained acumen as a coach and more notoriety and your client load has gone up and now you're you're charging people current rates because and you want to continue to reward the loyalty of those those clients that have stuck with you for five, six, seven years. And yeah, you're doing yourself a disservice by not increasing those rates as much as you possibly could have. But I think it shows loyalty both ways, I guess, in a sense that and I'm not saying I was going to say, yeah, I'm not saying that that that's necessarily what's going on here because maybe it's not. But I just know like I do have I'll be honest, I have some people that pay less than others because they've been with me for seven years, you know. Yeah. Um, I I I generally haven't raised when I raise prices and which, you know, doing this for a decade full-time, I've raised prices over the years and uh probably not as much as I should, honestly. But all of us um I the people who are already working with me at a price, I've left their pricing as it is, and I figured, hey, they're a long-term person and I'm not going to raise the prices on them. The new people though, it's still, you know, the way I see it is it's still a very fair deal. So, I guess if you were to talk to somebody I worked with from I'm working with for the last 5 years, you might hear a different price from them. Now, I don't know. I don't know. I I I know that some coaches will, and I've heard this will be like, you know, oh, I want this guy to come work with me, so I'm not going to char make it like a real sweet deal. In fact, I've even heard some coaches giving gear and stuff to like really good clients. You know what I mean? Like Yeah. Ex. Yeah. Yeah. That's what I've heard, too. Yeah. So, I've heard of that kind of thing, too. So, I wonder if maybe it's a highle person like that, you know, where they're getting a free ride out of it or something. There there's some coaches out there that pay their athletes to work with them. And we're talking top level Olympia people that because they know the trade-off is they're going to get hundreds of inquiries because they have that person. They pay they're Yeah, I wouldn't do that. Skip, your mic's been off. He didn't hear me, I guess. Skip, we can't hear you. Let's just watch him. Let's just watch him. We'll just keep watching him. For the audio listeners, we're watching Skip talk, but we can't hear him. He was like having full on kind of starting to figure it out. He's figuring it out now. Now he looks very confused. He's got a button to hit or something, you know. There we go. And that that's my mic dropped down on my boom and it hit That's odd. of all the things that could hit it, it it muted my mic. Awesome. Okay. Um, what was your point? Oh, my point was this. Number one, I agree with you guys because I grandfather clients as well. If they stay with me, their rates don't change. I to me, I don't think that's fair. Uh, new clients different as you as you go up in price then obviously that. So, I agree with you there. I'm glad you guys made that point. Um, as far as the and I'll say this, traders can do whatever they want to. It's their business. It's their time. You can do whatever you want, but you have to be okay with other people thinking that it might be questionable. Like a client like this guy is is doing now and he's questioning. Yeah, I don't know if that's fair. We got Ty. I guess I would question one of Ty in the chat is one of my clients. He says, I'd like my coach to pay me to get coached by him. We can talk about the details later. Thanks, coach. Are you a perennial Olympian Olympian pie? He's close. He's close. Okay, we're getting there. Yeah. I mean, but there's a lot of factors, you know. I mean, all right, let's say this. You got a client that says, "Hey, I'm going to pay you for a full year cash upfront." Are they paying the same monthly rate than someone who's paying monthly? True. Good point. You know what I'm saying? True, too. So, if if someone were to talk to some of those people that we all have, they'd be like, "Oh, I'm only paying X a month or I'm paying X a month." And they're like, "Wait a minute. I'm paying like 20% more." It's like, "Well, this person delivers cash in hand on the first of the year and it's covered for the next 12 months." So, the Yeah. Yeah. I mean, it's like any business, right? I mean, I I went and dropped a lawn mower off to this guy today and he's like, "Hey, I only take cash. If if you want to pay card, I can do it, but I'm going to charge you 20% more." I'm like, "Cash it is." No, good points. You know, so, but I would ask this guy, "Were you happy with the service?" Because $400 isn't like a ridiculous amount. That's pretty, you know, that's standard for the industry right now. Um, but I would ask him, "Do you feel like you got your money's worth?" And it sounds like you won your show, you won the overall. Um, you have some prospects on a national level. And I guess the real issue is is maybe the coach kind of started to get a little upset the fact that you're leaving them because as Skip pointed out when we have a really great season with someone, we're thinking about the future like, "Okay, we're going to get you in a great off seasonason. We're going to make these improvements and then we're going to go to the national level and we're go get a pro card and then we're going to go to the pro stage." And so they're thinking like long term. So maybe it just warrants a conversation with the coach like, "Hey, you know, money's tight right now. I really want to stay with you. Maybe, you know, because I do this with some people, maybe every other week check-ins instead of weekly, you know, because offseason isn't offseason. You could get away with that. You could totally get away with that and and you could maintain a great relationship and everybody would be happy, you know. Um, so I would just have a conversation with your coach and and the thing is is like a lot of times people go into every single situation like it's got to be confrontational and like they got to win something out of it. And I think you got to look at the big picture is like, okay, this coach seemingly has served you well, and they probably have been making good moves for you. You guys work well together, good dialogue, good communication, all that stuff. So, bring all that stuff up and and paint that picture to him, too. And I think you guys can come up with something that's going to be mutually beneficial and agreeable for both of you. Yeah. I think we agree that that fee is kind of I I consider that a pretty I don't know if it's average, but I I'm not surprised by that fee. I don't consider it too low. I don't consider it ridiculously high. So, I I just realized I need to raise my porices like double basically, if not more. That's what I got to do here today. You're going to get a lot of inquiries right now. They're like, I got to hit him before he raises. Too late, guys. Too late. What I'm finding is it's a lot of the younger, newer coaches that are charging some exorbitant route uh amounts, like 600 bucks a month, um 650 a month. Yeah. I'm I'm hearing some of these numbers and I'm like that person's got four people on their roster like and they've never brought us someone into a pro or into a national level show like Yeah. You know what I mean? So, and and I think a lot of the thing a lot of the big part of that is these coaches all the coaches now are spending a lot of money on education and they're taking courses from other coaches which great, you know. Um but but I think there's like it's a double-edged sword, right? Because sometimes like people lose sight of like the actual coaching and they're always trying to fix a pro run a protocol or they're always trying to like like a gut protocol or a you know a functional health this or whatever it might be. And those things are necessary, don't get me wrong, but looking at clients is always needing to fix something or always needing some type of protocol. Yeah. And the real experience you're going to get is the in the trenches checking people in, making the changes week after week, doing the actual work of coaching. You know what I mean? You're you're going to get a lot more out of that, I think. Yep. I completely agree. All right. I know we had a bunch of stuff from Patreon. I'm going to see what what we had in there if I can uh scroll over here. Yes, here's some Patreon. Um, what do you guys see on EGF? Rachel's cooking. She's in prep. So, she's got We can't say anything, Andrew. She's in prep. One of the common questions we get asked by you guys is, "What would you do differently with your bodybuilding if you could go back in time given all the experience and education I have today, there's a number of things that I would have done differently. One of them is that I would have started using collagen sooner. Collagen is one of the few supplements that will actually rebuild connective tissue. It took me tearing my super spanatus in 2021 to get with the program. I use True Nutrition's Hydrayzeed Beef Collagen. I get the unflavored version. I pay for it myself just like you guys do. I use 20 grams a day. Mix it into my coffee. It's totally unflavored. You don't even taste it. Plus, I use 10 grams of their micronized creatin. Creatin has been shown to improve brain health, especially for the aging brain. I need that. And of course, you know, we've always known about the muscle building effects. So, this is my morning routine every day, and I'm encouraging you guys to do the same. Use our code think for savings. Plus, it's the only way for them to know that this advertising is being heard. Otherwise, they just think you're some random dude that clicked on an ad. Ain't nothing to it but to do it. eGFR skip. Uh, you know, where do you see eGFR change on a blast? Uh, we're talking about blasting gear, right? Not blasting. Not just blasting like you know as far as uh Yeah. What what kind of blast is there? Yeah. Training. I just didn't know if you meant like you know if you were gonna I don't know if it's our audience. Skip you can assume it's gear. If you're talking about a cruise it's blood and sweat too. If they're talking about a cruise they're not going on a boat. They're I think question because sometimes I will assume that it's one thing when I talk to a client then we have a back and forth three times before I figure out we're talking about two different things. Anyway, um yeah, you know, here here's what I'll see and maybe you guys have seen this too. I'll see the basic eGFR go down that's for formulated off of the BUN and the creatinine but not the cistatin C. So that you ultimately if you have problems with that I call it the very basic eGFR and it runs a little low then you got to get the other test to really kind of see where it's at. But um yeah, typically with the the the rudimentary eGFR, yeah, the basic Yeah, it'll come down sometimes. But again, blast is relative. Um some people tolerate, you know, things better than It just depends. It can it certainly can. I mean, the more gear you take, the more you may you may take a hit. The more that it's all that much more important to be, you know, hydrated and and that your nutrition is on and everything else. So, there's a lot of factors. Hydration and blood pressure. Certainly blood m make sure your blood pressure is always under control when you're blasting, you know. And there's always are you training much harder when you're blasting a cycle, you know? I'm sorry guys. I feel like every freaking possible sound is coming through. Like we got a freaking We got the helicopters flying over my head. We turned your mic up, too. I think we turned your mic up and that's probably all I can hear today is like all sorts of external noises. You know what? Maybe try turning it back down and we'll I I'll edit the rest though. It'll be good. We'll, you know, it'll be good. Okay. Um, sorry about that. It's all right. Let me see what else we have here because I know we had a bunch of stuff. Um, all right. So, still from Patreon, George says, uh, four weeks and and this is he actually posted this two weeks ago. So, 6 weeks into my first cycle, um, coming from a 200 mgram per week test uh, base uh, running 350 test and 300 primo and E2 was around Oh, was around 45 to 117. It's like a huge It's like Yeah. E2 big window. Oh, I'm sorry. I maybe I should blow this up so I It went from 42 to 117. That makes more sense. Um, uh, is it even possible to have this type of estrogen rise with real primo? And once again, that's 350 test 300 primo. Sure, absolutely it's possible. I mean, well, first off, I would make sure it is real primo. Like, have you have you seen like a Janoshik report? Have you? Um but not every single person is going to have clear-cut you know estrogen suppressing effects with primable or you know it's the same reason or same reasoning uh why like some people might need say 25 milligrams of aromin versus some guys need six and a quarter with very similar drug levels uh as the base of their cycle. You know some people convert more the aromatized factor. agree with that. But would we all three of us not see those numbers and go that's a little odd. You know, it might stand out and I guess go I know I would what I would do is I'd say hey call this guy pick up the at get this primo and then let's retest it and make sure it's it's you reacting to primo or make sure it's that the primo you are using is is real basically. Um, yeah, he said he ordered. So, there's another part, too. He said, "Ordered and waiting on a test kit from Roid test. Are these tests reliable?" I'm personally going to say that I've seen flaws with Yeah, me too. I I would save money off the roid kit and I would actually just pay the 120 and um send it into Janoshik and get it tested. I'm uh I'm emailing him to see if he'll come on uh Drugs and Stuff podcast. Get him on with us. Well, I we had a thing going already on drugs and stuff. So, I gave him money. I paid for I paid for multiple. That's true. That's true. But yeah, we had a thing going there and um yeah, it was interesting. Anyway, though, there a lot of side conversation there with uh some uh some listeners that don't believe that there's any fake gear out there at all anymore. So, by that standard, 95% of gear is real. Unless he got the five, that's what I heard online today. 95% of all UGL gear is 100% legit. 95% of the time it's 100%. I would say I'd say 80. Yeah, I would say 85 is because everyone realizes they can just test this stuff now. Like if you go on the Janoshik site, there's thousands. Like people are sending stuff in every day. That guy must be making a fortune right now with his testing business because this was not even a thing 10 years ago. Like we just prayed and hoped that what we were getting was real. We knew the test was real, but we just hoped that and we knew the trend was real because, you know, the color of the bottle and and you know, but we hoped that the Primo, we hope we hoped the test prop was real. Um EQ we could probably usually trust. Um Anavar was a big one that was faked quite often, you know. Um what are the other ones? But yeah, it's a different ball. It's a different landscape today, you know. It's funny like Excuse me. I explain because you know the world we live in today is so fast moving like you know people can DM a guy put an order in pay with some electronic means and have their stuff two to three days later if it's not there two to three days later they're texting their coach like yo the guy you sent me I think he burned me and it's like bro this isn't Amazon Prime like you're buying illegal substances off the internet okay like the fact that you're even getting it is amazing. Okay, because I mean Skip knows when we first started you hope that the guy you sent money cash by the way the cash through the mail to was honest and had morals and would actually send you what you ordered and and there was no tracking and you waited literally sometimes two months there would be two months you order sometimes Western Union would call you and ask you why you sending money to this and one out of every five you lost your money one out of every five turned out to be a bunk a bum deal Uh, we should all be very appreciative with the world that we have that we've got a million providers now and I said I talked to I was talking to LZ about kind of the climate today and he said, "Oh yeah, there's still plenty of fake stuff out there and and he said sometimes it's not even the the the fault of the source." He said a lot of these guys, you know, some of the a lot of people are testing, but there's a lot of companies that aren't testing too. There's over on PM, you know, there's sources that Latz would trust, sources that he says, "Hey, we don't see testing on them." Guys say, "Yeah, I got swole off of it." But, you know, what does that really mean? Um, and he said that recently there was some big shutdowns that happened over in China. They basically closed up a lot of the mom and pops. there was basically they went over there and they they couldn't um they couldn't do like their checks and balances because they didn't even know where like a lot of these companies were operating from. So, they just went town to town to all these little mom and pop peptide and and uh hormone producers and shut them down. And even some of the like I don't want to mention the names. I could tell you guys off the air, some big companies ended up getting burned in this process. companies that did test their stuff and they found out like companies that are super respectable like no hormone present, no hormone present and they caught it, but you know there's going to be other people that get that stuff that don't catch it, you know. Mhm. Yeah. Anyway, what was the question? E2 is is one Yeah. 117 skip. You were saying you're not really that concerned anyway. Well, I mean, it depends what the what the ratio is of, you know, test to estrogen, but I I'm going to be concerned if that estrogen level goes up when someone starts primo, especially if it's roughly, you know, 50/50 for the test. 350 test to 300 primo, I think, is what he said, right? I'm sorry. Yeah. What was he using before? Did he mention that? He was on 200 test like as a base. It was just TRT. Okay. And then he went to 300 test. 300 350 test. 350 test and 300 primo. Oh, you're just taking more tests. I mean, it kind of sounds you're taking 650 megs of test. Yeah. I'm sorry. I I totally didn't miss the part that he was running 200 and had it in tested at 45. Yeah, that blew over my head. So, I'm sorry. I would say possible. You're running test and test bra. Yeah, I could see that. Um and and with that being said, primabolin was the main compound that u people are having a hard time getting right now. That was the main one. Everything I've been hearing from sources was no primo for a while. So if you if you have a good source, buy all their bottles and tell your clients. I talked to somebody about that overseas and I guess they were having issues with primo and there were issues with test and ethate too. They had this stuff that was causing major issues and so they basically shut down the production is what this company told him. So So basically they've been pumping out a load of [\h__\h] primo uh to the point where it's putting people in a hospital. Oh, like bad primo. Yeah. Yeah. Uh massive inflammation, massive swellings. Um a couple of people that were suspected with sepsis. It came to light with one lab. Um they've pulled everything. I think a few others are trying to trade through it. There does seem to be difficulty getting primo but it does seem to be still available. I know one lab that's gone to an India Indian supplier until they get that sorted out and some places just like stopped altogether. Yeah. Here's an irony for you. You guys know I'm not a big fan of Primo. Got a bunch of it because I don't you know I don't use it. So yeah. Okay. There's uh there's a shortage. I got a bunch of it. Don't like it. I'm sure I'm gonna get hit up. Keep saying three. a bottle. Yeah, exactly. Exactly. Um, okay. What about this one? Uh, thoughts on donating plasma and impacting your recovery and your gains. I mean, all right. I don't like it. Yeah, I don't like it. I'll be honest. I don't like it. I for people who you know may not know again I I don't know what people know so don't beat me up viewers but you know viewer the plasma is where everything's carried all your gear when you give plasma giving up all your gear at least not all of it you're not giving up all of your plasma but you get my point you know people say oh it's in the blood yeah it's in the plasma so I always laughed when I did double red because I'm like you giving me back my same plasma or is it somebody else's plasma Because if you take the blood out and you give me back my plasma, I don't lose any gear that way. Obviously, I don't tell him that because that would disqualify me from getting blood, right? Yeah. You don't mention that part, right? No, I uh I screwed myself with bond fees back in Colorado. That was years ago where I they blacklisted me. Oh, really? Because I like a dumbass. I got to talking too much. Yeah, you did. Imagine that. While I'm sitting there squeezing the ball, I'm like, "Oh, yeah." you know, I just I'm yeah, I give blood because, you know, my doctor wanted me to bring my numbers down. She's like, um, what? So, she went and talked to somebody else and they went and talked to somebody else. They came back, stopped the blood donation, said it right out of your arm, huh? Yeah. Yanked it right out and said, "Uh, you need a script for that and we can't." And then literally put me on the list. And the only blood donation in all of Colorado was bond fees at that time. So, I couldn't give blood. I had to hang my arm. I remember there was a joke about hanging my arm over the deck. Oh, yeah. I remember that. blood letting into the coffee can on the lower deck. I mean, obviously I didn't do that, but it made for a really good story that apparently stuck with people for a while because I never forgot about that. The coffee can. Yeah, just let it just blow just blow out into the wind and try to hit the coffee can with it. You know what? I never once donated blood. Never once have I donated, but I did a lot of therapeutic flowtomy. So, I mean, same difference. Although I will say that they had the vacuum bags for a long time and then they got these vacuum bottles and the nurse knew I was kind of queasy about uh IV needles. I do IM shots all day. IV needles I'm not a big fan of. And so she thought maybe like I don't want to see the blood. And one time she like tried to put it behind her back so that like I didn't look at it and she dropped it. And I literally Oh my god. You know, you don't know what like analying scene smells like until you've been in a room with a pint of blood just who the iron just hit everybody in the room. You know, a girl got me when I was when I went to the hospital one time for something and they hooked me up and I'm talking sprayed like everywhere. Like the floor looked like somebody had had a knife wound and it was deep. Yeah. all over the like they had to bring in the mop bucket and like yeah and like they were like are you okay are you okay to watch this do you want to I'm like I don't care like it's fine you know this is a straight 500 ms just it looked like 500 ms in my case it was like already kind of like starting to coagulate in the bottle so there's like a big clump in the it was so gross it was my story isn't as good I pricricked my finger the other day checking my blood sugar squeeze it and it hit me in the face. Did it really? And I didn't know that's what it was. And I was like, I felt it on my nose. So I checked my nose. I thought I had a nose bleed. So I go to the bathroom. I'm like, I got a nose bleed. And it's literally like running down my finger. I'm like, I don't have a nose bleed. It shot out of my finger. Holy crap. And it hit me on the no right below my nose. Check that BP. I feel like No kidding. Right. We kind of covered this already because we talked about anidrol to kickstart a cut, but what about thoughts on anal just during a cut period? Um, it's the only oral I have uh and and uh just want the experience. I mean, how how could you do anal if I don't know what else he's got, but let's just say it's like I don't know, test do it like this for the audio listeners. Skip just taking a pill like what what was he doing? What did Skip do? That's so funny. I would say um if you're going to do it, if you're going to do it, make sure uh you're ahead in terms of conditioning so that you don't get freaked out when the scale jumps five pounds and Yeah. or your coach. Yeah. You know, Yeah. Yeah. Make sure you tell your coach that you're doing it and that you're on the same page for one thing. Um but yeah, no I because you will see, you know, weight will obviously be stagnant or increase several pounds and you'll have a great week of training for sure. Oh yeah. Um and that's why you would want to do appetite control. Yeah. Yeah. I mean that's why you would want to do it, you know, is is a appetite control and b um just having another great training week and kind of reinvigorate a little bit. Uh but I it's not something I would like always do. It's not something I would It's not the oral I'm going to when we're six weeks out, put it that way. Mhm. Yeah. Yeah. And I don't even think he was doing a show. I think he's just like non-competitor just getting all day. Yeah. That's the best scenario then. If you're if you're if you're like beach lean and you throw anrol for two weeks, you're going to feel like a million bucks and you're going to look stacked. So, I would absolutely do it in that scenario 100%. We'll have to come back to this one in some way. Uh one of our uh Stefan said, uh love the episode, guys. Um, can you do another contest special episode, please? It's been a minute since the last one. I don't know. A contest prep special. Should we do that soon? Maybe next episode. We do a contest prep special. Um, do you guys see any muscle loss with uh reatride due to glucagon? No, I I have not personally run it, but I have had had plenty of clients on it and none of them have lost muscle. I would say this, I felt like I saw a little bit of muscle loss or at least a flattening effect with trappetide. Um and and I I don't know, I think you ran it too, Scott, and you might have something to say about that, but um Reetta, no, no one no one's looking flat. No one's If anything, it's really just like, hey, my appetite's great. I I I don't have an appetite or I don't have this undying hunger, you know? I'm finding and I asked I told Skip about my plan, which my plan worked, man. So, I I did I don't know if you'd call it a skip load or a crap load, but basically I uh I couldn't get enough food in, Andrew. And I I did talked about this on my ask me anything. I had this French toast for a cheat meal. Uh, two cheat meals back my load day trying to and basically because I'm getting like very depleted, dieting very hard. Like I'm look at the scale before I eat this meal and I'm like, "Oh my god, I can't believe it's this low." And even Victoria has been like, "Yeah, you look smaller." And she won't say that kind of stuff to me cuz she knows it'll get in my head. You know what I mean? Like she's very careful. So she says that to me. She's like, "You need to eat." You know what I mean? So I eat this French toast. It was so sweet and there's all these carbs. I felt sick and like I couldn't handle it, man. I thought I was going to barf. So, this week I ended up having a what was it? Culver's double burger with a fries and then I let just let it chill for a little while and then a little while later I was hungry again and I got this thin crust frozen pizza that one that I like and it's like 110 carbs and over the next hour or so I ate that pizza and I had three donuts and we had a half a chocolate bar. I ate like 300 carbs basically and I was able to get it in and I I was up like a half a pound the next day and I've been feeling good this week and training is going great now versus before I just felt like I didn't even really want to train because I was so depleted feeling. So I I would say that if with how hard I was dieting if I were taking more Red True Tide like if I didn't have it if you didn't do it right then I could see you losing muscle. I think that you know what I'm saying dependent too. Absolutely. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But the way we're talking about using it, smaller doses, it's in a cycle. We're also eating a bodybuilder diet. You know, let me also just add another point because Skip had kind of mentioned one of the main reasons why he hired Justin was to a give the reins over to someone else and to not worry about his own prep and to not drive himself into the ground. And I do think that coaches that work with other athletes to get them into great condition, we kind of like beat ourselves up even worse. And I'm not trying to say like, oh, we're these tough guys or anything, but like I know for me whenever I prep myself, it was always just keep pushing harder. Keep keep getting depleted. Keep getting depleted. Keep getting depleted. Oh, hold off another two days for a refeed. Hold off. And I think it's just our mindset of So where I'm going with that is you would probably be getting that way even without the rea is what I'm saying. Oh, without how you're locked in right now. Cuz you're locked in right now and you're like condition over everything. I'm getting peeled this summer. So, well, this is our business. How we look and how we respond to getting lean, that's people are paying attention. It's not going to look very good if Skip isn't in condition when he stands on stage. You know what I mean? Or if it's mediocre. So, there's that. And and you know, I've said before, I have mediocre genetics, but I have to be in condition because there's a benchmark there. There's an expectation. Even if there weren't for other people or my clients, there most certainly is for me. Sure. I have to be able to come off the stage and go, "Okay, I might have gotten beaten, but my conditioning was still crazy." Yeah, I like that. Um, all right. Advice on tapering off of Clen T3, and let in between some shows. Uh, each show is six weeks apart. Um, how would you advise tapering down to reset, recover receptors before starting up again? Um, and any other damage control tactics? Can I just say off the bat real quick and then you guys can take over if you want. I six weeks between shows rough. Think so. Give me give me a couple. Give me three. Once you get past that four or five week mark, I don't like the four to five to like seven or eight. I do. At least if you get past the eight, you can kind of reset. You can pull back a little bit on the diet. You can pull back on the gear without really having to I don't want to say micromanage, but you know, six weeks is not a lot of time to come down too much before going back up depending on you know what it is. Clen, no big deal. T3 probably not a big but you know you're getting into orals you're getting into the other things that you just and you know you can pull back obviously we're going to pull back on the orals but I would rather and I try to get my clients to do two to three weeks apart if I can or more than eight maybe he's thinking maybe it's a qualifier and then national show you know which quite typical you know because you know I think three times I had Nate Spear do 12 weeks in between a qualifier higher and then or or a national show and then another national show. And let me add that it's important if you have to peak for them versus, you know, if you're using Nate as an example, if he had to qualify, he's probably going to come away with that qualification, you know, 85 90% without breaking, you know, a lot of guys like that can just run through and they can kind of I would actually argue the other way past the peak. I would argue the other way that if there's say 10 12 weeks in between shows, you can absolutely peak for both of them knowing that you have Oh, yeah. a good amount of time. You know what I'm saying? Um But, you know, and that's what I was basing that my time frame out was actually peaking, you know, between those a couple weeks. You know, you can peak go back just a little bit or or just kind of ride it for those few weeks. But to peak at 100% or want to peak at 100% then peak at 100% again. Yeah. Give me give me more than six. Okay. Two weeks. The water hasn't even changed a lot. Do you know what I mean? Like a lot of times you look so much better at the second show a couple weeks later. You could almost kind of hold that and then just do minor changes going in. But yeah, like six weeks you can't. You're going all the way back to start. Two weeks is perfect for a qualifier in the national show if you ask me. But but to answer his question, I mean, just pull the clan out completely. You don't need to taper off it. Just stop taking it. Um if you're in shape, you probably don't even need it anymore. Maybe add it back in two to three weeks out from the next show. Um with really what in my opinion, all you're really going to taper is probably your orals. You're going to pull probably like halo testing if you're using it out. You might pull the windstrol out and and if we're talking six weeks, what I would do in this situation is I would quit the orals cold turkey for two weeks and probably start adding them back in at four weeks out, maybe three. And I think like we're all agreeing that it's easier to hold a look even when you pull the orals out than it is to like get the look when you're on the come up. So you could probably push it to three weeks out, add all your orals back in then and you're going to be completely fine. in terms of like um let uh I don't I don't really use let in terms of romatase in inhibition I don't know if I would change anything because you're probably not going to change your base drugs you're probably not changing your testosterone you're probably not um changing your um if you're using mastron or or primabolone or some of the other compounds you're probably not changing those much maybe you're going to run off the trend for two weeks give yourself a little bit of break sleep for a couple weeks um and then the last one T3 I I probably wouldn't change T3 at all unless You're kind of treating it like you're reversing into into this next show and you're finding that your metabolism just taking off. You can start pulling the T3. You're feeding up calories and your body's just kind of like riding this snowball momentum. Yeah. Like the best scenario really, you know. Um I wonder with that letro like he's really crushing estrogen, I'm guessing. You know, is is that his game plan? Is he thinking like, I need to crush my estrogen into the show and then I need need to do it again in 6 weeks? Because I don't think any of the three of us would be like, "Hey, we got to add Lero in." No. Uh, you know, commonly, I think, going into a show. That's funny. I don't really crush estrogen like I used to. I guess it's funny. I hear more female bikini coaches crushing estrogen than males in and bodybuilding. really I'm talking there's a very very well-known coach um one of the top bikini coaches pro cards you know three or four every national show people in the Olympia whatever runs aromomas um adex and let all three together yeah I and I know this firsthand from a girl who when we were at universe one year I wasn't coaching her obviously I don't even remember her name we're just she just happened to be in my room sitting on the couch and that sounded weird. But anyway, yes, it did. It actually did. You know, you know, you go to shows and you meet people and you go into someone's room to watch them pose and he's got a girlfriend or someone that he's kind of seen, whatever. And this girl couldn't even get off the couch to go check in for her for her show. She skipped the show because her estrogen was so zapped. She just couldn't. She was like mummified. She was just like, "I can't move right now." I'm like, "Do you think you need medical attention?" She's like, "No, I just I just want to rest. I I don't think I'm gonna do the show. I don't feel Oh, yeah. Yeah, it was bad. I will say that um excuse me, based on some information that I got last year from a top, not directly from him, from a top prep guy who crushes estrogen and is known to crush crush estrogen. I thought, you know what? I'm going to play. Let's just see. I've never just killed an ant with a grenade before. Okay, so I'm gonna do this. uh higher armedex than I've ever run and then for about two and a half weeks put let on top of it. Wow. Yeah. And I got to tell you, I didn't feel very good. No. But I will tell you this. Yeah. The look I was like, well, this is why he does it. Like it was marketkedly improved. Really? I've seen I've seen there to be benefit but to a degree and I'm surprised you hadn't done it in the past because that's how I came. I may have but not to this like literally killing an ant with AI mean it was so overkill. I I want to give just just an idea. I want to say it was um 1.5 meg a day. Okay. and about two or 2.5. I'd have to check the dose of the letrisol a day. A day. And and understand, yeah, that the testosterone dose, you know, I'm typically in the 1,200. I might have been at 1,400. Probably,400 because I'm a little bit lower this year. Uh, so probably 1400. I mean, clearly crush, you know, and you have your mastrons and I didn't have primo and stuff like that, but uh because I hate it, but um clearly was just crushing it. I mean, joints didn't feel great. They they honestly I thought they'd feel horrible. Like I would notice this. Oh my gosh. Like I'm just creaky. It wasn't horrible, but they just didn't feel very good. Sex I mean sex drive. I'm in West Palm. My sex drive was the like in Seattle. Yeah, it was just not even a good way to put it. I felt like that's a long way away from us. Even the thought of my skin being touched on like that much AI just like made me want to like get away from me. You know what I mean? Well, imagine. I mean, if I had pulled bloods, I'd have probably been, you know, HDL of -30. I mean, I don't even know. You know, I wouldn't have wanted to see my bloods at that time if I'm being honest. Now, it wasn't for a very long time because it was toward and I'm going to I'm going to put this out there. It was as I was digging my biggest hole. Mhm. So, I don't know if it contributed to it or if it, you know, whether it was correlative or causitive. Um, but even pulling it back, it didn't fix the situation. So, I think it was just correlative. I don't I don't think it caused it, but nonetheless, it was during that time period. But I tell you, the look alone was like and it was part of the re just keep grinding. Just keep grinding because this look is damn. Well, let's hope that you can say that again about your look coming up here. Yeah. Without without killing an ant with a grenade. Or if you do, you know, it is what it is. But tell us about it then if you did. Sometimes you got to do what you got to do. Yeah. I think it goes both ways though. Smash it. I think I think it goes Yeah. Um, you know, not like Skip, but like it goes both ways. Um, that was good. We did say you're in West Palm. Just saying. No, but um, in all seriousness, I've seen like when people do crush your estrogen, when it comes to filling out, it just doesn't happen because you do need estrogen for glycogen synthetase activity. Um, oh, and also like when people do this like earlier on in a prep and they really crush it, it's like fat loss kind of just comes to a stall, like a standill. So like they're hard and like a dry skin look, but like they're just not making improvements on those little areas that just need to get thinner and thinner and thinner. Uh, and but I have seen great cases, too. So to like what Skip's talking about. So I I think it's one of those things that's worth experimenting once and if you're someone that can deal with two to three weeks of feeling like absolute death then you know go for it. So okay so back to this guy then getting away back to this guy then. So let's say that that is what he's doing. He's leveling his estrogen going into this show and he had what six weeks before the next one. He obviously doesn't want to ride that out for 6 weeks. What what are we going to do to let that come back up and then drop it again? pull the electro and go to something like a Romson for, you know, maybe a 25 megs every other day for the next three to four weeks and then add the electro back in is what I would do. Yeah, I go with that. It is one of those things too though. It's like once you've seen yourself look a certain way, taking certain things, it's hard to tell someone or for someone to just be like, "Yeah, I don't want to stop looking like this." You know what I mean? Like, well, you have to question any type of rebound, too. Like, how bad are you going to rebound? Mhm. You know, coming it could be not great. Well, then I mean I think it's got to be a mature client in terms of, you know, with food and someone who isn't doing their first or second show, someone who's been through the process to where food is just fuel to, you know, to make an analogy out of it. But that, you know what I'm saying? Like as as you guys, you know, got later on in your careers, did you even really think about the post show meals or the or the food after the show? Yeah, exactly. It was like, I just want water and maybe a little bit of fruit. I want to sleep. I'm exhausted. Yeah. I want to sleep and then I want to get back to some good training sessions again in like a week or so. And I want to wake up tomorrow and have sex. I want to have sex. You want to want to, right? Exactly. Uh I don't know if if Skip's going to want to answer this question, but we will throw it out to him because it was asked by Jason Frost on YouTube. He says, "Skip, what show are you doing?" Not sure uh what this when this was filmed, but I'm doing uh St. Pete Mast's National St. Pete and Mast's Nationals. Um currently 12 and 15 weeks out. Would love to meet you. Yeah, I messaged him. I told him I'd seen him in Pittsburgh. Okay. Saw me to say hi. Okay. Yeah. Masters Nationals. And and if for some reason, you know, things are going great and it looks maybe you should come back in 5 weeks, I might have a hotel reservation at the exact same venue and flights back to Pittsburgh 5 weeks later. I also might have uh Pittsburgh Pirates seats right behind the dugout for the for the first show, but not for the second yet. I don't I don't want to make too many plans for the second. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Maybe you're not going to be there. You know what I mean? No. The plan is to not be there, right? That's what I'm saying. Don't buy tickets, you know. Um Okay. What do you guys think about using EQ in contest prep? 100 milligrams of test was 750 EQ. Oh, okay. 100 milligrams of seven. We're going there. I have never heard of I'm not going there. I'm not doing that personally. heard of a testosterone level so low and an and an EQ level. Not that it's so high, but I guess the ratio of testosterone there. Um, I can't really speak on it. I've never had anyone do it. I've never I Here's what I think. I think you might look a little flat. That's just what I'm thinking. Um, yeah. I mean, okay, let's go another way. Do you guys are you guys uh do you pull testosterone typically going into shows for yourself and for others or are you a ride your testosterone maybe lowered a little bit going into the last couple weeks? I generally keep the test in if if everything's looking good. I don't want to change that personally, you know. Okay. If anything, I I might not take the EQ because it's such a long esester. It'll just kind of ride for those last couple weeks and it's less volume. Well, like are you are you going to pull the EQ like two weeks out or 3 weeks out? I I I guess I don't know. Um yeah, I would pull that before before I would pull the testosterone. Yeah, I've often pulled EQ as I'm getting into like more volume of oil just because I'm like, is this really giving me what I need or am I better off with the mast in the trend, you know? Right. The only thing is is EQ these days, I mean, is anybody getting it less than 300 meg? And it's usually 400 meg. So, it's it's not very voluminous, but I get what you're saying. And you know, it depends on how you respond and and you know, well, I'm an old head, Skip. I'm an old head. That was back in my day. Well, and and you know, it depends on the compound because like as an example, I do prefer more prop as it gets closer because I get inflammation from it. Remember, I was born with very, very narrow shoulder clavicles. So, the more localized inflammation I get from those shots in my shoulders, they benefit me greatly. So, more prop, more irritation going into my delts. Delts round out quite quite quite a bit better than uh you know putting things in there that don't inflame them. Guys, we appreciate you tuning in. Thanks for being here with us. Leave us questions for the next show. We've got more blood, sweat, and gear coming your way. So, definitely we'd love to hear what you guys have to say and uh share with your us your thoughts on estrogen. Have you crushed estrogen? And was it a good thing for you? I bet you that if you're a bodybuilder and you're like over 40 and you're like a competitor over 40, you've done it at least a handful of times. So, tell us whether you guys like to crush estrogen or not. And of course, reach out to uh Skip over at team skip.com and Andrew over atbody.com. Hit me up at mcnal diets@gmail.com. And of course, thank you to trueenutrition.com for supporting our programming, the the first advertiser that had ever worked with us for all the crazy titles that we put out on this show sometimes. I'm grateful that they're still around. Use our code think over there. And thank you to supplements.ca for Canadians. Next episode, we've got your insane set of the week, guys, and another episode of Blood, Sweat, and Gear. We'll see you soon.