 bifazio bifazio bifazio bifazio bifazio bifazio bifazio bifazio bifazio bifazio bifazio bifazio bifazio bifazio bifazio bifazio bifazio bifazio bifazio bifazio bifazio bifazio bifazio bifazio bifazio bifazio bifazio bifazio bifazio bifazio bifazio bifazio bifazio bifazio bifazio bifazio bifazio bifazio bifazio bifazio bifazio bifazio bifazio bifazio bifazio bifazio bifazio bifazio bifazio bifazio bifazio bifazio bifazio bifazio bifazio b you're seeing high, strong market, let us know. I want to hear that too. I want to hear the good and the bad. And Dave, what's our advice then to anybody who is trying to navigate this right now? This isn't, if it's coming across as doom and gloom, it's not meant to, it's not meant to create panic buying, but it is just keep your eyes open. Be more wary than you would normally be. What's up guys. Welcome back to the podcast with Dave Crosland. I'm Scott McNally. And we're doing just kind of like a little breaking news segment. So outside of the normal podcast, we wanted to bring this to you between episodes because we have some more information. You know, the last episode we had been talking about contamination with testosterone powders. We'd been talking about ROZ having issues just in general, not testing out properly. We started hearing from some people. Of course, there's always going to be the other guy that says like, oh, test is fine. But we've seen a lot of various issues. I will recap those issues later in, in this little mini segment. But before we do, Dave, I wanted to ask you, what's, what's our breaking news? You, you had talked to, was it a lab or labs that have gotten back some results? Well, it started with, it started with a client. So a client messaged me, uh, they'd send two separate samples off both different labs and they'd come back abysmal. Like really bad. Um, now one of the labs I knew, so. Oh, okay. I dropped them a message and I'm like, have you seen this? I mean, one was test sip and it was supposed to be 200 MIG and it came back at 83. Oh God. And one was supposed to be, I believe test Nth and it came back at test prop at 16. Okay. So particularly bad. Um, let me just confirm that this, uh, so it's supposed to be both supposed to be sip. So one came back heavily underdosed and one came back at test prop at 16 milligrams per mil. Okay. So I knew one of the labs, so I touched base to them and it was like, look, are you aware of this? And he said, no, but we've just been here. He says, we've just done a load of testing and our, uh, primo came back as test prop. Oh wow. Okay. And, um, something else came back super low dosed. Uh, so yeah, the primo came back as test prop at 22 milligrams per mil. 20 milligrams per mil with 10 milligrams of test Nth and Decker in it. Oh really? Uh, and then, um, I'm not sure what the other one was supposed to be, but that came back as test prop as well. So the first sort of thing is right. Hang on a minute. This is everything's test prop at the moment and very low dosed. Yeah. So I reached out to another lab and they were like, yeah, we're struggling to get anything. And what we're actually getting, we're getting offered finished product, but we're not getting offered any rows. Oh, okay. So China's willing to supply us with a finished product, but it can't supply us with rows. And he was like, I was wondering if they were trying to angle it to push us all into finished product. Oh, okay. So I reached out to China. Because if you were to buy finished product from direct, you're, you're obviously, they're going to make more money off of that than selling just the raw materials. Right. Okay. Yeah, obviously. Yeah. Now, obviously we've had this backed up with what you've been hearing stateside about test end being difficult to get hold of. Test end is also starting to be difficult to get hold of in the UK as well. There's plenty of sip, but there's no real test end. So I reached out to China. Okay. There was a little bit of confusion to start with. Eventually I got her to understand that people I knew in the industry had received rows from China and the rows were garbage. Is this a widespread thing? You know, is there a problem? What's going on? Because to be fair, we've never really seen shit rows out of China, not on this sort of level anyway. You know what I mean? They're like the odd one now and again, but generally speaking, if the labs have been bad, it's been because the lab itself has done something wrong rather than the rows being cookie. So she came back and said, and I explained to him that these are labs that are doing good turnover, that have been working with the suppliers for six, seven, eight years. So there's a strong working relationship. And she came back and said that the production of raw powder is currently prohibited in China. Okay. So she says, therefore, many raw materials are out of stock, making production impossible. She had heard that menephalone and anthate may be available shortly, but she doesn't have an exact time, but she can confirm that no factories are producing raw anymore. No legal factories. No legal factories. Well, she just said no factories. Now I know when they had a purge a bit ago, they closed down a lot of the mom and pops. We, and that we've talked about that in great detail. What was that? That was, we called that the bro-pocalypse of 2025 when Primo and mass dried up and yeah. But so what, what basically she said is what they're doing is they're running on existing stock, which is why they're offering finished product because they have loads of finished product stock. Okay. Uh, but they have very little in raws and what raws they do have, uh, what they are. So they're sending that out as anything. Uh, she says the peptide market isn't affected. It's only the anabolic market. Okay. Interesting. But she says currently there is nothing. So it is literally like what's in the system. And then after that, you're, you're fucked. And who is she again? Exactly. She is a raw supplier. Okay. She, and she's somebody that you've been connected to for a long time, right? Five, six years now. Yeah. Yeah. We've turned to her for insight in the past. Normally she's not very forthcoming. Normally she's quite reserved and doesn't say much. So I was quite surprised when she turned around and went, yeah, we got meck in it. Huh? Okay. Well, you know, I will say Dave, it's kind of like I mentioned on the, our last episode, which people have seen when they see this. Um, you know, I mentioned like, Hey Dave, it's raining over here. You know, it'd be very easy that you have. It's probably, it looks sunny over at your house. So I, I'm sure there are plenty of people that are probably already commenting by now. Like, Oh, there's no problem at all. Plenty of, plenty of gear to go around. My source doesn't have any problems, but you know what we listen, I'm, we're not trying to like make this up. This has been something that we're just hearing noises about it. I mean, we called the whole mass primo thing early on. A lot of people didn't want to believe that that was even an issue when that started, but here's the thing. So, I mean, we are getting somewhat conflicting information. Now let's backtrack just a little bit to review for anybody who hadn't seen our other episode. I spoke to a domestic source that basically has closed their doors at this point because I can't get testosterone powder. First, they were unable to get test e. And then from there, they weren't able to get high quality test sip. In fact, let me see here. I've got another one of the, let's see if I can share it. I showed those labs that you had. Uh, do I still have this one up? Yeah. So, you know, this was his fifth batch. Uh, Oh no, that's your other one. Sorry. There we go. This was his fifth batch of testosterone. I don't, I mean, gosh, at this point, man, I'm starting to think that 93.8% doesn't look that impure. I'm comparing that to like 12%. But here's the thing. This was his fifth, uh, batch of raw powders that he had purchased. He's not happy with it. He wants basically pharma quality. So, I mean, gosh, man, this isn't bad, but you know, I, I asked him too. I said, well, well, what's the problem with this? You know, is it possible that you could just take a product like this and maybe like increase the amount of powder you use and you just don't get as much of a, of a return? Um, his response to that was, what did he say here? Um, people make it with that purity level all the time, but it's almost impossible to filter, uh, just not the cleanest or the safest thing to use. In my opinion, this is one of the reasons why 99% of the time you never see a purity test with oils. These guys purposely avoid that for that exact reason. Um, yeah. So I guess if you take a 90% pure and you, you add enough, you know, benzoyl alcohol to it, you, you're going to get by. Um, so we had that situation. Then I spoke to, um, one of the super mods who had kind of a slightly different story over at a source board. And, uh, just to recap, he had said, uh, what is it? Here's his message. He said, there was a shortage a couple months back of a couple esters, uh, that being testosterone. I know many who have had to resort to selling decanate test to get by as there was plenty of it. So I'd venture to guess that many were selling decanate as siponate, et cetera. Um, but that seems to have gotten much better. Most of the Chinese sources I talked to don't have an issue with tests. Now that being said, there, uh, may, there may be a lot of auto stocks on anethate, but if that's the case, then maybe they'll have sustenance or if the sustenance out, maybe they'll have phenylpropanate. So basically there is kind of like a shift going on. And I, and I suppose Dave, if they were running out of existing stock, that that makes sense that that's how it would go. Right. The other thing is I've never known China send out Shakira and like the sources I've always worked with have always been, we haven't got it, but it's not available. Um, so that's very different to the experience that I've seen in the past where they're actually sending out and they're obviously knowingly sending out garbage. So, so from, so is it a possibility? Well, it's here the, the, where did the bad Ross come from then? Is that somebody who's adulterating it after they get it from China? No, I don't think so. I think, so this has come straight from China to the lab. The lab has run a test. They bought a kilo of Primo. Right. Paid big numbers for it. And it came back as test prop when they tested it. Okay. I understand that. But what I'm saying is that there are raw powders in the world that exist that are lower quality. So if you're telling me that generally weak or poor or, um, you know, low dose Ross generally are not coming from China. Where are all these, where, where would these Ross generally be coming from? Because there's been bad test powder out there all our lives. In my experience, the vast majority of bad gear that hits the market and test poorly is being adulterated by the people that are making it open to an injectable. So it's not the lab. The lab sends good powder, then the labs dilute it or use other shit because they've run out, et cetera, et cetera. I've never seen China sending out this level of garbage and lying about it. And these, if, if it was, oh, it's a new supply. It's first time we've used them. Yeah. Okay. I can see. But this is, this is existing contracts that, you know, these labs have spent, I mean, we're talking probably hundreds of thousands with these suppliers. So for them to risk screwing them over strikes to me that the situation is probably a bit more dire than we think. And this is the other thing. The guy you were just talking about off the source board. Yeah. Have the labs been testing the roars they've been getting, even though they're alternative esters? Or do they even know that that's what they're getting? Because a lot of labs don't test. A lot of labs don't bother with this. I think a lot of times they're getting double checked by end users and by people who are part of the source boards. Okay. But I mean, Hey, if you're still trying to pull a fast one, Dave, if you ordered test sip and you end up with like test decanate, like you're going to find that out if you send that out to Genoshek or get it tested anywhere else. Right. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I, I, I then followed up with a couple of other labs that I know, and they're reporting very similar stories. Can't get stuff, getting offered finished product, but not getting offered anything raw wise. Uh, one of them was complaining that they'd actually paid for T-Ball and they knew a couple of other labs using the same manufacturer that had paid for T-Ball and the manufacturer doesn't have it. And they're having a fight with them now over, well, where's my bloody money then? Uh, because I've paid you because China is everything up front. You know, I've paid you and you haven't sent me anything and they're like, well, we haven't got it. Well, yeah. So give me my money back. Wow. And he said there were a couple of other labs in the same position with the same supplier. So, you know, we, we see blips and fluctuations, but this does seem to be a little bit more than that. Um, right. It just seems more widespread, um, and more across the board. And I also find it a bit strange that through four different labs, every raw they got was test prop, which would then strike. Well, that's all we've got left. Yeah. Hey, by the way, uh, we haven't asked yet, but you guys at home share with us your experience. What have you seen or heard? Uh, I think that the best way that we can continue to, um, to figure this out is to continue educating each other and share the information we have. That's the main reason we're doing this is so that we can all kind of come together and create more or less a consensus as to what's going on. You know, um, if you've got good gear, you know, if you, if you're seeing high, strong market, let us know, you know, we, I want to hear that too. Um, you know, I want to hear the good and the bad. So I definitely say, let us know. And Dave, what's, what's our advice then to anybody who is trying to navigate this right now? I know, you know, you, you mentioned this guy who had the, uh, fake primo turned out to be, uh, poorly dosed test probe. Um, I mean, this other guy, the guy with the test sip that tested out at 93% pure, that was his fifth batch that he had purchased. And there's no reimbursement. He's a small lab. So that's the kind of thing that's going to put a small lab under, you know? Yeah. Um, I, I mean, it could be, it could be three or four weeks before this filters down into being a sort of user problem depending on how heavy stocks people are holding. Yeah. Um, I know a couple of, I was speaking to a, another lab this morning that said they had about 10 kilos of test raw in reserve. Oh God. But he's like, that ain't going to last long. I'll see. They said, I'll go through that pretty quick. Yeah. Um, he was just happy that he'd managed to stockpile it, but he's like, you know, I'm still going to route through that pretty damn quick. Yeah. Um, so he was, he was very concerned. He was talking about 2000 units a week of, of test. Okay. So what we're talking, we're talking, what about two, let's call it two and a half grams per vial. A thousand is 2.5. Yeah. So he's only, he's only got like two, three weeks worth of supplier raw there. Oh, um, so if I've done my maths right, which I'm sure somebody will correct me very quickly if I haven't. Um, but yeah, I mean, there there's, which we need correction a lot of times to be, we do. Yeah. There's a lot of, there's a lot of stuff filtering through already with some people. And then I spoke to a few people within the industry, just bodybuilder wise. And they were saying, yeah, we, we, I've got a lot of people struggling to get tests. I've got a lot of people struggling to get this. Yeah. Um, I, I think there there's a few, obviously if gear is just underdosed and there's nothing sinister in it, then you've not got any health risk. But if we start seeing people producing stuff that's completely fake, then we could see some problems from a health point of view. Obviously you're going to know if what you're injecting is just oil because you're going to feel it. You know what I mean? You're not going to get what you expect to get. You can back this up. You're right. Janicek's expensive to test the actual supplement, but you can always do a quick testosterone test, which is, you know, few quid really. Oh yeah. You mean like get your, get your labs taken. Yeah. I mean, I think Medicek's test is like 20 quid or 29 quid. Um, finger prick, but it's fine for what you're looking at. And, and you can just, you have a quick look and see if your levels are where they should be. I don't know how wide scale this of a problem this is. I don't know if it's going to result in sort of proper national shortages or if it's a little blip. I really don't know, but from what I'm hearing so far, it isn't painting a very good picture. Um, and it might be a case of, you know what, drop down a TRT and hold back as much as you can, if you don't need to be on, because you just don't know when this is going to finish. I would be very hesitant to stock up right now, you know, just because somebody, a source says, hey, we've got it. Uh, listen to is a source testing every batch that they produce. Um, you know, if, if they're not in you're to get a bunch, let's say you were to decide to stock up and you buy a bunch of test vials to kind of keep you covered for the next year because you know, things are, or things could get bad coming forward. I mean, you, you might, uh, I, you know, I have a client who did that, Dave, he stocked up on Primo and Mast once he heard there was a potential shortage. And now he's sitting on a boatload of the stuff and he's not sure how good it is. There is that risk. I mean, there is always that risk, you know, that you buy with this happening now that you buy now and you buy with a load of crap, but you know, more testing is available now, more products are tested. So you might be able to get some secondary evidence to support that what you're buying is good. Um, so that's definitely worth, you know, speaking to labs and seeing if they, they have done testing or sellers and if they have done testing, but obviously as we well know, you know, these tests can easily be faked as well. All you need is a PDF editor and job done. You know what I mean? So it is a, a very, um, precarious time, uh, it would appear in, in the sense of this. And I mean, I'll keep reaching out and seeing if I get any more information, but the more I look, the more it's being reaffirmed that, yeah, there is actually a problem coming. Yeah. Okay. And that's kind of what I'm seeing too. This, this all sparked from one of our listeners who had said, Hey, I'm seeing, you know, labs having difficulty sourcing testosterone. He also mentioned and TRT clinics. So I wonder, is this something that is going to be as far reaching? I mean, gosh, if China isn't producing raw powders, are they producing, who's producing the raws for the clinics? I will say, Dave, I think in 2026 testosterone is tossed to testosterone powder sales have to be at an all time record high. We're talking about the popularity, not just within bodybuilding, not just within sports and performance enhancement. Yeah. But TRT and TRT T replacement, low T is something that's being advertised everywhere, man. I mean, how many people do you know that don't even lift that got on TRT or their dad got on TRT? You know, it's like, it's so widespread now that demand is higher than ever on something that we've really always taken for granted. Yeah. And I'm not sure if, if where the raws, I know China makes a lot of pharmaceutical raw, but I'm not sure if that, if that side of it's affected or it's just the illicit side, excuse me, that's affected. Um, well, if you said that, what, what, what did your lady say? No raw powders are legally being produced in China right now. Yeah. However, the production of raw powder is not currently permitted in the Chinese market. Therefore, many raw materials are out of stock making production impossible. When is Chinese new year? It's gone a couple of weeks ago. Okay. So it's not like that's the holdup. It's not as if it's a, you know, a holiday. It did have a little bit of a blip, like it always does, but I was going to say, yeah, that the holiday usually it gets a long holiday, right? Two weeks. And that usually does always, yeah, that usually does have some effect on the market. Huh? Okay. Yeah. Well, Hey, I blipped a few peptide deliveries and stuff like that, that I was aware of because of Chinese new year. And, but, uh, yeah, it is a weird one. Yeah. Well, let us know guys, anything else we should add to this, Dave? No, I mean, I said, this isn't, this isn't, if it's coming across as doom and gloom, it's not meant to, it's not meant to create panic buying, but it is just, just keep your eyes open. Be, be more wary than you would normally be. There's one thing for using underdose gear and having a problem. There's another thing is this is, if this is going to drive, and I'm not saying this is from a Chinese side of point of view, is this is going to drive people to start creating counterfeit products within like the US or the UK. Yeah. Because there's a massive demand for gear that's not available, then there could be some stuff hitting the market that's far from ideal. Yeah. Be careful guys. And like I said, let us know what your experiences have been, share them in the comments. That way we can all kind of educate each other and continue to move forward. And I'm sure this is something that we're going to continue to talk about on the podcast. Stay tuned. We have our next episode coming out on Monday, as we always do. And of course, get your lab work done by Dave. You can go to evalbloodanalysis.com. And especially if you're on cycle, you need to get your labs done guys. You already know that. But if you're in the UK, you can do that through eval. And of course, Strom Sports Nutrition, if you're in the UK or the US, they have great health stacks. Especially if you're on cycle, you could definitely use some, some of their health products as well as truenutrition.com. Use our code think and SupplementSource.ca for Canadians. They have great deals that change week to week. Thank you to everybody from Patreon. By the way, I'm well aware that we're having an issue with Spotify right now. I'm trying to rectify that as best I can. Hopefully we'll get that thing sorted out as soon as possible. Until then, the show's available on YouTube and yeah, for another episode of Drugs and Stuff. Hang on, I've got to tell you something. Okay. So someone messaged me and said, have you fallen out with Scott? Scott. I didn't, I, this was the whole message. So the whole message was, have you fallen out with Scott? It's about time anyway. You need to go on your own. That's all you have to say to that guy. I was joking. Did you respond to him? You should have told him like, yeah. I just said, no, there's a problem with Spotify. Yeah, we had a big fight. He took the show down. It's gone. Yeah. He's a nob. Guys, we appreciate you tuning in for another episode of Drugs and Stuff. We'll see you soon. Thanks, Dave. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir.