 RUCTU, HIKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUKUK What are we reacting to today, Scott, the producer? Classic head-to-head. Oh, no. Classic head-to-head. Sean Ray versus Lee Priest. We've got two videos. I feel like I would love to get both of them on to debate which one was the better body brother. That'd be a great podcast in itself, right? That'd be great. I have a feeling that Lee would say something controversial. I'm just saying. No way. No way. I think about dogs more than I think about Sean Ray. I'm just saying. Where do you guys want to start with? Okay. Whatever one you have queued up first. So we're just going to watch them separate, some short clips separate? Yeah. We've got some of Lee Priest from Blonde Myth. We've got some of Sean Ray, Final Countdown. So we're going to watch, and then we have to vote. But really, at the end of the day, I think that it's important that our viewers vote. So you guys get to watch the videos with us, and then you vote down in the comments. Who do you vote for, Lee Priest or Sean Ray? Obviously, this isn't like them on stage together. But we'll just have some fun. They're both fantastic bodybuilders, two Hall of Famers, right? Do we have the years for both of those videos? Because I forget. I just remember this so long ago. All right. So both videos. So both videos are 1998. Both are 1998. It's actually a great combo. Great head-to-head here. All right. So here's where we're at. Get this thing rolling. In order to do that, I'll need every bit of energy and willpower and drive and determination I've ever had. I'm going up against the likes of Flex Wheeler, Nassar Elsomebody, Kevin Levroni, and Ronnie Coleman, to name a few. All of these guys are champions in their own right, and they're not going to roll over. I don't think I'm going to out-muscle mass these guys. So what I've got to do is out-train them. I've got to out-diet them. I've got to will myself to be a better bodybuilder than they are. That's a great cover. At the Madison Square Garden in New York City. What you see on this tape will reflect my hard work and dedication to become a champion. The one thing I want to convey to the viewers is this. All right. I'm going to get to the training. This video is not about winning and losing to Mr. Olympia. This is about showing you how to become Mr. Olympia. And if at the very least I don't happen to become Mr. Olympia, it will show you the road and the journey to getting to the Mr. Olympia platform and to try to do battle with giants. In lieu of the fact that I'm one of the shortest and one of the lightest guys in the contest, I'm going up against a lot of giants. And in the form of Nassar El Samadhi at 275 and Paul Dillette at 270. Yeah, there's some big boys, huh? We're at 230. These guys are monsters. I'm 210 pounds, 5'7". A lot of people told me I could never do it. That's a crazy shot. That's a nutty shot. I don't plan on stopping now. I don't plan on letting up. The reason that I've managed the success that I have will follow as you continue to watch this tape. You'll see how I came to be. And hopefully this will be the one year of preparation that puts me over the top. And I lay claim to my place. All right, Sean. We're going to get to your training here. We're going to get some working out here. The old Flex Fitness leg press. Love that one. Gold's Venice. I've used that a million times. But I believe they put it on the left eventually. Do you think the socks helped? A ton, actually. I feel like that sock look is going to come back soon. Oh, it's powerhouse, not gold. Sorry. Oh, I haven't used that leg press ever. I like it. I just saw the Flex Fitness leg press and I just thought of gold's, yeah. Yeah, we saw the light coming in from the side, too. Yeah, yeah. Training partner's cheating, uses his hands. That's why he's not Mr. Olympia. No hands. No touching. He's keeping up with Sean Ray. I give him credit. I didn't know the tights were in the game in the 90s. He didn't either. Do you think that the training partner was responsible for loading and unloading the plates? For sure. I think that'd be his main job. I love that he's doing, like, proper, like, quality ref depth and all that. He's not just piling, you know. Shit. Well, it looks like there isn't much more room on that particular machine. You know what I mean? Grinding. Grinding. Usually when I'm training any muscle group, it doesn't matter which particular exercise. As long as it's a leg exercise, people want to know what the difference between squats, presses, extensions, and lunges. I don't try to get too scientific and figure out what the difference is. Because on one given day, I might have closed grip or widespread. It's going to hit different parts of the hamstring. It's going to be four leg exercises. Today, I'm doing lunges, leg press, squats, and extensions. Okay. The next time, that might change. I might do half squats, single leg leg press, single leg leg extensions. Let's get the heels up. And, you know, different variations of leg equipment. We've got body masters, flex equipment, I carry in, different types of equipment. So, my suggestion is to pick three or four exercises per body part. Work your legs. Then pick three or four different ones on the next time. Don't get scientific about the inner head or the outer head of the quadriceps. Train and train hard. That's the key to the game. I can't argue with that. I like that. Those are very good squats. Yeah. So, sometimes I'm stronger or weaker depending on where I do the squats in my routine. But every time I try to put it all out on the line, train as hard and as heavy as I can. And today, I'm training with three people, two other partners. Sometimes I train with one other partner. And a lot of times I train by myself. So, the pace of the workout sometimes can dictate how much weight you can handle. So, usually when I have two partners with me, I train a little slower and a little heavier. But keep it simple. Results come from hard work and intensity. The number one word is consistency. Train very consistent. You'll get to where you want to go. Thank you. I love that extension. It looks nice. I don't know if I've used that one before. One. Two. Three. Four. Five. I'll break this. Bye. Well, how about that? We got a little bit of the food here. Okay. As you know. Do you guys want to see some food or you want to see some training? Train hard. More training. What do you guys want? For about 12 weeks. Is he at a restaurant? Yeah. Yeah. The food that we are going to be discussing are laid out here in front of me. And one of my favorite restaurants, the Sizzler. The Sizzler. Oh, man. I used to go to Sizzler. And I will describe each and every item in front of us and show you what you can eat rather than what you can't eat. All right. This first item here is a bachi chicken dry. We have two chicken breasts with a little taste of lemon. The flavor and season. Give it a little bit of taste. We have our broccoli here. A form of complex carbohydrates with a dry baked potato. This, my friends, is teriyaki sauce. It's a no-no. Get rid of it. Don't even buy it. So what we have is protein and our complex carbohydrates. This is a typical lunch for me after I get done training. Along with some iced tea and some equal to give it a little bit of flavor. Over here we have a salad. Now, I have a tendency to eat a lot of salads. And I bring my own protein. I usually eat two cans of tuna fish that are packed in water that's low sodium. I just put the tuna fish on top of it. I have my dark greens. I have some onions. Some eggs. So I take out the yolks. And I mix my tuna fish all up in there. And I usually drink about two or three sizes of water. About this size to wash it all down. No complex carbohydrates for this meal. It's all protein and roughage. Over here. Roughage. Haven't heard that word for a while. It's a good word. This is a New York steak with broccoli. No complex carbohydrates. I'm getting a lot of my energy from the fat that's in the steak. They prepped all these meals for him to show this off. Tuesdays with a larger portion of this broccoli complex carbohydrates. And I kind of stay away from the starchy carbohydrates at this stage on my third meal. Over here we're moving to fish. I usually will eat my fish totally dry. This is trout. Grilled. Sprinkle a little bit of lemon wedge on it just to give it a little bit of flavor. It looks like a good piece of fish. Getting all his meals from Sizzler? Fake potato dry. That's the secret. I usually will go to the gym and train for my second time after that. And I generally have about two glasses of water this size or an iced tea. Over here this is my treat. This is the... I consider it almost like cheating. I'll have a mixed assortment of fruits. Immediately after I train as I prepare my dinner. I have pineapple. I have cantaloupe. I have a little bit of honeydew. Some watermelon. And some grapes. This satisfies my sweet tooth and my craving for sugars. Sugars. It's probably only like what? Generally I'll have a couple of carbs in that whole plate. And after I get done eating this, right after I train, I'll usually have about 12 egg whites and some more broccoli or asparagus to fill me up. My last meal usually takes place about 10 o'clock at night. And in 98, each one of those meals is probably like $3. I don't know how many calories I consume. I have no idea how much body fat I have on my body. I'm not very scientific. I eat when I'm hungry. And generally my emphasis is on the protein. That builds muscle. Usually I'll eat my complex carbohydrates just after or just before I train. I usually use the mirror as my guide. When I want to lose more body fat, I increase my cardio, cut back my complex carbohydrates. When I want to fill out a little bit more, I'll add an additional meal by waking up at maybe 5 o'clock in the morning and going to bed a little bit later, maybe 11 o'clock. That way I can add one or two more meals, get a few more calories in. But when you're on a diet, you're gradually going to get a little bit weaker. And in a sense of getting weaker, that's not something I concern myself with. That's why I look in the mirror. As long as I'm getting more cut and I'm getting harder, my diet is taking place and my cardio is taking place, that's when I start to pay attention to the condition of my body and I pose and I flex and I squeeze. All right, I'm going to roll this forward a little bit. Yeah, yeah, yeah. You tell me what to do. I was like, nobody's talking. We're not reacting. Nobody's reacting. He's going to pose here in a minute. Can you turn him down a little bit? I can barely hear you. There we go. All right. My abdominals, all in relationship to my chest. Now, granted, there's a certain time. Oh, this footage. I remember this footage. Right now, I've pumped a lot of blood into my chest. So, I'm really swollen right now. Now's the time to squeeze it for that very last little detail and flex it all in concert with the other surrounding muscles. What a crazy look. The delts, traps, triceps and biceps and abdominals. So, I'm going to be focusing on that in the mirror as I study and analyze my physique. I don't look in the mirror at admiration or satisfaction because then you become content. When you become content with your progress, there's somebody coming up behind you or somebody ahead of you. It's working harder. They're not satisfied. And I'm never satisfied with what I see. And more often than not, three weeks before a show, I'm not going to necessarily like what I see. He looks wild. Jesus. But I realize I've only got 20 days, 19 days to improve on what I do see. And this is the stage when I want to rip it up. So, what do you say? He's 20 days out here? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. From my perspective, what I'm looking at isn't necessarily satisfaction and the detail or the pump or the size or the fullness. But what can I do to make it even that much more crisp? That much more tight? And that might come. Waste looks so small in that side shot. Yeah. Maybe a little heavier weight. Maybe a little lighter weight. A crazy look. Maybe a little bit of a more cardio. Maybe a cut back on my carbohydrates. But there's the manipulation. Damn. I and I alone can see how to change that. He's going to pop there. Over a period of three weeks. What's he take? Two. Two. Two. Two. Something to. Yeah. Who knows? But that's the mark of a champion never being satisfied and always trying to be better. I told you guys earlier. I probably wouldn't like what I see when I look in the mirror three weeks out from the show. And that's probably more due to the fact that with three weeks, there's so much more I can do still. And it's satisfactory, but I need to be more ripped. I don't need to hang on to the size. You really got to hand it to him. You know, not really weighing his food, counting anything. Yeah. I pose every day. I've got pictures to take. Yeah, it's kind of crazy. He did his own stuff always, right? I've got to keep myself hydrated as much as possible. I'm already probably drinking about a gallon of water today. My day started at 530 this morning. I was in the gym. I did 50 minutes of cardio. 25 minutes on the treadmill, 25 minutes on the bike. Went home and I ate my breakfast. Took a shower, came here and trained chess and filmed this video. From here, I'll go and eat some chicken and rice. And I got a photo shoot at 12 o'clock with Flex Magazine. All right. For abdominals and calves. I'll eat again after that. I'll go to the suntan bed and tan for half an hour. I'll go home and take a shower and lay down. Wake up and go back to the gym and finish doing biceps, triceps, and another 50 minutes of cardio. More training. My day will end right around 7 o'clock. Just enough time to catch about an hour of the football game on Monday night. And I'll probably wind up waking up at about 10 o'clock and eating some egg whites before I call it a day. And that's pretty much a typical day from here on out. All right. So he's training four times. Basically, yeah. Let's go over to Lee. So right now I'm doing 30 minutes twice a day. We've got some Lee Priest here, too. Yeah, yeah. Jump to the other 30 minutes twice a day. Let's see. Share something else. Yeah. What a time. What a time. I just love that everything was intuitive. Yeah. I have no idea how much I eat. I don't know my calories. I don't know my grams. I don't know anything. I don't pay attention to any of that stuff. Barely use a scale. I don't have time to eat, so. It'd be good to go back to being normal for a while. Well, it's sort of normal anyway. When that judge said I had no delts. Yeah. You imagine? I think it's time the judges got judged. I love Lee. I just want to know. A question for all you people at home. This is my favorite. If an audience of, say, 1,500, 2,000, 1,800 can get the basings right. Six people down in front fuck it up. No. One judge said I needed more delts to make me look lighter. But then again, they can say someone's got a pleasing shape like flex, which you've got to have fantastic shape and be in shape. So, you know, it's one of those things. Everyone's got their own opinion of what the body should look like. But people can clearly see when someone's in shape or out of shape. That's right. The judges need to be judged to show their score sheets. You know? I don't care really. I'm just... Those frickin' arms, man. I can picture the crowd. You know, as long as the crowd's happy, I'm in the best shape I can be in. Who's yelling in the background? People training. They're training. Yeah. If I wasn't getting paid... Let's get to some of his training. We didn't have the lapel bikes back then. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I think this is the world gym, right? Outside? Yeah. Yep. His training was always, like, methodical. You know? I think this is why people would watch someone at that age and then they'd think if they trained like that, they'd look like that. I remember the one... When they saw Ronnie, they'd think if they trained like that, they'd look like that. The one gym in Australia I trained at had a picture of him on the wall. Yeah. And, like, this was back in 95, 96. And so it was a picture of, like, a young Lee Priest, like 19 years old. Right. And he had six plates on the bar and he was squatting. No kidding. And he had knee wraps and a belt on and he was squatting in the gym and it was hanging on the wall. And I just remember thinking, like, oh my God, because the bar was longer than he was tall, right? Yeah. Yeah. So he did some heavy shit when he was young. Just a kid, you know? Yeah. Yeah. I love the comment about the delts and all I'm looking at is delts of his arms. Yeah. This was the version of Lee Priest that guest posed at my first show. No kidding. Because it was 97 and this video is 98. So, like, this is, you know, how Lee looked, the haircut and everything. Yeah. Big ass dumbbell rows. Would you say that each one of these guys, both of these guys were in their prime at this point? Yeah. I'd say. Oh, yeah. Yeah. I didn't feel like really either of them ever left their prime, though. Yeah. I mean, that was the thing about that. I always loved about Sean, loved and hated is I knew what he was bringing every show, which I loved. Yeah. But then I knew what he was bringing every show, which I didn't love. Yeah. Because I kind of, once you'd seen it, you'd seen it, you know, the changes weren't drastic enough. Yeah. Two more days and I can get back to normal eating, normal life. That's loud. It's loud? I wonder if it's our mix here, Ron, because it's turned almost all the way down. Oh, okay. Let's see here. We'll move forward a little bit. We'll get to some of his posing. See how, like, he looks with the jacket on? Yeah. I remember when he guest posed, he had, like, a big hood, like a big sweater on, right? Yeah. And then he took it off and had the Superman t-shirt and I was like, oh, my God. Yeah. I always loved that he basically hated prep and he couldn't wait to get back to KFC. Yeah. Just alien arms. Yeah. No kidding. Okay. Dude. Dude. I'm gonna take some concepts. I'm gonna break. I'm gonna break. I'm gonna break. They both had similar midsections. Just crazy. Crazy quality. I mean, I feel like looking at the physiques, Sean had the perfect symmetry thing going on. Yeah, Sean was more balanced everywhere. Yeah, I feel like Lee was more freaky looking. Like those arms. You hear people say, like, who's the freakiest arms in bodybuilding? Lee Priest is in that conversation, you know? You know, I never got to train at this Worlds or wherever he is. Yeah? I wish I would have gone there once. You know, I always went to Gold's Venice. The pod. You're with the wild crowd, as we've been told. Yeah. Where's this? Let me just shoot forward a little bit. Ah, doing your own pro tan. I remember those days. Yep. And that would do. And that will do. I love it. I just think, I've had enough. Look at that. And there we have it. The tain put on. Do you ever use something like that, Ron? It feels like shit. Where you actually have like a, it looked like a cream almost in a tube that he's putting on his face. Yeah, he put it on your face because it's kind of like to balance out the pro tan, but. Yeah. Yeah. And he's 5'4", right? I'm not sure. Yeah. The exact height. Yeah, 5'4". Pretty sure 5'4". That looks great. Face is looking sucked in there. I forget her name. Pardon, tight. Tightest one up on stage today. Wait, maybe somebody at home can tell us. That was crazy. Damn. Give it a couple more hours. That'll be all over. All the chocolate you want. All the chocolate you want. So. Can't say you're laughing in the back department anymore. Where'd these guys end up? This is 98. Right? Anybody? Anybody? This is 98, right? Yeah. Lee Priest got 7th. Sean Ray got 5th. Yes. Of course, we know who won. It was Ronnie. Then Flex. Then Nasser. Then Laveroni. Then Sean Ray. Chris Cormier. And then Lee Priest. Followed by Ernie Taylor. And Mike Mazzarato. That should do. And then Jean-Pierre Foucault. I want to get two times. Milo said 11th. I mean, like, all those people were freaking killers. You know what I mean? Like a list of Hall of Famers. Yeah. Exactly. You know? Every single one of them. Yeah. Bananas. All right. Stop sharing. All right. So now it's up to us. It's up to us. It's up to everybody at home. Who do they pick? Well, I have to go. I still think that Sean Ray is the only guy that I feel truly 100% maxed out his physique. Like, I don't think I could have added anything. Like, yeah, I understand. I just said two seconds ago. It's the same thing, but it's like it was maxed out. Like, there's nothing on his body you could look at and go, well, if X was bigger or if this was different. Yeah. It was perfect. So for me, Sean wins that battle in that regard. Whereas, like you said, Scott, Lee was a freak. I mean, you just had freaky things you looked at. But once you put it all together, Sean ended up just looking bigger to me and, of course, more complete. I think Sean had better structure because, you know, Lee had narrower clavicles and he had freakier body parts. And then Lee was smart enough to know that, like, you know, someone who was not as smart as Lee may have, like, tried to not get their arms as big. Right. Like, oh, I've got to bring this up or whatever. But Lee was like, I just got to freak out as much as I can. That's why I'm getting magazine covers and getting paid by Weider. And, you know, he knew what he was doing. Yeah. I've heard him say that, you know. He knew what he was doing. Yeah. He was like, if something grows well, then keep growing it. Yeah. Just get it out, you know. But structurally, Sean Ray was, like, pretty much perfect. And also, too, like, if Sean would have put the pedal down with the drugs that was going on, like, if he would have done the Nassar route. Yeah. Yeah. It would have altered his body in a way that probably wouldn't have made it better. Like, his waist wouldn't have been the way it was. Yeah. And he wouldn't have looked that way. Like, he – and I think the 98, 99, 2000 Sean Ray with the bald head. Yeah. To me, that was, like, the – you know, he was at his biggest, technically, by a few pounds, right? Like, you know, coming in at 205 instead of 200, you know, like, that sort of thing. I think that was, like, an incredible look. I know he got fifth that year, but, I mean, what a crazy physique he had in that era. I mean, he's just standing next to massive monsters by that point, so it got pretty tough. Yeah. That 94 Olympia against Dorian, I mean, that was his closest call, you know. And, you know, that – not getting that one was kind of the end of his window because everyone just got so big. Yeah. But you got to hand it to him. I mean, what a crazy physique. World-class physique. I know that our opinion on short bodybuilder has changed. Like, Sean Ray's 5'7". Yeah. You know, now we've got, like, the 212 class and stuff, so we sort of think of shorter guys like Clarita as, like, readjusted our – Yeah, what short is. Our calibration of what short is. Yeah. You know, but I still consider Sean Ray the greatest short bodybuilder of all time. Yep. Okay. You know, yeah. Agreed. When people say, who's the best short guy ever? I'm like, well, if it's 5'7", short, it's not really that short, but I say Sean Ray. All right. So, I guess it's 2-1. I'm still going with Lee. I'm a Lee fan. Well, it's good. You got to go with Lee. Yeah. I mean, you want to – there's a lot of reasons why you'd love to go with Lee, too. Like, can you imagine looking like that? But is Lee the most – like, one of the most popular bodybuilders of all time? Oh, easily. Yeah. I mean, to this day. Yeah. If we went with, like, overrated, underrated, you know, I would say – Yeah. You've got – I would say Lee Priest has a fam – you know, he'll piss people off. There's no question, but – That's why I love him. Yeah. But he's got a lot of people who still stand behind him, you know? And also, too, I got to give Lee, like, if you had to name the five most interesting pros of all time – Yeah, he's right up there, isn't he? Lee Priest is, like, one of them. Like, he – I mean, the stuff he said, the stuff he wasn't afraid of saying, the controversy he caused, you know? He just did not give a shit, and you got to hand it to him. I like that about him. So, you know. I love that he watches our show sometimes, too, and, like, comments on the shit. Like, it's crazy. I wonder – what does Lee Priest think? Him versus Sean Ray. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. We're about to find out. Yeah. No. And Lee, too, like, some of the guys he took out at some of those shows, like, you know, he won some shows, right? Yeah. And, I mean, gosh, man, he took out Cormier once, didn't he? Oh, yeah. Yeah, he took out San Francisco Pro. I think he took out Chris, like, crazy shit. Like, just taking out guys that are just, like, you know, cream of the crop, you know? Yeah. And, like I said, his story is one of the most unique stories, too, you know, coming from Australia, you know, at such a young age and all that crazy shit. So, yeah. And he was – man, I'll never forget that first guest posing. Yeah. You know, he showed up to guest pose at my first show. What a treat, man. That would be crazy. I remember when he came out on stage, like – I remember how he looked backstage. Yeah. And then he came out on stage, you know, by himself with no one around him. Yeah. And he looked like he was 250 pounds. Yeah. Like – and he was in shape. He was in good shape. Like, he looked like that. Yeah. So, it was – we didn't get the KFC, Lee Priest. We got, like, the recently competed, you know, writing for a show guy. People say, like, oh, he's full of it with his low doses on gear. No. I'm going to tell you what, and this is obviously I don't know. I've heard too many first-hand stories. Well, okay. Yeah. Well, there's that. And I've heard other people say that. But also, too, I've listened to a lot of podcasts with him over the years. And the thing that I noticed is that over the course of a decade, the stories haven't changed. No. Yeah. You know what I mean? Not even a little bit. Yeah. Not even a little bit. When he says what he took, he says the same thing every time, which, you know, people are making stuff up, then it kind of shifts after a while. Oh, yeah. Yeah. I mean, that's why the police ask you the same question over and over. Right? Right. Just waiting for the truth to come out. Yeah. So what time did you get home again? Yeah. Right? Yeah. And I know exactly what you mean. And, like, if you listen to some of the stuff Lee has said about his personal life. Yeah. You're not going to lie about some things. He does not give a shit about your doses. Yeah. Yeah. It's not like he's going to lie about that. Why would he lie about that and then say everything else he said? You know? Yeah. Like, it's just nuts. And I just heard stories, like, from people that lived with him for short periods of time. They're like, yeah, he'd, like, load up a shot and leave it on the table for, like, five days. Yeah. I'd be like, are you going to take this? He'd be like, oh, look, I forgot about it. Like, just stuff like that. Like, so, yeah. Okay. Crazy times. Thanks, guys. That was fun. Absolutely. Another It's Just Bodybuilding Reacts. Okay. Remember, like, share, subscribe, comment, and... Ring the bell. Yes, iammutant.com. Go there. Buy your stuff. Get it delivered. You don't have to leave the house. You can become a recluse and just order a mutant to your home. And go to the gym. Is this sort of something I maybe want for myself? I think it is. It sounds like, yeah. I keep mentioning it as, like, a plus. You don't have to be around people. You don't have to associate with anyone. Yeah. Just use our computer to deliver. Yeah. Use our codes. Dusty and Ron. Live your cyber life. Zoom with your parents. Yeah. Train from home. Train from home. Okay. Okay. Thanks, guys. And remember, it's just bodybuilding. Reacts.