Hey everybody, welcome to It's Just Bodybuilding Reacts. I'm Big Ron Partllo, Dusty Handshaw, and the producer Scott McN. I'm the only guy without glasses now. Remember, like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. Yes. And remember, I immut. Get your ISO surge, get your all in, and everyone should get on the gear. Okay, what are we reacting to today, Scott the producer? Classic headto head. Oh no. Classic headto head. Shawn Ray versus Lee Priest. We got So we got two videos. I feel like I would love both of them on to debate which one was the better bodybuer. That would that'd be a great podcast in itself, right? That'd be great. I have a feeling uh that Lee would say something controversial. I'm just saying. No way. No way. I think about dogs more than I think about Shan R. I'm just saying. Where do you guys want to start with? Okay. Um, well, whatever one you have queued up first. All right. So, we're just going to watch uh them separate. Some like short clips separate. Yeah, we So, yeah, we've got we've got some of Lee Priest from Blonde Myth. We've got some of Shawn Ray Final Countdown. So, we're going to, you know, watch and then it we have to vote. But really, at the end of the day, I think that it's important that our viewers vote. So, you guys get to watch the videos with us and then you vote down in the comments. Who do you vote for? Lee Priest or Shawn Ray. Obviously, this isn't like, you know, them on stage together. But, uh, you know, we'll just have some fun. They're both fantastic bodybuilders, two Hall of Famers, right? Do we have the years for both of those videos? Cuz I forget. I just remember this so long ago. All right. Count videos. So, both videos are 199. It's actually a great great combo. Great headto head here. All right. So, here's where we're at. Get this thing rolling. In order to do that, I'll need every bit of energy and willpower and drive and determination I've ever had. I'm going up against the likes of Flex Wheeler, Narl Somebody, Kevin Levrone, and Ronnie Coleman to name a few. All of these guys are champions in their own right, and they're not going to roll over. I don't think I'm going to out muscle mask these guys. So, what I've got to do is out train them. I've got to outd them. I've got to will myself to be a better bodybuilder than they are. come. That's a great cover at the Madison Square Garden in New York City. What you see on this tape will reflect my hard work and dedication to become a champion. The one thing I want to convey to the viewers, all right, I'm going to get to the training. This video is not about winning and losing to Mr. Olympia. This is about showing you how to become Mr. Olympia. And if at the very least I don't happen to become Mr. Olympia, it will show you the road and the journey to getting to the Mr. Olympia platform and to try to do battle with giants in lie of the fact that I'm one of the shortest and one of the lightest guys in the contest. I'm going up against a lot of giants and in the form of Nasarel Sami at 275 and Paul Delet at 270. Yeah, those are some big boys, huh? At 230. These guys are monsters. I'm 210bs, 5 foot7. A lot of people told me I could never do it. That's a crazy shot. That is a nutty shot. last eight years. I don't plan on stopping now. I don't plan on letting up. The reason that I've managed the success that I have will follow as you continue to watch this tape. You'll see how I came to be. And hopefully this will be the one year of preparation that puts me over the top and I lay claim to my place. All right, Jan, we're going to get to your training here. We're going to get some working out here. The old flex fitness leg press. Love that one. Gold's Venice. I've used that a million times, but I believe they put it on the left eventually. Do you think the socks helped? A ton, actually. I feel like that sock look is going to come back soon. Oh, it's powerhouse, not gold. Sorry. Oh, did I haven't used that leg press ever? I like I just saw the flex fitness leg press and I just thought of gold. Yeah. Yeah. We saw the light coming in from the side, too. Yeah. Yeah. Training partners cheating. Use his hands. It's why he's not Mr. Olympia. No hands, no touching, but he's keeping up with Shawn Ray. I give him credit. I didn't know the tights were in the game in the '9s. I didn't either. Do you think that the training partner was responsible for loading and unloading the plates? For sure. I think that would be his main job. I love I love that he's doing like proper like quality rep depth and all that. It's he's not just piling, you know, [\h__\h] Well, it looks like there isn't much more room on that particular machine. You know what I mean? Grinding, grinding. Usually when I'm training any muscle group, it doesn't matter which particular exercise, as long as it's a leg exercise. People want to know what the difference between squats, presses, extensions, and lunges. I don't try to get too scientific and figure out what the difference is because on one given day, I might have closed grip or widespread. It's going to hit different parts of the thigh, different parts of the hamstring. Pick four leg exercises. Today, I'm doing lunges, leg press, squats, and extensions. Okay, the next time that might change. might do half squats, single leg leg press, single leg leg extensions. Let's get the heels up. And uh you know, different variations of leg equipment. We got body masters, flex equipment, I carry different types of equipment. So my suggestion is pick three or four exercises per body part. Work your legs. Then pick three or four different ones on the next time. Don't get scientific about the inner head or the outer head of the quadricep. Train and train hard. That's the key to the game. I can't argue with that. I like those are very good squats. Walk in and start with squats. So, sometimes I'm stronger or weaker depending on where I do the squats in my routine. But every time I try to put it all out on the line, train as hard and heavy as I can. And uh today I'm training with three people, two other partners. Sometimes I train with one other partner. And a lot of times I train by myself. So pace of the workout sometimes can dictate how much weight you can handle. So, usually when I have two partners with me, I train a little slower, a little heavier, but uh keep it simple. Results come from hard work and intensity. I mean, the number one word is consistency. Train very consistent. You'll get to where you want to go. Thank you. I love that extension. It looks nice. I don't know if I've used that one before. Two, three, four, five. I'll break this. Bye. Well, how about that? We got a little bit of the the food here. Okay. As you know, you guys want to see some food or you want to see some training? More training. What do you guys want? For about 12 weeks, is he at a restaurant? Food that we are going to be discussing are laid out here in front of me at one of my favorite restaurants, the Sizzler. The Sizzler? Oh man, we all used to go to Sizzler. and I will describe each and every item in front of us and show you what you can eat rather than what you can't eat. All right, this first item here is habachi chicken dry. We have two chicken breasts with a little taste of lemon to flavor and season. Give it a little bit of taste. We have our broccoli here, a form of complex carbohydrates with a dried baked potato. This, my friends, is teriyak sauce. It's a no no. Get rid of it. Don't even buy it. So what we have is protein, our complex carbohydrates. This is a typical lunch for me after I get done training along with some iced tea and some equal to give it a little bit of flavor. Over here we have a salad. Now I have a tendency to eat a lot of salads and I bring my own protein. I usually eat two cans of tuna fish that are packed in water that's low sodium. I just put the tuna fish on top of it. I have my dark greens. I have some onions, some uh eggs. I take out the yolks and I mix my tuna fish all up in there. And I usually drink about two or three sizes of water about this size to wash it all down. Uh no complex carbohydrates for this meal. It's all protein and ruffage. Over here we move roughage. Haven't heard that word for a while. It's a good word. A New York steak with broccoli. No complex carbohydrates. I'm getting a lot of my energy from the fat that's in the steak. They prepped all these meals for him to show this off. Steak with a larger portion of this broccoli complex carbohydrates. And I kind of stay away from the starchy carbohydrates at this stage on my third meal of the day. Over here, we're moving to fish. I usually will eat my fish totally dry. This is trout grilled. Sprinkle a little bit of lemon wedge on it just to give it a little bit of flavor. Looks like a good fish. Getting all his meals from sizzling. Baked potato dry. That's the secret. I usually go to the gym and train after that. And I generally have about two glasses of water this size or an iced tea. over here. This is my treat. This is the uh I consider it almost like cheating. I'll have a mixed assortment of fruits immediately after I train as I prepare my dinner. I have pineapple. I have cantaloupe. I have a little bit of honeydew, some watermelon, and some grapes. This satisfies my sweet tooth and my craving for uh sugars. It's probably only like what generally I'll have a couple grams of carbs in that whole plate much. And after I get done eating this, right after I train, uh I'll usually have about 12 egg whites. and uh some more broccoli or asparagus to uh fill me up. My last meal usually takes place about 10:00 at night and that last 98 each one of those meals is probably like $3. I don't know how many calories I consume. I have no idea how much body fat I I uh have on my body. I'm not very scientific. I eat when I'm hungry and generally my emphasis is on the protein that builds muscle. Usually I'll eat my complex carbohydrates just after or just before I train. I usually use the mirror as my guide. When I want to lose more body fat, I increase my cardio, cut back my complex carbohydrates. When I want to fill out a little bit more, I'll add an additional meal by waking up at maybe 5:00 in the morning and going to bed a little bit later, maybe 11 o'clock. That way, I can add one or two more meals, get a few more calories in. But when you're on a diet, you're gradually going to get a little bit weaker. And in a sense of getting weaker, that's not something I concern myself with. That's why I look in the mirror. As long as I'm getting more cut and I'm getting harder, my diet is taking place and my cardio is taking place, that's when I start to pay attention to the condition of my body and I pose and I flex and I squeeze. All right, I'm going to roll this forward a little bit. You tell me what to do. I was like, nobody's talking. We're not reacting. Nobody's reacting. Back in the mirror. Uh, he's going to pose here in a minute. I'm finishing my chest. Can you turn him down a little bit? Assess my upper body. Can barely hear you. my arms, my triceps, my shoulders, my traps. All right, my abdominals, all in relationship to my chest. Now, granted, there's a certain time. Oh, this footage. I remember this footage. I've pumped a lot of blood in my chest, so I'm really swollen right now. Now's the time to squeeze it for that very last little detail and flex it all in concert with the other, the delts, traps, triceps, and biceps, and abdominals. So, I'm going to be focusing on that in the mirror as I study and analyze my physique. I don't look in the mirror at admiration or satisfaction because then you become content. And when you become content with your progress midsection on them, there's somebody coming up behind you or somebody ahead of you that's working harder. They're not satisfied. And I'm never satisfied with what I see. And more often than not, 3 weeks before a show, I'm not going to necessarily like what I see. You look wild. But I realize I've only got 20 days, 19 days to improve on what I do see. And um this is the stage when I want to rip it up. So what do you say is 20 days out here looking from my perspective? What I'm looking at isn't necessarily satisfaction and the detail or the pump or the size or the fullness, but what can I do to make it even that much more crisp, that much more tight? And that might come waist so small in that workout, maybe a little heavier weight, maybe a little lighter weight, a little bit of a more cardio, maybe a cut back on my carbohydrates. But there's the manipulation. Damn. I and I alone can see how to change that. Period of 3 weeks. Take two 205 there or something. 20. But that's the mark of a champion never being satisfied and always trying to be better. I told you guys earlier probably wouldn't like what I see when I look in the mirror three weeks out from a show. And that's probably more due to the fact that with 3 weeks there's so much more I can do still. And uh it's satisfactory, but I need to be more ripped and I need to hang on to the size. You really got to you really got to hand it to him. So, uh, you know, for me, not really weighing his food, counting everything every day. I've got pictures to take. Yeah, it's kind of crazy. He did his own stuff always, right? I've got to keep myself hydrated as much as possible. I've already probably drinking about a gallon of water today. My day started at 5:30 this morning. I was in the gym. I did 50 minutes of cardio, 25 minutes on the treadmill, 25 minutes on the bike. Went home and I ate my breakfast. took a shower, came here, and uh trained chest and filmed this video. From here, I'll go and eat some chicken and rice. And I got a photo shoot at 12:00 with Flex Magazine. All right, for abdominals and calves. I'll eat again after that. I'll go to the suntan bed and tan for a half an hour. I'll go home and take a shower and lay down. Wake up and go back to the gym and finish doing biceps, triceps, and another 50 minutes of cardio. More training. My day end right around 7 o'clock. Just enough time to catch about an hour of the football game on Monday night. And uh I'll probably wind up waking up at about 10 o'clock and eating some egg whites before I call it a day. And that's pretty much a typical day from here on out. Um all right. So he's training he's training four times gradually as my show gets closer. Let's go over to Lee. So right now I'm doing twice a Got some lee priest here too. Jump to the other uh 30 minutes twice a day. Let's see. Share something else. Yeah. What a what a time. What a time. I just love that everything was intuitive. Yeah. No way. I have no idea how much I eat. I don't know my calories. I don't know my grams. I don't know anything. I pay attention to any of that stuff. Barely use a scale. Time to eat. So, we're good to go back to being normal for a while. Well, was sort of normal anyway. Well, that judge said I had no doubt. So, you know, you I think it's time the judges got judged. I love I just want to know a question for all you people at home. This is my favorite. have an audience of say 1,500 2,000 1,800 can get the facings right. Six people down the front [\h__\h] it up. One judge said I needed more delts to make me look wider. But then again, they can say someone's not pleasing shape like flex, which you got to have fantastic shape and be in shape. So, you know, it's one of those things. Everyone's got their own opinion of what the body should look like, but yeah, but people can clearly see when someone's in shape or out of shape. So, that's right. The judges need to be judged or show their score sheets, you know. I don't care really anyway. I'm just Those freaking arms, man. I can pick for the crowd, you know, as long as the crowd's happy. I'm in the best shape I can be in. Well, that's all. Who's yelling in the background? People training. They're training. Yeah. If I wasn't getting paid, let's get to some of his training. We didn't We didn't have like They didn't have the lapel mics back then. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I think this is the World Gym, right? Outside. Yeah. Yep. His training was always like methodical, you know? I think this is why people would watch someone at that age and then they'd think if they trained like that, they'd look like that. They saw Ronnie. They look like that. The one gym in Australia I trained at had a picture of him on the wall. Yeah. Um, and like this was back in 95 96. Nasty. And so it was a picture of like a young Lee priest like 19 years old, right? And he had six plates on the bar and he was squatting. Okay. And he had knee wraps and a belt on and he was squatting in the gym and it was hanging on the wall and I just remember thinking like, "Oh my god." Cuz a bar was longer than he was tall, right? Yeah. So he did some heavy [\h__\h] when he was young. Just a kid, you know? Yeah, I love that they comment about the delts and then all I'm looking at is delts his arms. Yeah, this was the version of Lee Priest that guest posed at my first show. No kidding. Cuz it was 97 and this video is 98. So like this is, you know, how Lee looked, the haircut and everything. Yeah. Big ass dumbbell rows. Would you say that each one of these guys, both of these guys were in their prime at this point? Yeah, I'd say. Oh, yeah. I didn't feel like really either of them ever left their prime, though. I mean, that was the thing about that I always loved about Shawn, loved and hated, is I knew what he was bringing every show, which I loved, but then I knew what he was bringing every show, which I didn't love. Yeah. Cuz I kind of once you'd seen it, you'd seen it. You know, the changes weren't drastic enough. Yeah. Two more days and I can go back to normal eating, normal life. That's loud. Cool. It's loud. I wonder if it's our mix here, Ron, because it's turned almost all the way down. Oh, okay. Let's see here. We'll move forward a little bit. We'll get to some of his posing. See how like he looks at the jacket on? Yeah. I remember when he guest posed, he had like a like a big hood, like a big sweater on, right? Yeah. And then he took it off and had the Superman t-shirt and I was like, "Oh my god." Yeah. I always love that he basically hated prep and he couldn't wait to get back to KFC. Squeeze. Just alien arms. Yeah. No kidding. Dude, speaking of midsections. Yeah, they both had they both had similar midsections. Just crazy crazy quality. There you go. I mean, I feel like looking at their physiques, Sean had the perfect symmetry thing going on. I feel to Sean was more balanced everywhere. Yeah. I feel like Lee was more freaky looking like those arms there. You you hear people say like, "Who's the freakiest arms in bodybuilding?" Leap Priest is in that conversation. You know, you know, I never got to train at this world or wherever he is. Yeah. Wish I would have gone there once. You know, I always went to Gold's Venice. You're with the uh the wild crowd as we've been told. Yeah. Where's this? Let me shoot forward a little bit. Ah, doing your own pro tan. I remember those days. Yep. And that would do. And that will do. And I just like I've had enough. Look at that. And there we have it. The tan put on. Have you ever used something like that, Ron? Where you you actually have like a it looked like a cream almost in a tube that he's putting on his face. Yeah. Yeah. He put it on your face cuz it's kind of like to balance out the pro tan. But yeah, the first order And he's 5'4, right? I'm not sure the exact height. Yeah, 5'4. Pretty sure. 5'4. That looks great. Face is looking sucked in there. I forget her name. Hard and tight. Tightest one up on stage today. Maybe somebody at home could tell us. That's crazy. Damn. Couple more hours. That'll be all over. All the chocolate you want. So, can't say you're laughing in the back department anymore. Where' these guys end up? This is 98, right? That hamstring was the best one. Anybody? Anybody? This is 98, right? All right. Lee Priest got seventh. Shawn Ray got fifth. Of course, we know who won. It was Ronnie, then Flex, then Nasser, then Levrron, then Shawn Ray, Chris Cormier, and then Lee Priest, followed by Ernie Taylor and Mike Maserado, and then Jean Pierre Fukos 11th. I mean, like all those people were freaking killers. You know what I A list of Hall of Famers. Yeah, exactly. You know, every single one of them. Yeah. Bananas. All right. Stop sharing. All right. So, now it's uh it's up to us. It's up to us and it's up to everybody at home. Who do they pick? Well, I I have to go I still think that Shawn Ray is the only guy that I feel truly 100% maxed out his physique. Like I don't I don't think I could have added anything. Like yeah, I understand I just said two seconds ago it's the same thing, but it's like it was maxed out. Like there's nothing on his body you could look at and go, "Well, if X was bigger or if this was different, yeah, it was perfect." So for me, Sean wins that battle in that regard. Whereas, like you said, Scott, Lee was a freak. I mean, he just had freaky things you looked at. But once you put it all together, Shawn ended up just looking bigger to me and of course more complete. I think Shawn had better structure cuz, you know, Lee Lee had narrower clavicles and he had freakier body parts. And then Lee was smart enough to know that like, you know, someone who was not as smart as Lee may have like tried to not get their arms as big, right? Like, oh, I got to bring this up or whatever. But Lee was like, I just got to freak out as much as I can. That's why I'm getting magazine covers and getting paid by Weer. And, you know, he was he and he knew what he was doing. Yeah. I've heard him say that, you know. He knew what he was doing. He was like, "If something grows well, then keep growing it." Yeah. Just get get it out, you know. And uh but uh structurally Shawn Ray was like pretty much perfect. And and also too like if Shawn would have put the pedal down with the drugs that was going on, like if he would have done the Nasser route Yeah. it would have altered his body in a way that probably wouldn't have made it better. Like his waist wouldn't have been the way it was and he wouldn't have looked that way. like he he and I think the the 98 99 2000 Shawn Ray with the bald head. Yeah. To me that was like the the you know he was at his biggest technically by a few pounds, right? Like you know coming in at 205 instead of 200, you know, like that sort of thing. Um I think that was like an incredible look. Um I know he got fifth that year, but I mean what a crazy like physique he had in that era. I mean, he's just standing next to massive monsters by that point, so it got pretty tough. Yeah, that 94 Olympia against Dorian, I mean, that was his closest call, you know, and um you know, that not getting that one was kind of the end of his window because everyone just got so big. Um but, uh you got to hand it to him. I mean, what a crazy physique. World class physique. I I know that our our opinion on short bodybuilder has changed. like Shawn Ray's 5'7 and you know now we've got like the 212 class and stuff so we sort of think of shorter guys like Clarita has like readjusted our short our calibration of what short is and you know but I I still consider Shawn Ray the greatest short bodybuilder of all time okay you know yeah when people say who's the best short guy ever I'm like well it's 5'7 short it's not really that short but I say Shawn Ray All right so I guess it's two to one I'm still going with Lee I'm I'm a Lee it's good you got to go with Lee I mean, you want there's a lot of reasons why you'd love to go with Lee, too. Like, can you imagine looking like that? But is Lee is Lee the most like one of the most popular bodybuilders of all time? Oh, easily. Yeah. I mean, to this day. Yeah. If we went with like overrated, underrated, you know, I would say you got you've got I would say Lee Priest has a fam. You know, he'll he'll he'll piss people off. There's no question. But I love him. Yeah. But he's got a lot of people who still stand behind him, you know. And also too, I got to give Lee like like if you had to name the five most interesting pros of all time. Yeah, he's right up there, isn't he? Lee Priest is like like one of them. Like he he he I mean his the stuff he said, the stuff he wasn't afraid of saying, the controversy he caused, you know, he just did not give a [\h__\h] And you got to hand it to him. I like that about him. So, you know, I love that he watches our show sometimes, too, and like comments on the [\h__\h] Like, it's crazy. I wonder what does Lee Priest think. P him versus Shawn Ray. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We're about to find out. Yeah. No. And then, and Lee too, like some of the guys he took out at some of those shows like he, you know, he won some shows, right? Yeah. And um I mean, God, man, he took out Cormier once, didn't he? Oh, yeah. Yeah. He took out San Francisco Pro. I think he took out Chris. Like, crazy [\h__\h] like just taking out guys that are just like, you know, cream of the crop, you know, and uh and and like I said, his story is one of the most unique stories, too. You know, coming from Australia, you know, at such a young age and all that crazy [\h__\h] So, yeah. And he was, man, I'll never forget that first guest posing. Yeah. You know, he showed up to guest pose at my first show. And what a treat, man. That would be I remember when he came out on stage like I remember how he looked backstage. Yeah. And then he came out on stage, you know, by himself with no one around him. Yeah. And he looked like he was 250 lb. Like, and he was in shape. He was in good shape. Like he looked like that, you know. So, it was uh we didn't get the KFC elite priest. We got like the recently competed, you know, fighting for a show guy. People uh people say like, "Oh, he's full of it with his his low doses on gear." No, I'm I'm going to tell you what, and this is obviously I I don't too many firsthand stories. Well, okay. Yeah. Well, there's that. Um, and I I've heard other people say that, but also too, I've listened to a lot of podcasts with him over the years, and the thing that I noticed is that over the course of a decade, the stories haven't changed. No. Yeah. Not a little bit. Yeah. Not Yeah. Not even a little bit. When he says what he took, he says the same thing every time, which if you know people are making stuff up, then it kind of shifts after a while. Oh, yeah. So, yeah. I mean, that's why the police ask you the same question over and over. Right. Right. What time did you get home? So, what time did you get home again? Yeah. Right. Yeah. And if I know exactly what you mean. And like if you listen to some of the stuff Lee has said about his personal life. Yeah. He does not give a [\h__\h] about Yeah. It's not like he's going to lie about that. Why would he lie about that and then say everything else he said, you know? Yeah. Like it's just nuts. And I just heard stories like from people that lived with him for short periods of time. They're like he'd like load up a shot and leave it on the table for like 5 days. Yeah. I'd be like, "Are you going to take this?" He'd be like, "Oh, look. I forgot about it." Like just stuff like that. Like y So yeah. Okay. Crazy times. Thanks, guys. That was fun. another uh it's just bodybuilding reacts. Okay, remember like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. Yes, I am mutant.com. Go there, buy your stuff, get it delivered. You don't have to leave the house. You can become a recluse and just order mutant to your home. This is sort of something I maybe want for myself to not my house. Keep mentioning it as like a plus. You don't have to to be around people. You don't have to associate with anyone. Yeah. Use your computer to deliver. Yeah, use our codes Dusty and Ron. Live your cyber life. Zoom with your parents. Yeah. Train from home. Train from home. Okay. Okay. Thanks, guys. And remember, it's just bodybuilding. React.