 stress, and stress side of it. So social media influences and stuff like that being exposed to high levels of social media, being exposed to high levels of social media, being exposed to high levels of phone interaction can actually lower your testosterone levels and it's to do with stress induced factors. Guys, if you are experiencing low testosterone due to technology, I have a simple solution. Your show has been banned for the promotion of the promotion of drugs. I have a simple chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry chemistry by you. Yeah, you, the people at Patreon. Thank you guys very much for your support. We've got a couple of Patreon questions today. We're brought to you by evalbloodanalysis.com. If you're in the UK, you need to get your labs done, right? You can get your labs done by Dave. Hit up evalbloodanalysis.com and check out Strom Sports Nutrition. You can reach out to them both in the UK and the US. They've got great health stacks, especially if you're on cycle. Supplements source.ca for Canadians. They have great deals that change week to week on short dated and label change products. And of course, truenutrition.com. They're the first advertiser that ever worked with our channel. They believed in us before anybody did. So thank you to them. Use our code. Think at 10% off on all your basic bodybuilding stuff like creatine, protein powder, intra-workout. Dave, you woke me up early today and I'm on my second cup of coffee already. I haven't had one yet. True this. What? What do you? It's already for you. It's like middle of the day. You don't drink coffee anymore? No, I just don't. I don't know. I've had four liters of water. Good man. Good. Keep up on your water. Need to fucking piss now. Perfect timing. So is Anivar worth it? Is it worth taking Anivar in 2026? That's no topic. None of the drugs are worth it. They're all terrible. You should stay natural like me. We do have a lot of listener questions, by the way, guys. You guys left us a ton. And if you want to take part in the next show, comment below, comment on YouTube. And plus that helps us to boost the show up. So all your comments are welcomed. Whether you like us or not, you can tell us how terrible we are, how wrong we are. That's okay too. You know, you're entitled to your opinions, but we appreciate having you guys here. And if you're new here, let me encourage you to like, share, subscribe, comment, ring the bell, all that stuff. And hit the hype button if you see the hype button. Dave, so I wanted to bring this up because, man, gosh, I've been coaching for over a decade full time. Meaning like this is what I do all day long, except for occasionally I talk to you. You know, there's this. Don't say it like that. Sometimes my mind gets changed. I'm the highlight of your day, even if you don't realize it. Yeah, of course. Naturally. Of my week. Of my week, actually. Well, you're going to miss me because I'm not going to be here for a few weeks. Okay, we'll get on without you. That's fine. We don't care. That's fine. I'm going on all of it. We don't want you anyway. Yeah, we'll get into that. We'll talk about that at the end of the show. But so here's the thing. I have a client who is a good national level classic physique competitor. I generally stay away from a lot of oral gear, you know, especially in an offseason. He happened to have some Anivar on hand. We added in tail end of the cycle. We thought, you know, he's still doing good. Everything health looks good. Progress is looking good. Yeah. Did the conversation go, I have some Anivar. Can I use it? Because I want to get to it. No, it didn't. It actually, I'm looking at things and I felt like, man, I feel like we could use just a little more of a boost for something pushing us through the rest of this offseason. What do you have on hand? And he had enough VAR that I said, well, listen, if we were to take 25 milligrams a day, that's going to give you a little bit of a boost. We did that. And oh, my God, dude, it like it reinvigorated his his entire offseason. Like he then began to make exponential gains again. I think some of it was mental, but I think some of it was we got a new compound in there hitting it from a different angle. You know, yeah, I mean, I think both. I think people underestimate the power of suggestion or psychological within situations like this. I mean, it's one of the motivations why I stagger my cycles and I have them not quite pyramiding, but I do have them increase at certain points, because I do think that when you introduce a new compound, it gives someone a mental kick up the arse of, oh, there's more drugs now. And you get that subliminal, you know, oh, I need to make more of this. I'm on more now. I've got to make sure I get the most out of this. So I think there's definitely something in that play. And we mentioned before the show in a very brief introduction that we had today that you'd looked at some of this with Scott with the stuff where they'd done placebo tablets and seen muscular gains and stuff like that. Dude. So there was a study they did. These guys were absolute just rats, man. I would be so upset if they let me in this study. They were like, OK, so here's the thing. We're going to do this study and we're going to give you guys some deanna ball. And let me tell you, this dbol is freaking strong. Like you're going to make some incredible gains. But before we do, we want you guys to compete against each other. And whoever gets the best results are going to be the people that are allowed to use the they're going to be allowed to use the dbol. So they they bust their asses. Right. And some people get the dbol. Some people don't. They say, OK, you made it. You're going to get the dbol. Guess what they did? They gave them a placebo pill. Then there was no dbol in the whole program, dude. You suck. Well, guess what, man? They made incredible gains. They made gains. They like these guys are like shooting forward in progress just because they thought they were on here. Yeah. So, I mean, you know, when people say stuff like, oh, I train really hard, I train to, you know, the best I go. Well, yeah, there's always another gear if you're motivated enough to find it. Yeah. Yeah. So here's the cycle. So, like I said, so this is a national level classic physique competitor. And for his offseason, we're using four units of growth. He's on 750 tests, 600 EQ. And what do we have in there for insulin? I think, OK, just three units of insulin in his pre-workout meal. We did have three units in his post-workout meal. And he has an intra-workout shake, too. He's getting like 70 carbs pre-workout, 25 intra and 70 grams post. How long was he on before you added the Anovar? Let's see. I don't have that number in front of me, but it would have been a good 12 weeks on 750 test, 600 EQ. Oh, yeah. I mean, I am actually surprised. Genuinely, I would have thought at that level of dosing, so 1.3 grams, that 25 milligram of Anovar would have sort of got lost in the noise and wouldn't really have had such an impact. So I am quite surprised with such a positive impact of it. Yeah, we ended up moving forward. He was up at like around 260, put it that way. So he's a big boy. Like this is national level classic. Yeah, he's not small, is he? Yeah, yeah. So it just made me think, man, you know, maybe we can get a lot of benefit, even guys that are advanced like this, out of a lower dose of Anovar. A lot of times, here's been my thought, man. I'm like, well, 25 milligrams of Anovar, I would much rather use for this guy a more advanced dose. But then if we use a more advanced dose, then, you know, the health ramifications are going to add up faster. Like what are we talking? You know, the big thing we always talk about is the fact that Anovar is going to upset your cholesterol. I mean, of course, you've got your liver value stuff. You know, that's not great, but you're going to drop your HDL. And as you've mentioned, Anovar can raise LDL, right? Yeah, it does raise LDL, yeah. So, yeah, it's definitely not the best of drugs when it comes to lipids. But obviously, dose, person, diet, all the rest of it always plays into it. But, yeah, I'm actually, considering where he was with dosing, I'm quite surprised he's had such an impact. If he'd have been on a total of, say, 400 milligrams, then I'd be like, well, yeah, you know, he's still a significant percentage-wise in the raise in anabolics. But when he's already at that level of dosing, which isn't excessive, I just meant in general, you know, you wouldn't expect 25 to have such an impact. Yeah, yeah. But you know what I think, too? Maybe part of it is that it's coming from a completely brand-new angle. It's a DHT compound. It's an oral compound. You know, we're not just – it's not more of just the same. It's not like we said, hey, let's add in 300 milligrams more of the same compounds you're already using. It's like – I think there is something to that, too. You know what I mean? Kind of, I guess, coming from a different angle, you know, a different family even of compounds. I would say we have, what, the 19-nors, Testbase, DHT, and then I would consider orals to be kind of like a fourth branch of the families. Well, yeah, I mean, there's definitely some different mechanisms of action in there. So it does exploit another root. Interesting. Yeah, so we had talked to – Have you pooled any bloods before and after on the – Not yet. We've seen what he looked like before. We haven't seen what he's looked like after. But he's off of everything now, and we will be looking at labs in another few weeks. So that's going to say something, too, right? Yeah, I was just curious if there was anything, you know, glaringly different between the labs on and off. I know we can see a little bit of liver stress. That's fairly obvious, you know, and all that crap. But if there was any differences anywhere else. Yeah. That's why I was curious about – see, I was curious about – I can't see it making that much difference, though. So obviously as a DHT, there's going to be some binding to SHBG. True. You're going to see a slight decline in SHBG. But I wouldn't have thought it would have been significant to accelerate progress in that way. Because generally SHBG at 1.3 grams is going to be low anyway. Yeah. Yeah, it's going to be pretty single-digit or low teens anyway. So I can't see it being a huge change in that. Yeah. Yeah. But like I said, man, it really – we kind of reinvigorated the whole plan. So since doing it with him, I've done the same thing with a couple other people. And I've seen similar results. Now, we had talked with Scott Stevenson before or I had talked with Scott before about the optimal doses of each compound. You keep getting better and better results for man of our up to 60 milligrams, right? And that's kind of where we found that cutoff point to be. At the same time, man, you run it up to 60, you're getting better benefits. But you're more than doubling the stress load, right? So I'm kind of into this idea of maybe a low dose of man of our – not to mention, man, it's not a cheap compound. So if we can get away with 25 as an additional little push on top of another cycle, I might actually make this as part of my off-season plans more often. If you're seeing this repeated, which you're saying you are – I'm not disbelieving you for one second, by the way, so I didn't mean that in that sense. Yeah, yeah. It sounded like I was – Prove it. Yeah, prove it. Yeah, you're – Then – I forgot what I was going to fucking say then. It's – it's early. It's got a complete out of my head. Yeah. No, it's not for me, though, is it? I've had a very demanding morning, though. So just one of them where, you know, phone never stops and fucking questions never stop. It'll come to me in a minute, so let me just forget about it, and it'll come back. All right, guys. So a bunch of you had asked for tank tops. So the day has finally come that we've got them. If you're interested in one of our tanks, check them out at the merch store. I'll have links below. Who knows? You might end up meeting somebody else that listens to the shows, too. I've had that happen more than once. Somebody's like, hey, you listen to that podcast? I like those guys, too. And before you know it, there's a budding bromance just waiting to happen. So if you want to look freaking jacked and support the podcast, you guys can do that all at the same time. Just check out the shirts. Bam! There we go. Get the good light. All right. Well, I had nothing else on that. We did have a bunch of listener questions. So if you think of it, let me know. But I figured, you know what, man? Why don't we just jump into these? Because we've had so many freaking listeners asking us questions lately, which is awesome. Also, by the way, we had a bunch of people who mentioned like, you know, you said last week you were like, oh, yeah, there's a lot of people who are using recreational drugs. Because remember, we had that whole thing. I actually found the quote from Biden back in the Steroid Control Act, and he was saying that, like, you know, we're hearing that this is going to be the thing, you know, that if you start with steroids, you're going to eventually go to recreational drugs. You mentioned, by the way, that, like, a lot of times you've seen it be the opposite. I'm one of those cases, right? I was a recreational drug user, got in recovery, then got into bodybuilding, got into gear. We had a number of people who reached out, and they were like, hey, I've got 10 years clean. And that's exactly what I did, exactly what Dave said. Yeah, it's not uncommon. So we see it in the harm reduction circles of heroin users moving to anabolics. Strangely, actually, we do some testing via a third party for some recovery agencies. Okay. It was only just started. And I found it quite interesting that the ones that we've done, and it is, like I say, only a couple, were both recovery but both using anabolics. So I'm interested to see if there's a trend in there where we see, you know, people in recovery from other substances moving to anabolics. I think it's a more socially accepted addiction almost because it's paired with that health drive, isn't it? You know, you're using the anabolics to improve your health and to improve you physically and to do that. So I think there's possibly a perception there that it's a healthier side of addiction. I do think that you still have to be real careful because if you come into that with an addict mindset, that you can go really hard on the gear. And I've seen guys do that. I think for me there had to be a lot of recovery first before I could actually approach cycling without it being like this kamikaze, all or nothing mentality that I used to have, you know. I had that conversation with somebody literally today. Yeah. They were wanting to increase what they were doing. I said, why? Are you not making progress? No, I'm making progress. Progress was really good. You had any problems? No. So why do you want to increase it? Well, I just thought, yeah, that's the start of, this is where you've got to be careful because that's the start of, well, that's why I said, was it that I've got some, let's throw it in conversation? Because you know how many times have you had that with a client? I've got some of this left over. Can I just add this? And it's like, why? Yeah. You know, there's a justification. Fine. But you really do need to self-discipline yourself in a sense of why am I wanting to add this? What is wrong with what? Not so much because there's always that, well, if I had more, I'll get more. But there's more like, what is wrong with what I'm already doing? Am I not getting the gains? Am I not getting the results I expected from what I'm doing? Is there a cause to change? And it's always worthwhile having that healthy conversation with yourself before you look to add more anabolics. Agreed. All right. Ozzy Gold says, hey, guys, I was finally able to get my hands on some Torinobol. I have some D-Ball too, but I don't want to take it due to the bloat and the side effects. I'm looking at doing a T-Ball only cycle to, quote, dip my toes in the water. Starting out after the Christmas party this Friday, just in case I have a drink. As a lifetime natty and scared of needles, T-Ball seems to be the best choice. Any thoughts on how to go about this would be great. He says, I want to keep my hair. T-Ball's not DHT. It's a test base that doesn't aromatize. So that's the first thing. Second thing, because it doesn't aromatize, it limits your exposure. So you wouldn't be running more six, eight weeks because you're going to end up with no fucking estrogen. All those things together, thirst cycle, natty, touch with dough, I would say 20, 20-ish milligrams, maybe a little bit more. Push up 30, a push, but I wouldn't go any higher than that. Yeah, yeah, I'd go with that. I mean, I don't like the idea either. He says, I have some D-Ball, but I don't want to take it due to the bloat and side effects. He's never taken it before. He's never taken anything before. So he's going off of what he hears, right? Yeah. All those things are going to be dose dependent. Honestly, man, I feel like he might even do better with a combo of both. What if he did 15 and 15 per day? You know what I'm saying? Yeah. Well, the D-Ball would give him some estrogen, which would elongate the viability of the length of cycle. So you could then push it a little bit longer. Doses aren't going to be particularly adulterating in the sense of fucking up livers and stuff like that. Yeah, you're going to get some mild inflammation, but nothing that you need to worry about and nothing that a regular painkiller use wouldn't replicate. So it's not like it's beyond the realms of what you're exposing yourself to in other ways. Yeah. So, yeah. No, I'm liking that a little bit more, actually, to be honest. Yeah. And you know what, too? What would you have on hand in case he did have estrogen issues? I would personally just have some Novodex on deck. Yeah, I don't think you need anything more. I mean, you also have the option of just pulling the D-Ball out. True. Because that's the only thing that's giving you the estrogen is the D-Ball. So you could just quite literally pull it out. But, yeah, I do think the mix might be a better approach. All right. I do have a comment that's completely unrelated in any way, shape, or form and lacking in a lot of detail, but I do want to say it. Okay. So someone asked whether we could answer a question on the Facebook page. Okay. Yeah. And someone commented that we would answer if they're donated to the ProCharger Fund. And I won support this approach. I think this is a good policy. So I just wondered if we could instigate it. That was all. Did you know what? Okay. Well, what was the question, Dave? I haven't got a fucking clue. Yeah. You didn't even care about what the person's needs were. You just cared about your ProCharger. And? I don't see an issue with that. What's the problem? This is the holiday season. You've got to think of others first. I think after the morning, I've had to see Ricky. What would Santa do, Dave? Santa would deliver me a ProCharger, but Santa's a fat twat, and he's not going to do it. Well, he's not now, after that comment, once he sees this. Santa's not real, Scott. It's just you with a cushion on your top. Come on. We all know. What? All right, listen. So Tom says, he says, people now do test in Primo, but back in the old days, they did D-Ball in Primo. Are the results the same? Potentially. I mean, your basic mechanisms are the same. You've got an aromatizing compound. You've got a drug that manages estrogen to some degree. So, yeah, there's going to be a huge difference. I mean, there's those limitations with the D-Ball. Yeah. So, obviously, we know that. You know, I mean, we are limited. But if you're talking sort of low-end test usage, I would suspect it could be quite comparable to D-Ball, to be honest. Hmm. Yeah. Yeah, I don't know. I've never done a Primo-D-Ball cycle, but it does make sense, especially, dude, think about this. Like, back in Arnold's day, they had Primo. They had D-Ball. They didn't have AIs, right? They didn't have Novodex. So, I could imagine Primo would be a great compound to help manage any potential side effects from estrogen back then. Yeah. And we know D-Ball's quite a powerful little drug in his own right. Yeah. Oh, so we didn't get a lot of... I mean, we got people who commented on the last show. We did, like, that whole D-Ball expose. And there were a lot of people who commented saying, I love D-Ball. D-Ball is awesome. But overall, it didn't get a ton of views. And I really chalked that up to the lack of popularity for D-Ball. You know what I'm saying? It's old-fashioned, isn't it? It's not trendy and modern. It's old-fashioned. It's not a peptide. It doesn't start with a load of numbers or have slew in it. You know? Yeah. It's just... Yeah, it's... If it's not new and trendy and cutting-edge, then there is an element of, is it any good? Well, you know, the fact that D-Ball, Test and Decker have survived 30 years of abuse would argue that they've got some merit as being effective. Here's a good one. Question for the next show. Best way to taper up doses on a long cycle with Longaster, say 20 weeks. Was thinking of a little less for five weeks and then a little more for the last five weeks. So, two bump-ups. Yeah. Okay. I'm not saying that the weeks... What's the total doses, I wonder? I'm not saying that the weeks need to be five-week intervals, but, yeah, I mean, generally, peak plasma off the cycle in cheese is going to take five, six weeks. Obviously, slight variance depending on dosing, but we normally sort of plateau about five, six weeks. So, I think five or six would be perfectly reasonable periods to have maximized the previous increase before you go to increase again. Yeah. And if you did six, you could actually run an 18-week cycle with three neat... You had two neat jumps, couldn't you? Six, six, and 18's done. But I wonder how much he's taking to begin with. Like... There's that. You know, are you an advanced user? Are you pushing up to 1,500 tests on this cycle? Or are you topping out at 500? Because if you're topping out at 500, I wouldn't waste my time with 200 for the first six weeks. You know what I'm saying? Like... Yeah, there's an element of that. I think, definitely. And I think if you are using big, big doses, then you sort of need a taper anyway, because coming fresh in at full whack is going to hit you like a fucking sledgehammer. I've done that, though. I've done that. Straight out the gate. And how did it feel in comparison to more of a tapered approach, young man? Well, you know what? The benefit of the taper is kind of like we were talking about with adding that Anivar in the last eight weeks, six to eight weeks of a plan, that you get that morale jump, that boost, you know, of knowing, okay, now we're ramping up. And, dude, there is something to be said. And, you know, I understand that, you know, we don't downregulate the receptor. But there is something to be said about how a cycle feels at five weeks in when everything is just built up versus 15 weeks in. You know what I'm saying? Like, there's diminishing returns over time. There's obviously that increase in stress factors, that increase in inflammation, that negative pushback that you're going to get from the stress and toxicity that the drugs carry, you know. So that builds up over time and starts to become an issue. So there's definitely that. I do think, you know, it is worthy almost building reviews into a cycle where at a set point, I'm just going to review, maybe not necessarily bloods, but I'm going to take an honest overview of where I am. Oh, I agree. You know, is my training still where it needs to be? Is my diet still on point? Have I had too much social going on? You know, am I starting to take the foot off the gas? And just give yourself a review. I think it's very, very useful to set that into a period throughout a cycle just so you don't get complacent and you do keep on top of it. Because at the end of the day, you know, none of us are saying there's no health risk with these drugs. There definitely is. Those can be managed to an extent and even offset to an extent. But if you're going to risk your health, you might as well make sure you're getting the biggest return you can out of that. Yeah. In making sure you're maximizing everything else. I find that with my clients, I like to try to get to know them a little bit more than just what their check-in information is, their weight, you know, their strength, kind of pumps the head, what their sleep was like. All those things are important. But I also kind of want to know, like, where are you at mentally? Are you chomping at the bit to get in the gym at 12 weeks into the cycle? Or are you starting to get, you know, complacent about it? Because that's going to be a huge effect. So I guess what I'm getting at is I think that if you have a coach, that's something that you guys should be in communication about, I think, through. To be able to continue kind of calling yourself on that, you know what I mean? Well, it should sort of come across anyway, because your client should be saying, look, it's been a shit week, or my strength's not where it was, or I'm just, you know. So, yeah, but definitely conversation needs to be had about all aspects. All right. How about this one? Oh, this is an interesting one, too, from Optimus Prime Rib. He says, hey, Scott, question for the next week. He says, on a popular underground forum, one of the sellers is about to introduce an estradiol siponate at 10 milligrams per milliliter to combat crashed E2. It's caused quite a discussion where one argument is to just drop the offending PED. Another is to add D-ball to get E2 up. And finally, from the old school boys saying, if you inject this stuff, you're, you're, and then they put a rainbow in there. So I'll just leave it at that. Just wondering what your thoughts are regarding this product. Cheers. Cheers. Yeah. Anybody that's used estrogen? Nothing to do with me. He asked Scott. Didn't ask Dave. Didn't ask Dave. He just asked Scott. Well, he actually said, hey, Scott, I've got a question for the next week. He didn't say, Scott, I have a question for you. Oh, right. For the next week. He said for the program. The program. That's not how you said it initially, because you were trying to make yourself look more important, weren't you? Yeah, I see how it is. I said, hey, Scott, question for next week. I, you know. Did I, guys, did I make myself sound self-important with that? No. Scott, we want you to answer this. Hey, Scott, question for you for next week. We don't care what Dave thinks. Well, I don't care what Dave thinks, to be quiet. You know, my initial reaction is, but actually, if I take the time to sit and think. So you've got, like you say, you've got three defined approaches here. Lower the offending drug that's causing the low EQ. Increase the wet side of the drug so you've got more estrogen. But you may not want to increase your total anabolic load. So that would remove that option. You may not want to particularly, I suppose you could do a little bit of both, where you had a little bit more aromatized and a little bit less DHT suppression. So there would be that option. But actually, I don't see an issue with adding E2 into it. But it's not something that's readily available. Well, I suppose it's readily available for females, isn't it? It's readily available in oral contraceptions and stuff like that. Maybe not so much. I don't know what it's like in the States for injectable estrogen. But definitely not something that's commonly over here. I think Victoria would have something to say on this, honestly. Why don't we get her feedback? Because she's commented to me on this before with injectable estradiol not being the ideal route. But let me, I'm not going to put words in her mouth. I'll get back to you guys. Yeah, I mean, on paper, I don't have a massive offense. But I'm also not particularly up to speed or familiar with how viable, you know, synthetic estrogen is in the sense of what's available out there in the marketplace. Has this person, I mean, am I right in understanding that this is a person that has a lab or has manufactured this product? It's a company. Yeah, there's a company on the message board that he's at that is going to begin releasing this product. And I've seen it before. I've worked with a few guys who have used estrogen, injectable estradiol. So, I mean. I suppose in one sense it gives you probably slightly more control. Yes, absolutely it does. It's going to benefit a select number of guys that struggle. You know, I mentioned a few weeks ago, I'm working with a guy who on TRT has low estrogen. Yeah, there are people that generally struggle with it. 500 tests has low estrogen. 750 now, his estrogen still is totally under control. No need for even remotely getting into an AI. Never has any sensitivity either. Like, no matter what, he's never had, you know, any issues. And the numbers are always low. For him, it could be fantastic. I've worked with guys that we've used a low dose of ment, you know, getting that in there. Or a low dose of D-ball, getting that in there. And I've seen that become a game changer for some people. The guys that don't produce enough estrogen. But that's a rare case, man. Put it this way. Imagine if you're a full-time coach, you can easily handle, say, 100 clients. And if I've handled, say, 100 clients at once, I would say that out of those 100, my percentage would be like 5% of people might benefit from an Estradiol. Versus most of the time, it's just we can manage without it. Hmm. Yeah, it's, hmm. Yeah, I don't have an answer, I'm afraid. I see the logic. I see where the numbers would work. I just don't know if the product's going to do what it needs to do in the same way as natural. Because, obviously, we've not just got E2. We've got E1 and E3. And there's other factors in there. And I don't know how that plays into any of this. Yeah, let's ask Victoria. I mean, this is literally her wheelhouse as a researcher. All right. Question for you guys. I feel that, oh, okay. This was just more or less a comment, too. He said, I mentioned last week, remember I was saying, hey, do you think gyno is less frequent now that we're using more DHTs versus back in the day we used more D-ball compounds like that? He said, I think gyno is far more common nowadays. I'm unsure if it's the food or water or what's driving this. But both men and boys are experiencing more extreme gyno. So, yeah, there are environmental estrogens. That's not what we were talking about. Yeah. So, if we're talking about gyno in a non-using population, yes, it has definitely increased. And that is significantly influenced by modern diet and modern technology as well, which I'll clarify in a second. But we were talking about the user community. And I think in the user community, generally, gyno is at lower levels than it used to be or low frequency than it used to be. But in the general populace, yes, gyno has increased. Why do I mention technology? Because it has been shown that exposure to technology lowers testosterone levels. Really? Yeah, it's the stress side of it. So, social media influences and stuff like that. Being exposed to high levels of social media, being exposed to high levels of phone interaction can actually lower your testosterone levels. And it's to do with stress-induced factors. Lower test means lower DHT. Lower DHT means less protective agents towards gyno naturally because DHT is naturally anti-gyno. Guys, if you are experiencing low testosterone due to technology, I have a simple solution. Your show has been banned for the promotion of drug use. Yeah, we can get around that, Dave. Yeah, but if I say it, you fucking tear me a new one. I don't think you do it. It's all right. We have a problem in our community with technology causing low testosterone. Let me just put it that way. No, but we weren't talking about our community, were we? We were talking about the greater populace. So, are you saying that our show is lowering their testosterone? Is that what you're trying to tell me right now? Oh, no, this definitely increases testosterone level by at least 10 n more. In fact, just by clicking on the subscribe button, you become more jacked. I like where you're going with this. So, we didn't even get to his question yet. He said, love the show. And myself, I'm an advocate of D-Ball, and it's part of my current cycle. I'm doing 15 milligrams a day, Monday through Friday, in the mornings, and then weekends off to let my lever have some time to repair somewhat. I have run my labs, and I'm in great shape with this form of intake. I tried 20 milligrams, but was getting higher estrogen than I felt comfortable with. What's the question? I don't know. What are you asking me for? Oh, maybe he didn't have a question. He was just sharing his experience. Okay. All right. Hey, what's up, guys? I got a commercial here for True Nutrition. You've seen me talk about the cold-filtered weight ISO before. This is, like, the legit high-quality stuff. And this month, I'm trying an experiment because I want to try to save some money. I bought a pound of weight concentrate. So, this is, like, the cheap protein, right? Because I figured if I can save some money, like, nothing is cheap anymore, right? Like, everything is freaking expensive. Bodybuilding is expensive. And I want to try to still get enough protein in to grow muscle. So, I'm going to see what happens if I do, like, a half a scoop of this to a scoop and a half of this. Can I get away with that? Does it bloat me? If not, if I don't get gas, if I don't get bloating, then I'm going to run with it and save some money. And you guys can save some money by using our code THINK. That directly helps to support our programming, too. Every time you guys use the code, I get an email that says, hey, one of your listeners used the code. Thank you. All of that stuff. It really does directly help to support our shows. And you guys get 10% off on stuff that you would have bought anyway. High-quality protein, creatine, intra-workout. You guys know the drill. Thanks for answering my question. Oh, this is turkey, by the way. So, we were wondering, what can you get in turkey? He said, you can get arimidex, Aromazine, Letrozole, and other ancillaries like T4, T3, etc. But in turkey, you can't get testosterone, Primo, and HCG anymore. Oh, okay. That's sad, man. Yeah. I love Dave, but the trend scare seems way overblowing on his end. Well, I suppose part of the problem for me is that I tend to get a lot of people that are in a mess, just by the nature of what I do. So, I may see a disproportional level of problems from compound use, with trend being the big one that seems to screw people's heads up. So, yeah, maybe I am coming from a standpoint where I see a disproportional level of problems because of what I do with arm reduction stuff and that side of things. So, as a result, but I personally just am very wary of the compound. Mainly because a lot of the psychological stuff that comes with other compounds is sort of, you know, stop using, it's not really such a big problem. Whereas with trend, that doesn't as much seem to be the case. And a lot of people that end up with anxiety and paranoia and all the rest of it from trend use are still dealing with that when they finish the trend. And it's one of these compounds as well where, you know, you're all right, you're all right, you're all right. And then, shit, no warning, out of nowhere, fuck me, I'm a screw loose. And I think my missus is shagging everything that moves. And I'm completely losing the plot. And so, it does tend to creep up on people without warning. So, that's the other thing that makes me very wary around trend. So, yeah, I accept where he's coming from and don't really argue against it. He could have a valid point. It's just, out of all the compounds that we mess with, it's the one that I see leaves the biggest trail of damage behind it. Yeah, I like that British term, lose the plot. That's a great way of putting it. You know what I mean? Like, you're kind of losing your mind. You're losing the plot. Like, you kind of forgot the plot and you're just kind of going off. I get it. I like that. It's also surprising how many people cover up problems. You'll be shocked how many people that you may even follow or you may even, you know, listen to that have issues that they're just not being public about. Because they know it would damage them in a case of reputation or financially or whatever it may be. Yeah. And it's a shame that there is that level of deception within the industry. But I suppose, to a degree, that level of deception exists in all industry. If something was to come out that, you know, that would damage them financially or visually, I suppose, or status-wise. I don't know what terminology to use there. Yeah. Yeah, I would say, Tanya, it is a British term. Because I had never heard it in my life until, like, 2005 when I started going on the British message boards. And then I started hearing it all the time. But you guys correct me if I'm wrong, you know, or maybe it's just become more popular. I don't know. I think there's more of a language terminology crossover now just because of the interaction between different cultures the way it is. So, you know, we, for argument's sake, we use terminology over here that isn't really UK relevant. So people will talk about dollar when they talk about money. It's not our currency, but they still use the term dollar. Huh. So, yeah, I think there's a crossover there. Comment. And I think this is a great idea about our episode with D-Ball. It says, watch the whole video. Dave actually drops 50 milligrams of D-Ball at the end. What if every time we did a profile, we actually had to take the compound, too, and then discuss? Fine. Then can I vote for the first compound we do? Maybe. As long as it's a PED. Halo. We do Halo. No. Like a good high dose of Halo, and then we see how it affects us through the episode. A good high dose of cheese on toast. Yeah, that's not a PED, actually, Dave. Believe it or not. Well, it depends on your definition of PED, doesn't it? The EQ discussion is getting more and more interesting. I've been around forever. But now with the shortage, it's getting used a lot more. Now with so many people running labs, we're getting more and more answers. I am running my own experiment right now with testing EQ with labs at week six. I think he's right, man. And I think we kind of predicted this. We did a show. Is EQ going to become the new hot thing now that we can't get masked and primo as readily from a lot of sources? You know? No, and I think that maybe our preconceptions of EQ due to the information that we've had, which was very anecdotal, obviously, because that's what we had, may be wrong. I think there's more to the compound than we probably think. In the live stream, somebody asked us, what do we think about increasing vitamin D to 10,000 units a day in the winter from 5,000 units a day? I am completely for that. Yeah. Also increase your K2, MK7. You want to have that at, I believe it's, what is it, 5,000 units of D to, I believe it's 200 micrograms. Every 5,000 units you want, I believe it's 200 micrograms of MK7. Also, you know what else you can do, Dave? You can get one of these. Shameless plug coming. No shameless plug. It is a shameless what? Is it a silencer? No. Is it some form of weaponry? No. Oh, for fuck's sake, it's bloody red light. I'm just going to leave this on forever. You know how, like, Cuba and people will wear their blue blocker glasses through the whole show, and they'll be like, well, I gotta, you know, I gotta block the blue light. Well, Dave, I gotta get my red light, you know? So this is just what I do now, okay? We're gonna run the red light while we podcast and do a lot of hand gestures. Use my code. By the end of today's recording, there'll be a queue of cars outside Scott's basement. Waiving $50, wanting services. You mean because of the red light? Yes. We don't live in that kind of neighborhood, Dave. People know that I'm working on my vitamin D levels right now. Do they really? Yeah. Actually, I'm gonna tell you, man. There'll be people going to, I always knew that Scott was a bit of a weird one. I always knew he was a bit of a wrong one. Let me tell you something. So this light feels the way fire feels. You know how fire kind of feels like it penetrates your skin, it kind of warms your bones up? It penetrates the skin like that. It feels... Believe it or not, over here in England, we have things like central heating, you know, heating services. You do not. So we're not still lighting fires in the middle of the floor to keep warming winds, Scott? I've seen a lot of movies about England. You guys live in castles and straw huts and stuff like huts with straw roofs, thatched roofs. That's what you have. Wow. Everything is super green now. All right. More questions. And once again, guys, you can leave questions for the next show. Just comment below. I'm 44, 6.1, around 17% body fat. Started UGL test at 200 milligrams of test sip for about four weeks as my levels were 300 nanograms per deciliter. Then did another test before starting a cycle, just to make sure that I wasn't injecting crisp and dry. Turned out four weeks... Oh, okay. Turns out after four weeks, my test was now 3,345 nanograms per deciliter. Free test was 110 and SHBG was 821. According to ChatGPT, I'm a hyper responder. I'm now cycling 360 milligrams of test and 180 milligrams of NPP. Given how I respond, is this too much, too little, or perfect for my first cycle? And what oral would you recommend I finish with? I was thinking of 10 milligrams of Winnie two times a day and an extra 10 milligrams for pre-workout. I'm having zero sides. Thanks so much. Love the show. Right. So, several things. Yeah. The chances are that that test level is actually a post-injection spike. It's highly unlikely to be genuine. I don't want to go as far as saying impossible, but it's very unlikely. If it is genuine, it will be reflected in your estrogen levels. And you would be having some indication of high estrogen, which you are saying you are not. So, one, I think that is just a post-shot spike. Secondly, that would make you a hyper responder. It would make you a shit clearance. A hyper responder would be somebody who responded from genetic growth, physical growth, from muscular improvement, from a low testosterone level. A hyper responder is someone who responds significantly dramatically to an increase in testosterone levels, not someone who has very high testosterone post-injection. If you've got very high levels of tests in relation to your dosing and it's genuine, that's because you're not clearing the drug. So, you metabolize the drug very poorly. There is a difference. But, say, having said all that, I suspect that this is more a case of post-injection spike and that your dosing will be fine. I don't see any reason as to why you need to add an oral at the end of the cycle. So, it's definitely not necessary. And as this is your first cycle, I would just stick with the test. Yeah. I mean, it sounds like he's already on the 360 test and 180 NPP. Yeah, but there's no need to add anything else. There really isn't. And also bear in mind that NPP will also show us testosterone in most blood tests. And being NPP, it will show at a significantly higher rate than normal. So, you'll get a very high artificial spike by running NPP. Yes. Okay. Cornelius Parkin had a cool comment. He says, oral D-ball in oral Primo equals ultra underrated. No needles required. The estrogen is kept under control by the Primo. As the Primo isn't 17-alkaloided, you aren't getting any extra liver toxicity from it. How about that? Corn's been visiting us a lot recently. Yeah. He's always been a regular follower of the shows. And he's awesome at commenting to help to boost the programs up. So, whether we agree with him or not, he's there commenting, which I appreciate. He seems to be getting much more involved recently. Hi, Con, by the way. I hope you're doing well. You know, I've never used oral Primo. I just honestly, Dave, I was like, why? Like, you know, injectable Primo isn't even strong enough. Why even use that? That was my attitude back in the day. You know what I mean? Monstro. Is that... Yeah, I think that's who he's talking about. Is that who I think it is? I'm guessing. The guy that unfortunately passed. Do you think he was trying to be the new GH15? No. No. No, he had some issues, unfortunately. Yeah. I met him a couple times. Yeah. And Ron and Dusty saw him, like, the day before he passed. And Ron was like, man, you know, he just... Because he would show up every year at FIBO. And Ron was like, man, he's not looking good. No. He looks off with him. He, unfortunately, had some... I suppose you could call them addiction issues, really, couldn't you? I mean, he did have an unhealthy relationship with his anabolics. Very unhealthy. And quite extreme as well. Which, unfortunately, cost him his life. Yeah. It's a shame, man. Yeah, yeah. He used to message me quite a lot. Yeah. So what do you think about this oral primo thing? Would you ever revisit that, you know, in modern days? Would you run an oral primo in... I mean, what do you think of... Like, we had that other guy. Remember that other guy who was like, hey, I don't want to run a bunch of D-ball because I'm, you know, my first cycle. I'm afraid of bloating. I mean, what do you think of, like, a guy like that, if you were using just a real low dose of D-ball with some primo? I think, you know, the oral equivalent, so where you've got an oral or an injectable equivalent of a drug, it's very much down to the individual's personal preference of how they prefer to administrate the drug. Orals aren't realistic for high dosing, but they are perfectly viable in other formats, particularly if you don't like injecting. And, you know, some people's fear and phobia of needles is extreme. I mean, we get them quite regularly, falling down and passing out and all the rest of it. You know what I mean? So, you know, it's horses for courses, isn't it? It's whatever suits the application and the individual concerns. Cornelius Parkins with us in the live stream, too. He says, hi, Dave. Yes, I worked out that Scott shouts me out. This creates a situation where I feel compelled to comment. But, yes, getting back into bodybuilding in a healthy way. And Phil Lally has a question for us. He says, this brings up a question. Would hyper-responders to test be based off of total test or free test, plus, of course, the amount of gains acquired from these levels? I don't think it has anything to do with what the levels are. No, it's to do with the progress, yes. Did you know Conn broke his back? He broke his back? He broke his back. Oh, he broke his back? Yeah, he broke his back. Yeah, he broke his back. Jeez. Snowboarding accident. Okay. 10 milligrams of D-Ball added into any cycle for 10 weeks makes the whole cycle better. No moon face, no huge bloat, just fuller muscles and mentally feeling chipper. 10 milligrams doesn't bash my liver either, which is why 10 weeks is so great. He's not the first person to come out and D-Ball giving a good sensation of well-being. Yeah. Dude, I got that too. I noticed it from the first time I ran it. I don't know if it's that nasty methyl estrogen or what, man, but I felt real good every time I used it. A lot of people have said that. All right. Bunch of good stuff here. Hey, guys, question for the next episode. EQ makes the physique vascular and full. It can inhibit estrogen. So why this compound is often used in the offseason, but not so much in pre-contest. No other compound makes my physique that vascular and dense. Okay. Maybe trend, but EQ does it without the trend side effects. It is used in pre-contest. I have plenty of guys that run it all the way in. And other guys that don't. There are times that water retention is a factor. And even if it's not major water retention, Dave, when you're getting on stage, like you can't have even a little. Like even photo shoots, you can have some water retention and it still looks great. When you get on stage, you need to be absolutely bone dry to be, you know, completely the best. You can't edit that out, can you? No. Yeah, yeah. Or angle it. You know what I mean? Like when you're pressure, you can kind of like stand at the right angle and, you know. Plus manipulate the lighting a little bit. Let's just put a bit more shade in there, give you a bit more emphasis so you look a bit drier than you are. Yeah. You might have body parts covered up in a gym shoot that, you know what I mean? You're not going to be able to cover up on stage. Oh, anyway. All right. A couple more here. Okay. And these are from Patreon. This is from David. He says, hey, Scott, question regarding pinning. I've opened up now to using my thighs. So I have six locations that I pin regularly. Delts, glutes, and thighs. However, the first three jabs that I've done in the thighs have given me a real dead leg the following day. No issues with the pinning itself, but the dead leg the next two to three days is real. Would you persist with it or would you give it up? Also, when using multiple compounds in the same day, I use different sites. But is that worth using the same muscle to keep the sites fresh on other days? Cheers. You can definitely combine your multiple compounds into a single shot. There's no reason why you can't add several compounds into one file and shoot them. I find quads tend to be sensitive to the type of compound. So I always found tests problematic, but I found decafine. Other compounds not so bad. So I think that plays a role in it as well. Dead leg could be a few things. So it all depends on really what's driving behind it. Maybe is it the whole leg that's dead, as in the whole muscle feels dead, or is it just the spot you've injected? There could be some swelling post-injection that's putting some nerve pressure on something. So there's a few things that can drive that. So it would depend on a little bit more detail there, I'm afraid. I feel like when you first open up a new site, that new site is not used to, you know, it's going to be more painful at first. I generally, if I were to open up a new site, I wouldn't put my full dose in that muscle the first time. Like if I had, he's using multiple compounds, I would generally use all those compounds together in the same shot. Let's say it was a half mil of test, half mil of trend, half mil of mast. I'm putting that all in the same site normally. But if I were to try to open up a new site, I might only put like a half mil in that site the first several times just to get used to it. You know what I mean? I've also found that you can almost dilute a shot as well with another compound. So for argument's sake, test seems to be one that does create quite a bit of post-injection pain. Yeah. But if you mix test with Decker, you actually dilute the test in the volume of oil, even though there's Decker in it. And as a result, the shot's less painful. So things like that can actually work, you know, in adding the two compounds together as almost a dilute for whichever compound is the harsher when it comes to injection. Yeah. Yeah. I'm down with that. All right. What about this one too? Lolly just has a comment. He says, get those lats in rotation. They can take a gallon at a time. I could not get on with lats. I tried lats. I could not get on with lats. No? No, chest or lats. Lats work good for me. Both never worked for me. Neither chest nor lats. Yeah, I found lats were all right. I didn't mind them at all. Another Patreon question I think we had here. What were we going to say? Nothing. Oh, okay. High DHT converter here. I feel best on 200 milligrams a test, but once my DHT passes 100, I get BPH symptoms. At lower test, 140 milligrams, I'd like to add a second or even third compound in a small dose. How should someone in my situation choose between add-ons? I love EQ for the endurance benefits, but is my test dose too low to justify it? Would something like test, EQ, NPP at 140 to 100 to 100 make sense? Yeah. Yeah. You don't think that that EQ is going to be 100 EQ to 140 tests per week? Yeah, but you've got the NPP creating estrogen as well, haven't you? What about using a medication for the BPH? What about using an anti-DHT compound? Yeah. It would have to be system-wide though, wouldn't it? Yeah. Yeah. Like I'm saying, like five milligrams of finasteride. Yeah. I'm not... I'm not sure. I've always... System-wide DHT suppression, I'm not a fan of. I'd rather always try and localize it to the area where you need the suppression. So with scalp, I'd use topical blockers and stuff like that. Obviously, that's not viable in this situation. You can't rub it directly on your prostate, huh? Yeah. Well, it'd be interesting. Yeah. Obviously, that's not possible in this scenario. Now, though Primo is a DHT, it is and was developed to be as prostate and hair-friendly as a DHT could be. So I'm not sure if they've tried Primo and seen any issues with that out of the DHT drugs. If there's going to be a drug that's going to allow DHT use without having a significant impact on the prostate, then Primo would be the one. Yeah. It's the most developed and refined of the DHTs. Alternatively, yeah, I mean, you've definitely... You know, you're limited with your test to a degree as well, because obviously you've got test conversion to DHT unless you add in something like Finasteride. Otherwise, I'm not sure where you go is the honest answer. Decker's obviously not going to be a problem. So as a result, MPP is not going to be a problem. EQ is only a problem in the sense that it's going to lower estrogen very heavily. So you'd have to make sure that your estrogen levels were controlled and in a decent level. Maybe he's a candidate for the estrogen jab. Yeah. I would see that. Honestly, yeah, I'm a bit... I mean, I'm guessing his prostate issue is because he's seen elevation in PSA, etc., while on these compounds. I think he just had symptoms. So I imagine it had to do with issues with urination, stuff like that. Yeah. Because there are medications that will lower prostate inflammation that don't actually affect DHT. Okay. So there could be that approach as well. If it's just an inflammation of the prostate that's causing the problem, then you could look at medications that lower prostate inflammation. All right. Well, hey, that's all the questions we've got here and all the questions we had time for. I want to give a shout-out to my client, Quinn. He just sent me this picture. He just did his workout. This is him as of right now. Looks good. Literally as of five minutes ago. He's going to do NPC Nationals here in men's physique. Looks good. In another couple days. So that left picture is this morning, and then now this is him after getting his workout in. And we're starting to load today. So we'll see how he does, man. He's looking good. We got the conditioning where it needs to be. He took third place in his class at Junior Nationals last go-around last year. He's done a great job staying plugged in. In fact, Dave, so this guy has a real physical job, right? And he needs to eat a lot of freaking food to grow. And he's a younger guy. He's had problems in the past keeping up with the amount of food he needs to grow. Well, this year, and he's going to understand this now that I'm telling about what I'm doing, but I kind of tricked him. And we started the prep real early because I know that once he gets on prep, he's not going to miss any of his meals. You know what I'm saying? And it's not like he's intentionally missing meals. It's just that he has so much food it's hard to keep up with. But because he was in prep like eight months out, he's been so plugged in, man, this whole year. You crafty bastard. Shh, don't tell him. Don't tell him. You might not see this. But yeah, he's doing good. So yeah, we're just starting to load now. Dave, do you have any Uncle Dave's wisdom? Do you have any car updates for us? Anything like that? So Uncle Dave's wisdom. Don't record a podcast when you've drunk four and a half liters of water and you're desperate for a piss. There's Uncle Dave's wisdom on that one. So you got to go. You got to pee is what you're telling us. Hey, real quick. No, not really. Somebody asked us, what's the details on Dave's truck? Okay. So, 2013 Dodge Ram 1500 Sport 5.7 Hemi, forged internals, MMX cam, but I think I might be changing that to an FRP cam. 6.4 intake, which is definitely going and the Holley intake's going on. 87 mil port of throttle body. Did you say milf? 87 mil ported throttle body. The only reason I've gone to an 87 and not gone bigger is because the pipework for the ProCharger is 87 mil, so it's sort of pointless having a bigger throttle body. Long headers, custom midsection, baller back boxes. Fox coil overs. EVO power stop discs. So they're vented and cross drilled and slotted with SSB 8-pot front calipers, 4-pot rear calipers. Oh, yeah. I always go with the SSB calipers. Yeah. Always agree. It's a stock. Why do it without it? HP 70 at the moment, but that will get a tickle at some point. It's going to have a ProCharger. It's going to have the MMX twin Hellcat fuel pump fuel system fitted. Currently, I've just had a custom grill done. Oh, really? Yeah. Nothing fancy. It's just a mesh grill, but I couldn't find one I actually liked. And I've just had some new, I think it's Morimoto headlights. What are the benefits of these new headlights? Like, they look cooler? You can see. Oh. Because the stock ones are shit. Are you going to blind everybody in front of you with these headlights? Definitely. Okay. Other than that, I mean, external-wise, it's fairly stock-looking. But, yeah, that's where we're at. So the next job is the fuel system, the ProCharger, the intake torque converter, and changing the cam on bigger injectors. I've got 6.4 injectors in at the moment, but I'll be going up to bigger ones than that. You ever, like, just, like, just freaking gun it and take off and spin the wheels and stuff? Regularly. Regularly? Regularly. Can you get a video for us at some point when you have the opportunity to have somebody shoot a video of you doing this? Can you get a video of this in action? You said a whole bunch of numbers that mean absolutely nothing to me. I'm sure there are some listeners that get it. I understood none of that. None of it. But if I saw a video of you peeling out, then I would totally get it. You know what I'm saying? With the current setup, with the ProCharger running 12-pounder boost, I should be pushing down about 750 wheel, which will be, like, 850, 900 crank horsepower. So, with the intake and the cam changes and the torque converter, I could probably stick another 50 brake horse on that. If I go, and that's on 93 octane, if I go to ethanol, then we will definitely be north of the 1,000 at the crank. And how many tickets have you gotten with this? None. I got one off the nolva the other day. Did you? Yeah, that could be a nasty one, actually. Are your tickets expensive over there? Well, we do a... So, you get a fine, which is based on earnings, and then you get points. Wait, they base your ticket off of how much you make? Basically, yeah. Holy crap. Yeah. So, like, if you make good money, you're going to pay a lot more. But you will pay more, yeah. And then they... And if you make minimum wage, which I appreciate that, man, because I got tickets, you know, when I was younger, and I didn't make a lot of money, and it was like, holy crap, this is literally all my free money for, like, the next two weeks. Yeah. And then you get points, and if you get over 12 points, they ban you. Okay. Do you have any points? I've got six, and the last one will... the last one I was going rather quick. When do your points roll over? Do they... Or do they... Three years. Three years. You get rid of them for three years. Okay. But, yeah, so the last one I was going quite quick, so that could cause me a problem. Does that affect your insurance? Oh, fuck yes. Yeah. Oh, yes. Yeah, so it's the same every year, I guess. Yeah, massively. And before we go, do you have anything else that you want to tell us about? Oh, are you leaving? When are you leaving on your trip? I go on holiday on the 17th, and come back on the 27th, 28th. So I will be here for next week. Okay. But then I will miss the week after. Okay. And then I'll be back for the week after that. So we'll return with season two of Drugs and Stuff. Of Dave being still as fat, but slightly browner. Where are you going? Maldives. I've never been there before. I am literally... So it's an island. It's quite small. You can walk around it in like 20 minutes. Really? And it's just... That's it. It'll be sitting on the beach and doing nothing. Oh, dude. That sounds cool, man. And the places you guys get to go, to me, it is another world away. For you, that's probably not a far flight. How long is the flight for you? 10 hours. Oh, geez. Yeah. So for me, it's probably like 25 or something crazy. Yeah. I mean, the thing is, America as a country has so much variety. Whereas the UK, we've got wet. At this time of year, you've got wet. Or you've got cold and wet. And that's about it. You know, you, without leaving your country, can travel to swamps, to baking sunshine, to snowy mountain peaks, to wooded valleys. You know, the country has so much variety in it, which we don't get as being the podgy little island nation that we are. You guys have villages, and then you have castles, and more villages. And dragons. And castles, right? Yeah. And, well, yeah, you've got to avoid the dragons, though. Nice. It's dragon season at the moment, so they're out-roaring. Carriages, things like that. Yeah. I've seen the movies. I know all about England. Guys, we appreciate you tuning in. Go to evalbloodanalysis.com. Get your labs done by Dave. Check out truenutrition.com. Use our code THINK over there for 10% off all your orders, all your basic bodybuilding supplements like protein powder, creatinine, your workout, all that. Strong sports nutrition for great health stacks if you're on cycle, both in the US and the UK. I've got links for all the stuff below, by the way, guys. Supplementsource.ca for Canadians. They have great deals that change week to week. Thank you for your Patreon questions. I've got old episodes that aren't coming out anymore. They aren't available anymore on the regular channel. They're coming out on the live channel. So you guys can go back and watch all the old episodes that basically got banned. And for another episode of the podcast, guys, with Dave Crosland, we'll see you soon. Thanks, Dave. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Shimmy. You guys are awesome. It looks red at the end. Oh, you don't think the weird lines and swellings on it are normal then, do you? What's going on with that? Fuck nose, mate. Fucking kills. Can't use it. Really? Just that finger? Yeah. Well, I had a flare up in that knuckle when I went to Amsterdam, as you were aware. And then I went down to see the doctors that week because I thought I'd got, because sometimes it will develop into cellulitis for weird reasons. I don't know why. And it had done. So they gave me some antibiotics. Yeah. And she just, not aggressively or anything. She was just saying, right, does this hurt? Does that hurt? You know. And she just squeezed that one. And I went, oh, man, that kills. Yeah. And she's like, right. Okay. But nothing done about it. And then now the fingers just reacted to that, swollen up massively, fucking killing me. And now this hand's not much use because of the pain in that finger. Jesus. Well. But it's like even, so like if I move, so like that is painful. Yeah. The position of the finger is painful. So it's not just the fact that this is sensitive and sore. Yeah. The actual finger position hurts. Yeah. I'm getting a bit fed up with it now. Remember you were telling us before, you're like, I don't ever deal with any kind of inflammatory issues. No. I said I don't have joint problems in general, like elbows or shoulders or stuff like that. Well, we're talking about inflammatory processes, which includes insulin resistance is an inflammatory issue. It is. You're right. Correct. It is. Mine's not great, but it's not terrible. But that's where reddit trutide works as an anti-inflammant for those. It brings down systemic inflammation of all types. Well, it's not bringing this down. Are you on it, reddit, to prove it? No. No. You know, I like that idea for you. I think reddit would be beneficial. Dave on reddit in 2026. Also, I have an idea. I'll mention it on the show, though. We have some people here. Let's get this thing rolling. time.