See you upstairs. See you afterward. See you. Bye. And now we're back to our regular show of three dumb idiots. I always feel dumber after that scenario goes down. Yeah, we're back and we're dumber. I'm dumber. But I do have We do have some really important questions though, guys. Like stuff that is really like we got to do this. It's important. We have to pay her for that. It's serious work. We have serious work ahead of us. say, "If you could only train on one brand of gym equipment for the rest of your life, what would it be from from her?" So, enough thinking. What sticker do you like best your opinion now? Here we go. Yeah, that's pretty much it. What sticker do you like best on your bicep machine? Oh, man. That's rough. That's rough. Oh, this is really all we're qualified for, so that's good. We'll be Oh man. Hey everybody, welcome to It's Just Bodybuilding. I'm Big Ron Partllo, and of course, I'm here with Dusty Handshaw and the producer, Scott McN. Remember, like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. Yes, hit the buttons. Click the bell-shaped thing and make it all the report. Yeah. Don't hit the report button unless you're just reporting us for being awesome and you wanted to write an email about us. Yes. Uh f you know, five stars, all that stuff and and the comments are really great. So, make sure you do add your two cents. We'd love to know what you guys are thinking. And you know, it's nice to get your your bells and your subscriptions and all that, but personal contact is really the one thing, especially for me, you know. Yeah. Scott lives in a dystopian city that uh has been, you know, lost to the future and he, you know, unless he wants to deal with rampid crime, he doesn't leave his home and um he needs outside world. Yeah. Yeah. Basically, it's like The Last of Us where Scott lives, you know, like The Walking Dead somewhere. Yeah. I mean, there's a couple blocks here and there on Detroit. We all know it's a wholesome place. There's a couple blocks like that, you know, here. Couple blocks like that in Detroit. Um, yeah, I lost where I was. I am mutant.com. Get your all in. Get your ISO surge. And everyone should get on the gear. Mutant.com. We have lots of mutant. I actually don't have mutant branding on. The first time I double west coasted, but I got my mutant flag hanging over there. So, if we had a fourth person on the show, you'd see the mutant flag and it' be all good. We might need a guest or something later today, like a little smart at some point. Well, hey, uh, thanks to everyone. Uh, the Ron Harris interview went great. I'm really glad the reception he got and and all you people out there that appreciate what Ron had to say and what Ron had to add. And, uh, we had a lot of fun talking to him. So, thanks again to Ron Harris for coming on. That was cool. Let's talk about that. Let's talk about that cup you got there. Look at that. What cup was that? Oh, I'm drinking out of a blender bottle with the stainless steel. I got like a stainless steel blender bottle. Those are nice. Those are good. Yeah, it was a gift. It's got It's got Darth Vader on it. Nice. It was a gift from George and Christina. Ah. Gave this to me for my birthday. Solid gifts. So, yeah. Or it might have been Christmas. I don't know. They're nice people. Came from I don't give people gifts. I'm the guy that gets a gift. I'm like, "Wow, thanks." Really nice. I didn't think of you. Yeah. See, and they give good gifts. Like I just I'm like, I Venmo you some money to go to dinner as if you couldn't buy dinner yourself. Yeah, that's me. I'm like, "Hi, I bought you this thing. It's an envelope with cash in it." Hey, that good cash. I just I always think back to that early Eddie Murphy. I don't know if it was Delirious or Raw, you know, with the leather suit. Delirious is the red leather and Raw's Raw's the blue leather. It's one of those two. But he's like talking about how all he wants for his birthday is money. He's like, "Don't buy me anything. Just give me cash. I just want cash." And that stuck with me my whole life. I'm like, "That's all I want, too." Yeah. That's all I'm giving anyone. All right. Well, I'm not going to send you these Bitcoin then I was going to give you for your birthday. Oh, well, I'll be all right. I'll just send you a hundred bucks instead of that. No, I'm just a terrible shopper. Dusty, are you a good shopper, Scott? Are you like the guy where you give the gift and they're like, "Wow, I can't believe you picked the best gift for me." I'm hit or miss. Like, you know me. I'm hit or miss. I did really good for this year. Uh, but then there'll be years that I just let it go. You know what I mean? So there might be times where I've got like a list that says like Tori gifts on my phone and I'm like adding to it like from like March, you know what I mean? Cuz she'll mention something and then I'll just write it down be like, "Oh, you know these type of special socks." I just put it on there and leave it. Don't say anything. And then there's times that I'm like, "Oh, Christmas is tomorrow. I better see what I can get now." You know, my list is empty. See, I like that you even have a list. I literally just like, "What do you want? Send." And if they send me a picture, I'm like, link. No picture. I'm not even I don't know what that's called. I want a direct link. Yeah. There's no surprises with Dusty's gifts. No. No. None. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. I surprised her with our anniversary couple few couple weeks ago. It was So, it was right at the Arnold, like the the day we were leaving. uh actually the day I left, but we we celebrated the week before and I went out and ordered a bunch of Pedmont beef steak and because she loves that stuff and it's delicious. We got some steaks and we got some like lean ground beef and I had it sent to my mom's house. All right. And thankfully it was really cold here. So I went the day before that we're going to celebrate and I went and picked it up and then I left it in my car overnight cuz it's like 0 degrees outside. It was fine. Yeah. And then we were getting ready to go out on our date day and we, you know, had our grocery bags with us and stuff, take them with us, the reusable ones, and I left it in the trunk. So when she popped the hatch open, the box was there, you know, and it was a big surprise. So she wasn't expecting anything. So it was cool. So I can just get groceries as a present. You can. And now we've got a freezer full of steak and and beef. You know what I'm saying? Yeah. It's a gift. I'm getting you a present, babe. Getting you meat. Big present coming up at the Independent. Big present. Yeah. Yeah. That's fant. That's a well played move though. It's a It's a gift for her for you. Yeah. It's for It's for us. It's like food that we will enjoy together, you know? It's not just like It goes along It goes along with the lingerie. Yes. Also for you. For me, for you. Exactly. For you through me or whatever. Yeah. Remember that you remember that Simpsons episode where Homer bought Marge a bowling ball with his name on it sized for him? Yeah. He's like, "It's so you'll think of me." And then she ruined it by becoming a great bowler with it. Yes. She threw the ultimate fu and was like, "Fine, I'll start bowling then." Do you guys remember the episode where Mark Simpson got jacked and she got into bodybuilding? Oh, yeah. That was Stewie. Didn't Stewie get a hold of her pills and he was all muscular, too? Remember? That was one of the best ever. Wait, I think whatever someone says now. No, no, there's the one where Stewie is all veiny and muscly and Brian covered in veins and he goes, "There's nothing a woman loves more than a vascular man, Brian." Remember? And sometimes when people say, "Man, you're veiny." I'll say, "There's nothing a woman loves more than a vascular man." And most of the time they're just like, "Oh, yeah." They don't get it. Hey, I'm not satisfied until every vein is forced up against my skin. Look how vascular I am, Brian. If there's one thing women love, it's a vascular man. The odd person goes, "Stewie." Yeah. They get my joke. Yeah. Yeah. I just remember Marge was jacked and she had the blender out and she was like, "Oh, I'm going to need to add some anti-estrogens in here and she had an eyropper so she knew about research chems and everything." You know what I'm saying? I was I was impressed. She had she knew about research chemists. Seriously. Bulkanoids for my lats, messomax for my delts, and estrogen blockers for that minty taste. She's backloading an insulin syringe. Back just like the most specific the most specific thing she could be doing. Like you'd have to be a bodybuilder to know. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh man. Okay. Yeah. That was great. You know, I'm trying to find I'm just going to send this to you guys. All right. And I I know Dusty has some some news for us possibly. What's going on? Well, the question though, we have a question here, right? The question is uh about uh Lunsford, right? Yes. Will Derek Lungsford be jumping in? Which one's Pittsburgh? Yeah, because that's that's the the rumor. And uh my question to you guys is what does that do? Um makes other people poorer. Makes for a hell of a show, man. I'll drop that in. I'm going to I was going to drop that in post. So now that you now that you got it to me, Ron, the video. Yeah, let's do I'm going to A little post-prouction action there. There we go. We love doing things in post because then Ron has to or Ron and I don't have to do anything. It's perfect. Yeah. Yeah. It's great. more work for Scott. Um, yeah, there's uh I mean they're just getting started. I'm excited. Like I think uh Derek's I think one of the problems is Dererick's super excited. That's a problem. You know, when you take a guy like Derek who already has been to the top of the mountain and and then of course like the defeat and last year with everything he said he went through like you know questioning whether he should even be there and all that stuff, you know. Mhm. And then the Arnold win and the new the new way of doing things with Chris and some fresh air and just I don't know. I I I can only imagine that Derek Lunsford wakes up excited every day to just get better and better. And I I think Derek probably feels like he's got both hands on the steering wheel right now. And uh I don't know. I mean, he walks into this show. I mean, well, when you look when you look at this group, obviously Nick and Martin in particular, if Derek comes in and they're close, it's good for them. Even if he wins. Yeah. But if he blows the doors off of them, then what? You know, like I feel like that ce I mean more for Nick that cements something where Martin is still on a trajectory where time is on his side. He just he's just hitting his groove. Um you know, I looked at that and that was my first thought is this is this is good or bad for everyone involved. Meaning even even Derek, you know, if somehow he didn't win, that would not be good for him obviously. Um, if it's close, it's good for everyone else cuz it's like, see, we're right there. But if he blows the doors off him, I think that that uh that possibly puts dreams of Olympia to bed because he's not going anywhere. Yeah. I mean, he's not going anywhere. He's he's young. His body's fresh. It's, you know, he he's not planning on stepping away. So, it's not like you can wait him out here. He's he's got 10 years left if he wants to. Yeah. At least he's got a whole decade of being patient. Yeah. Um man, after like after how he looked at the Arnold, um you know, you know, it's different with a smaller show, right? Like we've seen guys crush smaller shows, you know, go into a show and just like crush everyone and we're like, "Oh, wow. He looked amazing." And then at the next at the the next show that's a that's a big lineup Mhm. that guy's like fifth or something. And we're like, "Oh, right." We kind of temporarily forgot his place in the scheme of things, right? Yeah. But coming off coming off the Arnold, that's not the situation. It's not that he was like really great and it was a weaker show and let's see what happens. It was like that was Samson and that was like Andrew Jack and Jacked and everybody else that was really bringing it, you know, that was like a really really really Olympiaish line. Like that was the Olympia lineup minus a couple guys. Like Jesus, Mr. Olympia was there. Yeah. So like what is what do I think is going to happen at the Pittsburgh show? Well, just that but more like I I don't see anyone beating Lunsford, man. If he can beat Samson, who can beat him? I don't know. That's my I talked to Chris last night. Um he did the typical Ron calls me. I I'm watching a game and as soon as I see the number come and I missed. Oh. and I'm just listening and uh and we of course were talking nothing to do with bodybuilding and then finally I was like so Pittsburgh and I won't go into the whole conversation but all he said was what's happened to Derek since the Arnold is frightening. He said we we've come nowhere near the top of what he has. I missed I just missed Chris's I just missed Chris's call. called me yesterday, too. He must have been right after you probably wanted to have the same chat. I was like, "Okay, all right. That's uh that's frightening." And I and I told Chris the same thing, you know, cuz he goes leading into the Arnold, no one really expected him to win. And I said, "Chris, I didn't expect him to win." And I have nothing but respect for Derek. But I said, "I was using your thought process of the 10-story building next to the five-story building." Yeah. And uh and I said and and then he came out and he did say um during prejudging Derek came out first and when he came out he goes I couldn't see very good cuz I was like 10 rows back and he's he's like I can barely see my food when I'm eating. And he goes and I'm kind of looking at him. He goes I think he's look solid. And then he gets a text from Jay and he goes the show's over. And he was the only guy anybody had seen. Damn. He's like, he goes, "Okay, we're in good shape." If Jay Cutler says the show is over and he's only seen one person, that's a pretty solid sign. If he comes in as good as he did at the at the Arnold, he wins. Oh, wow. If he comes in better than he did at the Arnold, then it's the same answer, right? Like the only way he could lose is if he came in off. That' be the only way. if he can replicate that again and Chris says he's better. I mean, I don't know. My only question or concern is, you know, where do they shut it down and give him time to just do what he needs to do in it's a long chunk of time from now to the Olympia, I guess, is my my point. You know, it's a long time to have been in still been in shape between that, you know, between the Arnold and Pittsburgh. You know, it's where do you take a break in this? I I'm rooting for him now having seen what he did and having seen that look he brought. I don't know how he could be better than that. But if he can even match it, it's going to be lights out, you know, just because that was just insane. I I don't care how like I love Martin. I don't care how good he is. I just don't see anybody beating that. The one thing I will say and and Ron's been down this road too is Chris has a way like I've done backto backto back shows before and the way he backs you down and pushes you and backs you down and pushes you usually like most guys will say this when they especially their first couple cracks. You do a show and you got another show in six or eight weeks and another one in six or eight weeks. You start to feel pretty shitty for the last ones. He has a way of just keeping you rolling where it's just I mean as long as your body can handle it, your mind is fine because he does he backs you down right right when you don't think you need it. He's like take a couple days off and you're like what? He's like don't go to the gym. Don't do cardio. You're going to eat these meals and then all of a sudden you've just you didn't even know you needed to and you're brought back to life. Yeah. you know, so if there's anyone that could can push someone like that, plus like like Ron was saying, Derek is in a different place now. I think I think it's so much fun and he's removed all of the nonsense little things that he thought were important, which makes like for me personally, working with Chris is so easy because he doesn't care about the nonsense. And that just makes it stress free when you're not worried about taking these three pills at 3:57 p.m. every day. Yeah. I just it I'm constantly reminded. I just sent a new client to diet yesterday and he's like messages back, what kind of lean steak? And I was like, "What kind of lean steak do you like?" He's like, "Well, I always buy these sirloins from my butcher. They're all the same size." I'm like, "Those are fine." It's perfect. He's like, "Oh, okay. Okay." Like, you know what I mean? Just be consistent, you know, like Chris never told me to buy a certain cut of meat ever. I remember when I was the first year with Chris, cuz I always was adamant that my food had to taste good. I just learned that it made dieting easier. So, I would use like sugar-free ketchup and I have a mustard like a a uh a spicy mustard that I use on everything. And I asked him like six weeks out, I'm like, "Hey, so this stuff um when should I pull it out?" like, "Have you been using it the whole time?" I'm like, "Yeah." He goes, "I don't give a shit." And like, we're like two days out in Vegas and he's watching me just saturate it. Okay, cool. Like, not a word, you know? So, he definitely helps you realize that that stuff if it's been in the whole time, it's fine. Where people screw up is all of a sudden at 8 weeks out, they start bombing their, you know, there's another 150 calories you don't know about as a coach. and you're like, "Why did it pause?" And they're like, "Everything's the same." And then you find out, "Oh, we've started using butter spray." And you're like, "Yeah." Or they do the opposite and they're like, "Well, a guy at the gym told me that you really want to start cutting sodium out, so I actually cut all my sodium out last week." Yep. What? Yeah. You're you're two weeks out and your client is suddenly dealing with all these weird issues. Yeah. And then you find they adjusted their own sodium. I got a pro tip, by the way, guys. I got to share this one. famous Dave's hot pickles. They're like the little um the little pickle rounds, you know, not like the spears. They are so freaking hot. And what I've been doing is I'll take my chicken and rice and I'll take about four or five of them and I'll just like chop them with my scissors into quarters over my food. Mix it all in with And it completely changed my food into something else. And it's like hot. Like my nose is running while I'm eating it, you know, cuz these nickles are so freaking hot. It's good. Oh, I love that. Yeah, I like transform my food into something else. No, they're so good. You do like to be in pain when you're eating. That is that is not a little My dad used to that way. He like spices it up. I'm like, "You're sweating." He's like, "It's so good." I'm like, "It doesn't look good. It looks like you're in pain." I want my eyes to be watering. I want drip off my beard. Yeah. This what I'm looking for. Why is his nose running? Cuz he's eating. Yeah. I want to like think, man, I think I need a bottle of axe. I don't want to think I need that. Only half of the people have any idea what you just said, but that's freaking hurt. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. All right. Okay. Well, I have a question for you guys that I want to throw in right now because the people need to know. If you woke up in a jail cell in a third world country and got one phone call, who are you calling? And you can't say me because I'm with you. Um Oh, I was actually gonna say that I might call you Dusty. I might call Rick Collins depending what I'm there for. Good choice. Good choice. Good call. Or I call Victoria. She calls Rick. You know, there you go. Phone a friend. Phone a friend. What? So So what's your What's your final answer, Ron? I was just kidding about that other part. I honestly might call you because you would notify like everyone that needs to know and then you would plus you're American so you might be able to I don't know finagle Dusty know somebody. So Nikki Nikki sent me this question from the nail salon and I had an immediate thought of who I would call and Ron's going to change his answer as soon as I say this. I would call Dennis James. Oh yeah, because it without leaving his house. He probably knows someone there that would just make a call. Apologize to me and take me to the airport. Really? There you go. Okay. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Get to know Dreams. You see, if I tell a Canadian, then they're going to be on the phone like trying all the diplomatic channels like trying to get a hold of the government and doing all that on the phone stuff. But if I tell an American, they just do what Americans do. They round up a team of their buddies who are all ex-military guys and then they they charter a plane and they come down and they pull me out themselves. Isn't that what Americans do in the South? Yes. You don't wait for nobody. You know what I mean? I just call some rednecks and be like, "Handle this." They're like, "I've been waiting my whole life for this moment." I don't know. Rescue Operation Operation Rescue Ron. Hey, speaking of Dennis James, we got to get him back on the show. He He wanted to come on and do some reactions with us like literally over a year ago. So, let's make that happen. I'll text him as soon as we're done. Dennis is great. One of my favorites. Okay. All right, Scott, you want to roll through some of the questions we got? Yeah, we had a bunch of good ones. So, uh, Dusty put up a question thread. I put up a question thread. And by the way, I usually don't do this. In my entire history of owning an Instagram account, I have not asked people like, "Hey guys, go follow me on Instagram." But listen, I'm like 39 people away from cracking 11,000 followers there. So, please, if you aren't following me on Instagram, I am on my knees begging and pleading you like a true influencer. Please follow me. That would get a lot of hits. Yeah. All right, I'm going to follow you finally just because you finally asked. Thank you. I appreciate it, Dustin. I do. I do. I've actually had that awkward thing where there's someone that I know well and then I go to send them a message and I realize I don't follow them and I'm like, how do I not follow you? We've been friends forever. Sometimes you will unfile like Instagram will unfollow you from people too. You know, there's there that does happen. I've had that happen. Instagram also boldface lies. I had someone send me a screenshot of this like spring break reel. Yeah. Right. It was like some like chick was this for like views, you know, where they act dumb and they guzzle vodka. Yeah. It was like, she's like, "Party time." And she guzzles vodka. And they took a screenshot of it and they're like, "Oh, you're you're anxious for spring." Haha. And they sent it to me and it said that I had liked it. Said Rep 300 liked it. And I was just laughing. I was like, "Oh, maybe I liked some dumb meme someone sent me." Right? So then I said, "Just curious. Can you send me the actual link? Like, can you send it to me so I can look at it again?" So they send it to me and I click on it and there's no heart. So, I hadn't liked it. That's funny. I had So, Instagram just bullface lies to people. Wow. That you liked it. That's gonna be my excuse for some of the scandalous [\h__\h] I like. I didn't I took a screen. Yeah. So, you take a screenshot and send it back to them. Go see. I didn't like it. The heart's not lit up. Oh, they just thought you unliked it. Yeah, right. That's all I'm not saying your [\h__\h] at all and I would like it again so I can go back and see it. Um, you know, yeah, I have had friends tell me that they unfollowed me when they didn't. Like they're like, "I hadn't seen your stuff for a while, so I went on and somehow I unfollowed you." And it's actually someone know personally well and I'm like, "Yeah, oh that's weird." It happens on YouTube, too. So that said, Yeah. Yeah. So if you guys are watch cuz YouTube will test you occasionally. They'll be like, "How was your YouTube experience?" And you can either hit a button or you can exit out. If you don't answer, then they don't necessarily have the the what they were looking for, which was human interaction. And so they may think that you're a bot if you don't do a lot of direct like interactions with them for humanness. Yeah. Yeah. And then they'll start unsubscribing you from channels. So yeah, just check guys. Make sure you subscribe, hit the bell, all that. So we got to play along and be nice to the bot. Yes. Be nice to the bot. All right. So we got a bunch of stuff. Starts dusty. Then next thing you know is we're not allowed to tell our androids to clean up after us in a mean voice. That's what's next. A mean voice. Talking to your android. Can't have sex with your android without permission. Can and all you're going to this stuff is coming. You just totally reminded me of do do you remember in the hangover where he goes it's like masturbating on the plane. It's not illegal. was just frowned upon. He goes, "I'm pretty sure that's illegal." Yeah. Maybe since 911. Thanks a lot, Bin Laden. Yeah. Just be able to just relax in peace. Yeah. Oh, man. All right. We'll start with this one. Scott just had a separate show on this topic, but I'd love to get Dusty and Ron's take on it as well since you've both had experience with it. tips, tricks, habits, and other processes that you've used when coming back from a layoff, injuries, time away, etc. Uh any specific methods or ideas for putting the train back on the tracks and getting the machine running again, i.e. diet, uh clicking, training, humming, uh lifestyle back on track. Thanks. This is a great question and to me it's also super simple. I just move on. Like I just flip a switch and I'm just back at it and I don't think about any of the off time. Like you're just move on. Like I just get back to the routine and just pretend it's another regular day and you're so your poundages are down or whatever and you train lighter, whatever. Just go back in just go back in and do what you normally do. Like keep it super simple. Don't overthink any nonsense and just get the noise out of your head. I'm back in the gym today and and just, you know, plan to go, you know, whatever your prep weights are. Do your work sets with those or whatever. just set an easy bar, go in, back at it, done deal, and just don't think about don't dwell on [\h__\h] I was going to say the the thing that that I think a lot of people miss and I'm assuming that they love to train all those things is comparing where they are now to where they were before. Oh yeah. And that's first off, it's dumb because it doesn't matter. There's nothing you can do about it like Ron was just saying. But secondly, if instead of doing that, you go in like I didn't even go in with the bar after my uh nap. I just went in and said, "I'm training again." And I was excited to be there. And the cool part was my poundages were so low that I didn't worry about, oh, I used to be so strong in this and now I'm using a quarter. Actually, I didn't even on the uh quarter. Yeah. I failed using a quarter on a Arsenal shoulder press. the first time we didn't even work. And but what I was able to do was instead of worrying about that, the jump percentage-wise from one week to the next was so absurd that it was really fun cuz let's say I got to that quarter and I got five today. You'd think, "Oh, that's horrible. You used to do six plates aside, but next week I'd get 11." And it's like, "Oh, yeah. Now we're rolling." You know what I mean? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Every week was like that for the longest time. And if it's if you just f focus on the dayto-day of improving, then you wake up like, "Oh, I'm pulling six plates off the floor again." Like, it doesn't matter. And as far as the rest of it, I I think, and it's funny, but Nikki and I talked about this this morning. What makes it difficult for Ron or I to answer this is this is literally what we've always done and loved to do. So, for me to go back in, of course, I go back in. Like, it's not hard to get into a routine. like this is what I want to do. So, it's just like, oh, thank God I can drive myself to the gym again. Let's go. It is a little bit harder having been driven into it so hard because retired, I can already tell you that Ron has or will eat chicken and rice today because that's just how we live. You know what I mean? It doesn't end. It'll never end. When you're 70 years old and you're sitting down to eat, you'll still call it meal two, right? It's never because this is how you've always done. You know what I mean? Like, yeah, it'll never end. It'll never end. That's just the way it is. So, but I think Ron nailed it. It's it's being patient and just enjoying the fact that you get to go back. I don't know why people lose the idea that it's fun. Like, we're just in there having a good time. It's never like you I think one thing a lot of people would do themselves a favor with is if they could just sit and think to myself the most important thing as far as being a bodybuilder is wanting to constantly make any kind of progress even if that's progress I've already made and what I mean by that is bodybuilding never it is it's not just building your physique up. It's constantly coming back from setbacks at any sort of high level athletics or sport or physical. And just think of like being a golfer. They think of what golfers I got, you know, friends that are golfers their whole lives. They it's it's very similar. They strive their entire life to just try to get better and they're always be a got back injury, shoulder injury, you know, and and their best evers aren't linear. their best ever is like well four years ago I was really hammering and then I've been dealing with this and I dealt with a hip for two years and then I had a season where I actually had some I scored my best ever like I had a best ever season again and then another's you know dealing with the back and didn't get like it it's it's like that you're always trying to progress so one of the reasons why I've had longevity in the gym and I still enjoy training is every time I'm like I'm always coming back from some kind of set setback or injury or this hurts or that hurts. Even like the other day I belt squatted three and a half plates. That's nothing. But I was extremely happy because I was like, "Oh, that's my best set of three and a half plates on the belt squat. I went the deepest. I had the most control. That's my best set in like 6 months." Mhm. So, even though that's a weight I could have handled [\h__\h] 20 years ago, like for 20 reps, I'm still see feeling that progress. I still feel like I made progress. Even though I'm using a weight I could have used years ago, I still I made progress again. It never ends. And you have to be okay with you have to find the joy in that and find the love in that. That's what training is all about. You know, bodybuilding is like a a neverending constant problem solving exercise. It really is. I remember I I saw Jay in like ' 04 and he had some pictures out at the he was set up by the booth at my store and he had a shot from 01 and he was just and I god damn Jay this shot and he chased that for he goes this picture haunts me. Yeah. Because he he couldn't he replicated it in ' 09 8 years later and he still says 01 still his best. Right. He still thinks 01 was still his best. The physique was fresher, you know, yet, but it doesn't mean he didn't make advancements or do things well, but just the the stars aligned on one day in a way that they never in his eyes never did again. Yeah. Yeah. You know, so I I think that that is a a general theme with everything. And I I I don't know if maybe I I don't want to talk too much on this topic, but I don't know if maybe that's really ingrained in me and from before bodybuilding. I don't know where that came from. Some people don't have it. Like it's like my love of guitars. I've played guitar for 35 years and there's been years where I was about as good as if I'd played for two. And then there were years where I was good enough that you might have thought that maybe I'd been in a band. Have you ever been in a band? You like, you know what I mean? So, my skill level on the guitar has done this drastically over the years as I've played and not played and played and not played. But my love of doing it and my love of having the pursuit of it in my life has never wavered. And so that's the whole thing like why do you train? Why are you a bodybuilder? Is it for some reward that you think is coming at the end or is this just something you love to do and it's in you and you know you might have a shoulder injury for 6 months but you're going to come back you're you know what I mean like there's that love of training that has to be there as a foundation of it whe no matter how good you are no matter how banged up you are no matter where you are in your bodybuilding you know timeline you have to you know want to make those gains again and I don't know want to put in the time I think one more thing to tie it in is it goes across at the highest level, right? Like I already said, Jay, if I were to ask everyone here, what year was Phil's best Mr. Olympia? It wasn't his last. What year was Ronnie's best Olympia? It wasn't his last. Hell, his best look in my opinion was an Arnold Classic. And then the same thing, I remember I just I was just talking to James. I don't know if we were on the show or separately, but we were talking about moving weight, and he goes, "Oh, I don't do that anymore. I can't I can't do what I used to do." but he still loves to go in there and tear it up and he's a better bodybuilder now. And not because he's doing less, but because that foundation was already built. So, not only does he not only can't he, but he doesn't need to anymore. The risk-to-reward isn't there. So, keep that in mind is is I like to remind people the the trajectory is not linear. If it was, then by the end of my career, I'd have been deadlifting 1,200 lb. Yeah. Because it has to keep going up if that's the rule. But we all know just like that. I mean, there's times you look back and you do something crazy. You're like, I haven't pulled that in three years. Holy [\h__\h] Like, you know, and there's those days like you said, Ron, where you where you do the six plate squat and you rack and go, cool. I don't ever need to do that again. Right. Right. I can say I did it and we can never do that again. Like, right. Yeah. So, it's a great question though. I'll throw one in real quick with it and I because like I said I I did do or he said I did do a a whole uh ask me anything and the whole first 15 minutes was dedicated to this topic and I I laid out like six points and it's funny because on our date day we went to Mayberry State Park and went hiking and I told Victoria I had this topic and she said that's a really good one for you. She gave me a bunch of those points. She was like I've been watching what you've been doing and here's these things and I was like okay let me write these down. So, she actually showed me like these are the things I've seen you do. And it so it was kind of cool to have somebody else notice that stuff. But I would say one thing was getting consistent with my food isn't something that happened overnight again. It was something that I just had to make sure I prepped my food first so I had it and then from there I just tried to do better. Just like Ron's talking about not getting as many plates in the gym. You know, it's like maybe for me a win is eating two chicken and rice meals today. You know, maybe I didn't eat that yesterday. Maybe I ate my breakfast, my meal one, and then things kind of fell apart and I had a shake here and I ate some chicken there and ate some [\h__\h] and then I ate, you know, some protein for dinner, whatever. If I ate two chicken meals, that's definitely improvement from that. So, it's like it doesn't have to be perfect, just better than it was the day before. Keep it easy and it'll slowly but surely kind of come back together. I wish you guys were coming out to the Detroit Pro. By the way, we had a bunch of questions about those. It would be a great show. It'd be a great show. Somebody do that, Scott. You would have failed. Oh, if I just Some people can do that, man. Because you would have Well, but I'm saying like if you said it has to be perfect and then it isn't for a week or two weeks or three weeks, then you're like, "Oh, it's just not in me anymore." Yeah. Versus just saying, "Well, it was better than it was yesterday. Well, better was last week. And then, I mean, Scott was nice enough to share me his uh progress pictures the other day, and I was like, "Holy [\h__\h] it's coming along, man. It's coming along. I'm not ready to share them publicly." We'll get there. We'll get there. But I mean, I didn't get any pictures. It was definitely because you're because you're still in shape. You had to share it with a guy like me. He's like, "Dusty will understand. Got eight abs. I don't need to show him yet." Yeah. So, listen. We had a bunch of people asking us about the Detroit Pro. They're like, "I'm coming in town." I So, here's the thing. I got when somebody asked, "Where's the best Middle Eastern restaurant?" And there's a place called Alamir and it's in downtown Dearborn. It's a like East Dearborn. It's not a big fancy place. It's a little restaurant. And I'll I'll even if if anybody wants to ask me, I'll I'll give you the actual address to it. But the first time I took Victoria there, she had never had good Middle Eastern food before. And the lady was so happy to like talk to her about what was on the menu. And we ended up with like a table full of all these little plates of different things and oh my god and it's really good Middle Eastern food. In fact, the Arabic people I know will tell you like yeah that's that's good food. So that's a place to go. But also one other thing I want to throw out there where I'd love to take you guys is Miller's Bar. This little hole-in-the-wall bar that's 10 minutes from the venue on Michigan Avenue is known for their burgers. It's a cash only establishment, so don't bring your cards. Don't bring your whatever else. You literally need cash. They lose money every year on their taxes. I know what that means. They don't make money, Dusty. They don't make money. That's it. Yeah. Nonprofit. Miller is an amazing restaurant and it's a little place too. Like the it's like going to be like I don't know how big but I mean there's very limited seating and you'll find that at the the if you go at the wrong time there'll be like a lineup to get in. But often you you'll do pretty good. Like if you head there before like after your workout over at RTB gym, you know, you'll you'll do okay, you know, between between prejudging and final, something like that, you'll you'll be all right. So, check those two places out. And we were asked about gyms. And Ron, you went to RTB. What did you think of that? It was great. It was great. I would obviously that's the type of gym I would love to train at for, you know, like that's the type of gym I could that could be my home gym. You know what I mean? Yeah. It's a great great community, you know, good old school equipment, lots of space, lots of plate loaded machines, lots of leg. It was just Yeah, he had a great setup and I like supporting guys like him. He's a good dude and I think he's trying to I think he's sponsoring the show and I think he's trying to work some stuff out. So you'll see other people that are going to the show training there as well. Me and Drea might that might happen. Luke might be there. We'll see. I know I know Tino got his posing room got his posing room done. Yep. So he's all ready for you. Yeah. So head down there. Nice. Only other place I'd Well, there's a a bunch of good gyms, but I'll also throw out the original Highland Park Powerhouse. It's downtown in the middle of Detroit. Detroit powerhouse. Look up Highland Park Powerhouse. It's the first powerhouse ever in an old Pontiac dealership. Rough area, but you'll be safe there. You know, you'll be good to get there. Just go inside. Everybody's really cool and friendly. Once you're inside, you're all right. Yeah. Yeah. Car car will be safe. I've never had issues getting there and training there. and I trained there for years. But it's a lot of lot of good history in that gym. You might meet Ron Love while you're there. Uh good place to be. So definitely check that out. We had a bunch more questions though. Like some of them are just real like simple questions like the best candy bar of all time and go. Best candy bar of all time. Ron's got candy bars that we don't even have here. So there's that. Oh yeah. There's a Canadian thing, isn't there? There's some weird [\h__\h] with We can't get those anymore, probably. I So, I'm AI'm a solid chocolate I'm a dairy milk guy. Like, I would buy like a solid chocolate chocolate bar. So, like I'm the type of guy where, you know, if you were to buy a chocolate bar, I would buy a dairy milk. Um cuz the milk chocolate's my favorite part. But you can't I can't vote dairy milk best chocolate bar of all time. No, you got to go with a candy bar, right? Is that is that that's the question? Candy bar. bar. Yeah, you got to go Mars bar. You got the chocolate, you got the caramel, you got the Did we have that, Dusty? Yeah, of course we have that. Okay. A Mars bar is just a Snickers bar without peanuts in it. Oh, okay. I like that. Snickers is what I was going to go with because it's the classic bar. But I like a Mars bar without the nuts in it. That's that's although you know those little those little protein macros, they really they really make it they really sweeten the deal. those little Snickers macros. I'll tell you the downside to this question now is no candy bar like the traditional Snickers, all those are worth what they cost anymore. Oh god, they're a lot of money. Like you go to buy Snickers now, like the the bigger size one, which they call the, you know, like the biggest one. It's like $3. I'm like, it's not a meal. What the hell is going on here? I'm going to have this gone by the time I get to my car where it's at the pump and throw the rapper away for $3. That's It's hard because I used to do Snickers all the time and that I am cheap and that I think when you're older and you can remember they were 50 cents and they were bigger than the $135 one now. Yeah. That affects your life a little bit. Do you guys actually ever buy a chocolate bar? Like when's the last time you bought a chocolate bar? Once in a great great while. Not often. I I used to, but I being dead serious. When they became $3 for a large one, I was like, I'm out. So, the only time I ever buy anything like that is sometimes if I'm getting on a long flight, I'll buy a bag of M&M's. Oh, yeah. Every long flight. M&M's are like, it's a long flight thing. It's like I'm get M&M's for this flight. I take nine hours. We buy a fancy chocolate bar, which I don't consider that a candy bar. We'll buy like a fancy chocolate bar for date day and then we'll eat that while we're watching some sort of gourmet dark chocolate. Have you guys had Dubai chocolate yet? No. Dubai chocolate. I didn't even know it was a thing. But of course the girls in Tik Tok and then I found some and bought it. Ridiculous. I did not know. I missed it while we were there. Yeah. I learned a lot of stuff from Tik Tok through children. Don't check it out. And I bought some and it changed your life. One of you like pistachio chocolate with pistachio. Have you heard I got some I got some Dubai chocolate with pistachio in it in my cupboard right now. cool thing from what I hear. Costco, they have bags of them. Yeah. So, there you go. I'm with you. I'm with you across the board. But yeah, the uh the M&M's also for anybody who's paying attention, just drop those right in your popcorn at the movie theater and thank me later. Hey, here's a question. I I this might be a really dumb question, but someone the other day told me this was a Canadian thing, and I didn't realize it. Do you guys know what Smarties are? So they're different. They're different. You got youries are different. Smarties are Canadian. Yeah. Wow. So yours are different. We got to pull this up. Yeah. Dusty, like Dusty, what are your smart What are our Smarties? Those are like the soury little like circle things. They're like little hockey. Oh my god. Our Smarties look like they're like rockets. Yeah, your Smarties are rockets. So, this is Victoria's mom's favorite candy were the Canadian Smarties. This is our Smarties. Oh my god. I'll just place these over here. Not even the same universe. No, no, no. What is your Smarties? Now I'm getting pissed off. They're much smarties are a different brand of M&M. Yeah. What? They're chocolate. Yeah. I'm trying to find one that's open. You guys must have been terrifying these for a long time cuz I've never seen them. So, here's here's one that's actually uh dissected, Dusty. This is one just one that's broken apart. It looks like this. Looks much like an M&M. Yeah, they're Canadian M&M. They're a little bit different than M&M's, though. You know what I mean? Is that Is that like That looks like almost like cake on the inside. No, no, it's just chocolate. It's just I don't know why it looks like that, but that's just there. I just sent Scott a package. Put the package in. These are really good. Canadian. These are really good. Yeah. And And they come in a box. Like they come in a little box. Yeah. Like you're at the movie theater. Yeah. Yeah. But Smarties are awesome. And they're You're right. They're just a little like it's I don't know why. I don't know what brand. They're Nesley. So it's just the milk chocolate is different, right? Like if you buy the M&M's, that's the Mars company. And if you buy smart, well, it depends on whose chocolate you like better, but it's just the same. I'm asking you whose is better. Don't say equally. I I think that the Smarties chocolate. It's like a better chocolate. I don't know. They're really good. They're Yeah, I think it's like a just a better quality chocolate overall. I just I don't know. Check them out. Ron, bring some Smarties to German. and a bag of Smarties to Germany. That's it. Need I need to know? Well, we Well, that's going to be something we video me trying. We do a taste test. I got a question for you guys. I feel like this is the least important episode of all time. It's going to explode. People need to know this. All right. I got a question for you guys. Is it worth using any form of peeds while on hormonal birth control, a pill? Um, what would be the best method of birth control for a female who wants to compete in bodybuilding and use peeds? Thank you, Ron and Dusty. I'd like to phone a friend. I'd like to phone a friend right now. Is that an option? Do we have phone a friend? Can I phone a friend? Can I call my friend's wife? Is that weird? Yeah. I'm going to need I'm gonna need Victoria on this cuz you are well above my pay grade, Victoria. V. V. Victoria. Yeah, that's right. Oh, she's in. All right. This is why phone a friend exists right here. This was my uh third world country jail cell phone call. But I would call Victoria. Honestly, Victoria would know what to do. I would probably call her cuz she would call Rick Collins we needed. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. I'd just be nervous that she would first ask why I got in there and I don't want to discuss that. No. And then start. Oh, we can't see her. Bring her in. We can't see her. Oh, we're just There she is. There she is. Are you upstairs? Ah, we needed you. Can you hear us? Yeah. Oh, okay. You're okay. I can. Okay. Yeah. Read the question to her. Can you hear us? Yeah. Can you hear us? You're here. Yeah. Okay. Good. Good. Hey guys, welcome to the show. Researcher from the University of British Columbia, Victoria Felker. She's a researcher in female hormones and health, finishing her PhD now. Am I right? Anything? She has a plant growing out of the back of her head right now. You see that? There you go. No other show can just call Victoria when they're screwed on a question quite like we can. No. All right. So, we got a question for you that came up. I have to pull it back up here. I lost it. Uh it was about peeds and uh birth control. Um basically here it is. Okay. Is it worth using any form of peeds while on hormonal birth control pills? Um what would be the best method of birth control for a female who wants to compete in bodybuilding while using peeds? Thank you. By the way, Victoria is calling from the house. She's inside the house. She's inside the house. She's in her office. I'm in my office right now. We've never been upstairs before. This is awesome. See that important writing and stuff on her whiteboard up there? Yeah. It's not important. It's just a bunch of doodles. Really bunch of all it is. Um, so that question I get a lot and it is complicated. Um there are a lot of different elements in it. Um so break it down. I even actually read like tried to do some bullet points for you guys. Okay. So let's do this. Let's tackle this. So you know the first part of the question was is it worth it to use birth control? Correct. Is that what she had asked? Using gear while on birth control. Is it worth it to use peeds while on hormonal birth control? Gotcha. Okay. So, that I can't answer because we don't exactly have a lot of good data in which individuals have been studied using peeds and hormonal contraceptives. I mean, that data just simply does not exist. So, we can draw from like theoretical models, but at the end of the day, they're just theoretical models. What I can say is that a lot of the um potential effects of utilizing a androgenic drug, let's say testosterone or winrol um have some very specific both um positive and negative complications for female health. Same thing can be said about the use of hormonal contraceptives. And a lot of the side effects actually kind of go like this and they all start to merge together. And certain forms of hormonal contraceptives are actually going to create an environment when used in addition to an androgen that's not going to be good for things like your cholesterol and your liver health and even um the ability for that drug to be able to work properly. You know, one of the big things that a hormonal contraceptive does is it raises SHBG in a big way. You know, I've seen levels when an individual is using particularly an anti-androgen um birth control pill with a high estrogen of like 350 or so. So, that's high. Now you can imagine that taking some antib going to crush that and bring it down without also potentially having some other effects in the process. So you know I'm never going to tell somebody to not do something that they want to do. However, I will advise that there are ways we can gain some type of contraceptum while also pursuing bodybuilding that may make a little bit more uh sense than going right into that kind of hormonal contraceptive realm if they're also going to be pursuing peeds. Okay, you guys with me a little bit? I don't know if you answered Did you answer the question? No, that was my that was my preamble to like make make sure I didn't get a you know I didn't overstep anything. Okay, you're good now. Step over the line. Let's do it in now. Okay. Way dumber than you. Yeah. When we think about Oh, come on, Ron. You know, Scott often compares me to you all the time, just so you know about my OCD and oddities. Yes. Okay. Well, about loading the dishwasher, for example. When you guys are both the dishwasher, there's a way. There is a way. There is a way. Um, so, you know, when we think about contraceptives, I think a big thing that a lot of people forget is like, what is that drug actually doing? And so we can prevent contraception or the ability to make life through many different pathways that don't necessarily have to involve utilizing hormones. Now obviously there are a ton of different contraceptive options and they all have like pros and cons to them to be honest. Same thing uh with like uh rates of efficacy, you know, and when we start to actually dive into the research, there are certain ones that are going to be more effective when they're used properly and least effective when they're not used properly. Um, you know, when I think about the vast majority of the people that I work with, they're looking for something that we would call a invasive form of, which means that they don't want to have to um, you know, utilize something only when they're having sex. They just want to be able to have it. It's there and it's kind of running in the background and that's that. and that those particular options when they're more invasive are going to have therefore more impact on our health and performance because we're changing our physiology in that pursuit. You know, the big ones are a hormonal IUD, a copper IUD and the birth control pill. And the birth control pill we can like subdivide into a bunch of different types. There is also like the implant which goes in your arm. There's also a patch. Those are the though the main ones that we see. Um the shot really isn't used anymore because of lawsuits. Well, what would be the I guess least problematic uh direction to go to just to make this simple for everybody? Yeah. Well, let me give an example. Dusty, you have young daughters. So, if you came to me and you said, "Hey, what do I do? I do not want to be a grandfather right this minute." Right. So, I think this is the the best way that I can explain it. If I were counseling my own daughter or somebody else, what I would say is that the best way forward is the least invasive because we're not causing a ricochet effect for physiology. I would also advise that contraceptives, we have to also consider barrier methods like STD, STI are at an all-time high. And you would think with the amount of like education and awareness we would have right like in kind of society that that would be resolved but it's not and that sometimes one little interlude can literally change the rest of your life. And so I do think that barrier methods although they are um for some people cumbersome are absolutely vital if you're having sex with multiple partners or you don't know your partner's sexual history. And so that cannot be ignored or their name. Exactly. Yeah. So even when somebody's on a hormonal contraceptive pill or has the IUD and they're having um sex with different partners or under different circumstances, like I just said, you still want to invest in a barrier method. Like you need to stack those contraceptive options. Um, I also would say to Dusty that like I firmly believe that something called the FAM method or the fertility awareness method is something that women should do when they're not on um an anti-obulatory contraceptive agent like the pill. What the fan method is is you're essentially just tracking for certain signs of uh you know women can only get pregnant for a couple days each month and so we can actually track our bio feedback across the course of a month to determine when those days are and then to intervene appropriately. You know some of the statistics you'll read on fam will say oh it's only like 85% others it's got a failure rate of 2%. So it really is like in the control of the user themselves. Now the peed user then. Yeah. But that is for the PED user. That's the thing. If you are tracking your menstrual cycle for fertility. Okay. No, no, no, no. Bear with me here. But if you're tracking your menstrual cycle for fertility as a peed user, you're also keeping your finger on the pulse of what your actual innate hormone production is while you're on cycle. that can be so valuable for a woman to be able to help mitigate some of the more uh unfavorable effects of hyperinflating your androgens. So I do suggest women track their basil temperature, their cervical mucus, all those same signs we would for contraceptives. The copper IUD is one that I would lean into more. You know, it's not all wins. there are still some potential very big side effects of using it such as a heavier bleed and that's like the number one thing that is reported particularly in the athletic population and this is going to be caused from not only the copper IUD itself kicking up and creating a bunch of inflammation but also the fact that if you're not ovulating then you're going to have even more of that potential um breakdown inflammatory state of the uterus. So that's why we have to stack them. We have to keep them together. If we want to be safe, we can't just lean on one. A lot of the times we have to actually draw and use a bunch of them. So, if I were saying to Dusty, "Hey, you know, tell your girls to use condoms. Don't forget your raincoat wherever you go, cuz you never know. There's male condoms, there's female condoms. You know, there are things like spermicides, different types of um gels that can change a success rate, but they also cause a lot of irritation and can be actually like super super uncomfortable for the female and also for the male. So, those aren't as popular, you know. So then I would say to him, hey, also talk to your daughters about tracking their menstrual cycle specifically for ovulation, which is so easy to do in today's age with all of the different apps and technologies out there to make sure that they are ovulating regularly and for long enough. And if they want that extra protection for contraceptive, maybe pursue something like the copper IUD. Now, my caveat is if they want to go into the hormonal zone, the Morenna may be a potential option for them, the Morenna is a hormone releasing IUD. It releases something called a progesterone, but that itself is still not benign. There's still potential negative outcomes for that, for health and for performance sake. If they are really wanting something like a hormonal contraceptive pill, then I would lean into some of the newer pills that are either composed of something called E4, which is a uh naturally uh available estrogen that our body makes with a lower androgen um pardon me, lower progesterone that has no androgenic effects, but also no anti-androgenic effects. Those ones are typically available over only in Europe right now. There's only a few on the market in the US. Or I would lean into a oral contraceptive pill that has a androgen derived progesterone plus a lower ethanol estradiol which is the main estradile that are in contraceptives because those particular formulas are shown to have the least potential negative impact on metabolic health regulation insulin uh sensitivity ity, weight gain, uh suppression of testosterone. So they are the ones if we look at the big family of oral contraceptive pills that have the least amount of potential risk associated with them. Okay. So if we took that with hormones, that would be one of the the stronger routes then with with it not kind of fighting the androgens. Well, that's the big part of the question is what can they still see the maximum effects of their bodybuilding fun while taking those? Yeah. So, the morenna, the copper IUD, using FAM, using condoms, all of those are going to have their own potential like not necessarily hormonally based impact for a bodybuilder. Mir questionable. Okay. um the hormonal contraceptive pills, the implant, so on and so forth. I can't give you a clearcut answer cuz I simply don't know that the data just simply is not there for me to be able to say sit here and say like yes, you know, stack your less with your anabar. like we don't have the data to say that that's okay to do and that that's going to not be potentially detrimental for either their health or their performance or the effectiveness of the drug itself. Um, you know, I always heir on the side of caution. And so for me, I would say if somebody's going to do that, the lower the dose of ethnoestradile, the better potential outcomes they might see when they're on cycle for things like um blood clots and complete um cluster [\h__\h] of cholesterol. Um, but I still can't sit here and say like it's totally fine. I don't know. monitor it, manage it. Um, you know, taking E4, I think, would be the one that I would lean into, uh, the the downside of it is that any time you're using a lower estradile, ethnoestradile, pardon me, the lower kind of dose of the synthetic estrogen, the more breakthrough bleeding you're going to have, the more potential mood changes you can have. And so there it's again, it's not just all like sunshine and rainbows and we're off to the races. There's still potential downsides to it. Sure. Right. And like you said, we're talking about things that aren't being studied. Do you guys have any off-topic questions for Victoria before we let her go? I was just going to say I was going to say the exact same thing. Yeah, Ron. Yes. No, that was I mean like I I know Victoria's uh a PhD and all that, so there's a lot of details that come through with I'm just trying to listen and absorb. Yeah. You know, I didn't know there were androgen derived female birth controls. You know what I mean? So, it's like it's pretty crazy, Ron. There are 19 noors. You can either have a 19-nor progesterone or a 19 androgen derived um like synthetic progesterone molecule. And when you actually look at what they look like, the androgen derived progesterones look more like an androgen than they do progesterone. H right. Yeah. Interesting. So they make them out of a nor molecule then. They're not made out of a testosterone molecule. Yeah. Exactly. And you know the thing though is too is that they are you know people shouldn't go like well that means it's like h not exactly. And just just like with anabolic androgenic steroids, how different drugs have different profiles, you know, in terms of like binding affinity and a potential for aromatization. The same thing is with our progesterones in contraceptives. So there's there's so much variance there. Some of them impact estrogen, some of them don't. Some of them impact cortisol, some of them don't. Some of them impact um uh androgen receptors in more of a negative way and others in more of a positive way. Some have higher binding to SHPG, others have higher binding to um Albian. So, it's like there's all these different drug profiles that exist. And so, just know what you're getting yourself into. Date your drug, as I always say. Here, here's a question. Let's say a female is prepping for a show and she's been taking her regular pill, you know, for contraceptive purposes, and she's let's just say 8 weeks out or 6 weeks out or whatever. And she thinks, you know, I'm going to go off the pill for the rest of my prep and just see how I just see if I get leaner. Like she's not worried about getting pregnant or anything. Maybe she's single, but she's just like, you know what? I'm just going to go off the pill and finish my prep. Are there any concerns about just going off the pill to finish your prep? Yeah, I wouldn't advise that for a couple different reasons. One of them is I think bodybuilding is like a giant experiment that we engage in where we're trying to manage certain variables and manipulate other variables. And if all of a sudden you take a pillar variable out of the mix at six weeks out, we don't know what's going to happen. We don't know if all of a sudden your uh neuroendocrine system is going to stay the same or not. We don't know. We have no idea until you do it. So for my perspective on this is that when you go off a hormonal contraceptive agent, you want to try to do it in a period of time when life is stable, health is stable, so that you're able to mitigate potential complications that arise in that process. That's not prep at all. That's the opposite of prep. Yeah. Right. But will they look better? That's No, but but that's the thing, you know, the the you know that you don't know. You know, the message is you got to try it and see if you look better. No, I wouldn't still I still wouldn't. I like just twisting the knife here. Yeah. No, you know, and I I I understand cuz obviously like I've worked with a lot of women over the years that ask me the same question and it's like it could potentially benefit your physique journey, but it also could not benefit your physique journey. Yeah, it could hurt it. You know, you had a fork in a road. You could also, you know, start to experience certain types of emotions that were blunted when you were on the pill. You could start to have irregular spotting. You could start to have cramping. You could start to have, especially if you're on androgens and you were taking an anti-androgenic progesterone. All of a sudden, you're just opening those floodgates to have androgen binding again. That's all of a sudden all of a sudden you hate terrifying. You think he's an idiot or or you start, you know, start getting acne. I can tell you that even when women switch from an anti-androgenic progesterone hormonal contraceptive to a androgenic progesterone hormonal contraceptive that they can experience a shift in things like oily skin, hair loss. So we're we're opening up those androgen receptors again and and charging them in a different way. So now if you're doing that and you're also taking anabar and primabalin and winstrol we don't know what's going to happen. Were you suppressing some things? I can tell you guys some stories of like, you know, women that were on an anti-androgenic hormonal contraceptive with a high dose of ethyl estradile and they took Tren and I can tell you that I was flabbergasted with the fact that they didn't androgenize or viralize as one would expect based on the dose of trend that they were taking. Now, that's one example, actually two examples of women I've worked with, but it just, you know, is a illustration that these drugs can potentially prevent the activity of that anabolic agent from doing its job for better or for worse, right? That that's the big part right there. All right. Thank you very much. We appreciate have I almost called you Tori. I'm not supposed to do that in public, am I? Now, you just did it, though. You You said I almost and then you just followed through with saying I caught you doing it before. I've caught you doing it before. Sorry. Yeah. Thank you, Tori. We appreciate having you on. Yeah. Thank you. I'll see you later. See you upstairs. See you afterward. See you. Bye. And now we're back to our regular show of three dumb [\h__\h] idiots. I always feel dumber after that scenario goes down. Yeah, we're back and we're dumber. I'm dumber. But I do have a really I feel like I feel like I just got scolded a little bit. Did I just get scolded? Not even I tried to crack a joke and she was like going to have a none of that. She looked at me like a teacher. There's no jokes. Really? Really? I remember. Now Ron, if you keep doing that, you're going to have to stay after class. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. You keep interrupting me and trying to make jokes. We do have some really important questions though, guys. like stuff that is really like we got to do this. It's important. We have to pay her for that. It's serious work. We have serious work ahead of us. If you could only train on one brand of gym equipment for the rest of your life, what would it be from from her? So, no enough thinking. What sticker do you like best your opinion now? Here we go. Yeah, that's pretty much it. What sticker do you like best on this bicep machine? Oh man, that's rough. That's rough. Oh, this is really all we're qualified for, so that's good. We'll stick with these. Oh man, I'm good on the sticker questions. I'm good. Oh man. All right, I'm going to answer uh which this is going to piss off my uh AJ, the owner of my gym, but if I could only choose one, it would be hammer strength. because it fits. I feel like Hammer Strength, they have everything that I could possibly need and I'll never have to worry about showing up to the gym with it being broken. And yeah, so that's it. And and that's not to say that hammer strength is my favorite equipment, but if I only get one, it's going to cover all of my bases across the board. Yeah, that's a that's the thing about brand picking a brand is is every brand has a certain thing they don't do well. Yeah. And then they have things that they're like amazing at, right? So you're like, "Ah, shit." You know, like a common answer is Cybex because all their pin they make, you know, pretty much a good pin loaded everything, right? You're going to be safe with your extensions and your curls and your arm equipment and you're, you know, you're going to be safe with your pin loaded stuff. And then they make some plate loaded stuff. It's cool. And then they make a bunch of great like classic, you know, the hack squat, the leg press. So Cybex is a is a good answer, but uh Hammer to me is is um there's just so much there. And then the stuff that they don't do great in the hammer way Mhm. they make up for just by the fact that they've absorbed. Like you can get a regular lying leg curl now. That's a hammer strength. It's just a Life Fitness Pro Series 2. Yeah. But they've put they put a, you know, I think a bit heavier stack on it and they put the hammer strength sticker on it. But it's just a Life Series Pro Pro Series 2, which is a great line of pin loaded equipment. So they've got all that stuff now. The whole Life Series Pro series uh Pro Pro 2 series is available as a hammer strength line now. And then they've even rolled some of the Cybex stuff into the hammer brand now cuz Cybex is gone. And most of it got rolled into Life Fitness, some of it. So, a hammer makes an amazing hack squat. Now, have you guys seen a hammer hack squad? It's actually quite like a Cybex in a lot of ways, like foot footprint wise and everything like that. Um, it's uh it's it's it's a really cool piece, but you know, the fact that Hammer never used to make a standard hack, right? They made that what did Joe Bennett calls it? The poopy press. That little poop poopy press thing, right? But now they have like an actual hack and the I think that hammer strength and just from a gym owner line um being a gym owner and how low maintenance it is, I I I think generally that's a safe pick. Yeah, I like the gym Leo stuff. I I don't know how they would be for like their full line, but because I'd want to put it all in my basement, I could probably fit like 30 machines, you know what I mean? In my home gym. Their footprint is awesome. Yeah. Yeah. Take that. Yeah. I just sent over that new Hammer hack. You throw it up there. Yeah. Fantastic. So, Hammer Hammer made this. I saw it at last last year's Fibo and I was like, "Oh, that's like kind of almost felt like a Cybex when I got on it and gave it a run, you know." They also make I think the They have the greatest um hip thrust I think any company makes. Yeah. Which we have it in. Oh, you do have it? Yeah. That's a That's a great I like that one because I found a lot of the other hip thrusts based on your height, you either love it or hate it. Yeah, that's a new hammer hack there. Yeah, it's cool. So, I mean like just a standard plain Jane on the rails hack, but it felt just like a Cybex slays for days up here. Do you guys have anything else? Or Atlantis. I mean, I could do Atlantis all day long. Atlantis would be good. I'd take that. Yeah. Anything else stand out at you guys? I mean, we had so many. What about uh I'll scan through them. I was leaving 100% to you like always. All right. How do you guys uh get your water in flavor gallon jugs? What helps you consume the water that one needs? Uh what helps your clients drink all of their water? I'll tell you one thing is just have it with you. You know, if you drive for 30 minutes each way to work and back, you will not have water for 30 minutes each way. You're an hour behind if you don't have water with you. I finished mine. I've almost finished mine. I fill this this glass bottle up. I just keep it at my desk with me all day long. And every time I think about it, I just take a drink. And you don't have to you don't have to put work into it that way. Like what we don't want you to do, what I don't want people to do is forget to drink it for two hours and then chug a whole bunch of water. You know what I mean? And try to there's no catching up. You know what I mean, Dusty? Yeah. I think that the And first thing I do use flavoring. I am a Crystal Light [\h__\h] in the biggest way. Um, but I drink still to this day a gallon and a half, two gallons every day. It's super easy to me to get water down. I think the first thing that I tell all my clients is as soon as you wake up, the first thing I want you to do is drink a liter of water. Like first thing before coffee, before anything, get a liter down. And that gets you a big jump start. It also gets you out of the dehydrated state from being asleep all night. And then I keep a gallon around all the time. And then I just fill up my cup during and just keep rolling all day. And I mean it goes down so easy that way. Um I'm not at all against flavorings, stuff like that if it makes it easier to get it down. Uh I also uh I'm a big fan of bubbly water. Oh yeah, big big. So I have a machine for that to uh to turn my water into bubbly water. So that's Oh, those are cool. That makes it easy to go down, too. It's cheaper than buying the Pelro because that was getting a little out of hand. I uh I just have a rule where I drink a liter of water with every meal. Yeah. And then with the other couple of, you know, jugs I go through with working out and everything, I get enough in for the day. So, I'm fine. And if you're not drinking a gallon yet, just work at it. You know, a little bit of time. Give yourself a week or two of just being mindful. You'll be able to get there real fast. Um, do you think that Kai Green would have eventually won the Olympia if he hadn't retired, or do you think that the the rumors about politics uh blocking him uh were true? No to the rumor on politics. Uh, he was being blocked by Phil Heath being better. Yeah, Phil Heath had a Phil Heath had a a problem with being a alive at the same time as Kai and that's why he didn't win. That's all I I think if if if Kai could have stayed like you're assuming he stayed healthy. If he'd have stayed healthy then yes, he would have won an Olympia eventually. Look at the lineups and how they went. Um, like I think that Kai at his best, you know, you start to wonder, would Dexter have an Olympia if Kai was at his best? I don't think so. Would Shawn Rooden have an Olympia if Kai was at his best in that show? I don't think so. So, but that's a big if. We're all assuming that a guy can hang on for years and years, which I don't think he could have. So, assuming natural age and progression for a guy that big, my answer is no. He still wouldn't win Olympia. Question for you. Why uh have an arm day? I'm a natural bodybuilder and never really understood why doing more than two different exercises for biceps and triceps adds any purpose. Training biceps with chest, uh dumbbell curls and barbell curls, triceps, um with back skulls and push downs and I'm done. What are your thoughts? Well, it depends on how good your arms are. How do they look now? Yeah. You know, like, do you have good arms? I I think that I mean, the the what do you have genetically for arms is is a huge part of that equation. I know that theoretically it shouldn't you shouldn't need an arm day. I did a lot of my life without an arm day and then I did some of it with an arm day and just depends on how much volume you think you need to get your arms to grow. I mean, if your arms are good and they look great, then you don't need an arm day at all. And and he's right about the arms being simple. Like, they don't need 20 different exercises. There's really only so many things you can do. You can stretch your triceps and contract your triceps and that's about it. There's even a study that just came out that I read that was actually pretty well done that said that, you know, the whole like incin dumbbell curls to stretch your bicep thing. Yeah. And then the preacher curls, they did a study on both of those and they measured hypertrophy in these groups of people and the groups were pretty large and varied and everything. There was no hypertrophy difference between the incline curl and the preacher curl group at all. They all had the same amount of bicep growth and everything. So they think that the stretch, the whole like stretch loading thing is of course bodybuilders, what do we do? We get evidence that it matters. So then we take it to the extreme and now everything has to be well, you know, maximum stretch all time. And they're saying the biceps are such a simple body part that maybe that like that amount of stretch might not really have much of an effect. The bicep doesn't really get much longer. It gets like a half a centimeter longer, right? So, does it translate to anything as opposed to just going all out on preacher curls, you know? So, he's right about the arms not needing 20 things, but you know, sometimes it's nice to just have an arm day. Go in there and work on your weak body part, all mentally focused and everything. I think that's probably the main benefit is just that they're fresh. They're mentally focused. They're ready to rock. It's arm day. Get these stubborn arms to grow. It's not necessarily from like a scientific point of view where you need an arm day to get them bigger. It's it's just prioritizing, you know. Well, I think the word that you nailed right there is prioritizing. If you have weak arms and you're just a pushpull leg guy, which I was my whole career, who does biceps before back? Nobody. Who does triceps before their chest pressing and shoulder pressing? Nobody. So, it's the last thing on your menu on all of those pushpull leg days and it's the weakness. So, if you don't want to make an arm day, but it's a weakness, then at least what I would suggest doing is do it first because the end of the day, if you come train back with me and you do it right, I promise your mental focus for biceps is not as high as it was for barbell rows. Yeah. And I think that that's the that's the reason I found having an arm day at the end of my career to really try to bring them up helped because I came in and biceps were my weakness. So, it was the first thing I did and I was obsessed with making sure I nailed keeping my shoulders out of it, making sure it was all on the biceps and it was a lot more focused that way. And then again, of the buys and tries on an arm day, my tries were the strength. So, I just did them at the end and it was fine. So, what Ron said nailed it is. If your arms are growing fine without, then you don't need it. But if they're not and you don't want small arms, then I would definitely suggest trying something different to make them a priority. You know, the things that are the priority are the things that are going to get the most attention and grow or should get the most attention. Also, too, for some people, it can be good to have a training day that like I almost see arms as almost like an active rest day. You know what I mean? By comparison, yourself. Yeah. Yeah. it's not going to be as taxing on your central nervous system. And sometimes for given this, you know, individual situation, it can be good to have a day in there like that, especially for a guy who's like, "Oh, I just love training." You can't keep him out of the gym, you know, he's doing six days a week or whatever. It's like if you put an arm day in there, that's at least we know that you're you're not going to be breaking down too much. It's not like having, you know, an extra leg day in there, right? You're systemically you're systemically almost resting. Yeah. Almost. Yeah. Yeah. So, yeah, I got one I wanted to throw in there, and we've covered this a lot, but I always think it's a great question. Uh, biggest advice for younger bodybuilders coming up. Scott, I want you to throw your answer here because you always pause on these and you you did a lot of it. So, what what would you say like looking back at your career in bodybuilding um you would like to have said even to your younger self? Um, I would say the thing that kept me absolutely loving it is not comparing yourself to others. If I were to have compared my progress to Dusty's progress, I would have quit, you know, a long time ago. Um, but you compare your progress to your own self. And you know, I competed early in bodybuilding and I did that because to me it allowed me I it it was having that outside catalyst helped me to push harder than I probably would have otherwise. And then knowing I now I have an offseason. I really have to scramble to like make as much progress as I can because I'm going to be on stage again 18 months from the time I got off stage. You know, I I feel like competing was a really helpful tool. So, you know, I'm I'm all for the idea of some people who have said like, "Oh, I don't want to get on stage until I'm a super." You know, something like that. Like, okay, I can respect that. And I, you know, I have a hell of a lot of respect for a guy like Ron who competed once and then How many years did you take off before you competed again? Oh, you mean my my first show? Your very first show? Yeah, I did a show and then it was like four years where until I did my next like show. Yeah. Good chunk of time, you know. and you really took that time to grow. Like I have a lot of respect for that. But I also think there can be benefit of getting yourself out there and and allowing that will help. It'll help you to get plugged in. And then the key is is just trying to be better than yourself. You know, I I know that there's a lot of pressure out there nowadays with like social media and the pro card and I'm doing this because I'm going to become an IFB pro. like just try to beat who you were previously and you know and keep loving what you do you know and and I'll say that when I've stopped loving what I've done cuz it does get complicated and you get you have all those expectations I always try to then pull back and remind myself of the fun I had as a kid when I first started lifting and I try to plug back into what that was like and if I can remember that like the original love, then I can always kind of keep it in my heart. So, yeah, stay plugged in that way. I was going to I'll just add to that real quick. Um, I competed like Ron, but not in a four-year gap. I did my first big show and I said, "I'm not going to compete again till I can win an overall." And that was two years later and I won the overall. And then I said, "I'm not going to compete again until I can be a national level guy." Two years later, I went on stage and won the the uh junior nationals. And then I was like, "Okay, I'll do the USA's and I did that." And then I started compete more regularly. If I could do it over, I would have competed every year. Because I do think that something that Jose uh said rang really true, which is you can't become great at competing not competing. And I think if I would have had more stage time than when I would have been a at the top level as a as a national level competitor, I would have been a better competitor at that level. And what how much would that really have pushed me back as far as growth? One more prep each year. And I don't think it would have. Plus, I think Ron and and even myself, I was so obsessive that I spent the two years as if the show was coming up the whole time. And a lot of people when they do a longer gap, they have a month that's kind of h and then the diet's pretty good and it's not so good and they end up not really utilizing the full two years anyways. Yeah. Whereas when it's bearing down on you, I think it's easier to stay locked in because it's like you get done with a show and you're like, I'm competing again in 12, 13, 14 months. Well, there's three or four months of dieting in there. Okay, so I got, you know, 8 months to to 10 months to really put on size. I better really lock it in. So for me personally, that I would have definitely made that change. I would have competed in ' 07 when I didn't. I would have competed in 09 when I didn't, you know, and I think I would have been better on stage had I done that. I forget what the actual question was. What What's your advice for for younger upandcomers in bodybuilding? Oh, yeah. Because it's all been good advice. I was just wondering I couldn't actual what we're talking about. Well, it's actually the wording of Yeah, I just got I forgot the actual wording of the question. My my my thing is like yeah you uh I just I think a lot of the enjoyment of the process gets lost because of the pressure uh and the Instagram sort of nonsense that gets added on top. You know like there's people that don't that there's people right now that spend their entire prep stressed out and anxious about how other people look. Oh yeah. Mhm. And I just think, man, I I don't know if I would have fallen in love with it or if I would have been able to handle it if I would have not like unintentionally found like found myself in that reality all the time. I mean, I had to deal with a little bit of that right at the end cuz we started posting pictures of each other, you know? Like I remember seeing locker room shots of the odd guy when I was doing nationals on like the message boards. Mhm. And they'd be like, "Oh, he looks pretty good." But you would only see one shot like four weeks out, right? and that they get bombarded every day with all your competitors best photos that have been doctorred and edited and they just have no enjoyment of their own prep. Like, oh my god, have you seen Dave's legs? I don't know. Like the whole prep, they're thinking about someone else's legs and it's just I I just think, man, you got to enjoy this process. It's like you can't be, you know, I just think of all the hobbies I've ever chased. And I chased them even if I wasn't good at them cuz I enjoyed them. You know what I mean? Like I don't expect anyone to call me to come and play guitar for them. I'm not going to turn pro. Like imagine if I talked like that. Hey guys, got to practice my guitar tonight. I'm I'm I'm going to turn pro next year. You guys would be like, you're almost 50. No one's calling you to be a pro guitar player, dude. Like it would sound weird, wouldn't it? Well, it sound it sounds weird in our industry. People just don't know it sounds weird. Um, right. It sounds weird. I'm going to turn pro. You just started. What do you mean? Yeah. Imagine if I was talking about being a pro flatland rider next year. Oh, I should be good enough next year to be ride pro. Like, what? Yeah. Also, why? like why why like if the if the end result is the whole reason you're doing something I think you've doomed yourself to failure. I had this conversation just barely with a client because he came to me with that and I I had to break it down for him. I said, "Listen, I'm not saying you cannot become a pro. In fact, he he can if things roll well." But I said, "I want you to ask that the next time you go to a bodybuilding show, everyone there, how many overalls do you have?" People don't realize how rare it is to win an overall at a state level show. There's only three state level shows each year and there's only three overall winners. Like I think we need to really bring that down a little bit and not be so focused on this thing because what I feel we were very fortunate with is we just went to the gym and had fun. I didn't have 900 people tell me the best way to train and how I needed to rest and what we would go to the gym and I know Ron and Scott, you guys can remember this. I'd go to the gym and this was our old way in the gym. We'd walk in his leg day and I'm like, "All right, we're going to do hack squats first. We're going to do this and we're going to do a drop set and we do it and I look at my trainer part go, "What do you want to do?" And he's like, "All right, let's do one and a halfs on the Smith and then lunge right afterwards." I'm like, "Okay, we'll do that." And it was all about like how can we kick the [\h__\h] out of ourselves because that's fun. There was no no one was walking over going fellas you are drastically overdoing it. That doesn't make sense. It's not necessary. Like who cares? We were having fun. And I feel like that gets lost. I just had a client who hired me. I wrote as training everything and he's doing it and he has so many things he's questioning on the training and he's like I'm just not enjoying this. I'm like well why don't you just do what you were doing before and he's like what? I'm like just train the way you were having fun and train really hard and just let me handle supplements and everything. He's like okay. So he starts losing a bunch of weight. We lose 30 pounds. He says all right I'm ready. I'm going to go back to your training. I don't know why I wouldn't just use all of your advice. I'm like, okay. So, he goes back to my training. Then he's not having fun again. I'm like, what are we doing? You were seeing results not doing my training. Yeah. And you were having fun. So, you're willing to trade in the enjoyment to get maybe not even better results. Why? And he's like, "Oh, I never thought of that." Like stop thinking that everything you see on the internet is a must or that if you hire Ron Partllo that you must follow the way he's telling you to train or it won't work. Like train hard, have fun. Trust me, that's your best result possible. Yeah, it's the comes always comes down to the doing the things that matter the most. Like I watched U longevity guy, I can't remember the dude's name. Scott, I think mentioned him before, but he was on Rogan and all those podcasts and he was talking the other day about real stats and he was like, you know, talking about, you know, sleeping in hydro uh what's it? hydroaric yeah chambers chambers and you know elevation training and all these things we can do and you know nattokynise and nc NAC and everything we can do to possibly live longer and then he's like but at the end of the day here are the stats the things that actually matter don't smoke cigarettes Statistically, statistically that's it. Way below that is obese, don't be fat. Okay, like way below that. Smoking's higher. Smoking, don't be fat, exercise. Way below those three things are actually take care of yourself. Wow. Right. Actually, eat right. actually there that stuff is statistically way below don't smoke, don't eat like an [\h__\h] and get fat. And like I was like, "Oh shit." And then he started talking about real stats and how much everything actually makes a difference. And he reminded reminded me, you know, all those little things like training proper mechanics and moving heavy weights and being consistent was at 99.95% of your gains. And then like what kind of straps you use, it's not quite as big of a deal as you thought they was going to be when you bought those straps, right? Yeah. When you bought those straps, you thought my back coats are going to be 10% better. They're they're not. They're a little better. They're a little better. Well, maybe one maybe that one set felt more comfortable, but you got Yeah. Like it's not the impact that you're looking for. Like high impact stuff matters, right? Yeah. And um and so like you know the I think our search for optimization we're we're hunting for decimal points. Oh yeah. And um and we're we're missing the big picture, you know. So yeah. Yeah. Hey, how do you see life? I want to know what you guys have to say on this one. I'm only taking half the question. They asked, "What's the best and worst training advice that you've ever been told?" I just want to ask, "What's the worst training advice that you've ever been told?" Maybe it was some guy came up to you in the gym, something you heard somewhere along the way. Um, I think the like the I mean I always had a small waist on stage and I was told not to do heavy bent rows and don't do squats and don't do deads and don't do all that stuff cuz it would blow my waist out. I remember all that stuff. And the only thing that I ever thought affected my waistline was just getting way too heavy. Yeah. When at the end of the day when I deadlifted and squatted and did all that [\h__\h] and none of it ever made a difference to my waist at all except for when I got way too heavy a few years in a row, I was like, "Ah, that did affect my waist." That advice I remember came back around and was popular around like 2014 12 to 14 when men's physique started coming out, right? They all none of us do this. Yeah. No, no, no. You got to train different to do men's physique. I know. Guess what? The guy who the guy at the Arnold who looked the most like a bodybuilder actually won. You know what I'm saying? The guy with the most muscle won. Yeah. Yeah, man. I'm trying I'm trying to think of the worst. I had the meme pop up in my head where it's Rich Piana and he goes, "It's an 8 hour it's an 8 hour arm day. We're going to start with that's immediately what popped up." I still think my favorite bodybuilding meme has is like the one where you could do it a million ways, but it's like a hot girl and she's like, "So, what are we going to do on our date?" And then it cuts to Rick. She's like, "It's an 8 hour arm day." Like, I just love that. Hear me out. You get you can be for one day. What are we going to do? Or Sam Sullet talking about his pump with you know superimposed on any group of people. Board funeral kindergarten or the Yeah. kindergarten funeral is the best hospital room talking to him. He's in like a hospital. Someone's just had surgery. Their arms are like those are in. I mean this is a sick pump. Like I got to be happy with this. Those are so good. Oh, man. Those are the best. I did have my dad tell me uh tricep uh we called them French presses back seated barbell. Yeah. Yeah. Now we just call them kind of skull crushers. Basically the same thing. I remember Lauren who was like our guru who ran the gym. He was like the Persian uh uh Arnold. He had like the hair like Arnold and he had the oh lats were always flared, you know, and he had a tank top on with like the the tight uh polyester gym pants, you know, type but the loose at the bottom and he wear flip flops. That was his 247 outfit. Lauren, he was amazing. Recognizable video game character. He was the guy who brought Pumping Iron over on VHS to our house and my dad and his friends sat around to watch it. I that's the first time I saw Arnold was in that that day on that movie. But uh remember he said, "You had to keep your elbows in real tight on that. Can't let them move at all." And I said, "My elbows really hurt when I do that, Dad." And he said, "You just have to push through the pain." You know, it's like ignore your body 100%. Okay. They'll they'll they'll tear a bit and they'll reheal and that position won't hurt as much. Yeah. I told him years later I was like I do I do them like this now. You know what I mean? Elbows are way out there. They I couldn't I can't even just to demonstrate it. I can't even do that now. You know what I'm saying? No, no, no. I do remember there was a dude at the gym when I was a little kid and he used to do he was like like gray sweatpants like the old boxing gray sweatpants roll up to the knee headband the baby blue tank top with the dark blue piping. Oh, that's nice. Right. Just setting the scene here. Headband and he would train in flip-flops, too. Yeah, but he was a big chin-up guy and he would jump up and he would do ultra wide behind the neck chin-ups and he could bury him like he could touch his cervical vertebrae to the bar. Yeah. On on his reps. And I remember he used to just like always say to me like if you can't chin, no back. He just always said that. He had a great physique for a little guy. I don't know. He wasn't that he was like 175 pounds and like you know like a middleweight bodybuilder. Like he looked good. He wasn't the biggest guy in the gym, but he was lumpy and bumpy and had a pretty good back. But I just remember watching him do chins and you could see like you know he lumped up pretty good. Oh yeah. It's the key. You got to do behind the neck chins. Most guys can't do these. And I just remember as a kid I was like I no way I could do those. Yeah. You know that's behind the neck man. Oh yeah. Yeah. Oh, surgeons are so old school. So old school. Awesome. What's next on that? Are we done? I think I think we I mean we we could go all day to be completely truthful with you. There's uh everybody loaded us up with questions. We should actually save these so that we can anything we didn't tackle we can tackle on the next round. Cool. Doing a quick check. Yeah, I'm doing a quick check. I can handle that. All right. I wish I was going to be in Detroit now after seeing all the questions. I know. I want to go eat and I want to go to the barbecue place, too. Oh, man. Yeah, that that burger that burger was good. I'm telling you, you know, with the cash only establishment, they're going to have good food. They only ever did cash there. Same thing that you said about the uh about the Middle Eastern restaurant. They're like, I expect a good Middle Eastern restaurant to be a small place, a little dingy. That's what I'm looking for. Is there also is there also like a a rule like a good Middle Eastern place the you'll be getting your food in styrofoam? No. No styrofoam. No styrofoam. No styrofoam. I mean I I mean if I don't know I don't get it to go. We usually always eat in Oh, okay. I just The only Middle Eastern food I've ever really had is like you go get like rice and and beef and chicken skewers to go and Oh, they might put it in sat and rice. Yeah. Is that a good a good like sign that the Middle Eastern food is really proper? It's there's this other place called the New Yasmin Bakery and uh it it it's a like um basically like a deli counter and they make stuff. They have like the the the fire the stove the stove in the back with the fire, you know, they'll throw some pas in there. Oh, yeah. Make you like a laambaji which is like a meat pocket but it has this delicious flavor. Practically cultured. Yeah. Well, I used to go there all the time to pick up bread for my dad's company on Sunday morning and you honestly it would feel like you were in some sort of like a Middle Eastern bazaar and everybody's like jostling for like everybody's in there and they're all like jostling to be next and Yeah. It's loud. Everybody's talking and Yeah. And bread. I would always get some food too while I was there for myself picking up the bread. Yeah. Well, good place. Good place. Not too far from uh from Elamir. There's a a Middle Eastern restaurant like I can throw a rock off my balcony and hit it. Yeah. It's like right across the the street and I've never tried it. But sometimes I'll walk the dogs past there and I'm like, "Man, that place smells good." So now that you guys got me talking, I might walk across the street right now and get some food thinking of it. When you get over to So here's the thing. Uh the show is going to be in the area we call West Dearborn. Now, East Dearbornne is closer to Detroit. It is a little you're gonna you're not going to just hop in your car. It's g it's maybe 10 15 probably 15 minutes from the venue to get to Alamir. And if you don't want to go there, guys, there are a great Middle Eastern restaurants all over the place, right by the venue, too. But Alamir is the place. But when you get over to East Dearborn, all the signs, like all the stores and the doctor's offices, they're all in Arabic. It's like you get you get over there and it's it is Dearborn's the Arab capital of the United States. It's Yeah. Yeah. Even I knew that. It's so we got some culture here. Good food. A lot of like Lebanese based food over here, right? Okay. Yeah. Makes sense. Okay. Well, thanks guys. I enjoyed that show. I did too. I'm hungry now. I'm real hungry right now. Like I'm hungry now. I'm hungry and I don't have food cooked. So, I'm like, it's a problem. I know what's going on. What do I What do I ask for? Just meat and rice. What do you ask for? I get the uh like the shish kafta and it's like uh it's it's like uh either lamb or uh beef and they put it on the skewers. It's like ground and they put it on the skewers and that's really good. Or you could get I mean you could get chicken. You could get like chicken schwarma or you can get chicken chicken kafta. Those are really good, too. And then they'll bring you out that. And then you'll get like your choice of sides. They'll get like a salad, like a futous salad with that. And maybe uh a bunch of rice. And you got to get the fresh hummus. And then they make the little breads. The little breads that come out of the oven right for the table, you know, with the little garlic uh yogurt sauce stuff. It's so good. Is that white sauce? Oh, yeah. It's It's a yogurt, though. It's a yogurt. It's a yogurt. Okay. It's a yog sauce. It's a yogurt. Okay. Okay. So, it's a food then. It's not a sauce. You're good. It's a protein source. Yeah. Yeah. Right. I mean, protein sources. How are you with hummus, Ron? Cuz that's Oh, I don't like love hummus at all. I'm like, hey. Yeah. Take it or leave it. Yeah. To be honest, I'll probably just put barbecue sauce on it. Yeah. Y'all got some barbecue sauce in here? They're kicking him out immediately. Get yours to go. I'll come home. I'll come home and deculture it. Just like trash immediately. USA. USA. As I barbecue sauce on raw rah team America on [\h__\h] ketchup up these sautes meatballs or whatever they are. Make some meatballs. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Thanks, guys. Okay, remember everybody, like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. Here we go. Remember immune.com. Get your ISO search. You're all in and everyone should get on the gear. There we go. Okay, finish with a bit of a laugh. I'm glad you guys like that. Thanks to remember everybody just terrible. Oh god. It was good. It was classic. Oh man, Scotty, you seemed legitimately upset. I was like, I'll probably put some barbecue sauce on it. Like hangs up on me. Just like it doesn't make sense to me. It's like a garlic flavor on you. The saffron. It just we put barbecue. I I was honestly thinking to myself like would they even have barbecue sauce in the back at this place? I don't know. Absolutely not. Yeah. I don't even know if they would have it there. He's so insulted. E I ask him, "Hey, you can throw some barbecue sauce in the bag for me." Exactly. So insulted.