 mauvais mauvais sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens sens Check out Strom. Of course, we're brought to you by truenutrition.com. Use our code THINK for additional savings, 10% off all your basic bodybuilding supplements, high-quality protein powder, intro workout, peri-workout, all the stuff you need, and, of course, supplementsource.ca for our Canadians. Thank you guys for your support over at Patreon. Dave, we've got some good stuff. We've got a bunch of listener questions. We talked on the last episode about basically the PED, the underground PED market, what's going on with raw powders, a little bit of drugs in the news. I think we had a couple points here. First one being you spoke to a lab, right, and you were seeing some things. What did they say exactly? Well, basically, there's been a few test results come back way off, like super, super low. Okay. So I spoke to a lab, and they're like, yeah, we don't understand it because we're still mixing to the same recipes. So the only thing that they can think is that the raws out of China have gone a bit hooky. If raws are getting a little bit harder to come by, as in legitimately harder to come by from China, then it is well possible that China may, for the first time I've ever known it, to be honest, but that China are actually pushing out shit-quality crap. Generally, the raws have always been fairly stable and fairly spot on. I mean, yeah, you get a little bit of fluctuation, but this is stuff coming back at like 80% underdosed. 80% under? Yeah, yeah. So like 100 mig is coming back at 16, you know, mig, and 400 is coming back at like 250, and then there was a 250 came back at 80, and then a sip had a little bit of anything, which could have just been basic contamination from manufacturing, to be fair. But yeah, I mean, is the lab telling the truth? God knows. But they are adamant that they're mixing to the genuine normal recipes, and that they're getting shitty results when they test it. Okay. And I mean, like we did see, I know there's always going to be clap back from the listeners who are like, my lab's great. You know, everything is on point. They've got everything in stock, and it's cheap, you know. And I do believe that that stuff still is out there to a degree, but it's enough that we're seeing enough flags pop up between what I've been seeing from the labs we talked about last week. The guy was seeing like lower test quality, difficulty in getting tests. I've seen a lab who, can you imagine this, Dave? We live in a world where a UGL lab, one lab in particular, was like, hey, we can't get testy or test sip right now. Like, they're just out of stock on that. Doesn't that kind of ruin the foundation of your lab? Like, because you test with everything, you know? Yeah, it's, I mean, kudos to the lab for being honest about it and being up front and not trying to block the way through it. But it's, you know, there does seem to be some weight in this. There does seem to be. It's nothing concrete. It's nothing like fully across the board. But there are these cracks here and there where, you know, one lab's having problems with this. So this lab has got some stuff testing low. And it wasn't just one lab. There was about three or four that gear came back garbage on. Okay. You know, so, yeah, there does seem to be at least enough to go, mm-hmm. Yeah. Yeah, that's interesting. Also, too, so in the, now this doesn't affect you guys overseas, but domestic news, a large peptide company and the UGL peptide market or the, I should say, like, the gray area peptide market, peptide science closed their doors. They're going out of business, man. And that kind of came as a big hit. Peptide science had always been seen as kind of like a level up, you know? And how much of that is real? Like, they truly are level up versus perceived as a level up. But peptide science had always been considered as like, oh, this is a U.S.-based company with the highest quality and, you know, all of that. They closed their doors, man. And I guess it had to do with they were pressured out, basically, shut down by the government. They, I guess, received warnings about specifically the GLPs, which they didn't heed, and, you know, came back again to bite them, man. I feel like had they not, had they just listened and not sold the GLPs, they could have, like, it might not have been, it probably wouldn't be nearly the size of business, right? But they could have, like, kept it going, right? Still sell your BPC and everything else, you know? Yeah. But they are a huge section of trade, aren't they, now, for peptides companies? I mean, GLPs are making up a huge portion of the businesses. So they are super popular. And it's not like it's just the bodybuilding world either. You know what I mean? Everybody's after GLPs. Oh, yeah. Everybody, dude. Like, just standard, everyday, you know, general gen pop people, as they call them. And not only that, like, gen pop people being like, this guy works out, he's 45 years old, and his wife, who doesn't lift at all, lost 30 pounds using a GLP that she either got from a gray area or she's going in to get a shot, something like that. Yeah. It's a crazy change, man. I mean, just, we, we obviously, when we take bloods, we ask a little bit about lifestyle. And, you know, there's more and more people that don't train, don't have anything else that are reporting, yeah, I'm using Retta or I'm using Manjaro. Yeah. But obviously they don't do anything else. I had a guy contact me last week, wants to push insane numbers of bloods through us. Okay. For a weight loss clinic. Yeah. It's for a weight loss clinic. It's going to be prescribed, so it'll either be, we go via, I would have thought, which is obviously Sema or Manjaro to zip abide. But, yeah, he's talking crazy numbers. I mean, they've nailed me on price and they seem like they're going to go ahead. But it's astronomical numbers that they're talking about pushing through from a testing point of view. And it's just like Jesus. So, you know, there's definitely a high level of usage if he's talking the numbers he's talking. I mean, five, six hundred blood tests a week. Really? That's crazy, man. It's crazy this whole economy that has developed in just the last couple of years due to GLP medications. Like, you know, it used to be that research companies were available back in 2005. You know, you could get, quote unquote, research chems, right? And they would be like legit tamoxifen or Clomid or arimidex or Viagra. Like, all those things were easily available. And, yeah, there was a little bit of a pushback. I remember when one of the walls that the government tried to put in place was they said, all right, these companies aren't going to be able to use credit card processing anymore. You know, so they shut that down for the most part for a while. But, you know, they figured a way to work around that. I mean, realistically, Dave, are they going to stop this industry from happening? I don't think so. I mean, this is a legit industry. This is prescription, you know, drugs under two to under doctor control. That is. Yeah. The reason they need the testing for this particular inquiry that we've had is because CQC, the Care Quality Commission are insisting on a certain panel being done. I agree. I understand that. But, yeah, the other side of it, you know. Look, when there's demand, there will always be supply. It's rare that something will get completely drummed out of existence. You know, there's supply people will find a way. Yeah. And there will always be those people that are willing to take the risk. It doesn't matter how high the penalties are. But, obviously, with that comes the cost of products going up. So, you know, if they get super, super stroppy on the peptides doing the GLPs and stuff and they get super high enforcement with it, all you're going to see is the price go up. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, that's probably one of the cases that we will see. I mean, I've heard, I've seen articles that with peptide science down that this is like they're big enough that this is legitimately going to change the market. So, you know, we'll see, man. Interesting. Yeah. Well, hey, listen, man. Guys, anybody who's watching at home, first of all, Dave and I have been doing this show for, we've been doing this for almost a decade now. Would you believe that? For fuck's sake. Yeah. I've got less for serious crime. You really did, didn't you? Which, speaking of which, remind me to circle back around. We had people asking why you weren't at the Arnold, but I'll get to that. I do want to let everybody know that Dave is an expert witness for the UK court system testifying in cases with PEDs and you're featured in the movie Under Construction. So, if you guys haven't seen Dave over in his documentaries, he was an incredible freaking, you were over 400 pounds, man. It wasn't a pretty 400 pounds, I'll be honest, but you were pretty 365. No, thank you. I don't know about pretty, but you were. No, I'll take that. You said it. It's on record. It's been recorded. I'm having that. A jack 365. That's for sure. And I've been coaching for the last decade now, full time. We're basically just here to hang out with you guys, answer your questions, talk about PEDs, talk about drugs, talk about stuff. So, we do have a bunch of listener questions. We take your listener questions as always. And plus, you know what? If you comment here on YouTube, that's where we take our questions. Plus, those comments, likes, all that stuff. It helps to boost our programming and the algorithm. We would love to have you along for everything we do. Dave, I've got one for you. And I mentioned this to you before the show. So, he didn't really have a question, but it's a comment. Man, I was like, oh, this dude needs our help. We were talking about fat burners on one of the previous episodes. And he said, I still take 150 ephedrine and clen before the gym. I can't seem to work out intensely without them. I'm too old to be taking these meds. Holy crap, dude. 150 ephedrine and clen. Now, is that 150 ephedrine and 150 clen? Or is that 150 ephedrine and an undisclosed amount of clen? And the other thing is, clen is a pre-workout. Yeah, I don't see that. No, I don't. I mean, it gives you like a little bit of a stim-like effect. Yeah, but not where I thought you'd gain any advantage out of a pre-workout from it. You know, in a pre-workout essence. Yeah. Yeah, ephedrine, very habit-forming. Could go as far as to say addictive. And difficult to manage when you're in it at that level where you sort of feel like you have to have it, otherwise you can't function. Been there, been through that one. Mine was more of a... Because I was overextending the energy output through the ephedrine. Obviously, when the ephedrine wasn't in play, I was knackered. So then I'd take the ephedrine to stop being tired. So that was more my cyclistic thing. But yeah, it definitely is habit-forming. And it can cause some paranoia and anxiety at that sort of level. I mean, effectively, you know, in very simple layman's terms, you're taking speed. I know it's not exactly the same product, but... It's like one chemical step away, right? Yeah, you know, it's close. So, I mean, it's just a case of tapering. And I think what you're probably going to find is that you will go through a period of shit energy output, not being able to train very well, feeling absolute crappy, like you would with any withdrawal from a dependency. But, you know, it will improve. And once it's fully cleared your system and your system starts to operate back normally, you'll start to find a bit of energy coming back. But also make sure that, you know, has this started because of compensation for the fact that you're not doing something else right? Yeah. You know, is sleep generally crap? Or is there other areas you can work on to improve that might help as you try and reduce it? If you're taking that much clen and ephedrine, I can't imagine you're having great sleep. No, I can't. You definitely need to bring that down, my friend, and really get rid as soon as you can. But you're going to have to probably, you know, stage it. Yeah, taper it down. Yeah. And still expect you're going to feel like crap for a while because I pretty much think you will. Keep your hydration high. Keep your electrolytes good because that's definitely going to play a role in recovering from this as well. Yeah. I would think, you know, a few things. Number one, I think a taper would probably be a good move. I bet you, do you think, like, you know, if you were, let's just say it was 150 ephedrine. If you were to then take 75 ephedrine, it would probably be enough to at least make you feel normal. You know, you might not be stimmed out, right? I don't. Like, what's the first step in tapering this down? You know what? I think you can taper it. You can do a big jump like that where you cook by 50% and with levels being so high initially, you'd probably get away with it to an extent. But I think there's nothing wrong with just doing a 10 milligram or a 20 milligram drop and then, you know, a week, 10 days later, doing another one and another one. But the point is that whatever you do, you need to be progressively and gradually reducing it. That's kind of what I was getting at was I was thinking maybe a big jump at first, but then from there, get used to that. Yeah, and then small, you know, half a half at a time or something. Going cold turkey off that level of dosing is, yeah, you're going to be rough. Yeah. Also, too, I would look at maybe some other supplements to jump in with that. You know, what else can you do that maybe doesn't work through the exact same pathway? I mean, altiricine is a great supplement for people that are experiencing, you know, any kind of, you know, like adrenal fatigue. Because I imagine that that's what he's driven himself into. Yeah, I would think so. I remember my first contest prep, I took ephedrine. And or ephedrine, I think most people pronounce it. I say ephedrine. Is that weird? No, I say ephedrine as well. Do you? Okay. Thank you. I'm not alone then. So you also say aluminium, which is, that's not correct. I'm just going to put that out there. Aluminium. That's, I don't know what that is. But I just remember, Dave, I would take a tab, go do my cardio, and I'd feel like all amped up. I'd be like, it's so good. And then take a tab again a few hours later, and then a tab again a few hours later, three times a day, basically I was running it with caffeine, with aspirin. And then I got to a point where it just didn't give me the same bump upward. And then it got to a point where in between doses, dude, I just didn't feel like getting off the couch, man. Like, it was bad. The crash can be terrible. So, yeah. So, taurine, I'd add some, excuse me, tyrosine, I'd add some L-tyrosine in there. I think that could be really beneficial. Upregulate your ability to better utilize dopamine and norepinephrine. I think that would be good. Dude, what's the name of that? And I don't mean to make this sound like a plug, but MindFK from Mutant. I think it's paraxithine. So. It does sound like a plug. Yeah, I know. I know. But this is freaking amazing stuff, man. Like, I haven't found a pre-workout. You completely have. Yeah. Honestly, man, I haven't found a pre-workout this good. And it has. This has got nothing to do with you being with Emma Arnold's then at all, has it? Yeah. Honestly, it doesn't. But, yeah, where's the name of that? So, there's stuff. There's nootropics in here, like Alpha GPC. You could use Alpha GPC, Huprazine A. You know what I'm saying? Things that might work from a different angle. I could see that being beneficial. But I think it's paraxithine. So, with caffeine, there's basically two routes that it goes. And with paraxithine, you're activating one side of that, which you don't build up a tolerance to. So, you can basically just turn that on repeatedly without building a tolerance. It's a smoother, less intense stim effect than straight caffeine. So, you can say paraxithine if you wanted to. Where are you putting your caffeine if you've got two routes of administration? Because the only place my caffeine goes is in my mouth. No, no, no. There's two. It has two angles of action. Are you sticking things up your bum all again, Scott? Is that what you're saying? No, not again, Dave. Not again. Anyway, yeah, just start thinking creatively about what else can you do that's not going to just keep hitting that same norepinephrine dopamine button, you know? Yeah, stims are great. But, you know, they can really be a lifesaver if you're struggling and you need a bit of a boost. But I've always had the attitude that if you need a stim to train, there's something not right. Yeah, on a bad day when you're struggling or on a particularly hard workout that you do, yeah, fine. But if it's AI need my stim or I can't train, then to me, that ain't good. That is, that reads as dependency to me. And I think you've got to be very careful with anything that you get to that level of relationship with it. Yeah. Why, hello. I wanted to do something different with my True Nutrition advertisement for today. And here's the thing. I just got our order in. Victoria and I, we pay for all the protein that we get. They don't send us anything for free. And that's because I've believed in True Nutrition for 15 years now. I've been using them ever since I contest prep. They have some of the cleanest, best quality protein. A lot of times I use the Team Skip. But here's the deal. I'm going back to the Pure Whey Isolate. The Pure Whey Isolate, it just processes. This is so fast. This is my favorite flavor, chocolate peanut butter cup. But if you want to try just like one pound at a time, you can do that. Just sample it. I've never had the cookie butter. So I'm going to try the cookie butter this week. We've got a big old bag of pea protein isolate for the wife. This is what she likes to use. And here's the thing. They're just about wholesale prices at True Nutrition. Plus, they don't add the flavor in when they weigh it. So you get like legit one pound of protein. And then from there, they add the flavor after that. So every one pound, I think it's like 1.2. I'm not sure. Don't quote me on that. But hey, here's the thing. True Nutrition is a great quality protein. They believe in us. They advertise with us because I literally asked them to. And if you use our code THINK, you'll get some additional savings. Plus, of course, that's like voting for our podcast. So thank you, guys. I hope you enjoyed my impromptu ad. Goodbye. Hey, Dalton's with us in the live stream. He says, hey, Dave, Scott, do you guys have any experience with me or a background? I'm a little over a week in, and I have been loving the results so far at 15 milligrams a day. Dalton, tell us what are the results that you're loving. I'd be interested to hear that. So mirror background is an incontinence drug, Dave. I've never heard of it. Yeah, so it's a newer one on the market. People are using it, claiming to get a fat burning effect from it. I've had a couple clients use it. I didn't really notice a difference either way. People that I've worked with that have dieted in the past, and then they get on this, and they're dieting it again now with a mirror background. I didn't see a difference. It wasn't like, you know when you take Clin, it kicks everything up. I didn't see that happen. Keith over at Parabolic had said his thought was maybe it's that people are getting a better night's sleep because they're not getting up to pee several times. You know, is that in itself going to help you? I don't know. I could do with some of that, though. Yeah? All right. Send some mirror background to Dave. Yeah, please. Yeah, let us know, Dalton. Let us know. We've got another guy who says, so this is Shane. He says, I have breast tissue more than I would like. How do I tighten this tissue up? Now, are you saying that you've got moobs? Moobs? Yeah, man boobs. Oh. I thought of a cow for some reason when you said that. So, as in that your breasts are fatty, your chest is fatty, or are you saying that you have gyno? Like glandular tissue. Yes, or are you saying that you're a double D? Yeah. Can we clarify on whether you've got a really nice pair of tits, or you're a little bit of a chubby man, or we've got a problem with gyno-musty? Well, the problem would be, like, if he has, like, you feel a distinct marble, you know, inside of the pack, inside of, like, under the nipple. And in that case, I don't think there's any dose of raloxifene or tamoxifin that's going to hold that down. Is there? Yeah, well, there's been some positive results with, like, 10, 20 milligrams of tamox for extended periods of time. Okay. But it is a slow process. We are talking, you know, months and months and months. And obviously, in that time, you can't be doing anything that's going to cause it to increase either. So what I've noticed is that if somebody has glandular tissue that's already been formed, the higher their estrogen is, the more swelling they get in that tissue. And if you take a selective estrogen receptor modulator, like tamoxifin, raloxifin, it's going to shrink that tissue down. It's going to all contract and tighten up. But I don't see that as actually changing it. It's more or less like... There is. There has been a couple of studies. There have, huh? Yeah, only reducing established gyno through long-term administration. Damn. I wonder how long-term. I don't know. I'd have to look it up. Yeah. Okay. Okay. I mean, that'd be cool. At the same time, you've got to weigh out. Like, you were taking a woman's breast cancer medication. How long-term do you... You know what I'm saying? Like, there is that, too. No, just go to Turkey and get it cut out. There you go. Job done. Get a Turkey? Oh, go to Turkey. Oh, I was thinking of the dinner. Like, Turkey dinner. So you're talking Turkey place. I am talking the country, sir. Yes. You can get it cut out here in the States, too. About five grand, is what you're looking at. That's not too bad, actually, to be fair. The thing is, is you want to go to a cosmetic surgeon and get it done out of pocket. Because if you go to your... If you can get your GP to refer you to somebody, they're most likely going to send you to a tumor specialist. And when that guy cuts it out, he's not doing it with any care whatsoever about how you look. He's just scooping it out. Versus if you get actual, legit, like a procedure done through a plastic surgeon, they're also going to do liposculpture to contour the fat so that the pec still has the shape that the pec should have, you know? Hmm. Dalton says, by the way, he says, bingo, my sleep has been outrageously good, even with the chaotic nature of the Arnold Classic weekend. And despite strain diet this past weekend, I'm still losing weight. Hmm. Damn, Dave. So does that mean that, like, we have to, not only do we have to take anabolics now, not only do we have to take fat burners, not only do we have to take compounds to, before we work out, to help us with energy. Now we all, and we're probably taking stuff to help us sleep, too. Now we also have to take things to control how often we pee. Is that, is that where we're going in this sport, Dave? Is that where we're headed? I'm saying nothing. All right. What about this one? Um, B5 for acne. Does that work for most people? I swear it worked for me, but I've never heard it discussed. I think a lot of this depends on what's driving the acne. Yes, I have heard of B5 helping with acne for some people, but it all depends on what's behind the cause in the first place. Okay. Um, I think we're quite bad for this in that, you know, someone will say, oh, I've used this and it worked for me. Did that? But yeah, it will work if, if it's going to deal with what's causing the problem. I mean, BPC TV is a very fine example of this. The amount of people that jump on that because they've got a tendon issue or a joint problem. And it's not always what you need. It depends what the injury is. True. Um, so I would have said that probably, you know, acne causes for a lot of people are hormonal. Some will be diet based. You know, there's a, there's a whole range of, of causes. Uh, and there's lots of things that can help in different ways. Vitamin A beam, for example. Uh, but not necessarily for you, depending on what's behind the root cause of what's going on. Yeah. So yes, it can, but not necessarily. And I know that's a real bit of a cop-out answer, but it's just the truth of it, really. What are our other options? First line of defense, head and shoulder, shampoo can work for some acne. Yep. I, I find that helps a lot. I've heard you mentioned that one before too. Hmm. Um, I mean, you go proper old school and you toothpaste. What? Really? Oh yeah. I never heard of that. Yeah. You put a little blob of toothpaste on the spot and it dries it up. Oh, okay. Huh. That's interesting. You know, I, I, I think that in general we're anti, anti antibiotic, but if you have a bad breakout and you can take something like a doxycycline, minocycline though, that can help. I mean, you gotta remember acne is an infection of the skin. And if you already are like highly broken out, say your shoulders are covered, that's going to want to spread any bacteria that you get on your shirt. That's going to spread to other healthy pores. If you can arrest the, you gotta arrest the cycle first in order to get it to clear up. Unfortunately, sometimes one of the more mild and they do tend to be more mild antibiotics can be really helpful just to get it under control. No, completely agree. And I think sometimes though, a lot of these supplement and vitamin routes to, to solving acne can work, not in the middle of a huge flare up. I think like you say, sometimes you need to medicate it to get that aggression down and then the supplements will have a chance of helping you manage it from that point moving forward. Obviously, Accutane is the sledgehammer, but it's also can be quite nasty for some people. So, I mean, there was many, many moons ago, there was an actual topic of conversation in the UK about banning Accutane. Really? For, on what grounds? On the grounds of, um, links to... Oh, we can't say that word. Oh, sorry. Link, links to unaliving yourself. What word do I use then? You said it. Unaliving is fine. Is that fine? Why is this stupid? I know, dude. It's, here's the deal. It's taken out of context. It's just a word. And that word then is a flagged word. You know, kind of like you can't say bomb at an airport. You know what I'm saying? But you just said it. We're not at an airport. That's true. Someone might be listening to it in an airport. True. And if so, we just got them in a lot of trouble. Yeah. Um, yes. So, self-termination was a problem with, uh, linked to being a problem with the use of Accutane. But they, they didn't go that way. They, they kept it on. But, uh, there was a, there was at one point a consideration for that. Major, major birth defects too. Like, it's guaranteed birth defects too. If you get somebody pregnant, if somebody gets pregnant while on it. I don't know about if the male is using it. Hmm. I, you know, I didn't know that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, get this man. In the States, they have this program called the I pledge program. And in order to get your Accutane every month, you're part of this program. You get a card that you keep in your wallet or your purse. And each month, you have to report in. You get, you have to, you're supposed to get labs done with your doctor, check your liver values, all of that. You pledge that you will use two forms of birth control. And then you have to come in and get your card scanned. And if you're too early for your prescription, you can't get it. If you're too, if you're like 10 days late, you can't get it. So they, it's kind of ridiculous, man. Um, how, how, how they've black boxed it. Yeah. There are definitely dangers to the medication and. You know, but at the same time, like it, it can be really helpful. I don't, I don't think it is the nuclear option. I guess that's, that's the way I'd put it. Right. Yeah. Yeah. It's yeah. Yeah, definitely. Though I don't have a lot of people report that once they have used it, they've never had a problem reoccurring since. Yeah. Yeah. It changes, uh, literally it pushes all that oil out of the sebaceous glands. Sebaceous gland is like to that, the follicle and it pushes all that little, I always imagine like an oil reservoir under the ground, you know? And once that dries out, it, it stays dried out. I used it. Um, dude, it changed my oil production for the rest of my life. I don't get earwax the same way now. You know how earwax is waxy? Well, that's why it's called earwax. Right. You would think my earwax gets flaky now. That's dandruff, mate. That's, that's, that's. Yeah. It's like dandruff. I get ear dandruff now, Dave. Ear dandruff. They should put that a warning. They should put the warning on, uh, Accutane for that. Now, is that, is that the side effect of Accutane or is that the side effect of the anal passage caffeine? I mean, you never know. It could be either. It could be either. The whole polypharmacy thing going on here. So, also, too, one other thing that they, you don't hear mentioned a lot, and it's right in the literature, like in your insert on the Accutane prescription, that you do have to watch out for sports injuries. You, you dry your joints out incredibly with Accutane. Terrible on your cholesterol, right? Completely dries your connective tissue out. So, you are more likely to get hurt as a bodybuilder. I think that's something we should really pay attention to when using it. And, of course, you know, consider what you're doing gear-wise. Are you running orals? Because that's probably not going to be a smart move with the stress on the liver, right? Mm, true. All right. Oh, we did have somebody else mention to Dalton. He said, having consistent, basically consistent electrolytes, balanced sodium, magnesium, potassium. And I think he said something about, like, reducing water intake toward the evening. I do feel like when you get lean, man, you just piss that water straight out, dude. You know what I mean? And you do have to be careful with fluid intake toward the evening when you're dieting. You don't have those carbs driving fluid into the muscle. No. So, it just passes right through, right? Yeah. Yes, prostate can relate to frequent urination. Yes. True. There's that. All right. What about this one? Oh, it's kind of a long one. Oh, this is a guy getting NHS treatment for TRT. He says, here's a current update on the NHS treatment for low test. It took me over a year from my first appointment at the doctor's to where I am now. I have been not right for the last few years. Anxiety, breathlessness, low iron. I have had blood tests and I was diagnosed with low testosterone, low iron, and thyroid. I was sent to a specialist. The doctor examined my testicle size and then sent me to an MRI scan at my pituitary gland to see if it was a tumor, which could be the reason for my low testosterone. And I finally had my scan, found that I have a small spot on his pituitary gland, currently waiting for further blood tests. I've been training for over 40 years and competed in the 90s using very small amounts of winstrel and primobolin specialist says that my hypogonadalism is due to my steroid use and the NHS will probably not prescribe TRT therapy. Sorry for the long-winded message, haha, but I thought it might help some people as the pituitary gland role isn't always mentioned. Love the show. What do you think about that one? No, I mean, you know, yeah, there are many causes for low testosterone and definitely things like testicular issues, growth or damage to the testicles themselves, pituitary being another one, hypothermia being another one. Anything that's in the HPTA access can definitely have an impact on how well or not that you may produce testosterone. Obviously, when you mention, the thing is with the NHS, in the most part, they will always pick the low-hanging fruit. I've experienced this myself personally loads of times. If you give them an escape clause, if you give them a justification for what the problem is, they will jump on it. So if you go in with low tests and you admit that you previously have used anabolics, they are very likely to go, oh, that's what's caused your low test and not look any further. So it's always best to keep your mouth shut, tell them nothing and make them do the jobs. It's, I mean, well. I don't know why, Doc. I like, well, I can give you a prime personal example that only happened to me last week. Now, I have nerve impingement running down both my arms from the elbow to the hand. It is my ulnar in one hand and it is my medial in the other hand. So basically, carpool tunnel in one hand. Yeah. I also have nerve impingement coming out of my neck on both sides. Okay. Now, the reason I went to them was because not so much now, but previously, if I slept in a bed that wasn't mine, so it was a different pillar set up, a different positioning. Whose beds are you sleeping in, Dave? Hotel beds. Oh, okay. I thought you were, okay. Got you. Just behave. I'd end up with very pronounced pain in both my hands, swellings, and literally being unable to use them. And this could last a week to two weeks. Yeah. So this is what I went about. Now, this all started after falling over and banging my neck and they would not view my neck. They kept refusing and refusing and refusing. Eventually, after 14 months, they viewed my neck and said, yes, you have some impingement. So I went to, I was under muscular and skeletal and I went to a final sort of appointment last week. Yeah. And he basically says, right, I want you to wear a brace on your arm to keep it straight. And I was like, well, when I keep it straight, I don't have any problem. Sorry, when I keep it straight, I have problems. When I bend it, I don't have any problems. Oh, well, bending it will cause issues. Yeah, but bending it isn't causing issues. Okay. And then he's like, you need to put a brace on your other, on your wrist. I said, well, why? I don't have, I've not got, though I'm getting pins and needles in my hands occasionally and stuff like that. It's not something that's concerning me. I'm not here about the pins and needles I experience in my hands because I know where that's coming from. That's the nerve entrapment in my forearms. I'm here about the extreme conditions of the high pain and the high swelling. Well, nerves don't cause swelling, right? But you're the hand, you're the MSK sort of hand arm department. So if nerves don't cause swelling, then what the fuck's causing the swelling and the pain? And basically you've got nowhere because they had this excuse now that there was nerve impingement in my neck and my forearms. This is the treatment for that nerve impingement. So piss off and deal with it. And it's like, so basically after 14 months, they've done nothing. Yeah, that sounds terrible, man. It sounds like Canada, Ron Partlow went there to get his hip fixed and they didn't want to do it. He went out and paid for his hip replacement out of pocket. He's all set. He's all done. And now like a year later, he just got a call saying, hey, we'd love to set up an appointment and have you come in and do an exam so that we can talk about getting your hip replaced. Honestly, it's ridiculous. It's rather than deal with the problem, they will pick the most simple solution that generally obviously isn't. And then try and steamroll you into accepting it and wandering off with no more complaints. And it's just like, well, what's the point? You know, it has got to that stage. It's like, what's the point? Angry listener. I like that when he says LMFAO. Dave telling Scott to behave is hilarious. I agree. I agree. Who is this guy? Well, you should behave. You tell me off when I don't behave. Oh, OK. How about this one? Question for the next show. SARMS. MK2860. The shit, don't bother. Nice question. MK-677. Reading on these. What cycles and how long benefits versus steroid cycling? No benefits versus steroid cycling. It's fucking garbage. Don't waste your time. That's pretty much the beginning and the end of it. I mean, MK doesn't quite fit in there. You know what I'm saying? MK is a different animal. Yeah, MK is not a sound for a start. Yeah. It's not a selective androgen receptor modulator. So, wrong drug. No, look, I have seen a few people that have done OK. Yeah. But they were people that were very, very on point with diet and training. They're not big hitters. They're not going to transform your life. They're not going to rock your world. You might get slightly increased progress. You may feel different while using them. But if you're talking about comparing Psalms to anabolics, that's like comparing the performance of a Mini to a frigging McLaren. You know what I mean? It's just worlds apart. Worlds apart. Limited experience. Because, you know, I have used basically just anabolics. But there was a point in time that I had a number of clients that were competing in men's physique that were otherwise natural that would use Clin for fat burning and that we had cycled in Osterene during their preps. And I did see benefit out of it compared to dieting those guys naturally as well. Do you work with a lot of homosexuals? What, men's physique? Dude, those guys are freaking incredible. Oh, I know. They are. I'm taking the piss. I know you are. That joke, though, I'm telling you, man, is it's getting outdated. Because I went to that Arnold Classic this weekend. Oh, my God, dude. Did you go to the Arnold's? I did go to the Arnold's, yes. I never knew. Yeah. Well, get this, man. So, every, I've got to tell you, Arnold Classic, men's physique, every single guy was freaking peeled. Every single guy was jacked. Not a single one of them were out of shape. They all were incredible, man. Like, they all looked like smaller bodybuilders at this point. To be fair, the class has come a hell of a long way. And there are some absolutely tremendous physiques in men's physique now. I do have a question, though. Yes, Dave. Question. Yes. You told me you weren't doing the Arnold's. What do you mean? I did. You said you weren't going. You said you weren't going. I did go. Yeah, but you told me you weren't. Did you just give me the finger? Is that what you were doing just now? No. Scratching my head. You went like this? No, I was just scratching my head. Yeah, me too. Just scratching my nose, Dave. You said you weren't going. I'm not going to the UK one. You said you weren't doing the UK one. I asked you, are you doing the Arnold's with Mew? And then you went, no, I'm not going. No, I didn't. I'm not going to the UK Arnold. U.S.A. Arnold's. I went. It's done. I wasn't going to. And then they asked me, and then I did. So that's what I went. It worked out good, though. We had fun. Did you see the on-station icons? I did. I also met a lot of our listeners, and I did have a number of people ask, where's Dave? Is Dave here too? And I was like, oh, no, they don't let Dave in our country. He's not allowed. He's not allowed here. Don't you know? That's legit as well. I told your story in part. I was like, Dave did some time. And they said, in fact, Dave was a fugitive for a while. Dave was on the run. He was in Spain. He was in the U.S. He was in Canada. I was like, Dave was legit on the run. Have you not heard that story? And he was like, no. So we're going to have to tell the story again. Plus, I haven't heard it in a while, so I want to hear it. So one of these episodes, man, we're going to have to do the whole story again. Okay. I liked it. It was a good story, man. One of your best, actually. I am. Yes, I am barred from the U.S. We could fix that, though, you know? I keep, I've got, I actually got a pile of paperwork next to me. I have one of those sets of trays that is full of shit that I never use or look at. And in the bottom of that pile is all the documentation to apply for a USA visa. It's probably like a thick packet, too, isn't it? Yes, it is. It is. You really does have that paperwork there, apparently. Yeah, I know, I do. I see. We're not going to be able to move on until he shows this to us, I guess. No, I'm not showing it to you. No, you know what? Stuff you have. All right. Let's see if we can jump through some of these other listener questions. Oh, just, we had a comment here. Guy said, EQ is not hair safe at all. I think that we are saying it was more hair safe. I'm guessing, because he sounds like he's arguing with us. He said, I used it recently, and as we all know, it lowers E2. Even if you keep E2 in healthy ranges and take finasteride alongside of it, you're still going to have crazy hair loss because the lack of E2. Keep your E2 high if you want hair on your head. I kept my E2 high. I used to run my E2 ridiculously high. Yeah? Yeah. Yeah, I think, so what are you telling us? It's maybe genetics? Yeah. Yeah. I think you're right. I was told a very long time ago one simple fact. If you lose hair on anabolics, you are predetermined, and you're always going to have a fight. So rather than spend forever trying to fight it, just shave the fucker off and accept it. Yeah. But it is, you know, there is definitely, people do have a very strong genetic predisposition to drop in hair. Yeah. All right. What about this one? Let's see here. Question for the next show. In a previous episode, Dave didn't like the idea of two compounds in the first cycle and prefers it just to be test and aromasin first. My question is, what's the downside of running test in a low dose enough to get your E2 under control of primabolin, for instance? Something like 400 test, 200 primo, or even 300 test, 150 primo. Why not use an anabolic compound rather than aromasin? Not factoring the price difference and the difficulty sourcing legit primo. Thank you, gentlemen. Love the show. Binging every episode all day at work. I don't, right. So for the first cycle, I would always stick to primarily one compound for the simple reason is you don't know how you are going to react. Now, 99% of people don't have an issue. But if there's more than one compound in and you don't have a great knowledge base, it is much more of a discussion about what's causing the problem. Yeah. The other thing is that the reaction to primo and the quality of primo varies so much that managing estrogen through another anabolic is not always the easiest thing to do. Granted, you can test and you can check all those things out, but it does start to make the cycle more complex and more complex to manage. Whereas, generally speaking, AIs are relatively robust in that they are the drugs they say they are and their effect is relatively predictable. So it's much easier from a management and experience point of view. Once you've learned how you react to that single compound, then when you add secondary compounds in, you can see the changes, you can see how they further affect your physique. Also, primo is not as safe as Fingalido. It will adulterate the living hell out of your lipids. And if you're not experienced and you're not on point, then that can cause issues. Why aromacin over ADEX? Someone's just asked because aromacin is lipid friendly where ADEX is not. And in a first cycle, you shouldn't be experiencing estrogen levels to the height that you need aromadex over aromacin. Aromacin is not as strong as aromadex, but in a first cycle scenario, doses aren't going to be high enough to warrant using aromadex either. You can do it, but you shouldn't need to do it. There is a point when aromacin becomes impractical because the doses have to be so high to manage the estrogen that you might as well move to ADEX. But aromacin off the bat is lipid friendly. ADEX is not. Yeah, I'm with you 100%. I do find that if needed, if it's going to be, but you know where I would go with ADEX is more if it's, like if we really want to get particular with our estrogen control, like in a contest prep situation, or if we're using a 19-nor, like DECA specifically, long-acting DECA, where we're more likely to have issues with the DECA if estrogen is high, then I would prefer to make sure we could like get pretty exact. I found for me, man, it was tough to control my estrogen, even like nipple sensitivity with aromacin while on like a contest cycle. I tried to use it one year in particular. Test was pretty high, like at a gram. But I remember though, like taking 25 milligrams and, you know, sensitivity going away. But then like the very next day it was coming back. Yeah, I mean, it's horses for courses, isn't it? You know, you know, aromacin is a mild AI. And so there does become a point when the dosing of your drugs is too high for aromacin to be able to cope with. And then, yeah, you'd move to aromadex. You know, you use what you need to use to fix the problem. But people tend to overcook it quite often. Yeah. Yeah. It's easy to do. That's the other thing. Yeah, it is. Check this out, man. So I have a client that I've worked with longer term. He's a young guy, competed naturally. After that, a year or so after having done that natural show, which we had worked together for quite a while into that, he decided he wanted to use PEDs. I've also worked with his dad and his dad was in full support. He was like, yep, if you're going to do it, man, keep working with Scott so he can help you with this. He ran a couple cycles. Now did well with them. We introduced aquapoise in his latest cycle. Hadn't used it before. 600 test, 300 aquapoise. Gains didn't feel right to me. So after about five, six weeks, I said, let's go in and get labs. Get this dude. 600 test, 300 EQ. Astrogen is 5.6. On our scale, that goes up to 43. Something like that. Yeah, that's low. What was his test on 600? We didn't get it. We didn't check it. It was out of pocket, so we just got his E2 checked. I'm just interested in it, because obviously, to clarify, is it that the EQ is, in him, super efficient, or is it that the test wasn't where it was supposed to be? Yeah. I mean, he does feel like he's on cycle and all that, but that is a, it is a good point. I, because of, I know the source, I do, I do trust it's legit, but hey, we're hearing all sorts of stuff, man. You know? All right. We got just a couple more left here. Oh, this was, so, people, there were people, interestingly, that episode we did with Kurt Havens. So, there were people that had all sorts of comments on that episode, Dave. We had people, one guy was like, man, you guys really tore into Kurt Havens. I was like, I didn't think we tore into him. Like, you guys ganged up. That's what he said. You guys ganged up on Kurt. I was like, I didn't think we ganged up on him. He's a big boy. I'm sure he can look after himself. Right. And, no, not in the slightest. I asked some clarifying questions, so I was clear on what the situation was. That wasn't ganging up. That was just me wanting to clarify exactly what he'd done, because I wasn't aware of what he'd done prior to the interview, because I hadn't had really any engagement with Kurt, or watched any of his stuff, so I wasn't sure what the background was. So, yeah, I clarified what the details of the study were. But, other than that, no, I didn't even pass comment, to be honest. I didn't pass an opinion at all on it. And then, this guy said, content creators will say, it's funny, because I feel like he actually proved Kurt's point. He said, content creators will say anything to stay relevant. Sip has me roaring like Tim the Tool Man Taylor on 350 milligrams a week. I never feel anything on an ethane. And that was his point, right? Like, that maybe one ester might break down better for you than the other, right? Yeah, it's, I mean, as, you know, as we said ourselves, you know, I'm using Sip for TRT and I'm running the lowest dose I've ever run. What are you taking? 80 milligrams a week. That's pretty low. And you're in range with that, huh? I'm mid 25s. So, upper range, obviously, UK being 28, 30, depending on what you're looking at. Okay. All right. Let's see. Where was this one? We had one that was like a stuff question. Where is that at? Here it is. Here it is. Yeah. Yeah. I thought it'd be fun to do a stuff's question instead of just a drugs question. There it is. He says, and I have an end stuff question for the next episode. Would uncle Dave do a bit of an impact of edible weed on blood work and overall health markers while on cycle? I'd also like to throw a suggestion out for another crossover episode with Dave and the guys from it's just bodybuilding. Ron and dusty. That is, um, as always, thank you for the continued great information, banter and entertainment. I don't have a lot on this. What I have is very antidotal and not really grounded in anything factual. So just take anything I said with a pinch of salt. I don't want a million messages that it doesn't do that. I know that crap coming next week. Now Scott's finally removed his product placement. Carry on Dave. Yeah. Um, from what I have seen, there does see to be changes in estrogen levels, mainly on the slightly higher side, but nothing that's super dramatic. Um, the other thing that I see is things around prolactin. Um, not what you'd think. So I think most people think, oh, well, we've using weed prolactin spinning low and, and actually know what, what a tendency is the opposite. Prolactin tends to be that little bit higher. Um, but other than that, there's not really anything dramatic that, that stands out as being sort of notable. You know, they're all the, the changes are all within sort of fluctuation and ranges that we see with other things as well. So it's difficult to say we does this because the truth is I haven't seen anything that dramatic to say that it does, but then again, you know, it all depends on how much you're consuming as well. Yeah. Yeah. I think in general, it's, it's a pretty like, as far as physical side effects, comparing it to other like alcohol. Oh my God, dude, like that's going to trash most people's systems quick. Yeah. Alcohol is a very distinct, a lot. Alcohol is a very distinct and immediate effect. There's definitely no doubt about that. Um, long term, we start to see more things around stress markers. Um, there, there's, I haven't looked at weed for a very long time. So my understanding, um, may be a little bit outdated. Okay. But my understanding is that it plugs into the thamandamine receptor and in such can actually cause a little bit of damage there, which results in your own sort of flight or flight mechanism being a little bit skewed. Hmm. The result then is increased anxiety and paranoia. If not exposed to weed. And unfortunately, then the only product that's going to engage with that receptor in any meaningful way is weed. So, um, you tend to find that long term weed smokers do become dependent, not just become habitual forming, but because if they don't have weed, they do struggle with stress management and anxiety management. Um, some of that's chemically driven and some of that's just being reliant on a mechanism to deal with it for you that you've let, you've not, you know, develop management of it in other ways. Um, dude, I remember back in like when I was 16, 17, I smoked a good deal. Like, uh, it was my thing. And I love like partying instead of high school. You know, I remember on the weekends mentally, like if you were to tell me like, let's go to the carnival, I'd be like, uh, that doesn't sound fun. But if you're like, let's get high and go to the carnival, I'd be like, yeah, if you're like, let's go bowling, I'd be like, yeah, that doesn't sound fun. But if you're like, let's get high and go bowling, I'd be like, yeah, you know what I'm saying? Like there is that, that mental thing. And I think that's probably more for some people than other. I do. And I have a very addictive personality. So I just, for me, what would be the side effect for me would be, you would watch my life fall apart. And for me, it is a gateway. Like, I'll be like, oh, that sounds like a great idea. Why don't I take this with it? You know what I mean? One leads to the next. Yeah. And some people just fine with it for the rest of their lives, you know? Yeah. I mean, my personal experience is, is, is a family member who I personally feel has wrecked their life through it. They've got a better handle on it now, but it still can't function without it. And I say, I'm a great believer in, and I've already mentioned it once today as well. You know, if there's something in your life, you can't function without, then your relationship with that thing is probably unhealthy. Whatever it be, alcohol, we, Coke, as in Coca-Cola, not the other one, before we get banned for summer. Or either. Either. Well, yeah, but you know, or even if it's a food stuff, or even, you know, we, we can enjoy going to the gym, and yes, we can get a little bit irksome when we're not going, but if it's causing you major trauma not going, then chances are your relationship with the gym is probably a little bit unhealthy. Yeah. That, now, that's down to your personal point of view, as whether you feel that's a problem or not, and you may not. And if it's not causing problems in other parts of your life, fine, but if, if you training is, is causing the end of your marriage, and you're unwilling to stop going training because of how it makes you feel, there's a conversation there, isn't there, at the end of the day. So, you know, it's, it's like with a lot of things, but some people might, I mean, I know, not personally, but through working with the harm reduction stuff, I know functioning heroin users. Yeah. You know, the, the, hold down to one's a lawyer, a solicitor. Oh God, I wouldn't want to hire that guy as my lawyer. They're quite good, actually. Uh, but, their, their use of it is recreational in the same way that someone might go out for a drink on a Friday night. Oh, that seems rare with. Yeah, it is, but, that, it's just a, you know, an extreme example of how some people's relationship with substances can vary so much. I got a question, Dave. I got an Uncle Dave's advice question. Go on then. Don't do it. Your mom won't approve. Hey, what's going on guys? I'm behind the scenes editing here. And I just wanted to let you know that we recorded this like right after the Arnold classic was over. And because this topic has been fricking beat to death by everyone, and it's evolved a lot since I just want to give you the heads up that, you know, we're going to talk about Martin, um, and all of that and give Dave's opinion based off of where things were at that time. Um, you know, regardless if you, if you're tired of the topic, like I'm tired of the topic, you don't necessarily have to watch the segment, but we did talk about it. So I'm leaving it in. I just wanted to give you guys that caveat. All right. Um, if you were, I'll just say it. Martin Fitzwater is in a lot of turmoil with the bodybuilding industry right now. You know, uh, Cliff's notes version. He took fourth place after it sounds like having not the best prep, you know, and I don't think it's any fault of his, any fault of his coach or where that blame stands. I don't know. Sometimes the body doesn't respond. Sometimes people aren't as plugged in as they should be early enough. Whatever the case, the result was fourth place. He freaked out, man. He freaked out to the point where people saw him showing bad sportsmanship on stage. Number one, afterward, bad sportsmanship on social media, um, ended up kind of snowballing. It appears now that he's lost all of his sponsors. Like we're talking literally his entire income went down the chute due to a placing that really was still top five at the Arnold classic, like fourth place at the Arnold is a great day, man, because I would say that out of everybody I saw, the entire weekend, there was only a handful of the people that I actually talked to on the weekend that were capable of ever achieving fourth place at the Arnold. I mean, what's, what's your thoughts on this situation? Now, other side of it is, is that like the bodybuilding media and social media, dude, oh my God, dude, they're lighting him up so hard. I only know bits. Now, I initially saw him stay in the, he fully took all responsibility for the fact that he didn't look good. Um, it was his fault. He had responsible for that and he took it on the chain, which I thought, all right, well, fair enough. Well, um, did he say that after the show? This was very early on, I believe. Okay. So I believe this was very, very early on. It might have been after the placing. I, I didn't hear any of that. Yeah. So this might have even been between prejudging and final. Um, I respect to a small extent, the fact that he wasn't a hypocrite and didn't shake Nick's hand. If you don't like someone and you're respectful about the fact that you don't like him and that involves not you feeling that shaking someone's hand is being a hypocrite, then okay, I can take that. Fair enough. I can live with that. I don't have an issue with that whatsoever. I wouldn't do it. I would still, but you know what I mean? I think it's, yeah, but I, I think, I think he has a valid point in that bit, but, but that's the only bit where everything else from that point just goes to shit to celebrate Nick, not winning was disgusting. No place, no need, ridiculous, pathetic, childish. Don't know why the fuck he did it. Uh, it just made him look an absolute idiot. There was, you don't celebrate other people's downfalls or failures, but it's just wrong. You just don't do it. Uh, the fact that he was physical with Nick backstage brought back memories of, um, Mike and a few of the old boys from back in the day when things used to get that way. Um, Oh, what's his name? I've got a mental block. Stop hitting that noise, whatever noise you just made. That was very loud. Uh, but there were some physical alterations back in the day behind, behind the stage, um, back in the eighties and nineties. When bodybuilding was much more fun. Mike Quinn. Yes. I thought they'd be okay. Yeah. Yeah. He was, he was a brawler, wasn't he? Oh yes. Um, but yeah, you know, there was, there was definitely no need for that. And it definitely is not something in modern bodybuilding that should, should be happened. Uh, what's gone on since then is, it's your own doing, mate. You made your bed, you're frigging lying. It's tough shit. You deserve everything you get from that point of view moving forward. Yeah. Um, I, I think, you know, initially it started with a little bit of, of genuine honesty, which wasn't a problem, but then it seemed to get so out of hand. And now he's playing the poor tail and, and crying because this has happened. And that is that, what did you expect? You represent a company. Uh, and if you represent that company and make that company look bad, then yeah, you, you do deserve to be binned. And you should have thought of this before you opened your mouth. Now, if he'd done all this and was then like, you know, I, I didn't come in. Well, I got what I placed. Yes. I've been very vocal about, you know, Nick and everything else. And as a result, I've lost my sponsors, which I fully understand. And I accept. Then I might've had a slightly different opinion of him, but the fact that he's crying about how, oh, poor me. And I've done this. And it's all, you know, everyone's picking up. No, mate, no one's picking on you just being a dick and you've got answered for it. Simple as that. Yeah. Yeah. Now I saw a post from RX muscle talking to Brett Wilkin, who's his training partner and longtime friend. And Brett said, yeah, you know, his behavior was, you know, deplorable. That said, the way I've seen him treated on social media is absolutely disgusting. Cause like people are, you know, you, you, you stumble and people are real quick to jump on you. You know what I mean? So I agree. And I do think it, no, I'm sorry. Okay. Well, what do you think of this though? Like, should we also then recognize like, Hey, people have problems and let this go. You know what I'm saying? Like, should people just be respectful and just let this die out or, you know, no matter what people are going to forget about it in two weeks anyway, but social media is a brutal place to live. But at the same time, if you want to exploit social media for financial reward, which he has done as any pro bodybuilder does. Yeah. Then you can't cry when that social media turns on you, which it will do. It's fickle. We all know this. The internet is an awful place to be 90% of the time. People are ruthless. They're brutal. And they're brutal because they know you're not going to stand in front of them and they're not going to have to actually answer to what they say. Yeah. At the end of the day, he said some stupid stuff. He acted like a child and the world has turned on him for it. But that same world was feeding him, paying his bills and putting money in his pocket for a long time as well. So, you know, it's just one of those things. It comes with a territory. And though it isn't nice when it goes overboard, and it isn't nice when the internet goes for the jugular, and no, he may not deserve all that. He was quite happy to take the money when the same people were putting money in his pocket by promoting him and supporting him in every other way. So, you know, it goes with a territory. If you want to use social media to earn an income and improve your popularity, then you've got to take it when it turns on you and stabs you in the back, which it will do. Yeah. Blunt Force Tanya said, Derek got raked on social media too. He didn't do all that. Yeah, that's true. Derek just won the show. You know what I'm saying? And people really came after him. It is, man. It's toxic, dude. You know, so it's a tough place to be. Here's my thought. I kind of feel like this. Yes, he's definitely made mistakes. I genuinely think he has some anger management issues, obviously, right? And I think his best case scenario would be, I would love to see it if he actually got some type of help. Because if you get, you know, because like, listen, man, we all feel that, you know, we all feel that like, I want to win. I want to beat this guy. Maybe he doesn't even have a real reason to have a beef with Nick Walker, but maybe for him in his head, that's how he, you know what I'm saying? Like, I got to have somebody who's my rival in order to drive him. Like, you know what I mean? It's, it kind of creates an arc for you. Yeah. I just wonder if maybe it wouldn't be a helpful for him to actually get some legit therapy and correct it and then show us through his actions that he's changed. Because I think what's more likely going to happen is it's just kind of going to kind of drift away. People will forget about it, but this isn't the first time that it's happened. This is just the loudest time that it's happened. And it would be nice though, to see him gin. I just want to see the best in people. I would love to see him genuinely change, accept his actions. You know what I'm saying? And own that. And, and, you know, be like, we can only say saying, I'm sorry is only words, right? Yeah. You've got to act on it as well. Yeah. When I was a kid, my dad used, when he would punish us and do, we used to get the fricking belt. I don't think parents do the belt anymore. We got fricking beat. And, uh, I, we had to apologize. And, and what is apologize mean? We would have to say, I'm sorry. I'm sorry for what I did. And, uh, what was, what was the next part that he would say? And that I want to change that you had to genuinely, we had to say that we wanted to change. And, and I think that then following through with your actions, I guess is my, my main point. You got to follow through with your actions. I, I think, I think if he owns what's happened and what he's done, uh, and he can give reason for it, whether people choose to believe that or not is one of those things. But I think if he then shows action towards improving that, and then proves that improvement by how he conducts himself next time he competes, and everything else, then, then it will soon get forgotten about and be yesterday's news. Um, though we are harsh, um, you know, society in general is, is quick to, to tear you down. It, it's got a short memory as well. Uh, and, and it can very quickly move on to the next thing. Um, it, it's, he fucked up. It's as simple as that. I, I think it started probably a little bit innocent and, and he, he lost grip on it and it just got crazy. Um, and there was, the thing is, even like when he was on stage and he started celebrating that Nick didn't win. And obviously Nick was very obviously disappointed because it was probably the best Nick we've seen in a very long time. He looked incredible, man. Yeah. If it wasn't his best ever, it was damn frigging close to being, you know what I mean? Um, so obviously it's going to smart a little bit when he didn't win. Yeah. Um, and a lot of people had him winning and it was tight. So it will, you know, it could easily have gone either way, different judging panel, different day, same physiques could have been a complete switch. But that, that reaction on stage just seemed over the top, seemed exaggerated, seemed unnecessarily flamboyant. So yeah, it does make you wonder, you know, does he actually have some problems? Are there some issues underneath all this? And it's not just that he's a prick and there actually is something more driving this. But at the same time, you know, contest prep is extremely true. True. We, we, you know, there's some very harsh drugs being used and I'm not making excuses for it, but they can affect how we behave and how we react. And it can exaggerate traits that are already there. So yeah, he may have a dislike of Nick that's now been magnified into a pure blonde hatred of Nick because he's on shitload of threat. So, you know, there could be a lot more to the picture than there is, but by crying about it as he is doing it currently, it's just, it's just pathetic. It's like, you fucked up, mate, own it. Don't start trying to make excuses for it. Yeah. You know, you acted an asshole. Say, look, I acted the asshole. I am embarrassed. Um, there is some background to this, which is X, Y, Z, but I'm going to go away and try and sort my shit out. And then, you know, you won't please everybody and there'll still be knobs shouting and screaming, but they're knobs shouting and screaming. Yeah. Yeah. You'll never make everybody happy. That's for sure. But I, I hope genuinely that he does change. So anyway, I figured I'd bring that up. Little uncle Dave's wisdom, whether, you know, Martin wanted to hear it or not, worry if he'll listen or not. He's got your advice. Now, Dave, I actually remembered what I was going to do for the uncle Dave's wisdom today. I don't know if I've done it before, but while we've done something now, I'll try and save it for another week. Okay. That sounds good. We had a couple of uncle Dave's advices here, both. Well, I don't know if the weed thing was advice as much, but I feel like we got some good stuff out of you and we're going to have to redo. You make it sound like it's a challenge to get good stuff out. You know, trying to squeeze water from a stone, you know, we also, we have to redo your story again one day because people need to hear that again. Your fugitive story. When Dave was, we could make a TV series out of that. This big 300 pound guy. Were you, you, were you big then? You weren't, you weren't really lifting heavy at that time. Were you? Okay. I was fat. It'd be funnier if you were like giant, you know, and you're like trying to like, I got to blend in. I don't think I've ever blended in in my life, to be honest. Guys, we appreciate you tuning in. Thank you for watching another episode of drugs and stuff with Dave Crosland and check out eval blood analysis.com. Dave, are you going to be at the, the Arnold UK? Okay. I'm hoping so. We, we have some technical, we have some technical issues. I know how that goes. I know all about technical issues. Yeah. Um, so not the Arnold's themselves, but the NEC, the venue are being particularly argumentative about legislation and certification and all this stuff. And we have it coming out of the wazoo. Uh, and the intermediate health and safety management company that is responsible for approving us are more than happy. But the NEC themselves seem to kill me not. They're asking for stuff that doesn't even exist, which is obviously proving difficult. Okay. But I think we will like what, like they want you to bring a unicorn. They wanted me to bring a certificate from the local council, a license from the local council to operate drawing bloods, which the local council have explicitly informed me doesn't exist. Oh, okay. Huh? Bring a unicorn. That'll be too, you know, that'll make them forget about everything. Yeah. You guys have them over there, don't you? Yeah. I've got loads of mine. All right. Guys, I think you should farm next door to breed them in the field. And go to true nutrition.com. Use our code thing to get 10% off supplement source. Dot CA for Canadians. They have great deals that change week to week on short dated and label change products. And of course, strong sports nutrition, great health stacks, especially if you're on cycle, definitely check out strong. If you're running some high hematocrit, check out the thrombomax. That might help you out. And thank you guys, everybody from Patreon. And for another episode of the podcast of drugs and stuff, we'll see you soon. You really, you really do like thrombo, don't you? Yeah. It's been the main thing. Like I found a good, I found good response to it, man. We actually had somebody who asked, uh, they said they had an uncle Dave's wisdom question for you. Okay. So we'll see what they have to say about that. We've got it. We've got a few interesting questions that are different than what we usually, get. Like one guy says, I'm taking 150 effedrine and Glenn before the gym. Fuck it. Now he says, I can't seem to work out intensely without them. I'm too old to be taking these meds. So I thought that would lead to an interesting conversation, right? Yeah. That's, that's, yeah. I mean, obviously the effedrine could be fucking garbage. There's that. Which is why, which is, we used to having to text so much. Yeah. Let's talk about that. That'll be a good time. So there's like stuff like that, that I think, uh, would be good. It's very habit. It's very habit forming is effedrine. Yeah, I could see that. Oh yeah. Okay. I have a stuff question for the next show. Um, I like stuff questions. We don't get many questions a bit on the impact of edibles on blood work and overall health markers while on cycle. Okay. We can talk about that. I'm sure. I'm sure, you know, plenty of people that are, um, using edibles. I don't know much to be honest. I don't know much. Okay. No, wait. I mean, you've got people who are using the old herb that are getting lab work done, right? Yeah, but there's a bit high estrogen, um, fuckabouts with prolactin, but that's the main thing. Fuckabouts with prolactin. Yeah. Fuckabouts with prolactin. Who's all here with us? We got some people with us. We got Dalton with us. We got strength in her soul. Well, obviously, Tina, I saw Tina at the Arnold. What's up, Tina? It's basically the normal time, isn't it? Because you were late. So Dave, don't start with me. I had a rough couple of days. All right. And of course, we've got blunt force, Tanya just in time for fasted cardio. She said, she said she slept late. Yeah, Scott did as well. So let me get something straight for next week. Did you guys have a daylight savings time change? Ages ago. Okay. You didn't have another one since. No. You're going to have another one at some point, right? Like you, you do spring ahead at some point, right? We've all, no, we've already done it. So we're now gone. Next one, we'll be going back. Oh, so what time is it there right now? Two 55. Okay. So, so it's 10, 11, 12, one, two. Wait, 10, 11, 12, one, two, but we're usually five hours apart. Wait. Yeah, it's 10 55 here. We're only four hours apart now. Hmm. Because you caught up with us. Oh, I'm so confused, man. So confused. Right. So in future Scott, okay. You can no longer go to expos unless you are home and in bed for 6 PM. Yeah. Okay. Because obviously at your age, you just cannot hack it anymore. No, you're, you're right about that. Actually, you're actually, you're onto something. I think, man. Um, all right, I'll bring us in. I'm going to do my best with this guy. So bear with me. He's also going to be nice to him. It's true.