 gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu gu And, of course, go to supplementsource.ca if you are in Canada. Guys, we are at – this show comes out like a – skips a week out at this point. You don't look any leaner than when you were two weeks out. I don't look any leaner than I did it ten weeks out. How about that? No. Just kidding. We recorded two shows at once, guys, so that's why I can make that joke. We're excited for you, though, man. And I got to say, too, that as a friend and as just a fan of Skip, like, you know, I've been following you for a long time, man. I am – and I know what it's taken to get here now. And I take some personal pride and, like, kind of – I get some excitement out of it to see you pulling it together again, man. Thank you. Because I know that you – it took you a lot to – you know, a lot of questioning. You know, could I do this? And, you know, all of that stuff. The injuries, everything. Yeah, exactly. I'm very grateful for the opportunity to be able to do it. So that's what I try to keep at the forefront. The very cool thing is my dad and my girls are going to be in Pittsburgh, too. So it's – Nice. It's just I'm flattered, one. And, you know, win, lose, or draw. It's probably the last rodeo. Okay. I enjoy it. I love the grind. I love the process. But I see the signs. The signs are – I don't want to do something I'm not good at. You know what I mean? I'm not going to be that guy. I'm not going to be Gordie Howe who just stays on the ice, you know, because of the passion. I don't want to do that. So I think it's the last hurrah. It's going to be bittersweet. But, you know, it is what it is. I'm enjoying it. And, you know, it's helped to work with Justin. I'll be there to watch it. Nice. And regardless of how it goes, I'm grateful that you can do it on your terms, you know? I think that's important. And I'm trying to keep that in perspective as well. And I think it's becoming more clear to me as it gets closer. Yeah. Where before it was just like, you know, I want to kick ass. I want to – you know, I have to be really good. Now it's more like, yeah, I'm still going there to be the absolute best that I can. But perspective. Just really happy to be injury-free, have the opportunity. Because a few years ago with those injuries, I really didn't think I was going to ever – I was told, you're done. Yeah. Yeah. It'll be cool. All right, guys. Well, I'm sure, Ollie, you're going to be cheering for Skip. And, you know, listen, we've got some questions. In fact, we've got a bunch of questions. We've got a physique critique too from one of our Patreon people. And we had one question. I don't know how popular of a topic this is. But somebody asked in the YouTube comments – and by the way, I'll mention too, guys. If you enjoy the show and you are new to our programming, if you haven't subscribed yet, we'd love to have you along for all our shows. We do several bodybuilding podcasts that come out each week. And if you're enjoying this show, then please hit the like button. That like button helps us out a ton. Leave comments. Comment with questions for the next show. And we will tackle your questions then. We had a guy asking about – now, we've talked about this before. Combining trend and DECA. And I'm going to try to find the exact question here. I can't remember where it was. I've got a bunch of them. But, yeah, that was the gist of it was combining them both at kind of a – I think this might have been it. Let's see. Trend cycle. What do you guys think of a Nandrolone in trend cycle with – oh, I'm going to take it a step further. No test base. Or a very small – I thought it was a bad idea at first, right? And then I saw the no test base. Sorry. Sorry to our viewer who wrote it. Horrible idea. Horrible idea. Well, yeah. And we'll set him straight, help him out with no test base or a very small one like 50 milligrams a week to avoid estrogen-related side effects and crazy aromatization. He says, just did a few Nandrolone-only cycles and I really liked it. I was thinking of doing something like 100 to 200 of trend ACE per week. He didn't give us a dose on the Nandrolone. Can I first say that – and I think we've, as a show, have played a role in this with our talking about trend and not just jumping to 50 to 100 milligrams every day or every other day but bringing it down and experimenting with 10, 15, 20, 25 milligrams a day and maybe capping your total intake at 150 milligrams a week. I'm seeing that more and more with people that are reaching out to me with what they're doing, talking to other coaches with what they're doing and plans with their clients. And I think that – I don't want to say we're the only people that we're talking about this but I feel like over the years we've been the ones that have kind of said, hey, why do you need to jump to 500 milligrams a trend a week? Like let's see what doing 20 milligrams a day looks like. And I think we've kind of played a role in the industry of getting people to take less trend, reap the rewards, and have less side effects. So have you guys seen that and maybe inquiries you're getting or talking to other coaches? I'm definitely seeing it become a lot more popular. 200 is my kind of high-end dosing. And gosh, man, five years ago –