wonder he's getting shredded like crazy and he's dropping weight so fast. Where we have to be careful is the evidence is quite strong that if you already have a metabolic dysfunction or you're overweight, he's basically saying if you're fat, he's warning his viewers like this might not work for you if you haven't already been in a dieted state. And at least now he's making sense. Basically, whatab is what I have said in in defensive skip loading for a long time. What's that? The a the average diet of the average person when they eat processed carbs, they get fat because they're not insulin sensitive. They are not putting demands on the body that require the use of those carbohydrates as fuel. Yeah, we are. And because we are, that's why postworkout cereal is so beneficial. But if you're not training and you're just the average person and you eat cereal once a day, a large bowl of cereal, you're not gonna get leaner and it's not going to help you recover from a workout and build muscle. So ultimately, it he's not saying anything. Uh he he's he's right. Yeah. But he's not saying anything. There are no profoundities there. Okay. Uh he's explaining I don't know that he's trying to be profound. That's not what I'm saying. All I'm saying is this is just I think he's explaining said for a long time to the mainream his mainstream audience of four million subscribers you know. Yep. Actually get the beneficial part. What's up guys? I'm back with Skip. We're going to do a little bit of a reaction here. This is just for fun. Um somebody commented in the Facebook group Skip saying like there's this new sugar loading. Have you heard of this? It's like sugar sugar loading or sugar diet. Have you heard anything about this? Okay. Well, we're going to find out. Um, it's basically we're doing a reaction to a reaction to Mark Bell doing this sugar load. Okay. Okay. And uh, and I think this is actually better than us actually watching the Mark Bell video cuz this guy's giving us insight into Mark Bell and what he's doing versus just you'll you'll see what I'm saying. I watched like the first two minutes and then I thought, you know, Skip is the creator of Skip Loading, which I mean, it's not just clean food, right? So, I want to see how how different is this. So, let's see. Probably not. No. Well, we'll see, man. I mean, I don't think you do all sugar, do you? Uh, it just depends on what it looks. I mean, like table sugar, cane sugar. We'll see, man. We'll see. All right. You ready for this? Mhm. All right. Sugar a day. This is my breakfast. I had some Sour Patch Kids, Starburst, jelly beans, 8 ounces of apple juice. Literal sugar. Like sour patch kids for breakfast. Has Mark Bell lost his mind? Like what is going on? Now, if you were to look at him even a year ago, the guy is a very low carb, highfat approach type of guy. And he's dropping followers like mad because he's doing this sugar fasting or this sugar diet. another guy, Cole Robinson, who was kind of doing the snake diet before. He's been talking about doing this sugar diet. It sounds cool. Crazy. And it is a little crazy, but there's a couple really, really, really important caveats to know with like what's going on here with Mark. And before anyone just jumps in and does what he's doing or before anybody jumps in and completely discounts what he's doing should probably understand that there there is a logical reason and an actual like real scientific reason behind why he's doing what he's doing. There is a messenger molecule in the body that's called FGF-21 and that's what he's leveraging and that's what the whole sugar fasting thing can leverage. But couple quick things to note. You have to be in a deficit. Fat has to be tremendously low and you have to be able to consume enough to keep on elevating and sort of revving up this messenger molecule FGF-21. So we'll break it down a little bit more in case people actually do want to do this. I want to make sure it's the right people doing it and people doing it right. And this isn't me necessarily condoning it. I just know that this exists and it's a real thing and he's not just completely lost his mind and gone off his rocker. Mark's a cuckoo guy. He's my buddy. He's one of my best friends. So, I haven't heard I haven't figured this out yet. Is he just It sounds like he's doing Am I right, Skip? It sounds like it's just one day like a one day load thing it sounds like. And then he's Are you I mean, what do you guess here? He's doing low carbs otherwise. I'm sure he's going to tell us. Yeah. I mean, the fact that he's in a deficit and everything else, I mean, it sounds like he's loading to some degree, but I don't I don't think that they he's been clear yet whether it's AI didn't know if it was just me missing it or something. All right. And he's totally loco, but I respect his ability to experiment with different things, especially when you see how shredded he's getting with this. It's actually working. So, what's the reason behind it? There's something very important to note here. Mark has done a low carb, high-fat diet for an immense amount of time, which means that his cellular machinery is very primed to dietary fat coming in. Okay? So, what that means is that he's been feeding himself so much dietary fat that his cells are used to that. The moment that he drops that dietary fat down very low, his body is going to still be looking for it. He's going to be it's going to be looking for fat. So, what's it going to do? going to pull from what fat stores he does have and it's going to allow him to get very lean. Now, you can do this a couple of different ways. You can do this by just dropping your fats down and dropping your carbs down and doing what's called protein sparing modified fasting or rabbit starvation where you keep your protein high. Or you can drop your fat very low, put yourself into a deficit and actually rev up a different part of the metabolism that leverages this FGF-21. So FGF-21 is a messenger molecule. And what happens is when you consume pure sucrose, not starches, but pure sucrose, like literal sugar, it activates this molecule and it actually revs up the metabolism significantly. There are multiple studies that demonstrate that when FGF-21 is elevated, it ramps up energy expenditure. So it's kind of like you ever see those people that just eat Yeah. I it kind of I'm kind of getting DMP fruit diet vibes here. I tell you there there's probably a little bit of a connection. The guy's boring the hell out of me though. if he says messenger, you know, one more time or if he says leveraging one more time. I I mean, basically what I see so far, yeah, and I'm not saying in any way that this is, you know, copycat ripping off, you know, the concept of skip lo. But look, when skip loading started, the traditional skip load was high carb processed carbs because they're so fast. Yeah. And low fat. And yeah, the fact that it's candy. I mean, we have top trainers now saying the same thing. Top trainers who are putting Olympia caliber guys on stage, turning people pro. It's not uncommon. What is odd or different is that Mark has been so low carb, highfat for so long. Yeah. that that when this guy explains what he's doing, of course he's incredibly insulin sensitive. Yeah. So, he's gonna, you know, he's going to benefit to some degree from from these carbohydrates, but it's not going to be specifically to just sucrose. Yeah. Um, you know, by the time the body gets it, it's converted to glucose anyway. no matter if it starts as a starch or it starts as you know anything any it's just essentially going to hit the bloodstream as glucose and it's going to be stored and used where it needs to be. So you have someone who's been highfat, low carb, yeah, arguably not very full from a glycogen standpoint and they switch their diet and he probably does look better because all of a sudden he's going to be fuller. He's going to amp up the metabolism but no more so than any other any other carbohydrate. It could be rice. It could be candy. It would probably be easier to eat 1,000 gram of sugar than it would be like 1,000 grams of carbs from, you know, rice. Uh, it would be from a volume standpoint, but I got to tell you that a lot of people would not be able to stomach like if you just said, "Hey, you need to eat a,000 grams of can, you know, of carbs from candy." Yeah. You know, I know myself, I just switched to trying to get some crappy carbs in for my cheat meal. Yeah. And I couldn't get through two cookies, you know, two decent sized cookies without feeling like I was going to throw up and had to go back to toast with, you know, a little bit of butter and and peanut butter or cashew butter on it because it was just too much for my system because I wasn't used to it. And I wasn't no carb. Yeah. And I certainly wasn't highfat, no carb. I I taking in plenty of carbs. So, it it I'll tell you what it is in my opin. It's just it's it's no one's reinventing the wheel here. I didn't either with skip loading. I had a method that I had kind of I don't want to say repackaged, but packaged in this skip loading box and changed some some things and came up with a protocol that people could follow and and it would work. and and it sounds like it's essentially the same type of protocol that Mark is using, but it's more specific to sugar. But here's the thing, at the end of the day, yeah, okay, some people will argue, oh, candy's not that healthy and there's a bunch of crap in there, but the body really only knows that that is carbohydrate. Well, let me see what else he says. I want to hear more of this. Okay, tons and tons and tons of sugar and they stay skinny. Well, sometimes you have a genetic predisposition to actually increase FGF-21 even more. As a matter of fact, when you are fasting, can we get partway into a longer fast, you start increasing FGF-21 and all of a sudden your energy expenditure can go up a little bit during a fast. Now, what happens is you not only get an increase in energy expenditure, but you get an increase in uncoupling. So, energy will actually just dissipate out of the mitochondria as heat. Now, this is not the old school like eat more to rev up your metabolism. This is a completely different system and you are basically turning a whole different flywheel here. Is it me condoning it? How to amp up the metabolism of carbohydrate? Very important piece that we need to note here. Journal of obesity and diabetes metabolism published a paper that found that when people were overweight, obese or type 2 diabetic, their FGF-21 levels were very high and the higher their BMI, the higher their FGF21. What they were finding is that it was actually an indicator of metabolic distress. And the reason is is because when there is more atapose tissue or insulin resistance, the FGF-21 doesn't actually bind at the tissue level. So you can produce it, but it's just going to keep producing on top of each other and stacking and stacking and stacking, never actually get to the end result. Where Mark is different is Mark is already lean and metabolically healthy. So he can do this FGF21 sugar diet thing and it's actually going to kick him into another gear he didn't know he even had. No wonder he's getting shredded like crazy and he's dropping weight so fast. Where we have to be careful is the evidence is quite strong that if you already have a metabolic dysfunction or you're overweight basically saying if you're not going to really help and the reason is is because you're going to be stacking one and never actually have to get that result. making sense. So if you can get a grasp on your actual metabolic is what I have said in in defensive skip loading for a long time. What's that? The a the average diet of the average person when they eat processed carbs they get fat because they're not insulin sensitive. They are not putting demands on the body that require the use of those carbohydrates as fuel. Yeah, we are. And because we are, that's why post-workout cereal is so beneficial. But if you're not training and you're just the average person and you eat cereal once a day, a large bowl of cereal, you're not going to get leaner and it's not going to help you recover from a workout and build muscle. So ultimately, it he's not saying anything. Uh he he's he's right. Yeah. But he's not saying anything. There are no profoundities there. Okay. Uh he's explaining I don't know that he's trying to be profound. That's not what I'm saying. All I'm saying is this is just I think he's explaining said for a long time to the mainstream his mainstream audience of 4 million subscribers, you know. Yep. Actually get the beneficial part. So what you would want to do is you'd want to do a period of fasting for maybe a few weeks first like you know every other day or something before you would try this approach right you don't want to be doing it every day is a a time where you are glycogen depleted okay it doesn't mean that you have to be zero or zero carb and I've said this there are guys who can take in three or 400 grams of carbs a day and be glycogen depleted and benefit benefit from this type of dieting or skip loading. Yeah, you don't have to. And that's where the misconception for skip loading always seems to come back to the surface. It has to be keto or it has to be zero carb. No, I mean those things would be good to get you there faster if needed, right? But absolutely they can be used, but it's not a prerequisite if you're going which means they're going to preserve muscle. The problem is they also are pro- fat storage. So in the case of Mark, what he's doing, he needs to keep sugar super super super high. He needs to keep fat ridiculously low and he can also keep protein ridiculously low so that he gets the main benefit of pure sugar. But he is consuming so much throughout the day that he's having an anti catabolic effect. It's the most laborious way to really preserve muscle is just by using carbs because you have to consistently feed them. But again, this is what Mark does. He just experiments on himself and tries these things which is what I explain when people are type two diabetic or obese also increases with age. Okay. So for a number of reasons the tissue becomes less receptive to FGF-21. And it's one of the reasons why when you're young it has less to do with your metabolism being fast and more to be with the fact that you can be more receptive to FGF-21. You can eat more sugar and it's going to have more of an effect on actually giving you energy. Yeah. Whereas the fat parts consume sugar when you're older. Yeah. Seems to misconception. It's just a misconception. It has to do with this FDA basically saying that as you get old, you're taking in a lot of carbohydrates and that increases your insulin levels. Yeah. That if there's fat in there, that fat will be stored as fat. That's silly. It It's It's just a It's not silly. It's just a It's just a misconception. It's just It's not true. you would have to be in a surplus at that point because the muscle will still store triglyceride. Now, it won't store it in anywhere near the capacity that it will glycogen, but it will still store it. So it's it's misunderstood in the sense that that's where we have come across the industry has gotten this idea that if you're using insulin or um you're taking in high carb meals to replenish glycogen that if there's any fat in there that it's going to be stored as body fat. And that is just not true unless there's a surplus. And and I give you an example. I mean, I go right now in prep, progressing crazy right now. Yeah. Five meals, five or six meals at straight high carb, uh, moderate protein, very low fat. And my last meal is arguably moderate carb and relatively high fat. Okay? Like butter on toast, then cover the butter with cashew butter. Good. It it's, you know, things like cheap foods like a like a gourmet cookie. Yeah. Those aren't, you know, and the guy was showing he's talking about high sugar, lowfat foods that Mark's using, but he's she's picking up candy bars. So, you have to be more specific. Skittles and things like that. Yeah, those are just basically, you know, Sour Patch Kids. Those or Sour Patch candies, whatever the hell they're called, those are just high sugar, lowfat. not candy bars. That's some of the junk that he's showing is is counter to what he's saying because it's also highfat or his own he doesn't edit his own videos. He's got a guy doing that I'm sure you know at 4 million subscribers. So that guy didn't know. And the other thing too is is like I said there's and I've done this proing you from a condition standpoint and from a response standpoint it can be garbage food. It can be unhealthy food. Yeah. But at the end of the day, one of the things that I changed over the years was I thought to myself, well, okay, I was young. I could get away with it. I didn't really care about the fact that it was unhealth. I just cared about whether I was leaner or bigger. Yeah. As I've aged, then I thought, wait a minute, we can do the same thing by taking in healthier foods without without all the added chemicals and dyes and crap that goes into this food. True. Even if it's as silly as getting or as simple as getting a cookie from, you know, MMA, New York that is organic and no preservatives and things like that and is incredibly decadent and an awesome cookie as an example, but or you can shove your face full of Oreos that just has a bunch of garbage in it. The response from a condition standpoint will be the same. You were with me until you started trashing Oreos. That's where you That's That's Let's hear this last thing he has to say here. He's had one more point he said. That's important to note is that Mark has shifted his training to a little more lifting and more sprinting. And part of it is a demand-driven process because he's consuming so much in the way of this sugar. It's driving him to want to do that. Keep in mind this is his job, right? So for him to consume sugar and be like, I'm going to go and sprint and I'm going to have a longer uh more intense anorobic workout today. he can do that. So, where I want people to be cautious is if you're someone that's metabolically like on the fence, you know, you're you're kind of healthy, kind of not, you work a desk job, this might not be the approach for you. You know, you might be better off just doing more of a traditional water fast than this sugar fast kind of thing. But, it's very important that I put this information out there because I don't think that Mark is doing anything dangerous. Mark is doing something that would work very, very well. He's actually proving a solid point and a lot of it is that it's like he's doing this community service for everybody. It's it's so selfless. No. And you know, again, he he just is touching on the fact that Mark has switched to more of an anorobic type training. Yeah. Yeah. No kidding. Because now he has glycogen is his main fuel source. He can do it, of course. So, you're going to be, you know, you're you're going to want to replenish the glycogen. Then you're going to want to deplete it with the training. Then glycogen with the the carbs, the candy, the crap. Yeah. And just it's a constant it's a constant cycle. So is he right? Yes, he's right. Is he repackaging or I say him is this guy explaining how Mark is repackaging essentially what we have been doing not just with skip loading but with other methods in in prep for the last 15 plus years. Yes, it's all the same thing. Yeah. Yeah. I I could see that. I just thought it'd be fun. Like I said, one of our one of our listeners pointed that out. He was like, "Hey, is this any how how is this different? This sugar loading." And so so from there, I saw this video and then I saw a trend, not a trend, a trend uh with a D of there being other videos about sugar loading. So I I think that it might be a new topic that's happening right now. Yeah. A trend. It's, you know, and it makes sense, man. And I mean, at the end of the day, I think it sounds like it would work really well in the mainstream because who doesn't want to hear that they can do a diet where they eat Skittles, you know, or Starburst all day long, right? And the average person can, he is wrong about that. The desk guy, if he wants to go out and start weight training and doing anorobic exercise that depletes glycogen, then he can do that type of sugar or skip load. Not tomorrow. He can't just switch tomorrow, but he can relatively quickly. How how long would you say? And I know that that's a you know an arbitrary couple weeks. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Depending on obviously the level of commitment and whether it's going to continue to be consistent and structured, but in as little as two weeks. I have guys and have had guys start prep. It's not common, but it still will happen. Yeah. Uh I can think of one client uh in particular because he stands out. He would always come to me at over roughly 100 pounds over stage weight. And we knew that within 10 days to two weeks tops, he could start his skip loading. No kidding. And people would argue, "Oh no, he's too fat. He's going to be he's not insulin sensitive enough. He's not going to benefit from that." And yet he would. And he did. And he would hit the stage and look insane. Hell yeah. Listen, I wasn't sure how this topic was going to go. Honestly, I was like cuz I I only saw the first couple minutes and I got the premise for it and then when we started watching it like you didn't have anything to say for and we had like that long block of nobody talking and I was like oh is this going to bomb? But like this turned out really good, man. With that messenger thing and yeah, you know, and and of course, as soon as you label it with something, it's like, oo, that's, you know, I didn't know anything about I mean, I still don't I don't know exactly what that messenger hormone is, but I'll tell you this. He just explained why 20 years ago I couldn't explain what the mechanism was. Yeah. That caused skip loading to have that impact. The high car. Because if you do the math, it doesn't math. If you do the caloric math and you say, "Oh, you took in this amount of calories on this day." And you average out those calories over a week, you can't lose body fat. That's why it's not a mathematical caloric issue, black and white. At the end of the day, it's not. It's the impact of the timing of those calories over time and that cyclical change. You know, I even my 15 what 14,500 grams of carbs every six days now and I'm losing sometimes two two and a half pounds. It's coming off arguably I don't want to say too fast but close. Yeah. You know, and I'm not on People would think, oh yeah, your your carbs must be in the basement and your calories must be low. No. And that's not counting the fat in my last cheat meal where I'm loading up butter on toast with cashew butter. Yeah. So there's a lot of calories. I mean, there are times where I guarantee I would bet that my last cheat meal on Mon or my last load day plus the cheat meal, I mean, it was probably 7,000 calories and the scale is going down. Do the math. It's it it's not there. It doesn't math. Guys, we appreciate you tuning in. Uh go to teamskip.com. Reach out to skip for coaching. Hit me up mcnaly diets@gmail.com and of course trnutrition.com userco think over there supplementsource.ca for Canadians. Thank you to everybody from Patreon. And hey, if you're new to our content and you like what we do, maybe you just saw this is the first time you saw us. If you want to see more, we do podcasts that come out each week. Skip and I do blood, sweat, and gear that comes out every Friday. So, be sure to tune in to that and subscribe and hit the bell. For all our longtime people that haven't hit the bell, guys, you need to hit the bell. you'll it's the only way you'll know that we are putting new stuff out, guys, for another episode here of uh Blood, Sweat, and Gear Reactions. I don't know. What do we call this? We'll see you soon. Sounds good. Yeah, we'll take it. All right. And we appreciate you guys in the live stream. We had a bunch of stuff here that we were trying to power through. Um interesting. We didn't I didn't get a chance to get to some questions we had in the stream. Uh but just to to mention you guys um Rob says, "Have you seen the latest research on BPC-157 drastically helping heart failure issues?" Very interesting. I have not, but I had heard about TB-500 and had a friend who had a major heart issue after catching a a virus on a cruise ship a few years ago. TB-500 was a huge benefit to him. So, I'm not surprised. That's cool. All right. We appreciate you guys. Thanks for tuning in. We'll see you we'll see you soon. More I think about it, 7,000 is generous because five meals at 200 grams and protein, those are a thousand a piece.