 Shenhenhenhen. Shenhenhen. Shenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhenhen Yikes! I'm your host, Big Ron Parler, with Dusty Hanshaw and the producer, Scott McNally. Like, share, subscribe, comment, and... Ring the bell. I had to dodge that one. I had to dodge that one, Dusty. Remember, Iammutant.com. Go to Iammutant.com or MutantNation.com. Dusty, Big Ron are your codes. Save money, avoid people, don't have to put pants on. I keep adding to the benefits of ordering through Mutant. Yeah. You know? And he hates pants now that he's 50. Yeah, if you're kind of, yeah, lounging around in my underwear. You know what I mean? You can answer the door in your underwear. You know, you're fun. Man, they're fast. Real fast. Real fast. So get in there. Get it out. Get your hardcore ISO. Get your MindFK in. Everyone should get on the gear. Okay, there's the intro, guys. What do we got today for reaction? We've got a fun one. Week in the Dungeon. Do you guys remember this? Mark Dugdale flew out to England. Dugdale. With Dorian. Remember Mark Dugdale? He was a great bodybuilder. So what year is this? Like, oh, seven? What is this? Oh, yeah. I'm not even sure. But it would have been right around there, right? I'm going to look up what year this is. There you go. I knew it was going to bother you. Dorian was the first guy that I saw in guest pose. It was the first bodybuilding show I'd gone to to watch a family member. My parents wanted to leave, but I bugged them to stay because I just wanted to see what a pro bodybuilder was like. And, of course, Dorian just totally blew me away. 2008. 2008. You're close. Imagine that being your first guest poser. Never go to another show again. At that year, you know. So Doug Dale was a great bodybuilder. He was from that Seattle area. I imagine he's still over there now. Yeah, he owns a business up there. Yeah. The year is going up. 1991, Mr. Olympia. He was the guy that essentially inspired me to get into bodybuilding. So I read Blood and Guts, Heavy Duty by Mike Mentzer. As I started to get bigger and stronger and realized it was harder to recover, I adapted more to his style of training. High intensity, low volume. Just made sense to me. I liked his no BS attitude, you know, to training. And he was just like the workhorse that was going to out-train and out-work everybody. So the opportunity to go to England and train with him, obviously, was like a dream. Three dreams. So that's what this is all about. And we won't watch the whole thing. They've got the whole movie uploaded here. I've never watched the whole thing. I just saw clips. Yeah? Let's see. We'll just cut forward here. Let's catch a little bit of this. He's got to drive him the wrong side. Sorry. There's all these roundabouts. So there's no streets. Streets like back home. Everything's round and round. Take the exit. Which one? Then take the motorway. Over here? Yeah. They're going by like 2008 GPS. Yeah, it's not right now. Car GPS. Right. I did very well given the circumstances. I had the police sitting next to me telling me to slow down. He calls his wife the police. I had the police next to me. Slow down. Mark, it's dug down. I'm going to. I just need to get out of the fast lane. I think I was holding onto the sides like this the whole time when Mark was driving. That's how she's protecting him from an accident. One hand. Yeah. Hey, I know that move, too. They do what they can, Dusty. Yeah. Maybe it's Scottish. You're used to sitting on the left-hand side in the vehicle, so I was always looking at the left line, which would make me go to the left. So at the time, I was going off the road. This is better than the training. Just watching him try to get there. I like how much they struggle with this. Look how thick his neck is. Yeah. I was fine on the road. I just struggle in parking lots. Mark didn't hit anybody, but he did come so close to a car that the mirrors, the rear view mirror, popped and sounded like we hit something. You technically did. You mirrors. Yeah, you did. You did pretty darn good. Yes, your mirror popped. That's pretty good. This is very reality TV where they have to make a small deal seem like a big deal. Yeah. All right. We'll fast forward here. This is so fun. Got his chalk in there. I saw the chalk. We're 13 minutes in, and I haven't heard Come On Diesel once. Yeah, this is a real problem. This isn't real. It's also staying in a very swanky hotel that close to the temple. It's okay. The scenery changes quick when you turn down that alley. Wait till she sees the dumpsters. You're in the banking district of Birmingham, and then you turn down this alley, and you're in just like... There it is. There's a little red door. Just thinking about it, I'm like getting excited. Oh, I remember that. I missed that, Ron. Once you're down there. Look how simple those signs are. Wait. Cardio. And here's the stairs to hell. You go down these stairs. You're basically underground, so there's no windows. You're surrounded by pictures and magazine covers. There's nothing really to focus on other than the weights. I think that adds to the hardcore intensity of the vibe that's down there. It's honestly the coolest thing I've ever seen. Of course, they went to black and white now. They got in the dungeon, and they went to black and white. It was a good creative decision. Well, they didn't want you to see the black mold that's over by the house. So you were signing a normal contest, though, in there? I was. I was sick. Just training to failure, or are you going beyond failure? Yeah. Yeah, to failure all the time. Yeah? Okay. Speaking from experience, I've got all my major injuries I've got to come up to a contest. Because your food intake's limited, and you're doing more cardio, your energy levels are lower, maybe slightly dehydrated and everything. And your ability to recover from the workouts is going to be less. We've got to be unfavorable. I maybe want to exercise the rest. Yeah. But it's like if someone was telling you that back in the day. I probably wouldn't listen. But if I could do it again, that's probably one thing that I would do. To me, I never needed a coach to tell me what to do. I never needed a nutritionist to tell me what to do, because I figured that out all out myself. But maybe I could have been doing with somebody to say, look, you don't need, you know, that's enough. We maybe need to stop now, or, you know, we're coming up to the contest now. You're just maintaining, so you don't need to be risking injury for some muscle growth that's not going to happen anyway. Right. So why put yourself in that danger zone, you know? So that's, you can maybe benefit from my experience there. Definitely. Well, having said that, we're still going to kick your ass in the gym. All right. Want to start getting warmed up a little bit? So he got really sick before they got there. Yeah. Wasn't he puking, like, the whole flight over and everything, and he was desperately trying to get ready to train? Yeah. That's why this was so great, is he's basically sick now. So another thing about this video, I think, they had a week to shoot four workouts. Okay. But I think he was so sick for the first two days or whatever it was that they couldn't train at all. So he had to shoot all the workouts, like, four days straight, I think. Yeah. Yeah, I think you're right. Because I know there's, like, a real compression. Okay. Okay. Three or four reps. Rack it, 10, 15 seconds. Maybe you can get two more. Rack it, maybe another one. So you totally end up being, like, eight to ten reps, which is ideal, you know, for muscle growth. Okay. What's up with all these guys doing, like, 15 reps? It's more like maintaining, I think. Yeah. You know, you do 15 reps on legs, maybe you're going to get some stimulation out of that. But upper body, you're going to get much more out of it in between six and ten reps, generally. You know, maintenance is easy. So, yeah, you can do that with 15 reps. But you're not going to get, you know, you're going to get a little bit of muscle growth stimulation, a little bit of endurance from that. Just do some general warm-up, Mark. Some light weights. All right. A few presses. I just remembered I have one of those Temple Gym t-shirts somewhere. Do you? Very light weights, 15 to 20 reps. Just get some blood in the hole, upper body area before we move on to that specifically. The lighting that you use makes the gym seem bigger than it is. Yeah. It's tiny. The cool thing about training with Dorian was it was similar to how I already trained. To me, it makes sense to train the muscle as hard as you can in the shortest amount of time. And we've got this. The shoulder horn. So it locks the posture in there. Should wear the rotor cuff. There's no other muscles involved. Okay. It's a good idea to strengthen the rotor cuff up because you're lifting that much weight through the pecs and the delts. Eventually, they'll get all the power. They'll be strange. You only need really light weights. That would be good for shoulder injuries. Yeah, really good. Oh, yeah. I think they had the ties in muscle and fitness. I've seen them a few times. There's like a metal one that's not. You can do like some light bend work in that thing and it would be good for like injuries. I just like to admit that's the only thing that can work. There's a rotor cuff. The elbow's back a bit. There's a laser...  mancdase, mancdase, mancdase, mancdase, mancdase, mancdase, mancdase, mancdase, mancdase, mancdase, mancdase, mancdase, mancdase, mancdase, mancdase, mancdase, mancdase, mancdase, mancdase, mancdase, mancdase, mancdase, mancdase, mancdase, mancdase, mancdase, mancdase, mancdase, mancdase, mancdase, mancdase, mancdase, mancdase, mancdase, mancdase, mancdase, mancdase, mancdase, mancdase, mancdase, mancdase, mancdase, mancdase, mancdase, man If you can visualize a big coiled spring being compressed and then the bottom let it go You used to think that all the time Wheelbar, warm up number two six reps Boom, yeah Two Three, a bit more rest on this one now 100% yeah, this is the one all the rest Bullshit, it's just warming up. It's one that counts All right, we're not creating momentum. I'm not trying to swing it off Tired and controlled just like you can press it all that power and then unleashing it Think about it Such a cool experience. Oh, yeah Ron you ever puking temple gym No, I didn't puke in temple gym. I didn't do a proper leg workout there. Okay I did what did you train there? I did shoulders I did Hamstrings and calves one day because my knee was killing me. Okay. I had my bad knee back then When was that? Been like 14 15 16 around there Okay Four and we're doing a quick rest pause this is gonna be brutal Gonna be a tough to well, I mean how those a tough four yeah Yeah, oh yeah That would suck to go there and try to be figuring out your strength after being sick for five days straight, right? I'd just go like 20 pounds lighter on everything. Yeah. I mean, he's sitting there going, I don't even know what the hell I'm supposed to be using today. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, the third one we're doing too. He took a bit of weight off. Oh, did he? Yeah. That's one set. Yep. It was brutal. See, Dusty, the plates aren't even the same size. Yeah. That's why it was so heavy. We're going to finish on that now. We're going to do another exercise, yeah? So they're done. I'm going to fucking put you through your face. I know I said that you're in the contest phase, but I don't care. I only had a temple gym once, so. I don't care, yeah. I've been in the bathroom for four days, so it's good to be out. Yeah, man. I hear you. Nice, stripped eight reps, yeah? Just getting into the movement. Oh, the OG first-gen hammer flat press. Yep. That's cool. It's like two feet wider than it needs to be. I'd say, you've still got negative strength left there, because you've got more strength than a negative face, so that's just tax everything, you know? Okay. Your negative on there, you're very controlled, but here, you're like, letting him drop back a bit more. Okay. Maybe because it's a machine, and you're like, you're getting more complacent with a machine, because you know, you know? You know, it's running on the tracks. On the freeway, you can't fuck about it. Yeah. You know, break your ribs. One, two, three. Oh! We're there. Tight. Push. Good. Two. Three. Come on! You know what's great, Scott, is Ron and I've seen Dorian train 100 people. Yeah. This is the attention everyone gets when he's working with them to this day. Like, he'll give you away, but he won't talk to you, like, if he's training clients. Yeah. He's working. Yeah, I never talked to him. I've seen him in Dubai training clients at Binance that night, and just in their own little world. Hold it. Good, man. Good. Got one more there? Yep. Tight. Tight. Good. That's it. Finito. So once in on that previous exercise. Oh. Oh, yeah. Keep that bend. Don't spread your arms out. Good. Like this. That's it. So this is just, just, this is not moving. Yeah, it's just a hook, and you're pulling the hook from there. Like that. Okay? Just flex. It's nice to let the flex down, yeah? Face. Bend your arms. I love those old dumbbells. Oh, I know. That's good. Come on. They all rattle around. Like they're all loose. Yeah, they move. Yeah. Like they're welded. So they're not going to come apart, but they're free moving. Four. Come on. Five. And again. Squeeze. Squeeze. One more. Come on. And I'm guessing this is their last exercise for chest. Yeah. Come on. Come on. Come on. Let's go. Let's go. How long do you figure this whole thing took, Dusty, between all the warm-ups and everything? His whole workouts are like 45 minutes. Yeah. Everything, man. Everything. Squeeze. Squeeze. Come on. That's right, man. So there's a good deal of warm-up in there, then, isn't there? Squeeze. Squeeze. Yeah, yeah. You've got to get your way up to it. Squeeze. Squeeze. Squeeze. Squeeze. He doesn't want you wasting any energy on the warm-ups. Just touching the weights so you're comfortable for your working set. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. It's isolating. Yeah. It's like there's loose. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. For some reason. People. They're not going to come apart. No, they're not going to come apart. Hopefully not. Anyway. Otherwise, you'll be shooting me. I don't know. You're Americans alike, man. I guess, you know, not that you're doing it wrong. It's not like a right or wrong one. But I think that's, you know, the whole point of doing a fly is to try and isolate the pecs as much as you can. Keep the triceps out of it. So it's like a fly for actually doing half and half. That's what I call it too. Just keep the arms bent. Keep the triceps out of it a little bit more. You isolate the pecs a bit more. I'll just set cables to finish. Oh. One more. Curveball. I figured the crossovers were coming. Okay. The arms are bent, yeah? I love those handles. Look at those handles. Oh, old school. Two sets of chest press, two sets of cables, or two sets of flies. All together. One shot. Let's see what we can do. Bring back those handles. Those are cool. Let's go. Tight. Do you want to know my unpopular opinion? What's that? I don't like the cloth handles. Oh, no. Yeah, the rolling metal one. Everybody likes the cloth handles. I fucking hate them. Those steel handles will last 50 years. Yeah. Yeah. No question. Cloth handles, I hate when you're doing crossovers and one of them kind of moves. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Squeeze in. Squeeze in. I hate that. One more. Let's go. Squeeze. Squeeze in. Squeeze in. Squeeze in. All right. Squeeze. Squeeze. Squeeze. Squeeze. I hate curling with cloth handles. The cloth rubs on my hand all the time. Yeah, it drags. Just get a metal handle, man. They're so easy to use. I don't understand. This is the machine that was in front of you. Yeah, this is the old Nautilus. So you get the full range, very isolated. Dino has this machine and I love it. I use it every time I go to Dino's. You know, inevitably you're going to kick in a bit of shoulders and maybe a little roll back and everything. But it's not going to matter because your biceps are going to be so exhausted from this. Even if other muscle groups are coming into play, the biceps are going to be getting the brunt of the work. So I find that works better. All right. Good. Three. Four. So this is a chest and biceps workout then. All right. Dorian's original split. My favorite split of all time. How's the rest of it go? Chest bice, quads, hams, day off. Shoulders, tries, back and calves, day off. All right. One, two more. Let's go. Four, four, four. Squeeze, squeeze. One more. One more. Let's go. Third track. Pick it up. Pick it up. Squeeze. All right. Keep pulling. Keep pulling. Squeeze. I wonder how many reps in reserve he has here. You notice at the beginning of the workout he was like, we're only going to go to failure one time on this workout. He's like, we'll still work hard. They're still having fun. They're still having fun, though. Yeah. We got one in there. We're going beyond failure in everything. Everybody.  Right, right, right, right. Nice. Nice. Now we're just doing negative. Oh, yeah. Good job, man. Okay. We'll move to a barbell now. Even if you cheat a little bit on this one. Even if you cheat a little bit on this one. It's okay because you've isolated it so much on that the biceps are going to be exhausted, you know. So even if you get a little shoulder and lower back coming out when it gets really heavy. Good. When's the last time you did easy curl, like barbell curls? Good. See that one. Ooh. Hasn't been that long for me. Maybe, maybe a month or two. Maybe a month or two. Yeah, I do a month or two. Love it. Love it. I still do them. Yeah. How much people talk about. With the plates? I don't know. Put another dime on it. I don't know what the fuck they're talking about. That 150, 160 is the most I've ever used on barbell curls, Because I always used to pre-exhaust, you know, do concentration or do a nauseum machine first. You always pretty much do that first? Yeah, because I've got very strong forearms, strong delts. And what happened when I was doing, like, heavy curls, they were taking, like, the brunt of it and the biceps weren't getting hit. So I found isolating it first and then do these afterwards to work a lot better. If you've got genetically strong biceps, it doesn't matter what you do. You know, you can do some kind of pills, they're going to grow. But if you've got... You hear that, guys with good arms? Yeah. Don't let go to this fucking bar until I tell you, okay? Just hold on to it and keep building. One second exercise. Let's go. Some power in this one, yeah? Dang. Come on. Come on. Definitely overestimating the weight. I think it's a little heavy on this set. Yeah. He's needed assistance on every rep. Okay. Put it down. One drop down. There it is. He's like, shit, that's too much. I like how they didn't edit it. They just went way too heavy on this. Still. Yeah. One more. Let's go. Up. Up. Keep pulling. Keep pulling. Keep pulling. Keep pulling. Squeeze it. Slow. Slow. He's literally everything he had to get that up. Yeah. Basically, he did some force negatives there is what he did. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Come on. Go. Everything now. Come on. Fight for it. Let's go. Fight. Fight. That's you. Come on. I need it. Those nautilus curls completely hooped him. Yeah. He's done. What do you expect with multiple force reps? Right? Watch it. Watch it on the other end. Good set. We ended up all the way down to just a quarter on there. Make me look like a girl on that. Make me look like an American, man. Make me look like an American. That's amazing. I want to say that hammer feels. No need to warm up now. I'm not going to get any warmer than that. I'm warm. All right. It's going to be the last set of the day, man. Last set. One fucking set. That's it. I've just always found this kind of training easier. Come on. Let's go. You get one shot. Easy it up. Good. Like, you wasted the workout. One of my favorite things about Dusty is, uh, Dusty, you've openly said to me so many times, you're like, I don't have the attention span for volume training. I've heard him say that. Like, and very honestly, like, that's just, you want me to pay attention to something intensely? You have a time limit. It's under two minutes per attempt. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I like when you're spotting someone on hammer dumbbell curls and they're just so failing that they're just like failing. Like you're like melting. Oh, that was brutal. Not a bad first day. No kidding. After being sick for four days. Right. Next day he's like, why is my chest and biceps so sore? I have to go to the hospital. Yeah. That's the easy workout. It's his first time getting rabbed out. I was like, yeah. It's your first rabbed out. That's cute. I remember my first. I remember my first rabbed out. Yeah. What's your creatinine at? Did you get your blood work done? That's it? That was it? That's it? Oh, no. We have to stop chatting. Short and intense. Short and intense. Mark said that's like his lovemaking as well. See? Dorian's a funny guy, man. People didn't. That was one of the things about him that a lot of people didn't realize. That's West Coast, same as LA? Yeah. It's almost 7 o'clock in the morning. Wow. Oh, yeah. He's sick, throwing off on his time schedule and everything. When I went to LA, it's like, well, I just used to set my watch to the time and just get on with it, you know? Just get on with it and don't start thinking, well, at home, it's, you know. Actually, coming this way from the States is supposed to be worse than going back to the States. Pause this for a second. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Oh, really? Yeah. Going from... That's a key line. Yes. What's that? Just get on with it. Yeah. And it is like, we kind of, we've talked about this many, many times, but this is one of the things that, I don't know who I learned this from. Maybe it was largely influenced by Dorian's attitude when I was, like, you know, idolizing everything he did in the 90s. Yeah. But, and it's also like, I kind of learned that from my dad. But I think that's a lot, a big problem is everyone dwells on shit. And I think it's a huge part of the anxiety and everything that everyone feels now. Just get on with it. Set your watch. You're in LA now? Yeah. It's noon. It's noon. Yep. Right? Yeah. I love that. It's simple, but I just wanted to point it out. Just get on with it. Everything can be boiled down to that. It is good. Let's cut it there. Yeah. I think this is a great place to stop. But before we left everybody, I also, though, I wonder if there's people out there who don't know who Mark Dugdale was. And for that reason, I wanted to bring this up. So this was just a short little clip of him posing. 2007 Iron Man Invitational. This is his pre-judging posing. So I figured we'd throw this on the screen for everybody. Nice. Let's have a look. Yeah. Because he was a great bodybuilder. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Very good bodybuilder. He had a great physique. Trained hard. You know? Good weight control team. This was a great era, too. He was in that, like, you know, 05, 09, you know, era. What were his... That's a great side chess, man. What does he weigh? He was... Well, he was able to meet the 202 cutoff. Right. That's right. 202. Yep. The good old days of the 202. Yeah. So Mark was doing 202. Yep. And he was known as, like, a good family man. He had a business owner. I think they had, like, an organic grocery store. Something like that, was it? Yeah. Oh, really? Okay. They supplied the stuff. So, yeah, they had everything. Okay. Yeah. And so he... Like, his other... His full-length video, like, you go with him... He'll bring him to the offices. Like, it's a normal day for most people who train. He just happened to also be a professional bodybuilder. Yeah, right. So he'd, like, go pick up the kids and then head to the gym and, you know, train with his partner and his wife. I mean, kind of that reminder that you don't have to shut it all down to be a successful bodybuilder. Yeah. Yeah. What were his best contest placings? So he got... I don't know where, but he was in the top five of the Olympia one year. I'll tell him Scott about it. He did, like, a skip load kind of thing for the Olympia one year. And he used to do his own prep. So him and his wife were just winging it. Like, he would eat a bunch of food and then he'd pose and she's like, have a little more ice cream. And then he'd do that and then he'd pose. And that year, he could have retired after that show. I don't know. They just... The stars aligned and he was flawless. So he turned pro in 04 as a light heavy, won the USA overall. Okay. And then he did open shows for a while, right? Like, he got ninth at the Arnold. He was second at the Iron Man. You know, he got second at the Pittsburgh Pro, New York Pro. A whole bunch of seconds. What year was he second at the Iron Man? 07. I think the year we just showed, yeah. 07. So that was the video we just saw. Yeah. Third at the New York Pro, you know. And he was awesome. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. What was his top Olympia placing at that 212? I was trying to remember. Top Olympia placing. Yeah.  I, I think of the 212, they got like, 4th or 5th one year, ah, shit, you know what, they don't have, they don't have, they don't have, they don't have, which, they don't have, which, on this page, they're not saying, if it's 212 or open, they're just putting placings, so I'm not sure, I'm not sure, I wonder if I'm wrong, and he was doing the open, I could be totally wrong, no, because there's, there's, there's, there's a bunch of 212 places, but he was that, 202 era, he would have rubbed up against it, mm-hmm, yeah, yeah, I'm not sure, but I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I pretty sure, because I know he's top 5, and he would have been top 5 at the Olympia, so it had to have been then, but that was a bonkers showing, for sure, he looked amazing, yeah, yeah, good bodybuilder, man, yeah, it was cool, and, uh, I remember when that video came out, because, you know, that was, that was still in the era of, like, you had to produce a DVD, yeah, right, yeah, like, you had to sell a physical copy, so, like, we're, like, oh, Mark, oh, this, I'm, you know, and I remember, like, we all wanted to see it, because, like, just anything with, oh, Dorian's in it, like, we all wanted to see it, you know what I mean, yeah, there was, like, such little content coming out, besides Masuro, you know, you saw the Masuro videos, yeah, and another thing, during that 05, 06, 07 era, I mean, his, that video is 08, there was no new footage of Dorian, hmm, right, like, he did Blood and Guts, Fourth of the Olympia, 2009, there you go, okay, so, he, he, he, he was not, like, there wasn't clips of Dorian talking about yoga, or his new life, or, like, none of that, there was just a mystery, it was, like, oh, I don't know, like, no, you know, we were just, like, Dorian was, like, this guy trapped in time that we hadn't heard from, yeah, and all of a sudden, he's in this video with Dugdale, and you're, like, oh, that's what he looks like now, oh, that's, he still sounds the same, okay, he's still, like, you know, it was, it was, you know, there's, like, the update on Dorian that everyone was waiting for. So, that year, he, he took second at the Ironman, he lost to Tony Freeman, so, there's, there's no getting past, there's no getting past that, you know what I mean? Tony Freeman, I gotta say this about Tony Freeman, Dusty knows him well, don't you know Tony? Yeah, yeah, yeah, mm-hmm. I saw Tony at his biggest a few times, at the O, and, like, really big, like, at his biggest. Tony Freeman is, he's that same creature that Shannon Sharp is. Yeah. That massive, big, friggin' hands, bigger than you thought, taller than you thought. No way can I be this guy. Like, he is, he, you, you see Tony Freeman, you're, like, oh, this is a genetically superior human for every single possible athletic endeavor. Yeah. Nothing he couldn't have chosen to do. Tony Freeman could have been, like, an NFL safety, or a tight end, or, like, that type of guy. Like, you know how when you. Or he slimmed down and played some pro, you know, basketball. Yeah. On the other end of things. Never know. Might have been a guard. Could have been a really good guard, you know? Yeah. Because, you know, like, you know, did you introduce me to Shannon Sharp, Dusty, or did he just come by the booth? No, he came by. That was when, when, uh, Charity was with us, yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Anyways, like, you know, I remember the first time I met Shannon, my first, my first thought is, holy shit, this guy's huge. Yeah. Shakes your hand and your hand disappears. Yeah, you know what I mean? Like, it's gone. Like, it's like, oh, God. And this guy runs a 4-2-40 and, like, you know what? Yeah. Yeah, that's how Tony Freeman reminded me of, like, a misplaced NFL player. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, that whole lineup was, it was Tony Freeman, then Mark Dugdale, then Eddie Abu, then Silvio Samuel, then Marcus Haley, Dave Henry, Hidetata Yamagishi. Like, they're, they're, everybody. Everyone's phenomenal. They're all stars, yeah. And multiple 202 and 212 Olympia winners eventually in there, too. Yeah. Good lineup. My favorite Tony Freeman memory was going to the Arnold one year. You know how you come down the escalator before you turn right into the show? Yeah. I'm walking behind this guy, and he's, like, a pretty normal-looking dude, but he's really ILS'd out. He's got the lats. He's got the tank top on. And I was just, like, I mean, you can't not notice, you know? So I'm walking in behind him, and right as we turn the corner and come in, Tony Freeman's stand there in the tank top, and I just watched him. And, like, just deflates immediately. I'm like, yeah, it's different here. I mean, Tony's delts. Scott looked like planets. Oh, yeah. They're just like a ball. And he's also, you know, a foot wider than me at my biggest. I mean, I just remember seeing that, and I just smiled. I was like, well, his weekend just got ruined. I was talking to Tony because I was just like, oh, man. Like, you know, I think it was the first time I met him. It was at the Olympia. And there were these women. It was just, it was like three fitness world housewives. Yeah. Okay. Kind of standing off to the side. And it looked like they were waiting to talk to him. Mm-hmm. And so I sort of, like, stepped back a little and just sort of hung out because I thought they were. And Tony looks up. He's like, he's like, don't be shy, ladies. I don't bite. And then they all kind of looked at each other, and he goes, unless you're into that. And they all giggled, and then they came over, and they were taking photos with him. And I just thought, oh, Tony's just destroying these women. And they're just, they were all over him, like, icing on a cupcake. They wanted all these funny photos with him. And can we hang up your arm? And they're, like, doing all this stuff to him. Tony looks over at me. He's like. You should see the pictures that were gotten after the expo. Oh, yeah. He got a couple of, he helped a few of them out, I think. That's what I like to, I like to think that he was on the ball that weekend. We'll see. Oops. Oh, yeah. Good times. Okay. Thanks, guys. That was fun, you know. That was a good one, Scott. A week in the dungeon. I forgot about that whole thing. Yeah. So good. Yeah. Okay. Thanks for pulling that up, Scott. Remember, like, share, subscribe, comment, and. Ring the bell. And remember, I am mutant.com. Go to I am mutant.com. Get your hardcore ISO. Get your mind FK. And everyone should get on that gear. Hope you took advantage of some Black Friday nonsense when I went by. Had a good experience with ordering. How fast it was. Remember, no people, no pants. Story of your life. Hey. That's my Monday. I got a few hours of it left before I got to go to the gym. So I'm just going to enjoy it. You don't have pants on right now. No, I'm like Kevin O'Leary. I do these zooms with my suit and tie on. Just the jacket. Bermuda shorts. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, you don't want to see from the waist down. It's ruined the image. Okay. Okay. Thanks guys. Remember, it's just bodybuilding. Reacts. I want a still of that. Yeah. I accidentally realized as I was doing it. Scott's probably going to clip that. That's the one we're using.