 Hey everybody, welcome to it's just bodybuilding, I'm big Ron Partler with Dusty Hanshaw and the producer Scott McNally, remember to like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell, hi button, hi button, hi button, hi button, there we go, got to do that. Thanks everyone for tuning in. So we're doing a quick show this morning, I've got to head to the airport, I'm off to film Mutant on a Mission, two episodes, had them on my docket for a while. And so I'm excited to go, and so I'm excited to go, and so I'm excited to go, and so I'm excited to get out of here, and so I'm excited to get out of here, it's a very quick trip. I wonder what you're saying, you're stacking them, is what you're doing. I'm stacking, I'm stacking my episodes, supersetting the episodes. Super setting. Yeah. Three would be a giant set. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I've done that before, that's a tough trip, I can't do it anymore. At your age. Yeah, I'm excited, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I, I, I, the only thing about this trip is I actually don't want to tell too many people where I'm going because I've got like friends and a lot of people I wish I could stop and see, and I'm in such a hurry, I have to get back here, so the trip is just, bam, bam, bam, boom. You know, like, just no time for. Just pounding away. No time, pounding away. So, real quick, housekeeping, what did they have a game yesterday, Dusty? I like a defensive battle. I'm all about it. Well, defense wins championships, that was incredible defensive. Even, I gotta say, like, I know the Patriots lost a game, but their defense played fucking crazy too. Like, I mean, it was 9-0 at the half, nothing but field goals. No one scored nothing, you know? I'd have given the MVP to the kicker, actually. Well, we were joking about that. We were joking about that. He set a record for the most points ever scored in a Super Bowl game. And the most field goals. And the most, yeah, most field goals, yeah. He kicked four field goals, right? Five. Five. Five plus the converts. Five field goals and the two converts. And the two converts. So, he's the most points ever scored by a kicker in a game. And, yeah, it was crazy. That Seattle defense. I mean, when the 49ers offense couldn't score a touchdown on them, I was like, ooh, this is going to be rough. And it was clear that the Patriots were not the best. I mean, it looks like the Rams and the Seahawks was the actual Super Bowl two weeks ago. Yeah. That was a battle. That was a fun one. Yeah, man. Yeah. So, anyways, hell of a game. You've got to feel like these big sporting events, they always make me feel like, because I like to be a bit invested and know something about the guys in the game, right? So, I think about guys like that big, crazy defensive tackle for the Seahawks. He, like, was with the Cowboys for years. And he's like, I'm getting old. I need a Super Bowl. So, they sent him to the Seahawks and he got one. And then, you know, like, that sort of thing. But then you also think guys like DK Metcalf were in Seattle for a while and then they get traded to the Steelers and then they, you know, like, you'd be like, oh, fuck, I got traded at the wrong time. You know, like, I don't know. I just think about that stuff and, you know, it's, and then guys like Cam, that Chancellor guy that played, like, the game of, like, that would have been a blowout without Chancellor. And then he still, you know, it's like one of the best games the safety's ever played. Yeah, he was awesome. And they lose, you know. So, so much, only so much you can do, you know. It's crazy. I won because I had chicken wings from Wingstop. Oh, well, you're a winner. Yeah, I'm a winner right there. That's all it takes to win in Fatboy land. Yeah, yeah, no, no, it's good stuff. So, bodybuilding on the docket. We got a bunch on here today. Yeah, I know. Scott, you're in charge. Oh, jeez. I write them, you ask them. Yeah, you did a great job, by the way, Dusty. You're holding the show together. We had a short window here, 60 minutes. We wanted to come up with some good stuff. Okay, then we'll just jump right in. We'll hit it hard, get the listeners what they want to hear. And I'm curious to hear their thoughts on this stuff, too. So, you guys comment because, I mean, some of these guys are paying closer attention to bodybuilding than we are at times. You know what I mean? Most of them are paying more attention. Yeah, like there's people paying so much attention. I wonder, what are you doing with the rest of your day? How do you have time to watch? They're wondering why we have a podcast about bodybuilding since we don't pay attention at all. Well, there's guys that come up to me at the gym and they start saying, oh, yeah, I like that episode you guys did with Lee. And then I saw this. And they'll name 10 other podcasts they saw with Lee on it. And I'm like, I don't have time to watch. You can multitask. That's the thing, Ron. You put that stuff on. You do other things. It's in the background. It's not undivided attention. They're not. Yeah. It's like how people watch Netflix now. Yeah. Yeah. They're not the same way. All right. So, we'll start here because I think this is an interesting topic. I saw even bodybuilding was talking about this recently, too. Martin behind schedule for the Arnold. How does this happen? How do you fix it? And will his physique suffer because of it? I guess that's the thing people have been talking about. I need to dig a little further into that. But I think as coaches and bodybuilders, all three of us are pretty familiar with what it's like to be behind. Well, that depends on whether Martin thinks he's actually behind. I mean, he knows what his body can do. I saw recently that someone said he agreed that he was off of his usual schedule. Now, maybe that was false, but that's what I saw. So, it's definitely interesting because I'm curious as to why he's behind. Just because he's so locked in that when someone like – when a lazy bodybuilder gets behind, I go, well, they were probably being lazy. In his case, I worry because I'm like, is his body not cooperating? Yeah. Right. You know, we've all had those preps that are – your body just goes, oh, okay, we're getting lean. I think it depends. Like, one thing is – I mean, we all remember seeing like three, four-week-out pictures of him and he looks insane. Yeah. So, technically, if he's a couple weeks behind, it might not matter at all. He's probably ahead of schedule for most guys. Because, you know, like – Yeah. Like, is he usually ready early and he's just behind his normal – you know, like – because it can be an emergency and it can be a total non-emergency. Right. So, it just depends on what his normal schedule would be like, you know. If he's like, you know, a month out holding condition for a lot of his shows normally, then, you know, he might be completely all right. So, you know, it just depends. I mean, maybe he had a shorter prep window and he's just, you know, got to kind of put the pedal down. Maybe there was some reason, you know, like, you know, I'm sure he didn't just have a hip done. But, you know, maybe there was some reason he just had a little bit of a shorter prep. I don't know. But I wouldn't worry too much about Martin. I think he'll be okay. You know what I mean? Like, there's certain people I think, oh, they'll find a way, you know. Like, we all know people that if they run into an obstacle, it's a problem. Yeah. Yeah. And then there's other people that they just repeatedly sort of, like, run into obstacles and then they just, like, smash through them and fix it and find a way to get around it. And so, it's not always an emergency. You know, if that were the case, let's say, like, he had to push harder, what's that going to do to his look then? Because I just, you know, I'm thinking to myself, like, okay, you can get it, you know, enough time. You can get anybody into good shape. But does that mean that they're able to still carry the same amount of volume that they had before? Or it's those little nuances. And when you're at that level, you know, it's not like we're just coming into the state-level show. We've got to make sure your glutes are in. You know, there's that. Well, you've got to remember, too, you're being judged against yourself. I know people think that they don't do that, but they do. And the fans do it as well. Sure. You know, are you your best? But I will say the silver lining in the back of my head that's a possibility is there is ready too early. And I know people say there isn't. There is. Because your body is in this state for a really long time. I won't be shocked if we see his very best based on the fact that he isn't ready so early. His body is not waiting for the show. Because we all know there's that difference between, you know, you can have the exact same weight on a scale, but you're exploding at one point. And as you stay, I mean, I've done some shows where I do a show five weeks apart and another show four weeks after that. And it gets hard. And your body starts to look different at the same weight. So I'm holding hope because I'm a huge fan that this will end up being a learning thing where he's like, maybe I don't need to be ready so early. Right. You know, maybe he's exploding and looks nuts. So we'll see. And I also know that bodybuilding, I mean, there's so little going on in bodybuilding that we search for things to talk about. Like, you know. Why does he got new shoes? You know, I don't worry. Yeah. Dusty's training in black chucks. This is not going to be a good show. It's not going to be a good show. Try to hype it up. Are the red chucks gone? Find out today. Yeah. But so I'm excited to see. And I, I, if I was betting in Vegas, Martin's going to be fine. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I, I don't have concerns. Yeah. Likewise. And he's surrounded by people that, you know, know what the job is. You know what I mean? Right. It's not like he's, not like we see photos of him, you know, on vacation in the middle of prep or anything like that. It's, it's, you know, I'm assuming it's, it's, it's all getting handled. Um, I, I kind of have, I kind of have a rule in life. I don't really worry about other people's business. You know, I can stop it. I don't worry about other people. Yeah. Yeah. Like, but if you think about it, the other thing that, that a lot of people don't understand is, again, your humans are comparing what would happen to them in that scenario to these guys that are not.  I mean, I mean, I mean, I saw Jose, I saw Jose, eight weeks after the Olympia one time, and he looked terrible. I mean, he was fat, and just a mass and I'm like, my human brain's going, oh shit, what's gonna happen? And Chris text me, he's like, how's Jose looking? I'm like, he's fat. And he's like, is he big and fat or small and fat? And I'm like, well, he's big. He goes, oh, then we're fine. You know, because. Yeah, we're halfway there. Yeah, these guys, let's have no problem locking it down. And Martin is so driven. And Martin is so driven that like, if it required four hours of cardio, you know, and eating sand, he'd be like, okay, let's do it. Well, let's do it. Yeah, it wouldn't even affect him mentally. And I think that's the big part too, is if you let something stress you, you're screwed. Right. Yeah. If you go, okay, here's where we're at. I'm not where I'd usually like to be. Oh, what do we got to do? Move forward. So, you know, but I do think that there is on the other end of the spectrum. I mean, for anybody, you don't want to be like, you know, two weeks out going, I hope we're going to make it. That's not a good place to be. I don't really, I don't pay enough attention to know where he's usually at. But when I looked at his physique, I wasn't, my thought wasn't panic mode. It was just like, okay, this is tight, but you'll be fine. Yeah. So can we appreciate too? Like, I mean, we're, we're basically at the beginning of the year still. Right. So that tells me the Olympia was just a few months ago. How far out of shape can you really get? Like, even if you tried to get out of shape between then and now, you know, you only have enough time to take a short break, clean everything out maybe, and, you know, eat a little bit more food, but it's not like, it's not like he's coming at this from like a long offseason. You know, he was just in shape a minute ago, basically. Right. Yeah, that's very true. Yeah, I'm sure he'll be fine. But we will find out. We will find out. It won't be long now. I answered both ways. So I'm going to be right. No matter what. Hey, Samson, on the other hand, is way up. I heard he was like 200 and free, or excuse me, 300. Was it three? 350 pounds. 375. Did I hear? 350 something. 350 something. Did you see him guest posing? 395, guys. 395. 412 is what I heard. How did you see that video of him posing? Yeah. At 350? Yeah. He looks huge. Like. Massive. Damn. You know what's getting morphed, guys, is this is what the past Olympia guys always looked like before. Right. Like I remember, I mean, Marcus Rule was 350 in like 2002. Yeah. And I don't mean weight. I just mean how heavy they used to get. Yeah. Yeah. So to me, when I see that, I go, oh, cool. Yeah. You know, I mean, you remember Ronnie when he would get big? Rolling the bike shorts and sunglasses on. I mean, you're just looking at the size of him. But it was never a problem. I don't really, again, I think part of this is the search for something to talk about in bodybuilding. Right. And the other part is just he's doing something different than what he's done before. But I'm like, yeah, this is how pretty much everyone used to be. I mean, Yates used to be massive and heavy in the offseason and no one worried. But now if they saw that, oh, I don't know. Yeah. You know, I mean, I'm thinking of who was 350 at a reasonable height. I'm thinking Marcus hit it. Marcus, Ramy. Ramy. I mean, look at the company you're keeping when you're 350. You're in with Marcus and Ramy. I mean, Dorian got to 310. I don't think he went at much heavier than that. Ronnie was like 335. 335 maybe. What did Nasser get to? Over 300. I don't know how heavy. Nasser might have hit 320 one of those days eating double McDonald's or something. Yeah. Atta boy. But 350, that's like 320. I mean, I was 320. I was 330. But 350, to go another 20-some pounds over where I got at my craziest body weight ever, that's not just 20 more pounds. No. That's at, when you get to that weight, that's like, that's like you might as well add 100 more pounds. That's how that feels. Yeah. You know? Just like a hopeless endeavor. I can't even comprehend that. And then being in the shape he's in, where you still have like a full set of abs and you look good with your shirt off at 360, that's crazy. 412. Yeah. 412. 412. Nice. So we're going to make this a thing. If I say it enough, that'll be what he weighs. So at 412, I just don't see how he's. I'll put it in the title. Yeah. Samson's 412. This will hit like crazy if you just put Samson. Samson weighs 412. 412. Yeah. We'll get that and then we'll also get the people correcting us in the comments, which would just help to fuel the algorithm. Double algorithm. I like it. I like it. We're playing the game now, fellas. Oh, yeah. Yeah. What else we got to go? A little rage bait and we can be famous, boys. Hey, how did it take us so long to catch on? How did it take us so long to catch on to that formula? Everyone are doing it around us and we're just ignoring it like it doesn't work? Yeah. Stupid. Next question is, what makes Nick Walker a fan favorite? His personality. His personality. Obviously, his physique as well. He's a freak, right? And he's unique. That's another thing. He has a unique look that no one else has, right? Like, there's a lot of guys that are in, like, sort of a similar category to one another. Like, there's the really kind of pretty physiques that have a real nice shape. And there's the guys that are short. And there's the guys that are, you know, tall. And there's, like, there's all these kind of subcategories that we might think of as fans. And some guys might be in more than one subcategory. But, like, what category is Nick in? He's kind of by himself, isn't he? He is his category. He's a freak factor. He's kind of in his own category. And just the way he comes across. And, you know, he's got the personality that is just a little bit different than everyone else's. And the fans just flock to him. And, yeah. I don't know. Maybe it's the way he leg presses. I don't know. I feel like Nick is also a fan of the sport. And he's a fan of the content. You know, like, he's watched our shows. Like, all along. He's paid attention. And he's not doing that because it's his job. Because he's a bodybuilder. He's watching this stuff because he freaking enjoys it. He's watching bodybuilding content. So, I think that from, for some audience members, he can, he's relating to them. Because, in a way, he's one of them. He understands what people want out of, say, content creation. And when he's making, you know, either his YouTube videos, the stuff he's putting. He's got a sense of humor, too. So, I think that people really connect to that. Not everybody that's his size can also be super funny. And, you know what? And he's, I think the biggest thing, though, the biggest thing is the underdog story of him many, many times now. Trying to overcome something and people getting behind him for that. Like, everybody loves somebody who's, like, coming up. You know? And I think that that really has. And they'll hate him once he starts winning all these big ones. Right. Yeah. Yeah. And I think that's something that's really fed him, too. That he's fed off the audience, the people that do get behind him. Right. Yeah. Yeah. He's done a good job at being connectable. Yeah. You know, so Nick is, first off, I think the big thing, for those of us who have known him a long time, is what makes Nick popular, and which I hope more people that are trying to become popular understand, is Nick is just Nick. He's not altering his persona to do something. He says what he thinks. And I'm sure sometimes that's things people wish he wouldn't say. And I think that's fantastic. Also, I mean, he is truly like a guy for the fans. I personally shot him a message last week because I have a guy I know from Arizona that kind of had a health issue that's a big fan of him. And I shot him a message and said, hey, man, big ask, I know. But would you mind sending this guy a message and, you know, whatever, you're his favorite bodybuilder. And he responded to me, and it was done in like five minutes. You're kidding. You know, and it's like, I know a lot of people watch this like, oh, well, you know him. I'm like, you guys don't understand how many things are asked. I know what's asked of me on a regular basis. And I go, okay, so multiply that by 100, and that's Nick. And, you know, so that, which seems small, is very telling of how he sees things. And we went back and forth a little bit, and he's like, oh, I mean, if someone like me can help anybody, it's awesome because I'm just doing what I do. You know, so I think that the fans should really know that behind the scenes without a camera on, same guy. You know, which I think plays into why he's so popular. And I think that that's also why so many people jump against him because they take his losses personal. What do you mean? They want him to win so bad that when he doesn't live up to what they think he's capable of, they're like mad at him for it as if it was his plan, you know. And that's also why as soon as he clicks back to that side, everyone's back with him. So, you know, it's a double-edged sword for him. But you can't help but notice that you can't hate, like none of these people hate Nick long term. It's almost like they're just mad at him because they just want him to win the team. ! wow, wow, wow, wow, wow, wow, wow, wow, wow, wow, wow, wow, wow, wow, wow, wow, wow, wow, wow, wow, wow, wow, wow, wow, wow, wow, wow, wow, wow, wow wow, wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow helping a lot of people kind of realize they can follow in his footsteps in some sort of way yeah his level but how he can conducts himself you know yeah yeah also you know he comes from AI mean you know i when he was on the show there i joked about how he had the worst first show pictures ever yeah right compared to how he looks like you know how he like no one would have seen him at his first show and been like oh there's you're winning olympia there's jay like you know so um you know the fact that he didn't you know roll through his first show and you know like that sort of stuff i think there's a little bit more relatability there it wasn't always easy for him you know he had to build his physique to get where he is it wasn't like oh look how great i look at regional that's destroying everybody yeah you know because we've all seen those guys like they go to nationals drug free and like the open division and you're like what's the faith yeah yeah yeah you know like perfect example you know it's just that it's it's not it's not like that for nick so he um he he's very relatable like that so yeah yep i'm with you guys 100 all right run to the next one um have today's champions changed what's popular in training like ronnie with ronnie had the walking lunges you know absolutely dorian had the pullovers what is has it changed and what's popular now and i feel like nick is kind of responsible for some of this too now that we you know just tying that in right yeah we just have way more inputs now because of social media so yeah everyone lives in their bubble where they follow x people and those people appear in their algorithm the most so they kind of wind up like you know following those people the most and liking those people the most and they get into those people's suggestions and that's where you get a lot of the exercises that you see like we i saw it firsthand coming up through the early days where you know when dorian was mr olympia um everyone was smith machine squatting and hack squatting and training with lower volume and super high intensity and doing inclines on the smith and being very very like precise with what they were you know planning and i just remember that era and then when ronnie was champ all of a sudden barbell front squats were back in when that one video comes out like it was like based on the latest vhs tape t-bar rose in the corner yeah t-bar rose in the corner like i i didn't see a guy jam a t-bar a barbell into the corner of a of a gym for like a decade right and then ronnie's videos start coming out and all of a sudden guys are front squatting we were front squatting i never front squatted in my life and then all of a sudden everyone's like front squatting so we're all front squatting at the gym we're like well ronnie's front squatting six plates jesus i wonder if i can even front one front squat 315 yeah and we're all getting under the next thing you know we're squatting three and a half plates and the race to a four plate front squat is on and all the guys in the gym like i just i remember that and taking the barbell out in the parking lot and like like no one did that before ronnie and then the vhs tapes just transformed it everyone's like how heavy can i dumbbell press now and like it was just a just it all it all came through and and i we saw that multiple times and now we're seeing the instagram short fast rotation of it where there's a lot more inputs to follow like who do you follow that's probably who you train like right it's uh it's it's it's interesting you know i've seen it i've watched it evolve yeah i think it's interesting when you watch and see because the one thing i will say has changed when i think about this question is we were impacted just like ron said by what we saw these guys do because we only had so many inputs like you said and we just went to the best guy it's like ronnie's legs are bigger than everyone else what are the things he's doing no one else is doing okay those must be the secret so we all jumped on board um now i think the the the main thing that i see that the two people that come to mind for me with with training that's changed are justin shire and nick right because they both train a certain way um very similar and a lot of people grabbed on but the only thing that's kind of funny is unlike the old days where it was a little more grip and rip a lot of people that are taking what they've done are taking it too far so they watch justin shire you know a perfect form rdl 405 455 and his form's perfect so they're like i'm gonna do that too and then they have 82 pounds on the bar going too slow to whatever and justin's like that is not what i'm doing right justin explains that all the time he's like you i'm not moving that slow i'm not he's always like i'm not training light i'm training heavy for that form so that part has kind of gotten missed and then the other side of it that we at least me and and my group like we never wondered what guys were taking before that was never like it never crossed my mind like oh ronnie must be on a ton of shit i was more concerned with this barbecue sauce and if i should probably be implementing the masterpiece you know because i was more like stubs or whatever so i was like i should probably switch um but yeah i do think that like you said ron the amount of input almost has lowered how many people are affecting by it and i wish people would take a step back and instead of because we have so much input now and going okay actually there's 50 guys getting great results training 20 different ways none of them are the secret for all of us what's the best for me yeah you know and that's kind of uh i think been lost because i know we spent a lot i mean i squatted for years because that's how you got big legs and it wasn't until my upper body had blown up and my legs were behind that i was like i'm really strong at these and my legs suck so why don't i have massive legs yeah you were squatting six plates for reps yeah and my legs were the biggest when i started bodybuilding because of hockey my legs were all i had right so i started backwards my lower body was very big my upper body was very small and during that time my upper body far surpassed my lower body and i'm squatting six plates for reps no problem and it's like you know it took like a brainchild to look and go wait a minute this shit ain't working you know and then and then taking a step back so i think more people should do that with their training is pick a way you want to train for a while and run it for long enough to see if it works because what i see i see guys in our gym all the time we train at a great gym and one week they're training one way the next week they're training another oh yeah i didn't think that worked very well i'm like what did you think was going to happen in seven days exactly right right yeah you know so yeah it's definitely interesting yeah i mean just pick something roll with it and then eventually i think i think most people who really are in tune with their bodies end up with a hodgepodge of all of it yeah you know i mean i know scott you had said with your back training certain things um that rang true like when we had sergio on last week uh the way he described training his back like pulling back and trying to get that hard contraction even when it wasn't really there like it was already pulling him back down that's how i trained my biceps it was the only way they would grow whereas back i'm like ah fuck it yank it really hard it'll be fine you know you know so you find those spots but i feel like you know and even for me when when it got popular to squeeze a little more i went through probably a 12 week period where i did that i was like okay well just because i'm getting good results doesn't mean i can't get better so let me give this a true go and i spent 12 weeks with the same thing going i'd get done with a workout i didn't feel my back like i used to and i was like well that's fine i mean feel isn't everything let's see what happens and then 12 weeks goes by and i actually saw that i had lost some like pop and some fullness i was like okay this doesn't work for me huh throw it away you know and and that's my reminder like when i used to watch branch train i remember seeing him in the videos and i'm like god imagine if he would train right like how good would he be if he trained right and then you know i started with us on the show i go and i train with him one time and i'm watching his muscle contract the way he trained i was like oh it's just that i can't do that i can't make my muscle contract that hard that aggressively yeah he is training right you know getting the job done yeah yeah you know hard i mean essentially like in a lot of ways you're hammering a nail into a board and you know what i mean like you're trying to cause a reaction you're trying to cause an effect and you know the old mike menser analogy of if you hit the nail perfectly with the maximum amount of force you can drive the nail flush into the board with one swing or you can tap at it 20 times and get it into the board and it'll look the same but you can do it  ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess ess you know i'm thinking that if there's one person i can think of and and the i think the question was today's champions and how they've influenced training one person who's maybe not the first person you think of when you think of like greatest bodybuilding champions jordan freaking peters yeah and think about how much with just you know him his influence through social media oh man i feel like he created a like literally a cult within bodybuilding and that's evolved into so many other things now and and i'll give dante credit for jordan inadvertently because it was you know dante had dc and uh then jordan was working with scott stevenson and that's when jordan blew up you know 300 pounds or whatever and he really got into the progressive overload get the most out of the least and and then he evolved it from there i think that jordan's foundation was dc training so can we give the award to dante inadvertently like go all the way back and would he accept it like if we had a podium and stuff would he come up there and no you'd have to do it live but he doesn't do things live i am happy to see that dante is uh is uh posting videos he's like doing actual content on his ig so it is cool exists he exists he's a real person not a figment of my imagination it was more fun back in the day when people didn't think he was real it could be AI ron like you know there was a long time yeah it's a coincidence that he starts making videos now yeah he's not real not even real yeah like that's just total conspiracy theory right i'm right again the real dante is black i'm surprised people don't know that yes somebody recently commented on um it was dave tate said who you know who's the next guest that we should have on table talk and somebody put dante trudel so i commented i said yeah second for dante dante saw it he was like that guy he just wants to talk about bitcoin nowadays he doesn't want to do anything related to training they um it's it's always funny to me though because you are right i would argue though scott i mean obviously it all comes from somewhere but because you brought it up yeah um jordan is the most influential on training of anyone possibly ever in this well social media age but you're saying the numbers of that are the numbers of people that have grabbed on i mean if jordan didn't didn't hate people i couldn't imagine him at an expo how like how many people would have gym pins if it wasn't for jordan yeah i mean how many people would need gym pins i mean if it wasn't for dante and jordan people weren't thinking about maxing out machines i mean i just said that to a guy last week he sent me a video he said will this chess machine work and i said yeah until you until that's not enough weight and he and he laughed and i'm like why are you laughing i promise right that's not going to be enough weight in six months you know we'll get that pin down there yeah people are people are unaware of how what's in the tank and that's one thing i know ron you've talked about this a lot that's really cool about social media is you see how many people can do things you know like when you were back in the day the strongest guy in the gym was the strongest guy in the world yeah you know what i mean yeah like sure you see a ronnie video be like yeah it's one guy now you're like do you know how many people can like the the first by the time i pulled eight i knew 10 plus people that pulled 800 pounds and now i can think of 30 you know whereas back then i mean when i was pulling 650 the world was stopping they were like what the shit now there's kids that are 17 like i've seen that yeah i remember some of the big landmarks and they're just nothing now no yeah i mean the first time you put like eight plates on a bar like the gym stops they're like what are you doing over there you know now like the social media era kids are like yeah i saw them do that before yeah yeah i i i remember i remember some things i did in the gym when i was in my 20s that had like everyone gather around and then that same thing i remember gathering around like we're like oh we're gonna go watch this dude he's hey so-and-so's got four plates on the incline and we're oh shit let's go watch you know we go over there and cheer him on and now like you know back you know we used to just see like dennis james or dorian had four plates on the incline yeah but you know i mean there's a lot of guys now on instagram to do crazy stuff like all the dead lifting we see in the squatting and some of those numbers people some of the stuff people put on the hack now yeah like there's like eight guys at my gym that put six plates on the hack or seven plates on the hack you know it's uh it's just it's not a thing any as big as it used to be so because everyone just keeps getting stronger it's crazy but you know what catches me now and we'll move to the next question but i actually i saw it last week it's not how much weight people move what throat what i will make me stop because i watch people in the gym because i try to like i'm the old man now that like walks over and will spot you without asking you know and i'll i saw a kid the other day he's on the hack i don't even know how much weight he had on it but i watched him grind out a rep and barely get it so i kind of started inching over and then he went for another one and he got it and like he's done now and i think we did four more reps when i spotted him and i was barely spotting him and it wasn't how much weight he was using it's the fact that most people would have stopped five reps before that so when i see guys i'm like i don't care how much weight is on the bar when i see your body go okay you're your most people's mind would turn off and you're like no i'm going again those are the ones where i'm like all right that was impressive you know yeah and honestly and i'm sure you guys have seen this that happens more times with me watching women train they have a gear in them where they're like no i'm gonna go again you know you're like where the hell did that come from you know so when you guys are when you are working and you want to get a really impressive physique and and do something wild don't worry about how much weight's on the bar like i used to push that all the time people would watch like oh it's all the i'm like i want you to be impressed by those two reps i shouldn't have gotten right not how much weight was on the bar you know yeah that's the stuff that'll set you apart and put the what the size on you over time those two reps done every workout for three years is how people put on muscle mass that others can't so you're saying you want people to purposely overtrain beyond where they can recover yeah oh boy yes back in the day when we never even thought of those words yeah it wasn't even a thing years ago next question is um why has science-based lifting lost its popularity well i mean it's it's not as fun it's it's so well just think it's it's it's more complicated it's more limiting it's more specific it's you know like all those things when you need to set up a lot of and i'm just taking the examples of like the exercises guys are setting up with all sorts of stuff um i think i think people try things expecting there to be a radical increase in their results and it's just like a lot of supplements we read the research looks great on paper the rats all gained a pound right or the test group got a three percent strength increase or whatever we see happen so we we apply it or we try it or we use a supplement for three months or we do this or i mean there's you know a million examples and while it might work on paper or in you know a lab or in a petri dish or on an olympic athlete or something there's a lot of variables there's more than that going on and do you see the results from it you know if you're training away and you're getting stronger and bigger and you're enjoying the gym and you're having fun and then you move to a different training format and it's you know more complicated and the exercises are different and some of the stuff you like to do you kind of miss but there's this other stuff you're doing and you don't see a radical increase in your results um maybe you gravitate away from it a little bit and you keep a couple things you liked and you go back to doing barbell rows as well and you throw the dumbbell presses back in and you're you know what i mean training with your buddies again and i think that that's just the natural progression for the vast majority of people that that are in the gym not everybody wants to train like not everyone wants to live like that and like i'm nothing against something that works  I like, I like shit that works, I want to do it, but there's, you know, what's the trade-off in other ways that are nuanced. Right. So I think the big one that you just nailed though is, I think at the end of the day, enough people realize that they did dive in headfirst, it didn't work. Right. Like they didn't explode. How many guys do you see that train that way that are the biggest guy in the gym or have the most perfectly rounded triceps, but they're perfectly rounded triceps, or whatever it is that they're pushing for, but they're pushing for, because at the end of the day, but they're not competing, but just being bigger, what's the thing that gets me the biggest, fastest, and then also, of course, like Ron said, what's fun? I mean, that to me is a huge factor, but at the end of the day, I just don't think that they saw the results they promised. Because you remember, I mean, I was watching them, honestly, because I enjoyed mocking it in my mind, but, um, And you're just waiting like, okay, dude, well, I saw you put those videos up, you know, six months ago, and you look identical as you did then. Now, what's happening? Like, if all of a sudden the same guy that was doing this, I start seeing he's up 20 pounds, I'd be like, whoa, whoa, we might be on to something. You know what I mean? Right. But you're not seeing that, and you weren't seeing it with anybody that they followed either. And like you said, Ron, I think a lot of people that did attempt it, they went away from what they enjoyed doing because they're like, screw it, I don't care, I want the results. And then they didn't get the results either. They're like, okay, well, now I'm losing on every front. It's not as fun. Dusty's laughing at me, and I'm still small. No bueno. No bueno. Yeah, yeah. I've got a few thoughts I'll throw in on this one. So I think, first of all, a lot of times in our community, and it's probably in a lot of communities, but since I follow bodybuilding, I see it here, that we get a new idea, and that new idea then becomes the thing. And everybody has hope then, like, oh, this is going to be the answer. This is what we all got to do to get huge. It can be with training. It can be with gear. It can be with nutritional styles. I mean, I remember when IFYM was, like, the hot topic a decade ago, and there were people arguing, you can get in shape, do a contest prep with IFYM. And then other people are like, no, you can't. You got to use the old school six foods. You know, and it – The six foods. Six foods. Very specific reference. Right? Yes. Very specific reference. Hey, Dave. What's up, Dave? Well, I see that as being, like, the extreme opposite end, you know? Right. But at the end of the day, though, like, those were macros, too. But I feel like then we eventually then find some middle ground. And going back to Nick Walker, I almost feel like Nick has found that middle ground. You know, he's not going to hard failure. He's looking at, like, how can I recover from what I'm doing? Right. It doesn't translate into him moving, you know, a plate per side either, though. Like, he is moving some incredible weight. He's just not destroying himself every single workout in the process. So I think that it's been a net positive. I think that we're coming away from it, being more aware and mindful of, like, what are the limits beyond just destroying myself? Like, is there maybe a smarter way? You know, I think that it is becoming a net positive, but it really took swinging way into that opposite end of very, like, training became very mechanical. And, you know, I'll give an example, Dusty. You brought up, like, my back training and the progress I was able to make with that. When I first started employing some new techniques with back, I was real, real robotic mechanic with it. I was holding for long pauses to – and part of it was, like, I was trying to connect with the muscle. But fast forward down the road, three months, four months later, I realized I wasn't using the same amount of, like, actual time under control. Like, the negatives were slow, but they were, like, an average slow. But guess what? I was getting a lot more out of it. But I had to stop and learn, like, how to squeeze the muscle. And then, you know, maybe it was, like, a long, slow negative with a hard squeeze. And now it doesn't look like that at all. But I am absolutely contracting the back at, like, you know, ten times more than what it was before. So I think it was a means to an end. You know, I think that – I do. I think it's a net positive, but, you know, you have to be able to then blend that with all the other things that have worked. Because I think the mistake we make is we get this new idea, and then all of a sudden we throw away everything else that we've all learned from bodybuilding over, you know, the past 50 years. Don't use barbells. Yeah. Like, none of that stuff applies anymore. It all still applies. It's how do we add this to that? You know, I was going to add real quick, too, just while we're on that topic, is when you're following people who have found that sweet spot, make sure that what they're trying to do is what you're trying to do. Because Nick Walker doesn't need any more muscle. Right. I don't – Yeah. He doesn't need 20 pounds of tissue. Yeah. He might be able to put on muscle doing that. I don't know. But what I'm just pointing out is you want to be mindful of that when you're following because, you know, the next question is, would he have gotten to the same size with this? And I'm not saying no. I'm just saying you have to ask yourself that. So when you implement, you know, his training style, let's say – because Nick still does basic movements, does all the things, doesn't – like you said, isn't going to extreme failure. Do that and see, are you seeing progress for what you're trying to do because you're eating the food and you're doing everything else to put on size. If that doesn't continue to go at least the pace it was going before, it might not be the time for that. You know what I mean? Yeah. There's a time and place for a lot of things. I mean, I remember when I was a kid watching what the junior players were doing in practice and then asking my coach, why aren't we doing that? And they're like, it's not time. You're not there yet. You know what I mean? Right. Like that is very good what they're doing, just not for you. You know? So I think you've got to remember that with all of this data that's tossed your way. And like you said, Scott, I love that because I've got a few clients I've done that with where they were so strict on their form, they weren't moving any weight. Okay. And I'm like, okay, why don't we go 70% on that contraction and on that form and add some weight and see what happens? And then when you start to fail, drop it another 10% form and give me two more reps. Yeah. And that's usually where they're like, oh, because their thought is I don't want to train wrong, which I agree with. But like you said, there's that line in there where you've went too far. And like you said, I think there is a value to going too far one way and then kind of slowly inching your way back and going, okay, the line between what I used to do and what I was trying to do, it's actually in between the two where the magic hits. Yeah. You know, which is kind of what you did. The spot, Dusty. That's what it's called. It's called the sweet spot. Oh, I love the sweet spot. Got to find the sweet spot. Inch in inch up. Yep. Wait, what? That's a different name. Different spot. All right. We got another one. Can you train at the highest intensity while simultaneously working on content for your social media? Well, I think you could find a way. Yeah. I mean, anything's possible. I mean, look at the guys in the Super Bowl yesterday. They're playing in the Super Bowl. They're playing at the highest intensity. This game means a world to them. But they could still turn to a guy on the sideline and like have a quick conversation. Like, hey, on that last drive, what was going on there? What did you see? Do you see that safety coming around? Blah, blah, blah. And they could still have a conversation. Right? You don't have to lock out like, you know, the extreme that we think of like world off. Right. You know, intensity on, world off. You know, like you don't, that's not how most things work. And, you know, you have to be aware of your surroundings. You have to be like thinking. Like you can't, you know, of course you can train really hard and still do that. There'd be a way to do it. You know, are you taking 20 minutes to set up your camera? Or are you just handing your phone to your training partner and go film the set? Mm-hmm. And then you go ballistic. Like that, sure. Like anything's possible. But it's how are you doing it and how are you prioritizing the steps? You know? So that's, that's, there's, you know, that's where this sweet spot is. Here we are again with the sweet spot. No, I agree. Kind of creepy the way he leans in when he says that, Dusty. Yeah, he does. Yeah, I say. He's really trying to hit the sweet spot with us. Um, I think the issue that I see is if your focus is primarily getting good content, then that's your focus. Primary. You know, it's got to be where you're putting it. So like, you know, I mean, I, when, when I did my majority of YouTube content, I had nothing to do with it. I literally just went in the gym and trained and I'd watch a video and realized at one point Scott had, or I mean, uh, Todd had moved.  I had moved my belt over, and gotten a video of me getting a drink with the belt in the back. I wasn't setting the belt there, moving a camera over, making sure I got the right sip shot. I wasn't doing any of that. And I see a lot of that in the gym now. And I think that's going to be a really cool video of a really shitty workout. Huh. You know, so if you want to get content, which I'm all for, I mean, how I just posted some this morning, I put my camera in one camera in one spot, I put my camera in one spot, I put my camera in one spot, I glance in and see that the weight is on there, I see that the weight is on there, and where I'm sitting is going to be on there, Henry, what's up, buddy? And then I forget about it. My training partner hits play or record, and then you do your set, you know, so if your primary focus is the workout, you can do both. If your primary focus is the content, then the workout suffers. Pretty simple. Henry is freaking handsome. Let's just talk. They know I'm leaving. They see that suitcase, right? Oh, they know the suitcases, don't they? No, we have to put them out back, and then bring the suitcases out of our room and into the truck before we leave, or it becomes hysteria. No bueno. They need to think we're like going to the store, and it was just like a really long trip. Did you know how dogs function? Like, if you're gone for five minutes, it's a long time, and ten minutes is also a long time, so it's fine. But if they see bags, they know. Yeah. Yeah, no good. The bags, the bags. But yeah, I think, you know, when I look at the topic, the part where I think things have kind of gone awry is that the primary focus is the content, and that's why the workouts suffer, you know? There's a guy at our gym that makes really cool videos of horrendous workouts. Okay. And I mean, I'm thinking, okay, I see what you're doing. You're in here, and you're thinking, okay, this is where I'm going to walk away, and then there's going to be smoke coming off of me. So we make sure he gets that video, and I'm watching this whole thing, and I'm like, if you're trying to create the image that you can make awesome videos, this is really great, what you're doing. But if you're actually trying to get a good workout in, this isn't it. Yeah. Do we have any more? We're running low on time, Scott. We have to have like one more. I think that might have been it. I think that we're good. Is that everything? Yeah. Let's see here. Boom, boom, boom. You know what, too, I'll throw out there with that is that I think that people really enjoy authenticity. So like Sam Sulik, there's a reason that he's as popular as he's become. He's not putting all the art and craft into the perfect angle. He's just like recording the thing that he loves. And I think that just in general, if you're authentic and you're just simply documenting that thing that you enjoy doing and that thing that you enjoy doing is lifting, I think that that in itself, you're setting yourself up for a lot more success than trying to craft this image of being this intense lifter that's there to inspire people. Like you don't do that. I don't know. It's the difference between like the manufactured bands, you know, you know, Ron, how like there'll be a record label that actually creates a band versus, you know, the kids in their garage that do it because they're just trying to get laid. Yeah. Johnny Depp wasn't trying to be cool. He just was. Um, no, but Gary V used to say that he'd say document, don't create. Okay. And I always thought that was the perfect thing. It just, you know, imagine a world where you don't know that someone is filming everything you're doing and then they're creating videos and that would be your best content. Right. You know, that would be the content that decides. And that's why Sam was so popular. He's like, he puts his phone at the side of his car and does his thing and then training sets. It's one camera view of the whole thing. And he doesn't, if, if he gets stuck in the machine, it's fine. If a guy has to save him, it stays in the video. Everything stayed as raw as could be. And I think that's why he was so popular. And then people watch that and they said, how can I impersonate Sam Sulik? And I'm like, Oh God. Yeah. You just missed the entire point. Can I copy him? Yeah. I do have one more question. This is a genuine question too. So guy that I work with Jordan, I think his Instagram is that Jordan dude. If anybody wants to follow him, he's a really good bodybuilder too. He, uh, he did like a couple of videos about, he was like, I'm going to rant post-workout. And he had some funny stuff to say. This was on his Instagram story. And one of the things he said, guys, if you're using gym pins, you got to max the machine out before you use the pin. Apparently there's people in his gym that are maybe doing like the half stack and then they put the pin in. And I wanted to turn to you because I train at my own home gym. Now I don't, I don't go to commercial gyms like I used to. Is that a thing? Do people do half stack plus? There are so many examples of that, Scott. Are there? The amount of times that I've seen guys load their hundred pound girlfriends on top of a leg press that has room for 10 more 45 pound plates. I'm like, well, that's 450 pounds and she weighs a hundred. Why is she up there? Yeah. Yeah. So, yes, that's, that's my gym pin example. Okay. But, you know, I don't see that with the gym pin, but I can imagine that that would be a thing. But I can imagine, yeah. It doesn't, it doesn't shock me. It doesn't surprise me. And the, and, and Ben from gym pin doesn't mind. Just order it. That's true. Ben would be totally okay with that. Yeah. Perfectly fine. Yeah. Yeah. Maximum distribution. Yeah. Exactly. Just make sure gym pins are in everyone's bag and Ben is a happy man. Yeah. Well, I guess that's all we have. And Ron has two minutes to get to the airport. So. Yeah. Yeah. So we have two minutes left to talk about whatever I want. I'm just kidding. No, but I hope everybody had a good Superbowl Sunday. And I will say, I know that, you know, I don't want to bring football up again. I know Dusty doesn't mind. I don't mind at all. But I will say that my return to official fandom where I watch all the games and take Sundays off for NFL and start, you know, like I was a proper, not just like, oh, I love football. I was like, it's, I'm going to do this season. And cause that's just how I am. I like choose to do something and I do it. And I chose to be a fan before the season started, signed up for it, got all it in. What a blast. And no disappointments at all. Amazing year. Some of the best games of the best endings I've ever seen. Really? In games this year. Dusty and I talked about how many crazy finishes there were just mind boggling last two minutes to like what? At least 15 games this year. I think if people saw Ron in my text messages, they would assume the only thing we talk about is football. Yeah. You know, and I know my Niners, you know, they, they made the playoffs. They had no, they had fucking got the shit beat out of them, had no healthy people. No, you know what I mean? All this shit was a great, it was a Cinderella season, even though they, they, you know, got smoked by the Seahawks in the, in the playoffs, but it was a lot of fun. I'm glad my team did well, but I was super happy to be a fan this year and had a lot of fun. And it was anyone out there was just kind of thinking of it or dabbling and like, oh, I used to watch the NFL. It was a lot of fun this year. Did you get, did this all happen because of video games? Cause I remember you got the video game console. Then you started, it all happened at the same time. It all was a, it was a decision inspired it, you know? No, it was, it was a full decision. I was like, yeah, a joint venture. It was part of the fandom. I'm like, I'm going to start playing Madden again. I'm going to get a PS five and I'm going to get the zone team. Yeah. And I'm going to, and I'm going to like follow and I'm a Niners fan from birth. So I'll just be a Niners fan again, even though I don't really hate any teams. You know, I don't really hate anybody except the chiefs maybe, but, um, and, uh, and, and, and just sort of like enjoyed it and, and, and enjoyed the product they fed me, which was amazing. A lesson for how to get you college football up there because Saturday is also where it's Oh, we have it. I mean, I have the zone. I can watch college games, but I'm just, I'm busy Saturday. It's a different game. I don't have the whole weekend to do nothing. Dude, take Saturday off. I am very busy Saturday. Cause that's when I play Madden. He's like, I can't be doing that. I can't watch and play. I'm busy Saturday. I'm just kidding. Okay. Okay. If there's any growing men out there playing Madden, I know James Hollingshead's very proud of me that he even bought a PS five. He was, he's ecstatic to hear that. Um, uh, but, uh, yeah, you know, let me know. Again, had a lot of fun. Thanks for the show, gentlemen. Um, I'm really looking forward to getting everything rolling. Like I said, today's my first official mutant trip of the year, heading off to collect two episodes of mutant on a mission, which I'll be very, very excited for. Remember, I am mutant.com. Get your hardcore ISO, get your big greens, get your mind FK and everyone should get on the gear. Like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. Ring the bell. Hit button. Yes. Oh, code big Ron and dusty. Get your stuff. Yes. Order off the, I am mutant.com website because it gets delivered super fast right to your door. And like I said, scoop is always on the top. If you use my, you're at home in your underwear, supplements arrive. It's perfect. There they are. Okay. Thanks gentlemen. Remember, it's just bodybuilding. Okay. Thanks. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Services Services Services Services Services Services Services Services Services Services Services