 What's up, what's up guys, welcome back to the podcast with Dave Crosslin, I'm Scott McNally, and all our programming is brought to you by Strom sports nutrition. If you're in the UK or the US, you can get some great health stacks, especially if you're on cycle, check out Strom, we're brought to you by supplementsource.ca for Canadians, they have great deals that change week to week. We are brought to you by truenutrition.com. Use our code THINK for 10% off all your basic bodybuilding supplements like protein, protein, protein, protein, protein, protein, protein, and intra-workout. We are brought to you by protein, protein, and intra-workout. We are brought to you by evalbloodanalysis.com. You can get your labs done by Dave if you're in the UK, and if you're on cycle, you should definitely be getting your labs done, plus Dave will analyze them and everything else. And last but not least, of course, most important, we're brought to you by you, the people of Patreon. Thank you guys very much for your support. Dave, it's finally time. We had multiple more people tell us, yes, please cover ment again. We haven't covered ment in a long time. In fact, I think that episode isn't with us anymore. It's not on the platform. Let's go back into it. Let's do a ment profile of the week. Trust alone. Methyl nor testosterone. Methyl nor testosterone? Okay. And that's really all it is, right? Like, they took, like, the 19-nor and nor testosterone, and then they methylated it, right? Like, that was basically, boom, and now you've got ment. Yeah, I mean, it significantly alters the effect of the compound over its base. Comes originally as an acetate, but it's also available as an enanthate now. I think, so, back when it started, it was, well, it wasn't even used as, like, an anabolic steroid. Bodybuilders weren't using this. This was a, what, a contraceptive, or supposedly that's what they were studying it for, right? They looked at it for contraception, but then they also looked at it as an alternative to TRT. Oh, yeah. And for TRT, they were messing around with doses of, like, 20 milligrams a week. Okay. It's been touted as almost oversimplified to a super concentrated testosterone. Yeah. It does aromatise. Have we? In fact, it aromatises at a horrendous rate, and it also aromatises to a synthetic oestrogen, on a par with the stuff you get from D-Ball. So it's very, very powerful, very effective, and there's a lot of it. Yeah. To the point where some people can really struggle to manage oestrogen when they're on it. Very good strength drug. Like I say, it was trial for TRT. Never went anywhere, but they were messing around with really, really low doses. It's been quoted as being five times and 10 times stronger than test itself. I think that's a bit of a stretch, but it is powerful stuff. It's anabolic to endogenic is 2,300 to 650. Whoa. So compared to tests 100 to 100. Yeah. So, you know, it is incredibly strong stuff. It's claimed the research side of it have sort of come up with a number of it's three to six times more anabolic than testosterone, but only two times as androgenic. So it is a powerful and impacting drug, but ratio for ratio, it is more bang for less buck when it comes to sides versus results. Yeah. But the sides are still bad because it's just a strong, powerful drug, and particularly around oestrogen inflammation and stuff like that. So I've got a thought on that and here's so, you know, and I'd love to get into talking about my personal experience with it. But the main issue that I've seen, the main issue I had was when using long acting, the anathate version, estrogen was just incredibly difficult to manage. I was using, I think it was a hundred a week along with 600 tests mistake. I had no way I in there to start. I ended up on like a milligram of a remadex a day, but get this. So what I didn't understand at that time is it does not, it doesn't break down. There's no like five AR reduction to men like zero. So if it doesn't bind with SHPG either. Okay. So if you're, if you're getting this incredibly nasty methylated estrogen that is going to be not only stronger, but it lasts longer, it has much more affinity at the estrogen receptor. Um, normally in a situation with testosterone, you know, estrogen isn't quite that strong. Plus you have that balanced with conversion to DHT, right? You don't have that here with men. What do you think? Here's what I pose. I would suspect that it would be imperative to control estrogen by combining men with a strong DHT compound. What do you think of that? Well, so DHT has some sort of, in a natural format, DHT has some protective action against estrogen sites. So DHT actually works to protect us against gyno in our normal hormone balancing. So, um, I was one of the ways that, uh, some of the compounds make us prone to gyno is the fact that they lower DHT levels. Um, and DHT creams have been used historically as treatment for pubescent gyno and things like that as well. Yeah. So the fact that there is no DHT produced from this drug whatsoever would make the estrogen more impacting in that area. Would running a D would running a DHT counter that? I'm not sure. I honestly not sure how effective it, and I think it would depend on the generation of DHT as well. You know, are you looking at a third gen like Primo or are you looking at something like Masteron, which is a bit closer to natural DHT than Primo is. So I suspect that yes, um, it would have some benefit. Um, you've also got that overall anti-oestrogen effect from the injectable DHT as well, which is obviously going to help make management a little bit easier because you've got some built in protection almost within the cycle. Yeah. Um, but yeah, I mean, there was, there's even, there's, there is a study that shows that meant has the capacity of binding with a progesterone receptor. I don't know if it's not being repeated or if it just only showed up in one study. Um, so it's definitely not something that we can take as being read. Um, cause generally you need these things to repeat themselves several times before we can start saying, yes, this is what happens. Uh, but you know, and, and men, isn't a particularly heavily studied compound because it didn't really go anywhere from a pharmaceutical point of view. So there was no point to continue studying it. And from what I understand, a lot of that had to do with the, so I, from what I gathered is it was started in like the sixties and seventies. They were experimenting with it. And at the time they were using it as just a straight up implant. They didn't have it esterified yet. And then I think it was like the eighties and nineties. They started experimenting with the acetate and it wasn't until the two thousands that the longer acting anathate version, but by then it was all abandoned. And I think it was because something to do with it being so difficult to dose that there was a very limited window of, of it being therapeutic. Yes. Um, it's, they, when the, the, I haven't looked at the research for a long, long time, but when I looked at the TRT research, there was a lot of variability around dosing. Um, and that was one of the key elements that they were struggling with was how we dose this shit. Um, good power drill, very popular within powerlifting circles. Uh, really does have some positive impacts around there. Um, it is super suppressive. Super suppressive. Yeah. Yeah. That was one of the other things cause they were looking at it. Oh, the other thing that's right. Um, cause I, I tried to do a little bit of research on it this week since I knew we were going to do this from a social perspective. Um, one of the other things that, so they were looking at considering it as not only replacement for testosterone, but they were also looking at it as a male contraceptive. Yeah. And from a social perspective, get this from a social perspective, society wasn't ready for the idea of a male contraceptive that, and that for that very reason, it didn't get the funding. So the whole thing got kiboshed because as you know, uh, excuse me, um, birth control was considered to be like something we made women take. Yeah. The, the only thing as well with it is it's not actually particularly so it's, this is a bit of a weird one with men. Men's itself isn't particularly bad on your lipid profile. It's not particularly adulterated in of lipids. Okay. But the amount of estrogen management you have to run to control it is. Yeah. Okay. So yeah, yeah. People get away from the problem because you're having to use so much, either in a DHT format or just in an AI format that you're going to affect lipids trying to control the estrogen from the men. So yeah, it's a bit of a mute point in, in the real world environment, but as a compound it's.  It doesn't have much impact on lipids whatsoever, but it's never really been studied at high doses, I don't think they've gone above sort of 200 milligrams 250 milligrams 250 milligrams. Oh, I didn't even know they went that high. Yeah, I believe there was one. I've got some. I think you went up to 280. I can't find it. God. Okay. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. That's incredible. Because I know they were talking about. what's what's what's what's what's what's what superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero superhero I was going to say some information, but not as inflammatory as something like Tren. And obviously the big sidebar with it is the estrogen management side of things. Yeah. And so we're saying, you know, it wasn't even invented to be used as performance enhancing. It wasn't thought of as being muscle building. But then it got discovered by bodybuilders. And that's when things really changed. And I would say it was, I can tell you, Dave, the first time I took it was 2009, I believe it was. At the time, I only knew one source that made it. And they brought it out because they had like a few, it was a time in steroid history where the gear was plentiful. It was mostly, for the U.S. at least, it was mostly being produced overseas. Dosing was, like, pricing was good. And they started coming out with a few, like, additional compounds. Like, since their whole line and repertoire was filled out, they're like, what else can we make? You know? And that's where things like MENT and MHN came out. And one test sip, a.k.a. DHB. I ran 50 every other day of the acetate version. Nobody knew anything about it at the time. So we didn't know about how estrogenic it was. I ran it during a contest prep. I had incredibly high AIs. I did notice some additional water retention in that that was difficult to combat. But I'm sure I combined enough arimidex and Letro with it in 2009 to smash that. No real side effects, though. But then when I ran it again some decade later, I used the anethate version with 600 tests, started out with no AI. And, Dave, that was a nightmare. Like, I could sense issues with my mood. I got strong as hell. It was incredible. But the sides were rough, man. I remember, like, just libido started getting really wacky. And that even lasted, like, two months beyond the discontinuation of it. I had worked up to so much AI, and it still wasn't enough. I was just constantly, like, on the edge of sensitivity at the nipple. I think it is probably the only compound in our arsenal that actually warrants the use of letrozone. Hmm. I'm curious, man. I want to see somebody get us some information. I can't tell anybody, like, you should do this. But I'd like to see what happened if somebody combined it with a good, strong DHT. You know, something in there that would help to balance that out. Someone's asked what the minimum effective dose for ment is. 20 milligrams probably. Yeah. So I found 50 every other day of the acetate version to be incredibly strong. But then I'll tell you what, man. 100 milligrams per week on an ethate was wicked, dude. And I was at my peak strength at the time, like, ever in my life. And I just got stronger. But, Dave, let me tell you, those workouts got dark, man. Like, I was listening to Slayer, you know, and just like, argh. It was like, yeah. I was living alone at the time, too. That was, like, pandemic era. So Victoria wasn't here. So I was just, I was probably, like, as close to being Jordan Peters as I ever have been in my life. Walking around the house barefoot. Just thinking about my next lift, you know. Yeah. You never ran, Matt, right? I've got a vague collection that I might have just run one vial, you know, in my very early usage when I used to piss about with stuff a lot. Yeah. But I don't know. I've never run it in a cycle format. Never structured it in. But, I mean, in my early anabolics, Jesus, I would literally swap compounds every four to six weeks. Yeah, okay. So I'd start around two injectables, relatively low dose. So nothing exceeding sort of a gram ever total dose. Okay. And then every sort of four to six weeks, I'd swap one. And I'd just, and I did that for years. And I'd just go to, I'd go to the supply, like, what you got that's any good. I had no idea the compounds I were taking or what effects they had or how they combined. I had no idea about estrogen management. Nothing. So there was no structure to this. And he'd say, oh, I've got this and this is really good. So I'd try that for four or six weeks or till the bottle ran out. And then I'd swap something else. Yeah. And every now and again, I'd do a few orals. Very scientific, right? Oh, very. Yeah. I mean, I think a 5,000 IU HCG in every couple of months. Just as a single shot. Yeah. Yeah. That's it. No logic to it. Just keep the boys running. Every few months. Yeah. The level of. Non-organization around my ear, the anabolic use is ridiculous. I mean, no structure, no understanding of what I was taking, no management whatsoever. Nothing. All right. Well, before we, like, as we wrap this up with men, is there anything else we should let them know? Minimum effective dose. You said maybe 20. I could see 20 a week, maybe of the anathate version. And I would say for me, like I said, 100, and that was with 600 tests, was incredibly strong. I was at the peak of my strength. I'd say I wouldn't go over 100, honestly, per week. And just to see how you do with it, at least on the first run with it. Yeah. Because that methyl estrogen is so strong. You get yourself in trouble fast with it. I think if you're looking at starting doses, acetate would be as low as 25 milligrams per shot. Every other day or every day? Every other day. And the anathate would be 100. And most people, I don't think, unless you're really, you know, in the thick of it with power sports, I don't think most people are going to need to go over 200 milligrams. It is a very effective drug, but it is a twat to manage. Yeah. I told you, I remember, this was a while ago now, I think it was 2018-ish or so, out at the Olympia, we had dinner. We went to one of those fancy dinners where they bring the meat to the table and they slice it off for you, you know? And we were with a guy who had the bench press world record, okay? And his neck was about as thick as my thigh was at the time, and I still had muscle then. It was like big dudes. And that's something in the region of like 1,200, 1,300 pounds, isn't it? I don't even know, man. It's over 1,000 pounds. I know it's well over 1,000 pounds. His neck was like, imagine your head and then your neck being two inches wider on each side. His head just like, if you're enjoying our show, let me ask you to please hit the like button. It doesn't cost you anything, and it definitely helps us out. Leave us a comment. We'd love to hear what you think. And if you're new here, let me encourage you to subscribe and hit the bell. We have lots of bodybuilding, education, and entertainment coming out each week. The bell will let you know when new stuff comes out. Yeah. Anyway, all right. Listen, we've got a bunch of listener questions. We were off last week, so that means we have even more. My apologies for that, people. Unfortunately, I had some family business to take care of. We understand. We understand. But we do have a lot of listener questions. There's one in the live stream. And by the way, guys, if you're interested in taking part in our shows, then definitely comment with questions. Plus, all your comments, likes, all that stuff. It helps to boost our shows and the algorithm. We appreciate all the help that you give us. You guys are freaking great with your comments. We've got some funny ones I'll bring up today, too. But in the live stream here, do you guys ever use Winstrel suspension? I can get Winstrel in MCT oil. Thoughts on dosing it in a cut, 50 milligrams per mil? It's an effective drug. It all depends what you're looking to use it for. I think a lot of times when people look at anabolics, particularly if they're cutting or bulking, they'll look at what others do in those cycles and think, oh, well, I need to run this or I need to run that because I'm cutting. And it's like, Winstrel's not going to add anything to the fat loss in any real dramatic way at all. It does have a nice strength kick to it. So it will help you maintain strength, which in turn will help you maintain size. Obviously, it's an oral, so it's another way of increasing anabolic load without doing more.  and anti-progesterone, there is a mild cosmetic drying effect and hardening effect which is exploited at very low levels of body fat pre-stage which is one of the reasons why competitive bodybuilders use it pre-stage and generally bring it in in those last few weeks. If you're north side of 10% you're not going to see a huge cosmetic effect from it because the body fat levels are just going to be a little bit too high. You might seem to have some slight condition changes but it's not going to be a little bit too high. You might seem to have some slight condition changes but it's not going to be as dramatic if you were 6 or below where you would really see visual changes from using it. So it all depends on what you want out of it really. I wouldn't look at putting it in a cut as oh I need this because I'm cutting. Not at all but but like I say if you're finding that your strength is dropping off significantly and you want to try and hold that a bit better or you're trying for a more cosmetic effect towards the end of your cut then definitely has some merit there without a lot of merit there without doubt. I could see that. I don't like personally the injectable orals most of the time. I don't know. I just see I see here's been my issue. The main time I tended to use Winstrel as in a contest prep and it would be something I brought in at the end kind of a finishing touch the last four weeks or so. Generally we're already using multiple other injectables and I just don't see the like at that point man like you get fatigued from doing so many every other day or everyday shots adding in another mill you know on top of that man is it's a lot when it's just as easy or just as effective to take the oral I'd rather do that. Now granted you're going to get a little bit less stress in my experience with injectable D-ball. I noticed less digestive issues using the injectable D-ball versus the oral but I'll tell you what by the time you're that dieted down there's nothing that's going to stop your appetite so I know keep it short keep it to oral that's just my personal take. Yeah I mean I said there's nothing wrong with the injectable versions. Some people prefer if you have a sensitive stomach or you find stomach issues are you're prone to stomach issues around orals then obviously they are a viable alternative. But you could you know in a cut scenario maybe the stomach issues aren't so bad because you lose your appetite. And you're not as hungry so. Yeah. All right how about this one love the podcast love the banter question for the next episode. Do either of you have experience or know of any anecdotes regarding EQ and its effect on dreams. I started EQ at 600 a week and two to three weeks into the cycle I have been having extremely intense and abstract dreams that seem very real. The kind where you are glad to wake up from. I'm going to ride it out regardless as I find stuff like this to be pretty interesting even if it's unpleasant. But I'm looking pretty swole at the moment so it's all good. Can't find much info about this online just curious as to whether any either of you have theories or info on how this compound could affect brain chemistry to make this happen. I wonder if this. I wonder if this stuff triggers a nags head in some way only fools reference for the Brits. A nags head only fools and horses is the program is referring to but I don't know the reference. I think it's probably around estrogen. We know EQ is quite a powerful anti-estrogen. We're not too sure what it does with E1. And I think that I have. He's not the first person to mention weird dreams and vivid dreams and EQ. And I know a few people have recently said that they've had some. Mental impact, not particularly like awful, but they've had some mental impacts from running EQ. Yeah. And I think a lot of it is going to be based around estrogen and its effect on estrogen. So it's potentially something to do with that. That would be the most likely scenario for me rather than the actual EQ itself having an impact. But not without possibilities. I mean, we know it has an impact in the liver. We know it increases liver density and liver weight. I have a third theory. Go on then. Well, we also know that it has an impact on GABA. And it's often believed that that's where a lot of that anxiety comes from is alterations in GABA levels. And I can tell you that I know when I've had higher GABA, like if I've taken supplemental GABA, I've noticed that I do get stranger, weirder dreams. So I wonder if alteration of GABA levels is, yeah, something to do with that. That would be my random bro guesstimate. Okay. Because GABA is supposed to lower neuron activity. Okay. Anxiety and overthinking and fucking brain going night, mile an hour is generally down to an increase in neuron activity. So I would have thought an increase in GABA would have lowered dream state in the sense of made dreams calmer, subtler, less impact. I don't know. And a higher GABA, sorry, would do that. And a lower GABA would create issues around overthinking and a more vivid dream. Yeah, I don't know. I have no idea. That's a clever squat, the Scott question. Yeah, I just feel like he wouldn't, he'd be like, there's so many other things we could think about, guys. Probably. You know what I mean? And be like, guys, let's talk about training to failure. Well, I mean, if you are having extremely vivid dream, just pick entertaining subjects. Yeah. There you go. How about this one? I have a question on nandrolone. More mental stuff, Dave. This is Wells Craft. He says, I have a question on nandrolone mental effects. I recently started to use NPP and titrated up to 400 milligrams a week. I did not get any anxiety, which was surprising because I'm normally prone to that. I did, however, feel like I went numb mentally and I lost all motivation to exercise. It takes every ounce of willpower I have to get to the gym. I'm not sad. I just don't feel like doing anything, which is unusual for me because I have been working out since I was 12 on 40 years now and enjoying it. I had my blood checked and my E2 was 24. Prolactin was 10. DHT was 25, which was about the middle for all of them. So it doesn't seem to be any of those hormones that are causing the problem. Can nandrolone itself make me lose all motivation to work out? Short answer, yes. We've discussed this a lot. It's effect through dopamine and the lowering of dopamine production. Ah, there you go. So you're lowering your reward mechanism for activity. Basically, it has the potential to suck the joy out of things. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Um, good answer. Great episode. A bit like Scott, really. He has the potential to suck the joy out of things as well. He's an emotional vampire. Oh, God. My current TRT dose is 90 milligrams per week. Currently running 195 test SIP with 126 milligrams of EQ per week. 20-week cycle. Um, what results should I expect to see at the end? Currently, 74.5 kilograms. And he'd guess he is 18% body fat. God knows. 126 milligrams of EQ. That's an unusual dosing. I'm assuming it's to do with the volume amount per day or per week or whatever. But, um, it's, it, there's too many variables. You know, this question or types of this question come up a lot about what will I get off my first cycle? Um, what sort of dose would this, you know, what sort of results would this dose give me? And the bottom line is you've got training. You've got diet. You've got the intensity and adherence to both those subjects. But you've also got genetics. You know, and, and there's so many variables. It's impossible to say. Um. That's an unusual way to drink whiskey. Um. You know, it's like. How long is a piece of string? It really is. It's impossible to judge. It's not a big cycle. It is a relatively low dose. But I appreciate that your, your standard TRT is 90 milligrams. So in relation to that, you've effectively, I think, roughly what? About tripled it? Quadrupled it? About tripled it, haven't you? You're not far off tripled your dosing. So, yeah, you're going to see some progress.  with the best training in the world, if your calories aren't where they need to be and are progressive, you're not going to gain size because you're not going to gain size because you're not going to have enough food, but you could recomp and gain better composition as muscle mass increases and body fat lowers. So there are so many variables that can go on, it is really difficult to say, but I would say if training the diet are on point, you should expect comfortably, up to shad shader, shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shader shad ducks in a row so real quick we've talked about this before what would be the the basic markers you'd want to look at fbc we want to look at blood thickness uh lipids particularly HDL LDL profile um liver generally it's usually pretty decent it's very rare we see liver problems though i do think kidneys are worth checking um depending on if you're coming from a natural state into a cycle with the intention to PCT if you are then i would check hormones good point uh if you're not it still would be worth doing tests and estrogen just to see where your TRT is putting you moving forward yeah they would are prostate um and they would be i'm probably HbA1c actually yeah oh that's a great one to check and they would probably be my basics you can get very technical very quick um and a lot of it's just not needed we we get a lot of people coming to us with the shopping list of tests from their coaches i need this i need that i need the other now the problem particularly they're an overseas coach is that what tested availability in in america in particular is better uh and the um markers that are available are more readily available and they're more cost effective in the uk testing is a little bit limited uh mainly because there's not the volume so it's like sensitive estrogen test it's very difficult to get and very expensive when you get it because there's only a couple of labs in the whole country that do it so it's not easy to get and this is the same with some of the more comprehensive markers you know i see people wanting a poa and and a poa 2 and a pob and all this sort of stuff and it's like i get that they are precursors in cholesterol management but if you if your lipids are pretty much normal then what's the point in digging deeper yeah you know i would only go deeper if i had cause to go deeper so i would start basic and build from there if you see an issue that needs further investigation at the end of the day if you're just interested then crack on um but yeah i do see people getting a little bit lost with the blood testing and over complicating it and it it doesn't really need to be uh also a lot of that depends on the level of risk you know if you're going on a cycle that's 500 600 milligrams the risk ratio there's quite low if you're going on a cycle that's four and a half gram with gh with insulin with this with that then you might want to slightly more in-depth testing at the end of the day because there's a lot more going on and a lot more potential impacts all right how about this one oh this one is it's a little bit x-rated dave okay prepared for that yeah all right i remember you discussing a while back about sperm volume and i can't seem to find it so i'm 43 and doing TRT i wasn't bothered about sperm as i already have had my kids plus my wife wasn't worried about the sperm volume and she had never been keen but all of a sudden she is saying it would be good if i could increase the volume and has been a fan of facials but i'm just about providing enough to cover her chin haha so i remember you and dave saying something about HCG and hmg and uh how much do i need to provide her full facials and keep her happy as they say happy wife happy life thanks scott and dave so it's basically he wants more mayonnaise i go a different direction i just go one word clomid potentially i suppose i'm zooming he's on TRT and then cycling um on top of that so well he just says 43 and cycling or 43 the thing is is he wanting more sperm or is he wanting more fluid because they're not mutually the same thing clomid will just produce more overall volume it's used in the industry dave is is this from personal experience no i just heard in the industry have you in the industry yeah i know what you're talking about yeah the industry yes and not our industry um we do yeah they just they have the they had the avn awards uh in vegas during shot show which is like the big gun um uh yearly thing that they do the avn awards are happening at the same time that was there are probably a lot of people on clomid at avn awards okay so there you go mate clomid i mean you could probably do HCG would would help wouldn't it yeah to a degree yeah HCG would help it increase itt uh hmg would help obviously because it's a synthetic fsh um not the cheapest route with f with hmg definitely HCG and clomid would be the cheaper option all right there you go hmg's cost prohibitive unfortunately don't say we didn't help you guys after 20 years bodybuilding experience plus coaching countless athletes i have tried all sorts of protein shakes from thin to thick to gritty to drywall paste consistency so when i say that i trust true nutrition i mean it in fact true nutrition is one of the few companies that i trust and trust in this industry well it's about as common as a bodybuilder passing up the opportunity to talk about his prep 60 grams of protein is kind of my sweet spot yeah i see you out there what makes true nutrition different you get to pick your base i'm a big fan of the way iso you get to pick your flavor i like the cookie butter lately you can choose how thick you want it and you can add boosts it's basically like the supplement version of qdoba minus the chance of getting food poisoning oh my god my insides are on plus they're also a manufacturer creating a lot of the supplements that you guys are using from other companies you can cut out the middleman and go straight to the source no proprietary blend nonsense they're third-party tested and in-house tested as well there's no guessing games it's literally just gains in a bag if you want protein you can trust go to truenutrition.com and use our code think after 20 years of bodybuilding coaching and mixing some absolute nightmares of protein shakes believe me when i say this is the good stuff um question for the next show if someone runs a 500 milligram test cycle per week how much of a difference in muscle mass would be gained on test only versus test in HGH versus test in HGH and insulin versus test in HGH and insulin and full of statin i i'll tell you what to do with full of statin you have out of full of statin okay walk into the kitchen got it yep in the kitchen you'll find a usually square but sometimes round cylinder type object probably about two and a half three foot tall with a lid that flips on the top found one found one yes now sometimes a lid will go up sometimes the lid's more of a spinning action if the lid goes up there should be a foot pedal press it oh yeah i got it and put put the full of statin in there okay got it done now what because that's garbage um i think there'll be cosmetic changes with the insulin and gh i'm not i'm not a big big promoter of the fact that there'll be large increases in overall muscle mass gained but i think while you're using them you will definitely be much fuller you will definitely appear a lot bigger uh i do think that when you stop then you'll see some of that just dissipate out um are they going to increase the overall effectiveness of the anabolics slightly yes it's difficult to say particularly how much gh is definitely going to increase your recovery i know you are more of a fan on its muscle burning potential where i am more negative about its muscle burning potential so we'll agree to disagree there insulin obviously is going to help with nutritional transit so you may find better uptake with nutrients so therefore you could get some better growth through the insulin as well um they're not going to be game changers letting 있지 so i mean i would agree to do that i would agree to do that i would agree to do that i would agree to do that i would agree to do that i would agree to do that i would agree to do that i would agree to do that i would agree to do that i would agree to do that i would agree to do that i would agree to do that i would agree to do that i would agree to do that i would agree to do that i would agree to do that i would agree to do that i would agree to do that i would agree to do that i would agree to do that i would agree to do that i would agree to do that i would agree to do that i would agree to do that i would agree to do that i would agree to do that i would agree to do that i would agree to do that i would agree to do that i would agree to do that i would agree to do that i would agree to do that i would agree to do that i would agree to do that i would agree to do that i would agree to do that  overall, overall, over a cycle with 500 tests, you might see a couple of extra pound of it, real muscle at the end of it all. Yeah, I think that I'm probably more with you than not with you on the GH by the way, Dave. Okay. I do think there is gains to be had from it, especially when used with insulin, but it's like this, it's like, first of all, you've got your training, right? And then you add the nutrition to that, and that's gonna help. And then you add supplements to that, and then you add gear, and then you add gear, and that is going to blow things up. And when you've, when you've already figured out all the different steroids to use, and you've already maxed that route out completely, then the growth hormone might take you a little bit further beyond that. That's the way I would look at it. So I, we, oh God, and we just got hammered on Instagram for the Blood, Sweat, and Gear podcast. We put out a show, talking about this very topic of how much muscle you're going to get from growth. And Skip mentioned, he was like, man, I don't think two units of growth is going to do too much for you. And realistically, a lot of us have run a lot more than that. Six, eight, ten of sterostim or more. And really, the risk to reward is, like the cost to benefit isn't really all it's cracked up to be. I think that's a big factor, yeah, that the financial implications of effective growth dosing is significant. But that reel went viral. And within like three days, it got 100,000 views. And that brought in people from every walk of life who are telling us, oh, I take two units of growth hormone, and I'm seeing fantastic progress. And because you have all these different people with different expectations. You know what I'm saying, Dave? Yeah. If your progress has been virtually nothing for five years, then two-eye growth is going to see a significant composition change in you very quickly. Yeah. All right. Yeah. Polite message for Dave, the warm and fuzzy one. I'm not sure what your ITV interview is going to be about. But be careful, as whatever you say will be edited. Next minute, they will be debating the legal classifications of AAS in Parliament. And before you know it, we will be banned from using them. So be careful. You don't kick yourself in the family jewels here. Right. First of all, that is illegal. They cannot do it. I have done 30, 40 TV interviews and radio interviews and magazine interviews over the years. Well, you're so famous, aren't you? They just quite literally cannot do it. No, it's just I'm the only one stupid enough to talk to them. So that isn't a concern in the slightest. I sit on the ACMD and there is no appetite for changing the classification of steroids. And it definitely wouldn't come from an ITV documentary that is only going to wear for 24 minutes. It's the basic, the broader spectrum of the drug of the documentary is about superhuman. It's about an increase in people using compounds to improve their performance and well-being. So it's not AAS biased at all. In fact, it's probably more heavily on peptides. And it's just looking at why there's been a boom in the longevity sphere. So it's looking at peptides that improve health, that potentially reduce aging. It's that sort of stuff rather than something just anabolics and muscle building bias. But the police don't want to change in law. They've been very open and upset about that. Research don't want to change in law. Harm reduction don't want to change in law. The only body within the whole of the UK that's pushing for the criminalization of anabolic studies in the UK is UK anti-doping. And they're a bunch of pricks that don't know what they're talking about and have been handed their ass in debate several times. I wish they'd handle that the same way here. Instead, our anabolics got reclassified as the same level as hard drugs because it was being found to be used in professional baseball. Yeah, there's always motivations. What you generally find is that the motivation around legislation change in the UK, I can't speak for America, in the UK, is driven by social impact or social cost. So when you look at something like heroin, there's a social impact because crime is associated with it. People will commit crimes to feed their habits. And there's a social impact because of the health implications of it. Yeah. We don't have that around anabolics. So we don't have people rubbing grannies and mugging people to pay for the test. And the vast majority of health concerns, though they are there, aren't reported or associated with anabolic use because they go to hospital with a heart attack, with a problem and don't disclose anabolics. So that tie up's never done. So there isn't any real recording of significant health impacts within the NHS or significant costs to the National Health Service because the two are not linked, which is one of the things in harm reduction that makes harm reduction difficult because we don't have any real world numbers of how many people are actually having, you know, health issues because of usage. Right. It's very difficult to quantify. But that does stop a drive towards use. So the only drive is UK anti-doping because they don't have any rules of enforcement. They don't have any power of enforcement. And they're frustrated by that. So they want criminality because criminality gives them power. And then they can run around enforcing anti-drug legislation on athletes. That's the only reason. They're not concerned about it for any other reason. They just want another tool in their arsenal to go after people who use drugs in sports. The police aren't interested. It's too difficult for them to manage. You're a criminal. You're a cheater. Yeah, that's the basic thing. And I said I've been slammed for it time and time again in debate. So, yeah, no, it is. You do sign a waiver to say that you give up the rights to the information that you provide them with effectively. But they cannot misrepresent you. It is illegal. And if they do, I can sue the living ass out of them. All right. How about this one? Question for the next episode. How does DHB affect mood? Does it boost it? Like DHTs? Personally, I love masks because of this. Or is it an anxiety builder like Nandrolone or Baldanon? I'd say none. I found neither. But, you know, I've never noticed a boost in DHTs either, though. Like it never affected my mood. I'd say it was pretty neutral. Yeah, I honestly don't know. Well, I've found DHB to be inflammatory. More irritating. Yeah, yeah, it can be. But I've never, I've not. But then it's not a drug that's used widespread or generally high doses anyway. But no, I've never had anyone reporting issues with DHB from that sense. It's usually more physical impacts that people stop using it for because generally it's like, I feel like dog shit. Now you get on well with it, don't you? Yeah, and I think that we're finally starting to stomp out some of the old dogma that More Place, More Dates put out about it being this like very unique compound that for some reason raised systemic inflammation across the board as a drug. You know, I mean, it doesn't add up. No, I think comparatively it's more inflammatory than some of the other compounds. I think it may be depending on, here's my case is that it can be a painful shot. And if you're taking a painful shot every other day, then your inflammation markers are going to be high. But if you have it brewed well, there's no pain to it. And I don't see it as being any more inflammatory than any other compound. Okay, well. Andrew Berry was pointing out too on one of the other shows that in the study that they were looking at that, they were specifically looking for inflammation, whereas that was the focus of the study. Kind of like when they've looked at equipoise and they say like, oh, equipoise is a big blood builder. But like that's what they were looking for. That's not necessarily what they're looking for in every study. Yeah, okay. I think one of the, I mean, I think it's because it's not a greatly used compound. The anecdotal evidence around it is thin on the ground. And even when it is used, it's generally used quite sparingly. So that's the other thing as well. So I do think it's not a drug I've got a great deal of experience with personally. And it's not a drug that I've had a large number of other clients or even people through eval. It's not a drug we see. You know, very rare do we see DHB listed as a compound in use when people declare their usage. Okay. So, yeah, it's not something I've got a lot of real-world information on, I'm afraid. But what's kind of cool is that as, so, well, since we've been talking about it, it's gotten...  more, and more popular. In fact, people are telling us that like, since we've been talking about it on the shows, that it's been running out of stock all of a sudden, like we used to be able to get it. So I don't know if we're really having an effect or it's just becoming more popular in general. But we're seeing a lot more people that are using it and they are testing. So it's been cool to get more feedback from listeners that are running experiments on their own and they're testing their inflammation before, during and after. So I think that in the next, in the next, in the next, in the next, in the next, this year, 2026, I think we're going to come away with a lot more solid information as a community about DHB. Okay. What about this one? What do you think about 150 test GH and 75 primo for long term use? For slow steady gains? It's going to be very mild, isn't it? Not fair. Why not? You know, from my standpoint, TRT or on cycle, stop pissing about with this mill ground shit. Yeah. Yeah. Fair enough. All right. Question for the next show. What would be the minimum amount of test and NPP and primo for a recomp cycle for 20 weeks? 222. Yeah. Yeah. I'd probably go a little higher with the test. I think a nice cycle is 333. But I think because you could do three tests under NPP Monday, Wednesday, Friday. But I do think you'd still get something off 200, 200, 200. I'd probably keep the test a little bit higher than the primo and the NPP personally. Maybe. Okay. For what reason? Um, I just feel like I do better and I've seen people do better with more tests and NPP. But I don't know what that primo is going to do in there. I'm not a huge fan of primo. It wouldn't be my, I would be more likely to do test NPP Mast. Yeah. Or test EQ. Yeah. No, I think Mast. Um, yeah, I would, I would rather go Mast personally. I mean, primo has a good anti-oestrogen effect and I think at a one-to-one with tests and NPP, it would probably be enough to control all the oestrogen out of that. I bet you're right. Um, but, uh, I think really in that scenario, your main builders are going to be your test and NPP. The primo's not going to do a huge amount to your anabolic values. Um, but obviously it will help control each region. Uh, personally I'd probably go Mast instead. I, I do like test Mast NPP. I think it's a nice balance. I like that too. Minimal sides for most people. Um, there is a little bit from the, from the Nandrolone, but the DHT seems to help to offset that a little bit. So, um, yeah, I do, I do think that works quite nicely. All right. Um, tell us about oral testosterone. It's testosterone. You take it in a doublet. It's like the undecanoate or whatever. No. Undecanoate. However you say that. You've got me thinking about the pronunciation now. Androial. Androial. What about it? I don't know anything about it. Yeah, I don't either, man. It's low dose too. Oh, so that's why you were dumping it on my toes because you did it. Yeah, I know. I mean, it's not something, I, I, have you ever known anybody, Dave, who's like, hey, I'm running a cycle. What do you take? An oral test. No. The only time I see oral test is when it's being used in tablets to fake and not being something else. Oh, yeah. Yeah. It's a common substitute for people that are trying to produce fake tablets. April Connelly. Oh, sorry. Go on, sorry. April Connelly, IFBB Pro. We've got an IFBB Pro watching, Dave. Wow. Why? Why are you here? There's better shows. She says, question for the next show. How soon after a partial meniscus removal surgery should you start BPC and TB? And why having surgery soon and want to recover as best as possible? I would have said pretty much immediately. I don't think there's any real benefit from the inflammation process you're going to see post-surgery. So, yeah, I'd say pretty much immediately. TB is going to help with the soft tissue and inflammation. Obviously, there's going to be soft tissue damage from the surgery. And BPC will help with the actual ligamature, etc. Oh, we were told that I pronounced it properly. On deck and no weight. You get it right more than wrong. It's usually me that gets it wrong. Yeah, I have heard thoughts over the years, Dave, with post-surgery to give it time for the initial healing process to start. I know that if you were to say, like, too much of a good thing is bad. Like, with running growth, you can thicken scars, stuff like that, by ramping it up and increasing that lay down of collagen to the site. But I'll tell you this, man. Meniscus surgery is a breeze now. I had, dude, I had it done 20 years ago and I had no pain afterward. Like, there was hardly any swelling, hardly any pain. You know, nowadays it's even better. Nowadays, like, guys are back on the football field three days later. That's a game we play here, Dave, different than your football. I know you guys have football, too, but you don't use your hands. You play rugby with safety equipment is what you do. Is that what it is? Yeah. It kind of is a little bit more like rugby, isn't it? It's closer to rugby with safety equipment. Yeah. I would say that, though. I would give it a week, at least, personally. But, I mean, a TB, I don't know. I'm not so sure it's... Do you think... Do you think the natural inflammation... See, I get the inflammation process post-injury. Yeah. You know, I'm not so sure it's as crucial post-surgery. Yeah, I don't know. Because it's a different impact. It's a different mechanism that goes on. So, I'm not... Yeah, I don't know. It's the answer. But I don't think there's going to be any significant negative impact if you start it on the way home from the hospital. Or if you start it a week later. I don't think, really, in the big picture, it's going to have any real-world impact on your recovery if you start it a week later. So, I wouldn't be super concerned. Yeah. I bet she bounces back fast, too. It's such an easy operation. Now, I had 75% of the cartilage removed out of my left knee when I was, like, 20 years old. One word of caution, though. Now, using agents to speed up recovery is all well and good. But it doesn't necessarily speed up integrity of the ligaments and the repairs that are there. That still needs a slow and measured physical rehab. So, even though recovery may be sped up, as in the physical knitting of tissue together, I would still err on the side of caution when it comes to loading and the physical rehab side of things. You should be able to progress to something faster to a degree. But don't think, because there's no pain, oh, it's brand new, and bang at it. You know, still build up, still do your rehab physically, and go through that process. Yeah, I think that's probably a smart move. And lean into natural supplementation, too. I think that that would be a great idea. Oh, wow. Yeah. Okay. So, this guy, Dave, we've got a guy who's listening. He's been doing forgotten. It's F-G-T-T-N-F for, I don't know how to do it. But anyways, he's 47 years old. He's running two grams of gear. And he is 400 pounds. And the only thing low on his bloods is his HDL is 30. That's a big guy. Just a comment he made. But I was like, dude, 400 pounder watching the show. And he's got a profile picture, too. He looks massive. How tall is he? He didn't say. That's a big dude. I don't care how tall he is, though, at 400 pounds. You know, he could be 6'7 and he's still big. That's not. No, he's a big dude. That's a big dude. No, I was just curious as to, you know, in the sense of. Yeah. How much. 5'5. Yeah, how extreme is the 400 pounds to his frame? Because in my experience, there gets a point with body mass where your bloods will start going out anyway just because of the physical mass of you. Oh, OK. You know, so that there's other factors that drive weird results. And it's just the physical mass of you, which is why I was asking. Oh, OK. So we got a comment. Remember, somebody said, oh, Steve hates masteron vigorous. Steve hates master. Oh, yeah. Yeah. So somebody says to clear up Steve's stance on mass is that the influencers are pushing it over test. For example, like two grams of mass with 300 tests. He says, why not just up the test and not look like an ashtray?  Yeah, that just seems stupid. Last time I saw Steve talk about masks, he was talking to a guy that was researching it. And Steve was saying he was on it at that point, and he wasn't making any complaints about it. Yeah, this all stems back to somebody asked us about it, somebody asked us about it, somebody was asking, like, does it damage your looks and your face? And that term keeps coming back up looking like an ashtray. I don't know where that comes from, maybe Steve said that. I don't know where that comes from. Maybe Steve said that. That's my problem. Too much mask. Too much mask. Too much mask? Yeah, me too. Yeah, yeah, yeah, I was beautiful before that. Before the mask? Yeah. I have a reddit question. Can't seem to get a straight answer. Thought you might know. I see a lot of people saying that reddit goes bad after four weeks of reconstitution, but then see others saying that that's complete BS. I have 50 milligram bottles, I have 50 milligram bottles of reddit. I have 50 milligram bottles of reddit. I have 50 milligram bottles of reddit. I wanted to try to space them out to last for 10 weeks each instead of four. But I don't want to use the low dose after four weeks and find out that I wasted it. Wondering if you had any experience with this. Thank you. I honestly don't know. I know the prescription stuff has limited shelf life once reconstituted, and they would generally say to try and use it. within 30 days. Most depends are set up. So they are 30 day supplies. So I would imagine there's going to be at least a few weeks on that. So I would have said that without even looking six weeks would be relatively fine. I don't know beyond that is the honest answer. I know pre constitution is got a decent shelf life, but once constituted, I am not certain. Yeah, I feel like you'd be good long term. Personally, I think you'd be good. Definitely be good six, six weeks, possibly eight weeks. So I don't think he's going to lose a lot. And if you're not, all you're going to get is a degraded compound. It's not good. Yeah, to anything toxic. You know, I don't like the large vials that I see. I would rather have like a 10 milligram vial or 15 milligram vial. That way we're reconstituting, especially if you're using low dose, because dude, if, if God, if I'm using two milligrams per week. It's 25 weeks. Yeah, that's a, it's a long time, man. I think, I think it's economics that are pushing people into the bigger ones because it just works out cheaper. Yeah. Yeah. Because it is expensive. I just don't think it's worth it. It's getting, it's getting, I mean, I saw a peptide company was selling it and a well-known peptide company in the UK anyway was selling it online. Five milligrams of Retta was 109 pounds. Bananas. Yeah. 109 bananas. Yeah. Just ridiculous. That's not, that's not bad. Isn't it? No, it's not terrible. I mean, I, granted it depends on where you're going, but yeah, I don't, I don't wait. Oh, five milligrams. No, yeah. That's not good. Yeah. No. That seems ridiculous. Um, what I think a lot of guys and even Dave fail to realize is that over 50 lifters gain a lot more muscle if they watch your show. It's worked for me. So we are anabolic. Yes. A question for the next episode by experience with gear has been different than cycling on and off for a set period of time. For instance, my first cycle was 15 months out of a contest prep as a natural bodybuilder who took the next level with gear. And I was on test and primo started at 200 tests, 200 primo and got all the way to 400 tests and 800 primo. I titrated up slowly as recovery was hindered and could not, could be, could not be increased by food or sleep. I also got frequent blood work every six to eight weeks. I only took a break. Once I saw my SHBG at 5.3. What's your take on this? Do you, I don't agree with it personally, but. Well, that's your take then. You don't agree. Dave, he's asking you what your take is. No, but I, I, my point is, what's it matter? It's, you do what you want to do. And as long as you're willing to, to accept what comes of that, then you don't need anyone else to, to make comment on it. The, I, I'm confused about that. I can't recover with food or, or without the food and training. So I needed the drugs to recover. That doesn't make any sense to me whatsoever, because if that's the situation, then in my head, there's something seriously wrong without you set your programming mode. I kind of was thinking that too, but also if he's doing a contest prep, there's going to be a point that you can't use food to recover. Yes, there isn't a contest prep, but what he's saying is he rebounded out of a natural contest prep for 15 months on gear. To me, it's the, don't get me wrong, I've done it myself. I thought he was saying 15 months out of the prep, he's, he was natural, and then 15 months out from the show, he started. I, so maybe I was looking at it differently. I mean, I've, I've, I've used, you know, gear for the, really, as in cycle gear for really extended periods of time. I, I wouldn't advise it. I don't know if it did me any damage or not, because I never did blood, never looked at anything. And then after that, I had a real long extended period of time of nothing at all. So, um, I mean, obviously it trashed my own natural hormones, but beyond that, I don't know if it caused any problem. But, um, yeah, I just, not a fan. Um, I, I, I, I don't think that, I think you'll get more progress with breaks than you will with staying on. Um, particularly with a drug like Primo. Um, but, um, at the end of the day, it is very much down to the individual. Yeah. Yeah. Um, one more here. For people training for triathlons, what would be a good cycle to run or focus on to keep muscle while doing all the endurance work? Test and EQ. That'd be good. I thought you were going to say your favorite oral to rid of all. Test and EQ. No, for, for endurance testing EQ without doubt. And the thing is the high cardio output will actually manage the blood thickening from the EQ as well. So it works really, really well. Uh, I've got a couple of, um, endurance athletes and they've responded astonishingly to it. Okay. Yeah, I've used it with MMA guys. One of them's doing two, three weight sessions a week. He's probably running three half marathons a week in training, plus competing at events every weekend. And he's progressing. You know, he's getting leaner and bigger and stronger week on week. And it's like, I don't understand. I, even I was shocked about how well his progress has been considering the volume of work he's doing. You know what? I'd be curious to see how he did on SLU PP332. Yeah, I'm a bit wary of them at the moment. Yeah? Why? No, no, just for now. Okay. I want to see more, do you? Yeah, yeah. I mean, I think that's going to take time, you know. But being a mitochondrial enhancer, I think that that's the number one thing you get out of it. Kind of like with Carterin. You know, Carterin is something I had used with guys in MMA in the past. I feel like SLU would be great. The number one thing I see people get is improved endurance. Even if they don't get other effects from low dose, they notice more endurance in the gym. So I'd be curious to see a guy like him. I'd try that in Bridget. Yeah. I can see that. Okay. Dave. You got any Uncle Dave's advice for us today? None at all. None at all? Nothing. You could make something up, you know. You had two weeks. Do you have a story for us? An anecdote? Something to help us? We need help. How are we supposed to get through this week without some advice from our Uncle Dave? I haven't got any. When you ring the gate buzzer, make sure you're pulled away from the gate. My gates, because they open outwards, you dozy shy. Yes. I wouldn't mind the fucking sign there that says it as well. Yeah? You could get that made, you know. I've got one. Oh, you do? Yeah. Is it up? Yeah. Ryan had an important comment. Hashtag pro charger for Dave. How's your truck doing? Getting there. Getting there. Put the new cooling system in. So it's now got four 10-inch fans on a big beacal radiator controlled by a pulse controller. Which probably won't mean anything to you. But basically, yes. It's getting there. Just a little bit shorter. Okay. Is it running? Is it back on the road? Yeah, yeah. It's running. Okay. Okay. Um. I think he's got a big...  I need to put a bigger in line fuse for the fans, they keep blowing the 30 amp, so I'm gonna go up to A-50 amp. Oh, okay. And everything good in the UK, anything interesting happening over there you can tell us about? Any kind of stuff happening in England lately? Nothing, mate, we've got the Arnolds coming, which you know about, so we're starting to gear up for that. I probably won't be able to make it, unfortunately. I wanted to go, but. Okay. But, other than that, mate, no? It's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, we've, we've, we've, we've, eval's done very well, we've had a very strong start to the year, we've broke pretty much records across the board week to week on, on, on turnover, in the sense of number of tests we've done. Yeah. So that, that's been really positive. We're, we're now starting to get, we're only doing, the only event, proper event we're doing this year is Arnolds. Oh, really? Because you've done a bunch of them in the past. Yeah, we're gonna do PCA stuff because we're there anyway with the natural work that we do for them, but, but we're not, we're not doing a lot of expos this year. Okay. They've just not been working for us financially, it's, the numbers just aren't working, so it's like, what's the point in spending the money, you know, it's, there's a limit. Yeah. Other than that, it's, it's just a bit groundhog day really, mate, to be honest, it is just a bit same shit, different day. Yeah. Uh, looking forward to the weekend, uh, me and my amazing lady are going up to Edinburgh for the weekend for her birthday, so looking forward to that. Oh, she loves Edinburgh too, that's where we wanna, we wanna go with you guys, uh, when we get out there. So. So. That's cool. What are you guys gonna do up there? It's so, it's crazy looking up there, man. Mmm, I, we are going to the Whiskey Experience and then we're gonna have a meal in their restaurant and. Ooh. I have no doubt there'll be a large number of Harry Potter shops involved in it at some point. Okay. Oh man, that does sound like a fun time. I mean, I can pass up on the whiskey thing, but the rest of it sounds like a great, great event. Yeah, we're stopping at our favorite sort of B&B place, a place called 23 Mayfield, which is a gorgeous place. 23 Mayfield. I'm gonna look that up real quick. I just wanna see what that looks like. If you, if you got a minute here, Dave, I don't wanna, you know, we're, we're out of time here. Yeah. 23 Mayfield. Edinburgh. Edinburgh. Alright, let's see here. Oh, wow. Hold on a minute. This place looks real beat up, Dave. You're looking at the right place. I feel like I am. Hold on a minute. Let me, let me share this with the audience here. Um, let's see here. Is this it here? Yeah, that's it, yeah. Hold on. That's... Oh, that's brick. I thought that was, uh, I thought that was like wood paneling or something that was all falling apart from the distance. No, no, no, no. Stone. Oh, wow. Alright. Here's the rooms. Oh, this looks, this is a big one. This is a suite here. Yeah, yeah. Oh, this is classy. They're gonna let you in a place like this. You. Yeah, yeah. They're gonna let you in there. Wow. Wow. It's an old Victorian house. Uh, they've done it all beautiful. It's family run. Is it really? Yeah, the family live in the back. Um, it's family run. What, they're dining? We've been going there for years. Oh, no kidding, man. I wonder if there's any ghosts there. Probably. I feel like there's full of them. I feel like there should be, dude. I don't know what that is. Yeah, and it's full of them. I don't know what that is either. I don't know about this food, Dave. That's, um, eggs royale. I made eggs this morning. It looked nothing like that. So that's a bagel. Sorry, that's, um, a crumpet or a toasted BUN thing. Okay. With salmon, poached egg, and hollandaise sauce. Huh. Okay. I like that clock. That's pretty cool. I'm, uh, did you know I collect clocks, Dave? No. Yeah, I collect antique clocks. I would buy that clock if it was for a good price. Yeah, this is, this place looks cool, man. I like it. All right. Well, I hope you guys have an awesome time. Um, we look forward to it. Hopefully that ITV thing comes out. We can get a look at that. I want to see that when it's up. Um, so apparently the, the ad, the ad version is 24 minutes long, but they're going to do a longer version for online. Okay. Huh. All right. We'll keep you posted. And guys, uh, check out Dave. If you want to reach out to him for coaching, you can, uh, hit him up in the link in the description through Instagram. Hit me up. McNally diets at gmail.com. And of course, check out true nutrition.com. Use our code. Think over there. Supplement source. C. A. For Canadians. Of course, eval blood analysis. Get your lab done by Dave. That's eval blood analysis. Dot. Com. And, uh, strong sports nutrition. Thank you guys very much for another episode of the podcast. We'll see you soon. Thanks, Dave. Dave, Dave, Dave. How did your ITV thing go? All right. Yeah. Yeah. It was, it was, um, basically got on a train, went to London, got picked up by a taxi, went to where they were filming, which was like a little fitness studio, like a little private studio. Okay. Filmed, got back in a taxi, went back to the station, got on the train, came up. How long did the whole thing, uh, take the, like the actual interview? About an hour, an hour and a half. Okay. What did they talk to you about? Oh, also, so the, it's a documentary. It's not particularly on AAS. Yes. It is on, along the grounds of superhuman in the sense of any compound that improves performance, recovery, whatever it may be. Okay. So, to be honest, if anything, they've probably focused more on peptides than they have on anabolics as such. Okay. Um, and obviously, the thing is with, there's been a massive boom in peptides, but the difference with peptides is that it's sort of more socially accepted and people are much more willing to try them than they are on anabolics. Um, because people just don't view peptides as a drug in any way. Oh, yeah. No. So, um... What's up, Matt Blevins? We haven't seen Matt Blevins in a while, man. Where's he been? So, the, the, the peptide boom is huge. But it was, I mean, they were discussing all aspects of anabolics, and there were loads of questions about usage and... You got the cabbage. More, more, not so much usage, but more about, um, you know, trends and availability and quality and that sort of stuff. Okay. So, it, it was more about the supply chains and the social structure around usage than it was about drugs and what they do. Okay. Yeah, Matt Blevins is with us. He said, we missed Christmas cabbage. We missed Matt Blevins. He hasn't been with us in a while, Dave. Well, maybe he's actually working for a change instead of skiving. In his wagon, like he normally does. What's skiving mean? Oh, I've been working and traveling, he said. Not doing your job. I see. So, if you skive work, you would be not doing your job. Before we get started, I had a quick question for you. Do you know what pudding looks like? It's like a chocolate, kind of like sauce. No. It's like a liquid. That's not, no. Pudding is a generic term, an English term as well, particularly more of a northern English term relating to dessert, i.e. the third course of your meal on a standard three-course meal. So, this pudding can be anything from cake. No. However. It's a cake. A cake is a cake. No, no, no. Now, listen and shut up. Did you just... Because you are an infantile country who have not been around very long, and you bastardized the language from your forefathers who sent you there, you have created pudding in the jello-type sense. First of all... Actually, the roots of the word cover a wide range of desserts. So, just because you are ill-educated... No, you're not getting away with this one. To get away from you. No, you're not getting away with this one. We came here to get away from you. All together. You. Now, I'm not talking about your people. I mean you, specifically. That's why we came here. Glad we got rid of you. Yeah, so... Second of all... I know... You, Cole. You, Cole. Pudding is not a little cake. It's not a little bread. It... Pudding is... You eat it with a spoon. We've got it here. Jello makes it. Jello brand pudding. Comes in a little tub. I know what Jello is. Jello is a concoction of E numbers. Alright. I just wanted to get that out of the way. Because I sent Dave over the weekend. On my date day with the wife. We went to... We got a couple fancy desserts. And I bought a bread pudding. It was more like a pudding bread. If you asked me.  It's a very dense little, little piece of like cake kind of thing, right. I am going to send you something now. Okay? I am going to send you something now. Okay? I am going to send you something now. But it wasn't pudding. But it wasn't pudding. Which I'm okay with. I didn't really want pudding. I wanted that little bread. Let's see if I can share this. All right. What's up, Lolly? I will send it to you on WhatsApp. Okay. I will send you a picture of bread and butter pudding. Okay. I will send you a picture of bread and butter pudding. Which is what you should have got. But as usual, because you can't do things right, you messed it up. Let's see here. Oh, that actually looks really good. It's actually quite nice. Yeah, that looks delicious. Let me share this with the audience. You don't actually get it very often. People don't tend to make it anymore. But yeah, it's a very old dessert. Is this like extremely heavy too? It can be. So it can be. But imagine bread soaked. So it's like really moist, really soft. Yeah. Mixed with raisins and then baked. Yeah. I like that. I like that a lot. The bread pudding I got was actually delicious. And it was like Americanized. Because they also sold like cakes and cookies and all sorts of, you know, pastries and stuff. And so they had like whipped cream on the top and all sorts of like chocolate and peanut butter. And it was delicious, actually. Just bear with me a second. Someone just turned up at the office. Uh-oh. They're not going to get in because they're too close to the gate. Oh, the gate opens out toward them? Yes. Yes. And... Well, who designed that so poorly? It's on an incline. So it's about the only way it can open. Oh. You could always do that kind of gate. Like the... No, you can't. Because there's a farm wall at one side. Knock that old wall down. And what? Stick my gate into the neighbor's field? There are so many old walls in the UK that just need to get knocked down. All those buildings are so old. They need to knock them down and throw in some nice new buildings. No, East Ham is in the next Sodom. Half of those houses are made out of rocks and stones and stuff. Field stones. They make like actual bricks now. Construction materials. You can get rid of all those old buildings now. Those old churches and stuff. Just level them. That's what we do here. Put in a nice Walmart. You know? Where all the people can go and shop. One of my walls is falling down, actually. Oh, God. All right. Do you need to contend with this? I guess he does. Hello? Yeah, I can't open a gate because you parked too close to it. So either put it in the mailbox or pull your car back and I'll open the gate. You need to move your car backwards so I can open the gate. This is good. Ooh, blood pudding. No. That sounds disgusting. Do you ever have, um... What do they call that? Jesus Christ. What is that? Oh, I'll give up. What was that food I ate, Dave? What did he do? Did he leave? Was that a very clear instruction? Yeah, no, that was about as clear as you could get. So what he decided to do was go to the electric gates and try and force them open. Yeah, and did that work? No, of course it didn't. Fucking great hydraulic ram at the back of them. So what did he do? So he's now decided he'll go through the pedestrian gate, which is at the side of them, which is open. Okay. Having, which he could have done, but there's a whopping great parcel box next to him. Huh. So he could have put it in there. So he's not your normal driver, then, is what it comes down to. Amazon is a different one every time they come, to be honest. We get a variety. Most of the parcel delivery companies we use, we know the drivers they know us. Right. You know, they bring stuff straight into the office. What was... One more quick food question. What was that thing that I tried when I was in England that Rick Foster loved? It was... It's a breakfast food, and it's made out of blood. Black pudding. Black pudding. Yeah, that's also not pudding, Dave. That's vile stuff. Yeah. Okay, I'm glad we can agree on that. Yeah. I tried it, man. And if you didn't tell me that it was cooked blood, I might have eaten it, because it tasted... It had, like, the same seasonings you would put in sausage, you know? Yeah, it's got... They spice it up a bit, but no, it's all right. I... It was... Not a fan. Not a fan of black pudding. All right. I'll bring us in. Get this thing going. Thanks for everybody being here. We appreciate having you guys.