 What's up guys, what's up guys, welcome back to think big bodybuilding media, I'm Scott McNally and we are back again with Kuba challenge, what's going on brother? What's up guys, we're back, let's get it. Hey, real quick, man, I got it here because I haven't talked to you since 2025 now it's been so what's your update right now with bodybuilding like where are you at? My update right now, I am sitting up to 64 right now, week C, offseason, week C, offseason, week 18, so I'm split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split split and i pushed up for 30 weeks last year this year i've got around 27 weeks planned so i've got another i would say probably about 13 14 weeks of pushing up left okay now my absolute goal right now is to surpass my all-time everything training size and to be honest i'm already ahead of where i was by a long shot both with training performance and the way i look at the moment as well at 264 i've never had the lines that i have in my back so i always gauge my condition through the rear and some of you guys listen to this is it's very simple it's that if i was to show you a picture of my front you'd probably think fuck me you can be ready for a show in six weeks time and i probably if i wanted to i probably could be but the second i turn around that is when i start to see a little bit more and to be honest i my lower back is still very very tight you can still see my glutes from the back from the side you can see split my glutes so i think condition wise this is the the best 264 i've ever had nice and like man i'm eating every single meal at the moment and i could eat every single meal towards over and this is something this is something to take a lot of pride in and it's something that a lot of people overlook people are in a massive rush to feel satiated oh yeah people are in a massive rush to do more work in the gym instead of just focusing on doing enough work in the gym to see progression yeah or eating enough food to see your body weight progress if my body weight is coming up why would i need more food so a lot of people preach you know you should not be hungry in an offseason i would argue the opposite me too if you are not hungry in the offseason and you are not ready to eat your meals something is wrong your insulin sensitivity is more than likely shot i think there's a massive correlation between your insulin sensitivity and appetite i really i really believe that completely and look yes to a degree genetically some people have higher appetites than others i do agree with that as well but fact of the matter is scott if you are sitting and eating food on top of food and your food's not digesting and food isn't going down you have done something wrong in your offseason nine times out of ten this generally comes down to people just overeating every single week i'm not actually not being patient and trying to just oversaturate themselves with them single massive massive feedings and you see that over and over again because then what essentially happens is people just gain a ton of weight off the back of that meal then they're probably eating and maintenance all week and all that meal does then is smash their appetite they get inflamed their blood work's trashed and like i've just posted a blood work recently on on my youtube and my blood work's still fucking stellar so this is again credit like i'm not messing around i am taking a decent amount of gear and fact is my blood work is still impeccable because of the way i eat and the supplementation but man my nutrition is incredible and i put a lot of effort into my food i'm still hungry and most importantly my training is progressing every single week at the moment i've got 15 working sets on my pull days 13 working sets on my push days 12 working sets on pull day on push that on leg days sorry so total volume across my six sessions is around 80 sets okay now and this is this is something i should talk about is a lot of people very often need a deload at like six to eight week mark and scott in the last 18 weeks i haven't taken a single deload i haven't needed it yeah now the only days i've taken an additional rest day is this weekend i'm taking additional rest day tomorrow and the only time where i've needed an additional rest day was when i traveled to dubai i think five weeks ago six weeks ago now okay that is it apart from that no extra rest is needed and my training has literally progressing every single week consistently since then and as a reference point like i'll give you some lifts i started my my gym local hack squat with four plates and i'm up to five plates now okay that is a massive jumping weight on that hack squat because that hack squat is actually heavier than cybex okay i started my low incline smith machine press with three plates and a five and i'm up to four plates and a 2.5 now good god dude listen that is 18 weeks of the same exercises rinse and repeat consistently with without backing off without changing exercises and where most people stole the progression scott is this the first eight weeks when i start a new training program and i start new exercises in that first eight week window most of the adaptations that you see the strength that is gained is neurological so what i mean by that is a lot of it is skill acquisition where you just get better and more efficient at use at utilizing the lift and a lot of it will be a cns so your abilities handle more load some of it will be body weight as well but essentially within majority of the exercises it should probably take around eight to ten weeks to actually get good at that lift yeah and let's go i can see that yep right at that point that is when most people change an exercise they get bored they want to do something else it's not just that when they get to that point where progression is really hard ah when it really starts to work yeah that's when they change the exercise and that is when you just start that process over again so man it's such a hard concept for people to to grasp but like putting that in practice myself this year even more accurately than ever i am seeing more progress than ever have yeah hey i gotta have just one question for you too because i know we had our whole topic and we have a ton of listener questions we want to get into but let me ask you you also said like the scale hasn't changed in the last 10 days now i know a lot of people they think hey i'm trying to grow i need to be eating more what's made you decide to not put more food in even though you aren't seeing changes on the scale this last 10 days my training performance is going up okay and i work more so body weight averages weekly and monthly averages okay on a weekly average i want to see around a pound pound and a half gain right some weeks it's going to be more some weeks it's going to be less historically with myself and clients and you you probably see that very often and this is where people just get impatient they think they need more food when realistically just they just need more time yeah like i can guarantee you now if i probably wait a couple more days i might actually see another weight jump then do i need more food no then would i be taking a food bump prematurely absolutely yeah guys your progression in the gym shouldn't be fast but neither should your body weight progression be fast there should probably be weeks both within your training and your body weight progression where you probably see a bit of a level where you kind of hold and then you'll all of a sudden see a big jump and that's what i see very often myself especially when you use the model of increasing your peds as your off-season goes on you have to also understand that when these compounds are accumulating you might get a bit of a shove and a peak from that as well and that takes time yeah so if you make these decisions out of a rush and the need to see that body weight gained you know there and then you're using up your tools prematurely massively yep and another thing to consider is this in past i would i would need to take very frequent deloads and research right every six to eight weeks i probably need like three four days off i've just done 18 weeks with extra two days rest yeah and my lifts have been progressing more than ever yeah that's incredible man so imagine the opportunity that i have now to keep the progression going through just staying more patient it's huge i love it dude i love it it's a good message and that's that's kind of what i was trying to get at about the the scale because i feel like the listeners hearing that could could maybe pick something up so listen i i want to jump to our topic because i know we've got we've got a ton of questions man from the none of questions man from the from  colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon the overuse really of GLPs, of mitochondrial stacks, everything that's going on now. And I get it, dude. I'm a hundred percent with you because here's my thought, man. I feel like before 2025, nobody was talking about mitochondria. Right. And then all of a sudden everybody's like, oh man, I need mitochondrial support. You know, I need to do something for my mitochondria. I didn't know it was a thing, but now that I do, I want to optimize that. So, you know, that's all fine and good, man. But does everybody need to be doing that stuff all the time? Does everybody need to be using Reda all the time? Right. So I think what we need to speak about first is how can we actually improve our own mitochondria function before we actually into drugs? Because what I am seeing very commonly at the moment, Scott, is people are just taking drugs to mask terrible routine and terrible habits. Yeah. So people are taking SLU, MOTC, SS31, Reda, and they've got a terrible daily routine. They don't see any sunlight. They are sleeping until midday. They're not going to bed till 3am. They have terrible routines. They do not do any, any activity. They are not keeping them some active. They are not doing the basics to actually improve their own mitochondrial function. So first, I think a framework on how you can improve your mitochondrial function yourself first is something we need to talk about, which is prioritizing sleep, managing stress, daily routine, daily activity, morning fasted cardio, or morning fasted movement, even if it's your daily steps. All of these things naturally will improve your mitochondrial function, especially your sleep and maintaining a good rhythm with your sleep time and wake times where you are going to bed when the sun comes down and you are waking up when the sun comes up. You're not being nocturnal. That is the easiest way to completely trash your mitochondria. So before you even consider taking any mitochondrial peptides, fix your routine and fix your supplementation nutrition first, even nutrition, removing processed food, eating whole foods, making sure you are getting an adequate protein amount. These small little things itself will upregulate your mitochondrial function. Sure. Staying hydrated, you know, just little simple things. Hydration, magnesium intake. Yeah. All of these things like they can have a tremendous impact on your mitochondria without you needing to leverage SLU, PP and MOTC. But guess what, Scott? If you improve your own mitochondria function and then you add in SLU and MOTC and all of these other things that we have available, man, that is when the magic happens. Yeah. So if you want these compounds to be effective, first, you need to consider improving your own mitochondrial function through simply living a better lifestyle, better nutrition, better sleep, better recovery, even managing your training better. All of these things will play a massive role in improving your own function. And then you can look at layering on strategically utilizing MOTC and SS31 and then SLU PP. Now, a couple of things that people should consider when utilizing MOTC and SS31, for example, right? I would, especially MOTC, I would always keep it away from training. MOTC will stimulate a different pathway that you do not want around your training. You do not really want endurance around your training. You do not want to, unless your goal isn't building muscle, you do not really want to stimulate your AMPK too high around your training, right? You're looking for an entor response, right? So you need to be strategic with how you use these compounds. And a lot of the numbers that I'm hearing at the moment of people using like 15, 20 milligrams per week. Scott, 500 micrograms up to one milligram daily is more than enough for MOTC. Oh yeah. Yeah. I used one milligram when I, when I experimented with it. It's not my favorite peptide, but I, you know, I got something out of it at one milligram a day. And I'd heard people doing like big old bullous doses of, you know, five every two, three days, something like that or more. I have had clients do this and initially they might actually feel like they get more from it, but then it's almost like the effect is diminished. What I have found, what I have found the most effective with pretty much all of these compounds is less is more. Apart from SS31, I have found SS31 to be extremely beneficial for improving kidney function whilst on cycle, even, even at one to two milligrams daily. Yeah. Okay. Four to five milligrams daily. That is when I see some incredible results. Okay. I have, I couldn't handle that. I get a lot of blood pressure elevation from it. Yeah. Yeah. And I've seen that with a number of people. Oh no, I'm sorry. I thought you're talking SLU. You said how much SS31? SS31. Oh, one to two. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. That, that makes total sense. I loved it at one milligram. I thought that was great. One to two milligrams. I think it's fantastic. Yeah. I'm a hundred percent. Four to five milligram of SS31. I'm not talking about SLU. I'm talking about SS31. Yeah. I gotcha. Yeah. So SS31 at four to five milligrams, it really does work wonders. So when you look at utilizing these compounds, guys, I would always err on side of caution and I would always try and use less as opposed to trying to use more. And the issue that we have, Scott, at the moment is a lot of people that are doing the content around these peptides, they are also selling them. Well, and a lot of the guys are getting it for free. So like, you know, it makes sense to, if you're getting it for free to run, say five milligrams a day of SS31, but I can't afford that, you know? And, and I know that a lot of our listeners can either. So that would be, that would be something I wouldn't say everybody would need to do. Right. You're saying in, in a certain circumstance, that would make sense. Cause I think that's the number one thing we end up hearing is guys are like, I can't afford all that, you know, but you're not telling everybody needs to do that, right? No, no. I'm just saying if somebody needs urgent, urgent fix, then yeah. Four to five milligrams. It's, it's amazing. And look, if you can afford it, then you should probably consider that as well. But what, what, as low as one to two milligrams, I have seen people that have struggled with kidney function, maintain much better kidney function whilst on cycle and then improve it dramatically whilst off cycle as well. That's cool, man. With MOTC. And I've used it now with clients that wanted to experiment and myself in various different ways. The most effective way I see it run 500 micrograms up to one milligram daily with a break every seven to eight weeks. Okay. I like that. You don't really need a long break. A couple of days off here and there is, is that's all. However, if you are running as low as one milligram to 500 MCG daily, I would argue you probably don't even need a break. The only thing I would, I would actually advise you to do is keep it away from your training window. Take it first thing in the morning. That's probably the best timing to take that. I like that. So that's some of the framework for the basic ones that most people use, right? Yeah. SLUPP. SLUPP, right. With SLUPP, I have not seen any value above one milligram daily. Okay. Yeah. I don't really go above that. I've gone to one milligram with clients that wanted to experiment with it over this past year. And I had seen improved fat loss as you got higher to that dose, but I, yeah, I hadn't seen much more beyond that. And this is the one I was talking about where I do see side effects. I do see elevated blood pressure, elevated heart resting heart rate. You know, this is why I want to mention this now above one milligram Scott is where I see no meaningful return on investment with fat loss, but I actually see a lot more side effects. So above one milligram is what common to see is sleep gets impaired. Training recovery gets impaired a lot. Resting heart rate tends to increase. And it's almost like people experience restlessness where they cannot, they cannot relax at any point. So with SLU guys, and look, this is me speaking for personal experience and doing this with clients now, just so you can all have some framework. And this is general, this is general guidelines guys. This is me not giving out protocols. This is more so what I have seen generally, and this varies person to person actually work best with as little side effects as possible. Okay. With SLU as low as 200 milligrams daily has been very effective up to one milligram. Anything, anything above 500 milligrams, I think is always best split. So if you are going to use one, one milligram, either split it into two or three portions where you can split it first thing in the morning, three hours later, and then potentially again, two hours later, depending on your schedule. But again, I would avoid using it later on in the day. So I think the best strategy ! RADD, I have always seen something creep up above that one milligram dose. Yeah. And so, I have always seen something creep up above that one milligram dose. Just, but Iถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถถ that methyl version that methyl folate you mentioned is the best most absorbable most usable you have to supplement methyl folate yes when utilizing mot c so if you are going to leverage any of these compounds guys first try to fix your own mitochondria function secondly make sure you are actually on point with the supplements that will not only support your mitochondria function but somewhat give you some protection whilst you are utilizing these compounds and then if you are going to if you are going to utilize them use as little as you physically can yep now yeah also too kuba we don't know all the side effects you know we don't know what the long-term ramifications are going to be we do know things like slu is going to increase reactive oxygen species increase increase free radicals and we do know that that can lead to you know really terrible things in our bodies and we're not going to see that after three months of use you're not going to say hey i ran you know five grams of slu and i was fine let's you know we're going to have to revisit that in literally could be five years you know and see what some of those side effects might implicate it's also not something i would run continuously i would always take breaks from slu i know a lot of people using the offseason right right in offseason right now but in my opinion i don't think it's best leveraging offseason i think where slu can come into play in an offseason setting and this is how actually i actually been using it periodically with clients in and out in an offseason in a push-up phase for example if i have a client that needs to address a little bit of inflammation or a lot of insulin resistance some weeks i will add it in and out so i will say right we're going to run a week on slu pp now and what i actually see is an improvement in the insulin sensitivity i then remove it and then what we spoke about earlier the body weight holds i introduce slu pp it holds again i remove it body weight increases because they get more efficient at utilizing the food they're already eating through a slight improvement in the insulin sensitivity so if you are going to utilize slu save it for your fat loss phases for your maintenance phases and do not run it throughout your entire offseason move it in and out as of when it's needed to keep allowing you to push further into your offseason that is i like that that is that is the periodization i've been using with it and that's what i found extremely successful so i really wanted to share that with you today because that's something like all these smaller things are very exciting things that i've been doing with clients and seeing some incredible results without seeing any negatives because one we have been doing at very low doses but we have also been strategic with how we have been moving it in and out throughout these phases making the offseason phases even more effective and longer because it also allows us to stay in an offseason for longer maintaining better body composition but yeah without leveraging it all the time where then it's almost like you're fighting the goal of building muscle because these compounds essentially are not there to really help you building muscle it's the opposite so you don't really want to leverage them constantly in offseason setting because i think you will leave some gains on the table studies show creatine doesn't just fuel your muscles it fuels your brain research links creatine to improved memory focused and mental clarity especially while under stress it helps reduce mental fatigue supports learning and may even protect long-term brain health i order my creatine from true nutrition use code think at checkout to get 10 off and support this podcast power your body and your mind with true nutrition creatine by the way this is my actual morning routine mixing 15 grams of creatine into my oats no flavor no texture and hey since i got married we store it in this fancy jar so it doesn't look like my wife lives with a bro but hey if you're single just leave it in the bag on the counter it's totally fine now i do want to speak a little bit about glp use because i have trialed it myself for six weeks and that was four weeks after my show i had my blood work done because i want that reference point to see what blood work will look like after using it and then six weeks later i had my blood work done again and that's the blood work actually posted that's the blood work actually posted comparison of on my youtube and you know what a lot of people claim you know glps do all this for your cholesterol etc well it did nothing for me okay it didn't it didn't do anything to my cholesterol or my HbA1c but caveat to this right scott one i do not miss a single day of my fasted morning activity yeah i didn't eat off plan at all not i'm not a single ounce of food extra all of my diet is whole foods i don't eat any processed food apart from cream of rice and whey that's the only processed food i have my diet i eat 600 grams of fruit daily 500 grams of veg daily and i have four to five different protein sources fat sources and carbohydrate sources yeah so it makes sense it's not going to have as strong of a benefit for a guy who's already doing everything right versus if you were let's say you were eating burgers all the time you know all sorts of saturated fats hey maybe you know you're sedentary maybe that guy is going to see the benefit right this is my point scott is it the glps that are causing this massive massive improvement in people's health or is it that out of the three months that they take it they're just not eating as much garbage and they're generally more active yeah i think that's a big factor man i think that is don't get me wrong i do think they have i do think they can benefit in small little way but not to the degree that people make it out because if they did scott and that the reason why i also stay so fucking militant in that window i wanted to see what the compound does without me doing anything different yeah that's the only way to see that meaningful measure right and the only thing it did for me all the old retta is i couldn't sleep because my resting heart was so high really okay i couldn't make even even as low as one milligram i could not sleep i was waking up like 3am just wide awake and that isn't and that isn't uncommon i have seen that with numerous clients now it was like okay i can't sleep i still can't sleep i still can't sleep pull it out two weeks later they're sleeping like a baby so i remember um it was i i can't throw names out but there's somebody that i know from the podcast that's wife was using uh semaglutide she was experiencing the same thing and victoria did some research into it it's something that's not talked about much but there was this potential angle with um thyroid hormone becoming better utilized um that that may cause something like this i don't think it's super common but hey if if you're experiencing it it's not it's not not common either you know i have actually seen potential down regulation of thyroid hormone with the glps because of the digestion issues etc that's something i've seen okay now i can't remember what it was but there there was something to it but that you yeah elevated you have from thyroid you have glp and glucagon receptors in your heart okay so that's what i've read up so it only would make sense if you do add in retta in some people myself included my resting heart rate went from like 54 up to like 65 66 which 54 is beautiful man and 60 something isn't is also great but if you're seeing that kind of elevation you know that that doesn't sound like it would make you feel comfortable at night time i don't see that much elevation from computer all yeah no kidding that's my point i don't see that much elevation from clen yeah so it literally i saw a higher elevation in my heart rate than actually done clen no kidding wow so i think i think that says it all so for me i didn't see the benefits that people speak about not with my blood work and even i did i think my start dose was 1.75 milligram and i did do it daily and then i had to drop it down to one because again my you you you you  My sleep was just ruined, yeah, and then I dropped it out and I dropped it out and I started sleeping like a baby again so for me for me for me for me Rata is definitely off the table right if I can't sleep if I cannot sleep if I cannot sleep if I cannot sleep I'm not going to be efficient at losing fat and I've seen this I've seen this I've seen this very common with a lot of people that actually pay attention these metrics if someone doesn't really pay attention to sleep or the rest in heart rate they won't probably even notice right but if someone is paying attention to these metrics it definitely will have an impact it definitely will have an impact what I have also have an impact what I have also seen is a very big rebound effect with a lot of people in their appetites after oh massive dude massive so man for some people it can be helpful but if you are a serious bodybuilder I would probably err on the side of caution with utilizing it oh yeah hey you know what I think it is with that appetite especially especially especially especially especially if you are looking to improve your midsection or take care of your midsection because something I've seen extremely common as well is I even experienced that myself no matter what you do your midsection is bigger when you're using it it's not smaller it's definitely bigger so for bodybuilding specifically guys please just err on side of caution because some of my friends it has destroyed their preps and on the other hand some of my friends they've done incredibly well on it some of them have major success on it but as with any drug guys you need to really weigh up the benefits the risks but also what can happen after he sees the use of it and what what consequences it may come with yeah I was gonna say that hunger thing I think a big part of it is that as we let's say Cuba we start dieting you get a little hungry right or you know hunger elevates we get used to it and by the end of a prep not using GLPs that hunger is strong but your brain kind of gets dulled to it you know it's there you're used to having it it's it's it's it's not hit me in the face um but if you take a GLP you don't ever have to learn to cope with that hunger so it's just something that's not even there and then once you experience it it's just such a strong sensation I think it can be it can be like really difficult especially toward the end of a prep and I've heard people say you know if if we need to then we're gonna pull the red out two weeks out good luck with that if you have somebody who's been dependent on a GLP all the way through their diet and now we're gonna pull that out two weeks out out from a show when carbs are getting thrown in blood sugars going everywhere good luck with that do you know what Scott you've made a great point there if you are gonna use retta I don't think you should run it anywhere near close to your peak week not if you're a big bodybuilder so then again it runs into issue when do you pull it out do you pull it out four weeks out five weeks out because you pull the red out two weeks out it's not really out of your system completely depending on what dose you was taking by the time you're taking by the time you peak so I know a lot of people are claiming to pull out two weeks out or a week out I'm like you're pulling out a week out two weeks out it's not really doing what you need it to do you need to be pulling it out way early in my opinion three to four weeks out latest and then and then get and then the reality is if you have a client that struggled with hunger and you're pulling out retta at that pivotal time in prep where three to four weeks out it's probably the hardest time that's when you can actually run into issues so is it something that can be used successfully yes but it can come with an array of issues if you're a bigger bodybuilder you're trying to carb up and fill up you're gonna have a very hard time on when you are on it because it will burn through the food a lot more and your ability to digest the food will not be the same so the way you peak will also have to be completely different your food sources your food volume you might have to even start peaking way earlier and keep food volume very very down within last three to four days if it's still in your system so and look we're not speaking absolutes here guys some people do amazingly well with these compounds at different doses but i am trying to be the devil's advocate here and give you a full picture of what you potentially need to consider and see you potentially avoid ruining your prep and ruining your peak weeks through utilizing these compounds i agree 100 man hey what do you say we get to some questions let's get it all right so by the way guys you are welcome to comment with questions we've got a bunch of them from the past couple episodes so we're going to try to fire through all of these and get caught back up um some of them will be kind of rapid fire stuff like we were talking uh on the last episode about testosterone and uh making that the the key component to a cycle basically like cycles on the cheap running mainly high test um and a question came up do we have favorite esters what's your and kuba's favorite esters for testosterone does it matter do you know what it does matter my favorite ester is actually test sipping it and do you know what i haven't tried it properly until last year okay and i had a lot of clients that had sourcing issues and some clients i have trialed using different esters with one it was just a sourcing issue and i've noticed with a lot of clients and i'm not sure if you've done something you've seen yourself but i've noticed with some people that had aromatization issues aromatize much less using test sip okay so i was like okay let me try it and in comparison to testing amfate i feel way better i am able to use a lot more testosterone without as much side effects and i feel it's very weird but i feel and that's the same lab same everything else i just feel better personally on test sip okay i like i have a few things running through my head as to what it could be there's different different esters are definitely can get broken down by different people in different ways so there could be some variability in there could it be in how the compound is even um suspended do they need a different level of solvents is it is it lower dose per mill per milliliter is your test sip it's literally 50 milligrams less so it's it's the same the same lab the same carry oil same everything it's just a different ester yeah do they need a different amount of solvent to suspend it less so i don't know you know is there any variation in how it's made that less pain could be causing less inflammation i don't know man there's but whatever it is it's a thing right it's something to pay attention to this is just what i've seen anecdotally myself and with a lot of other people is genuinely i have seen a lot of people aromatize much less on test sip versus an amphite so for me personally i prefer to sip i just feel way better on it i almost feel like it's very hard to describe but i feel cleaner on it it's weird okay i haven't noticed a difference for the record i i haven't seen uh difference the main thing i've seen is that with if uh like you're using a sustenon blend that um you may you may end up getting i've seen higher hematocrit on that um i think that the shorter the ester the less hematocrit issues but i think that's going to be individual as well so the difference scott is the highest i was able to run my testosterone using an amphite was 800 milligrams okay with test sip in eight maybe 1400 okay well jesus that's literally almost twice as much yep with pretty much the same estrogen readings okay huh wow so anecdotally definitely works all right let's see what else we have pretty sure i'm pretty sure scott uh scott stevenson did episode explaining explaining this on the ester side it so it's interesting that there is a ton of variability in how people break it down we always look at the um we always look at the the old school charts that you see online that test sip is 10.5 days and testy is seven days and test probe is three but there was variability that some people their half-life of test sip was literally three days kuba on in research studies i do also feel like i metabolize drugs really quickly okay like any drug i take it wears off really fast and that includes beyond uh anabolics yeah just i don't mean just anabolics i mean yeah like even when i was at hospital i had any treatments any painkillers anything like this yeah like i really like my body just burns through it and another thing was when i was having my teeth done on regular dentist i go to the same dentist now and he actually has to give me like a stupid dose of an aesthetic when he pulls my tooth out because he knew that i actually i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was like i was  You metabolize this way quicker than I've ever seen in my life. So he was like, get me the strongest one, and just load me up. And he had to just keep loading me up to actually do my teeth. Oh God. I've heard of people like you before. Yeah. But that probably would explain it. Do you, do you, do you have any, like, I've always thought of you as being darker haired, but do you have any, any, any redhead in you? Like, is there, you know, it's like mousy brown okay okay because there is their weird thing man redheads are known to tolerate pain differently and handle and process compounds differently too so maybe there's something in your genetics that are tied to that well my my family are very uh some of them let's just say scott have very very poor habits and they have abused their bodies for a long long time with no adverse health effects yeah i i guess i guess my body's quite resilient just genetically from the eastern block way oh mate it's crazy it's crazy like yeah what i've seen some of my family members do and and and survive it i'm like okay i'm good a little bit of gear is gonna do nothing for me right all right how about this one um has anyone noticed this before a few years ago i was taking 600 tests in dbol no need for an AI at all now i'm taking just 600 tests alone and i'm getting pretty terrible gyno symptoms i know that the gear may have been dosed improperly along with other variables but can sensitivity to compounds change i don't think it's probably sensitive to compounds that's changed it's probably your lifestyle that's changed and your circumstances so what could actually be a factor is potentially even your liver health that i think liver health plays a massive role in your estrogen conversion your body fat levels yeah yeah your stress levels i mean the leaner you are less you will less you will always convert right so it all depends like we could literally sit here and give you 10 different reasons scott couldn't we yeah so i don't think it's necessarily a compound i think it's probably your own circumstances that have changed that and not allowing you tolerate these compounds as well as you did prior prior to that and a good lesson that um you you you can maybe take notes on how things work but listen as a coach i've worked with the same people over you know five six seven contest seasons and i can tell you that their response to things changes their diet the diet we need to get them in shape isn't the same every year you know that yeah those those variables do change for sure absolutely how about this one um okay so we were talking about if you were going to a high dose of test and the idea of titrating that up so maybe you start at a lower dose six weeks later increase that um ultimate goal being to get to x amount of milligrams yeah maybe you said 1200 so the question was is why would you gradually keep adding tests until you get sides um if you were getting great gains from a certain level when gain stall then raise the milligrams how do you respond to that one that's not what we're talking about though that's exactly what we was actually saying is someone needing a certain amount of drugs to see the progress we wouldn't we wouldn't titrate up to that dose if we knew that they didn't need it so i completely agree like if you're if you are seeing a tremendous amount of progress on 500 tests just keep riding that dose out but there will probably come a time when you need more to see more progress however i do not believe that you need to keep increasing your dose to that new levels to see more progress i definitely don't buy into that i think we all have like a sweet spot with the drugs where that is going to be a spot where you maximize your ability to gain muscle tissue and then anything above that you're probably going to sleep worse your blood will get trashed you have no appetite you're inflamed and you probably grow less yeah so look we're not saying like just increase randomly however reality is if you want to be 280 or 300 pounds you're probably not going to get there taking 500 fucking tests you're probably going to have to crank the bottle of bottle of primo bottle of whatever else you need and and take it there yeah i'm with you 100 i'm glad that you could explain i knew that's what you were had been saying but i thought hey if this guy's asking maybe other people are asking the same thing absolutely all right got a bunch more how about this one um so it looks like this batch is gear questions and then we have a few training questions uh mainly because we talked about gear on the last episode and then training the episode before that so if you're not suffering and i i don't remember what this thing is in context to but he says so if you're not suffering from symptoms of high estrogen then what's the benefit of bringing it down um i seem to recall hearing that uh when you're on high test you can tolerate uh in benefit even benefit from higher estrogen oh man this is where we have to tread carefully don't we scott because this is uh this is the beauty of instagram right you've got all these different educators that are preaching all these different things and all i will say is none of them are wrong and i would never want to say that someone's wrong ever because everyone's entitled to a different opinion right and that's what that's what this is all about and i think everyone should be able to have a different opinion but what i feel like is the most common sense thing you should do when it comes to managing estrogen is it's like let me give you an example of this scott is this let's say you've got your apple watch on your aura ring right you wake up one morning you check your aura ring or you check your apple watch and it tells you that you slept shit but you feel fucking great you're just going to move on with your day as normal and you're going to feel great you're not going to let a watch or a ring dictate hopefully how you feel hopefully so right so hopefully hopefully so if you get your blood test back and your estrogen say a little bit higher but you don't feel emotional you don't have high blood pressure you don't have any bloating you don't have any water retention that's visible you feel great you're recovering well your appetite's good you're sleeping well you've got great erections you want to fuck all the time why would you want to mess around with estrogen yeah take action when you need to yeah so if you feel a certain way and you get your blood work back and your estrogen's either low or high do something about it but if you get your blood work back your estrogen's high but you feel fucking amazing don't change a thing another thing to consider is this most of the time when people test the IGF-1 in a prep when the estrogen is relatively the lower and the food is lower the IGF-1 is always going to be lower when estrogen isn't as high yeah so there is something to be said with yeah 100 there is something to be said with your estrogen being anabolic indirectly and indirectly through better IGF-1 conversion and also i think indirectly through even having a little bit more water weight to you and a little bit more fullness what i always find is when my estrogen is a little bit higher i don't necessarily hold more water scott i just feel fuller and i feel it's weird because you shouldn't really feel more aggressive and like driven but i genuinely do feel like i am a lot more driven when my estrogen is a little bit higher than normal and in uk sadly we don't have estrogen sensitive tests so our normal estrogen test will always sit higher slightly higher than the estrogen sensitive version but my estrogen is always pretty damn high and that's where i always feel best when my estrogen comes back in range or like mid-range that's when i know my estrogen for me is low so look pay attention to the blood work but most importantly pay attention to how you actually feel and then if you need to bring it down based on how you feel do it but if you feel great don't adjust it what's your take on it scott well i think that you know the the first thing you said there's a lot of different you know educators and influencers that are saying a lot of different things i think that there's been kind of a blurring of what people do for TRT from people who are talking about TRT education versus what we're doing with peds and then i think that there's even elements or variations between different levels of ped user you know a lot of the stuff that applies to you doesn't apply to a demographic of our listener and probably a big demographic of our listener the guy who is your average gym bro who is just looking to run gear to get an additional benefit you know we've got so we have here's what i've kind of tiered it as we have your TRT we have your TRT plus and then we have like your full-on cycle people and then we have your super cycle people like you know nuclear and that's you're at that nuclear level ifbb pro level where a lot of people are then then they they take the answers and they try to apply it to  and then. So all the talk that we had a few years ago about how terrible arimidex was for you and how you should never take arimidex that all came from the TRT crowd and sure I'm with you man. We don't need to run a rip. If you need to run arimidex to control your estrogen 365 days a year. We've got some bigger fish to fry. We need to look at some other things. Maybe we need to adjust that test level. Maybe we need to look at estrogen clearance. But it's a probably a wise idea not to run arimidex. but it is a cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold cold If a Remedix was the devil, a lot of us in the UK should be dead because back in 2015 and 16, the notion here was that you should take Remedix all year long. And I kid you not, I think a lot of us probably took it for like two years straight. Oh, yeah. With no breaks. Oh, yeah. So look, another thing to consider is sometimes your estrogen reading could also be reflective of how high a test is. It's not a true reflection of your estrogen being super high. So, man, you've got to take all these things with a pinch of salt. And I just want to highlight, this isn't me and Scott saying you should let your estrogen run wild because that isn't going to be great for you either. So please don't think that we're trying to say, you know, high estrogens are good. We are literally just saying do what actually feels good, which is, as always, probably the most common answer we should give and most common answer most people should give as opposed to giving like a blanket statement, this is what you should do, right? And sometimes what you might actually need to do is lower test those. Yeah, there's that. Yeah. All right. So we've got a bunch of other ones from our episode about intensity two shows ago. How about this one question for the next episode? What's the best training split? And if I only have an hour to train in the AM fasted, 4 AM, could I train four to six days a week if needed? Very, very good question. And do you know what I would do for this guy here? Is he asking the best split for him in his own, in that situation? Yeah, I think, let's assume that's what he's asking. Okay. I think that's probably a good idea. If he only has one hour to train, I would probably do a modified upper-lower split. And he says six days per week. Yeah, he asks if it would be ideal to train six days. He says, you know, could I train four to six days? So it sounds like he wants to be in the gym as much as possible. So what I would probably do is five days per week, I would do a modified upper-lower split where I would go upper, lower-upper, rest, upper-lower. And what I would actually do is do upper. That's like a more of a push-dominant upper. Okay. Second day on the lower, I would do bicep and more like a quad-focused day. Okay. Third day would be a pull. So another upper-body session, but back and shoulder-focused with some tricep tied in there as well. The following upper-body day would be prioritizing back and push work. And then the last lower-body day, I would do arms and hamstring focus late day. Okay. Because he only has one hour, it's all about the volume distribution per session. So I would probably program in eight to ten working sets per session across that week. Yeah. And I think that's very, very doable within an hour. And that would still put him in a really good productive place. Now, I'm going to give him a little bit more value here. So just to get his money's worth. So hopefully he's paying his money on Patreon. Instead of training faster, what I would do up on wake is mix up some EAs, glutamine, creatine, and carb powder, cyclic dextrin ideally. I would aim to start sipping that from literally the time of wake. I would probably do 30 grams of maybe cyclic dextrin, 10 grams of creatine, 10 grams of glutamine, 20 grams of EAAswith some salt and some low salt for both potassium and salt. But I would aim to drink one liter of that fluid within the first 20, 25 minutes of waking up. Okay. Yeah. I would mix another one of these with another liter of water and I would drink that whilst training as well. Yeah. And then obviously his post-workout meal after. And guess what? He's literally covered for his peri-workout nutrition window, making sure that he's going to be adequately fed during and after that session to be able to recover well session to session and not be in a true fasted state. So there you go. Biggest bang for your buck. You're split and your nutrition sorted. You better leave us some Patreon monies, pal. Link below, guys. Also, let's see. What else do we have here? Question for the next one. All right. He says, great info. Okay. Did my first cycle this year offseason only at 500 milligrams of test. Gained seven kilos while getting more conditioned and harder. I'm thinking about a second cycle being 500 test and 300 mast for a cutting phase. What do you think? Is this too much? And what would you consider on the gear and the diet? Anything that I should look into? I would honestly diet on the same amount of drugs that he used to get there. I would not consider taking more drugs for a diet. I would consider doing less drugs for the diet. So what I would do is I would literally go 400 tests for the diet phase. If you want to get fruity, you could actually go 400 tests and 100 mg of mast, keeping the total dosage the same as he did in his first cycle. A little bit of mast, I think, is going to be more suitable for his diet phase. Just again, Mastron, I don't think, lowers estrogen. But I think Mastron, cosmetically, does give you a very nice look when you are dieting. Yeah, agreed. 100%. I think that's a good move. And just 100, huh? You go with just that 100 is good. Honestly. I'm not against it. Do you know what? If he did well on 500 tests alone, I definitely wouldn't do more Mast. And then what I would do instead, instead of going extra 300 mg of Mast, just stand alone, what I would potentially do and consider getting as lean as he can on 400 tests, 100 mg of Mast. And then going 600 tests, 200 Mast instead. I think as a cycle, especially if he's lean enough, in my opinion, that would be even more effective. Sprinkling a little bit of extra GH on there and he's going to, especially having that lean start point with less drugs, he will get such a much better response off the back of that diet when he can ramp up the drugs a little bit instead. So just to be clear, you're saying that 400 tests, 100 Mast diet, and then after that, the next cycle being 400 tests, 200 Mast, right? Or is that what you said? No, no. 600 tests. 600 tests, 200 Mast. That's right. Thank you. Yeah. Okay. Just to be clear, that second part, the 600 tests, 200 Mast was after that once he's lean. That sounds fantastic, man. And that's a great way to build too. Yeah, 100%. What about this one question for the next show? Oh, no. Okay. One to two grams. He's on a hefty cycle. Is there a benefit of adding in Orals? I have been taking, excuse me. I got to blow this up so I can see it. There we go. All right. I've been thinking about trying the super lean tabs that contain 33 Anivar, 33 Winstrel, 33 T-Ball, and one milligram of a methyl trend. Oh, no. Oh, I'm not sure if your stance has changed on it, but I haven't used any Orals myself, all of clients, in the off-season in forever now. Really? Really? I haven't, Scott, because every single time we try it, the off-season gaining comes to an early stop because you will see a great response for like three, four weeks. Yeah. And then if your off-season is any longer than that, you're done. You're done. Because what I'm most commonly see is whenever you do throw in Orals in the off-season, everything will go great for that first three to four weeks. And then the inflammation somehow is much, much higher when food is higher when you are utilizing Orals. So most people that experience appetite issues, the appetite is completely gone. Oh, yeah. And it doesn't return. Even with Anivar. I mean, Anivar is the safest and probably, I would say, the most benign out of them all and probably one of the most effective ones as well. But that's the topic for another time. I mean, that sort of concoction of Orals, I would not consider in an off-season. I would just save it for prep. And realistically,  The most anabolic tool that you have is your food and ability to recover. If you take a compound that will prevent you from either eating or most importantly being able to absorb your food well and digest your food well and digest your food well, you're just not going to grow. Especially if, for example, he still has eight, 10 weeks on left on cycle, it's probably the worst thing you can do. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I'm with you 100% man. Yeah. And again, enough drugs to see progression. You don't need more until you need more. And then instead of considering something like an oral, if you have hit a plateau in your off-season phase, you could just add more oil or you could potentially add something like NPP, which I have seen guys definitely do well with if they are looking for that more of a bit of a punch. However, the trade-off with NPP as well is, if someone doesn't manage the estrogen conversion and has prolactin issues, it can be a bit of a nightmare to manage. And if someone is already prone to overthinking and any mental side effects, I do not recommend it. Yeah. Yeah. I think that's a good point. But the idea, the concept of adding another compound in, an injectable, a faster acting injectable, I'm totally with you, man. I think that's a, I would, I would, I would, think in most cases that makes a lot of sense. There's been some circumstances in the last year where I've actually brought orals back in, but they've been in cases where the guys are, are very low dose to begin with, where you can add in 20 milligrams of Anivar and it gives them this boost for the last six weeks. And the dose is low. And, and, and we've done it toward the end where we know we're wrapping this thing, you know, in another four or six weeks anyway. See, Scott, that's extremely smart, mate. Sorry for interrupting you there. Yeah. But that, that is extremely smart because you are literally added in for last three to four weeks or five to six weeks, even when you know that obviously the cycle is coming to an end. So that's, listen, to break for a plateau at that point, that is a very smart move. Another thing you could consider if you know you do well with it is a low dose trend, but low dose, I mean, yeah, 50 to a hundred milligram weekly. Okay. That can actually give a very serious punch. Like I know myself 50 milligrams of trend for me and I'm, I'm doing some better shit in the gym for sure. Yeah. You ever, I remember this is years back now, back when JP used to do muscle minds with Scott and I, and I remember him going through a phase back then where he was saying that, cause Jordan, it like just progressing. He's like all means necessary. He's a maniac. So he was at a phase where he was like, all right, so here's what I do. When I need to break through a plateau, he would take methyl trend one week and then, or two weeks, cycle off the methyl trend. Jordan go to halo for two weeks and then go to anadrol for two weeks. So he was cycling these things. Yeah. Just two short little bursts, couple of weeks at a time, the breakthrough plateaus. But Hey, I don't think that what applies to Jordan applies to most, all of our listeners. No, no. What applies to Jordan doesn't apply to anyone else. Anyone, anyone, because let me tell you that there's people that are genetically gifted with the gifts that they have physically. Jordan's biggest gift is his mindset. Yeah. It's up here. When, when, when he is mentally on and at the moment he's, he's mentally on. Yeah. When Jordan's on mentally, there is nothing stopping in his way and he can enjoy the most discomfort out of anyone. Jordan, he will enjoy the shit that most people would not do for a day for fucking months. Yeah. So listen, when people try to emulate Jordan, it's great. And I love it. I love to see it, but let me tell you one thing. Absolutely. Absolutely. None of you have the work ethic or bollocks to do what that man's doing. And a lot of people, a lot of people can have all these opinions of Jordan, but you do not know him like I do. And let me tell you, the man is. Oh. Jordan is just an unbelievable person. It really is in and out because that sort of mindset. If there's anything you can emulate guys from Jordan is his mindset to do whatever necessary to see progress. And I don't mean just take gear. Give examples for the viewers, Cornelius asks us. Give examples of what? Of what you mean by that. What, like, give us an example of Jordan. Yeah. The lifting that he's doing at the moment, right? He is in some serious pain with Siataka. He will not rest because he can still progress his lifts. He will just literally push through the pain that most people will just quit. Secondly, he will endure the side effects that most people would quit within a week. And most of the time, that's the real sticky points between people really getting big and really getting fucking big and Jordan big. Because there's getting big and there's Jordan big. To get Jordan big, you need to have the ability to enjoy this comfort daily from training, from the food, and from the drugs. Okay, yeah. And there's not many people on this earth that can enjoy that. Especially, like, with the food that he eats. And listen, the day-to-day focus that he has, there's nothing at the moment in his way. There's nothing that can distract him from that vision that he has and from the course that he's on. Yeah. And nobody else can do that to that degree. Nobody. Like, listen, you put Jordan in any of the sport and he would be crazy. And what's the benefit of suffering like that? Well, if you want to build the muscle that Jordan has, let me give you a reality check. You won't get there unless you're willing to endure the pain that it comes with from just sheer training effort. Because the man... What's the benefit of suffering like that, we're asked? That's what I've just said. Like, that's the benefit. Can you say it again? Because I'd like to hear that restated, I guess. Okay. The benefit of suffering like that is being able to actually achieve the level of muscle mass that Jordan has. Okay. You cannot get there without a high degree of suffering like that. Because you have to push for the pain of the training, of the gear, of the food. And Scott, eating 6,000 to 7,000 calories every single day and doing the lifts that Jordan does with the volume that he's doing right now, with the frequency that he's doing right now, I don't think 99% of the people in this world could do that. For a week. Okay. That is a fact. And listen, if they can do that, let's see them try and let's see them build more muscle than he has. Hey, I would love to, man. That would be incredible, right? Let's see him inspire somebody else. All right, let me see if we've got one or two more in here. Cornelius, let me just get to a point on that. Cornelius, that's fine, mate. What does he say? So he said, thank you for the example. Yes, that is not something our person would want as far as my life goes. I love bodybuilding. I love being intense. But if it's damaging, then no good. Cornelius, we're not talking about you and what you want to do. We're talking about what Jordan wants to do and makes him happy. So listen, you love your life. You live your life the way you want to. Let other people live their life the way they want to, right? I mean, I live my life the way I want to. And listen, if that's what makes him happy and fulfilled, I'm happy for him and I'm his best friend. And the same thing applies, right? I might not want to live like somebody else, but I'm never going to say it's no good or it's damaging because it's not damaging. It's more so that's fulfilling for them. If that's fulfilling for them, let them crack on, man. Yeah. Yeah. I agree with you 100%, man. All right. Let me see if this has got one more here. Okay. So if you want to take a higher volume approach, how far away from failure would you take it? For example, would you go three times 10 and the final set fail on the 10th rep? Basically, we were talking about the more volume you do, the less you're truly going to be able to go to failure is what it came down to. Yeah, absolutely. Absolutely.  Oh man, it's a great question because if you are taking a higher volume approach I would not recommend training to failure with any of the sets. I would actually recommend doing all of your sets with keeping at least two to three reps away from failure if you do want the higher volume approach because even if you do your first two sets that are far away from failure but your third set is two failure, that is a lot of volume that's accumulating. and a minimum which is a minimum which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in which in and repeat progression yeah so for me i could potentially do more work but i don't think i could recover from it and be as productive as i am right now so if you are choosing the higher volume approach i would recommend this take your set as deep as you can and stop your reps just before you get to that point where you are going to be hitting them really hard grinder reps yeah before the so you're saying like before the bar really starts to slow down when you just about coming to the end so you're you're not saying just do six to eight reps of fluff yeah and and the bar slowing down as well scott that has to be the bar slowing down whilst you still exerting your highest effort in that concentric portion of the rep so it's what it's what we call involuntary the acceleration of the speed of the rep yeah yeah you're still giving everything to it but you cannot move it any faster because again you are getting closer effective rep so man it's it's such a trial and error thing but just you won't know until you try yeah yeah and then you also see how you recover from it you know that's that's part of that equation right and then you can kind of continue to determine what works best for you absolutely man all right listen let's wrap this thing up man we covered a lot here today i want to encourage everybody to uh follow along with everything we're doing probably should have mentioned at the beginning but like share subscribe comment ring the bell hit the hype button all that stuff subscribe here subscribe to kuba you can subscribe to both of us we're going to collab on this episode and uh check out everything else kuba's doing kuba you've been posting a bunch of stuff on your uh channel aren't you yeah a little bit a little bit i think the frequency is getting a little bit higher so good i will i will continue to post so anyone that is uh interested you can you can see some cool content on there uh but as always we're back with scott and uh next episode we'll have some fun stuff to talk to you about i'm not sure i'm not sure when we'll do the the the ink collects one but we'll definitely do that one but i'm excited man i will need a little bit of time on that so i can give you the full full full evidence and maybe like a comparison of pictures as well okay just just so you can see how things one question one question on that just a little teaser so you crack the bottle open you're using actual real legit the 100 thing ink relax did you know i hope so i hope so did you notice anything different did you train on it and did you notice anything different in the gym any because i've heard from other guys that have used it that the pumps are absolutely incredible so i literally just because i want to trial it i want to try it i'm not i'm not actually meant to be started just yet but i want to try a little bit i uh i did 250 micrograms that's all i did right 250 macros which is like nothing and uh the fullness was was crazy like do you know what do you know what even if it doesn't do anything having that sort of connection to the muscle in your training that will directly improve your ability to generate more force into that muscle yeah i really believe that like yeah man so i'm keen to see how things go on it but we'll see i've got like i mentioned it's got this is like week 13 14 of my offseason now so i've pretty much got like 13 14 weeks left planned planned because if i get to week 28 my blood works good and i feel good guess what i'm gonna keep fucking going so we'll see okay as always man listen i'll keep you posted and anything that listeners want to see as well i'm more than happy to share transparently and go into details on what i'm doing and how i'm doing it excellent guys thank you for tuning in thanks for watching another podcast and uh we'll see you soon thanks guba thank you guys make sure you drop a comment and see how we can help with any questions make sure you support scott support the channel support patreon think big it's taking over guys so if you want some great bodybuilding content from the likes of scott myself and others get on it you will not be disappointed you