Look at all this variation. So this person this person I mean I didn't put I put a question mark there because the high dose was pretty good. This growth hormone is 350 on the high dose it's 510. That's not okay. That's a 30% drop roughly. It's like I don't like that much. But look at this guy. 1128. Not with 25 milligrams a day. With five. What? With five. Now, what is what is that? That's a four-fold elevation. Yeah. With an itsybitsy teensy winceensy dose. Yeah. But but Yeah. Then what's the 30 the 302 after it with the high dose? That's the same 281 to 302 like high dose does nothing. High dose does zippo. I'm so confused by this, man. I mean, not confused, but I'm so perplexed. You know, it's a beautiful example. I'm going to kind of cover some ideas. It's a beautiful example of biological interindividuality. What's up, guys? Welcome back to Muscle Minds with Scott Stevenson. I'm Scott McDe, and all of our programming is brought to you by Scott's book, bobbcoach.com. That's beyou own bodybuilding coach. Right now, you can get a hard cover if you go to the link in the description that Scott will sign for you. So, definitely check that out. And a portion of those proceeds are going to go to help with a dog rescue. We're also brought to you by, of course, truer nutrition.com. Use our code think over there for high quality third-party tested supplements. I just bought the cookie butter protein powder. For the first uh time in my life, I got the I'm getting back to whey isolate. And I absolutely freaking love that flavor. Supplementource.ca for Canadians. And of course, Patreon. Scott already has the wheels turning on one of the Patreon questions. I have a feeling it's about the benefits of whole foods versus protein powders, but we might not be able to get to that today because I know that you have a freaking big one lined. Well, you don't consider it a big one, but I'm excited. And you could probably go into an hour on this. And basically, it's all about MK-677, which kind of was super popular back in what, 2012ish? I used it back then and now I'm hearing more people using it again. So I guess before we like dive into it, can you first tell us for anybody that doesn't know what is MK67? Maybe we just start there, you know. Well, I've got it in the PowerPoint. That's in the PowerPoint. All right. Sometimes you just dive in and then I'm like, you know, what are we getting? A little intro. Yeah. Okay. Well, I shouldn't have doubted you for a second, my friend. No. Well, sometimes I just we just I just go right to the data, right? And I I send you that. That's what I Yeah, that's what I figured. But I figured this one I'll do a little more formal because there's there's some things to tease apart and the PowerPoint will help keep the information organized. So, you know, you can share a presentation here. I'm going to just share a screen and let's see. And we want to see what happens this one. And I want to tell you guys that this is literally so I've seen Scott do presentations before. Uh you know I I got I was lucky enough to go to uh some of the seminars you had done with John Meadows uh and and is amazing stuff. This is literally basically like a presentation that you would have people come and pay to see you do. You know what I mean? So, I'm excited for this, man. Yeah. This this isn't that I mean, I just threw this together. I really didn't even have there's going to be I'll I'll apologize. I've got my computer completely set up in German and it doesn't do a good job with spellch checkcking in English. So, there'll be mistakes in here that I didn't see because normally they have a red underline on them. Um so MK-677 and people this is an orally bioavailable growth hormone secret. It binds to the grlin receptor. I'll cover that a little bit in the next um in the next slide. But the idea is this keeps on coming up and I addressed that in the very last slide. It's that people have been studying this for more than 25 years. Some one of the studies is a few of the studies are very actually old. So, it' been around for a while, but it really I think you're right. 2012, 2010, I don't know exactly. It's been a decade. It's been sort of floating around and used on and off again. And and part of what I'm getting at is um here in this from a grand um picture from the forest versus the trees view is that there's a probably there's potentially a reason from that for that that we can glean from the research literature. And there's some also other things that I went into previously when we had the other podcast that's floating around in the uh in in the fourth dimension of the internet ethers somewhere. For any of you guys who want to check it out, look for Advice Radio on iTunes. They're all audio podcasts and you might even find some Easter eggs like the first 15 of them or 20 of them have Jordan Peters in it. Yeah. I think episode 21 I met my wife, you know, literally met my wife on the show. That was like episode 19 or something, man. Yes. Yeah. Yes, indeed. Um, so, uh, this is a cursory inquiry. I did not do the deep dive that I would if I were writing a paper for this, an article for instance for like John Meadow site or for someone else. I just pulled out some studies that I already had. I think I found some other ones. I did actually part of the reason I'll show you I I wasted some time when say wasted I spent a lot of time trying to find um some pharmacological data, pharmacocinetic data. So there's a mistake right there. Um B b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b bss the grlin receptor in the anterior pituitary. So this is what MK-677 does. Causes growth hormone release. Um the halflife I've seen between four and five or four to seven hours. Um I have not actually been able to find I have numerous papers that cite a certain half-life. You go to the paper they cited doesn't contain any half-life data. one one paper that was cited um was testing other similar substances to MK-677. Let me go back here. Um are you guys are you seeing just the the slide? Are you seeing we're just seeing the presentation. Okay, good. Because well I have another view here because I have dual monitors set up. So making sure but you can see on the bottom right there there is uh here I can Oops. Oh, this is weird. Uh oh. I wanted to use I lost my I lost my cursor. There it is. Okay. Um, so this is another name for if someone wants to dig in. This is another name for MK77. It's called a bututerine methylate as well. Oh yeah. Butin people just know it as a butorin often. Sometimes there's a zero in here. But there was a paper for instance at half looking at halflife data and it looked at half lives for all sorts. They looked examined other substances with names similar to this but not this one. So I looked everywhere and this happens unfortunately somewhat regularly when I try to find basic data. Someone just takes someone else's interpretation or someone else's value and they cite that they don't cite the original research. The one the one source I didn't get to look into was a book that I would have had to buy. I didn't go to the links to buy the book. Um it's possible that there's original data published in a book, but typically books would be citing other data. You're not publishing new research that happens now and again in books. But so what happens then when we get this GH release is is we have the sematen hypothesis hypothesis at play here. So the GH causes IGF-1 release and IGF-1 is is is a whole other topic. We got a long talk on that on John Meadows um site. But this is something that is indicative of positive nitrogen balance of of it has anabolic effects um and we have data for instance in beagles a lot beagles have been studied um in particular it's a used a good bit with animal research work but um looking at growth increases in growth hormone peaks um at using a very very high dose. So for a 100 kilogram bodybuilder um this would be 1 milligram per kilogram but you have to convert that to animal doses for animal doses into human doses. So it's still more than the 25 milligram dose you typically see. Okay. So um dose there's a little bit of dose response data that I can show you but it's very very interesting because it doesn't show a dose response pattern. Um so I'm foreshadowing here. The interesting thing we see this in this is these animal data. Let me get this out of the way here. Um, is that Sorry, I can't see. Can you see the bottom? I think you can. I've got my toolbar here at the bottom showing the lowest under the lowest I can see is under the word day. I see seven is the lowest one. The lowest number I can see it goes day. Okay, you can see that. I can't 171417. That's as far as I can see, Don. Okay, let me do something real quick here. Oh man. Let me try something here. I want to bring this up a little bit. Oh, there's a 14 under that. I see. All right. Yeah. Sorry about that. Yeah. Beautiful. I see what you're doing now. Yeah. Cool. So, yeah. I just wanted to see if we can see that. Yeah. So, um, oh man, now I have that problem. I'll bring that should put this right here. All right. So, yeah, that works. That's just fine. I do that a lot with I move the things around. So, what we see here is that this tackyaxis, this loss of sensitivity or loss of effect over time. So here is um oops day one seven and 14 giving this pretty high dose terms of the peak and the area under the curve. So this is sort of a a cumulative value that tells you how much growth hormone is is elevated um in this case on an hourly basis or sorry on a daily basis. Um and on the first day we have and here's our vehicle. This is our control value. Three is the value for peak growth hormone. 19 for area under the curve. If we look at day one, this three becomes 70 and this 19 becomes 189. So this is a 10-fold increase right here. This is a 20fold increase. This is again in beagles. But this 70 a week later becomes 11. And then 14 it's about the same. So we have an immediate loss of effectiveness or a loss of effectiveness a week later and the effectiveness pertain is sustained for the next seven days. So 11 13 are still higher than three in terms of of area of the curve. 43 is still higher than 19. So we still have a doubling of growth hormone elevation. Okay. So you're saying that that three and that 19 that's the normal levels. These are our vehicle levels. So this is where they take basically it's not a placebo but they actually inject the animals. I I think this no this is an oral a daily administration. Pretty sure this was oral. So they give them they call it a vehicle. It's the placebo. It's the non-active inert ingredient. So this is and you can see um if we look at this number stays pretty stable. It's three four five 19 215. I mean these animals were probably growing. So sometimes you see IGF-1 will change over time, but this is pretty stable. But when we're giving the MK-677, you've got double the area under the curve for growth hormone. Got it. If we look at IGF-1, um before it's given and then 480 minutes later, you get some elevation here. Um interestingly enough, we see something different with IGF-1. It has a very long halflife. So IGF-1 has binding pro proteins that extend its half-life. So if growth hormone is elevated and it is persistently, it's just that after that first day, the extent of the growth hormone elevation drops precipitously. Goes from 190 to 43, right? So we're at like 15 basically a week later what you got on the first day. But growth hormone is still elevated over the control condition. This is our vehicle condition. So we're talking in the 80s here initially because there's nothing being given. We stay in the 60s in the 70s or the 80s. There's no elevation relative um to giving the MK-677. But again, it's pretty stable. We do have elevated IGF-1. And that's what you see persistently in these studies I'm going to show in the next slides is you see a growth hormone elevation that's much greater with the first administration. It's still are still an elevation growth hormone, but there's a loss of sensitivity to it to the MK-677. IGF-1 is on the rise after the first day, and it will continue to rise despite the fact that your growth hormone release is not as powerful over time. There's still an elevation when you're giving us the MK-677 on a daily basis. There's still an elevation of growth hormone. So, you get this rise in IGF-1. This is pretty cool. So, this is this is a this is the serum growth hormone. in terms of minutes after they give the MK-677. These are the control animals. These little these lines here basically nothing's happening there. Um they're not even getting a pulsatile release um here for whatever reason or maybe there is some but there's basically a flatline but in these three animals when they gave the MK-677 there was an increase in growth hormone going out here to like six hours or so. Okay. So, and so this is this represents the peak. So, we're going from three, you know, in this case, um, that's interesting. These are averages. So, maybe they had they took a peak and this only goes to 30, whereas this goes to 70. So, somewhere in here there was a higher number, but they measured this a certain time point. So, this is this is the same study. Um, this may have been just those three animals and not all of them. So, that's the discrepancy there. So, we've got tachilaxis, loss of sensitivity, but IGF-1 still will climb over the days when you take it on a daily basis. So, here's another dog study. Same sort of deal. Um, here we see a vehicle. Um, and then day one, so when after having given the uh um MK-677, here are the individual dogs too. They all have their own numbers. They didn't name them phto and etc etc. Um but we see this um area under the curve with growth hormone. Here it's 28. Here it goes to almost 10 times that. Eight times that maybe. Yeah. Um but then by only by day four we're back down to being just about double in terms of the area of the curve. So the growth hormone it's literally now within four days, not a week but within four days we're seeing this tacky flaxis and loss of sensitivity. So we're going we're going eight ninefold on the first day and then we're back to maybe twofold. So this is something I pointed out in that previous podcast that um that I mentioned is there maybe there is a strategy. I haven't seen this tested. This is purely theoretical but it it maybe it takes one two we don't know how many days to reset that sensitivity. And given you're getting so much more area under the curve, let's say you could get this 243 or this high value that's eight times as high as if you had no MK77 and you do that every other day. Yeah. Right. you might be able to then who knows I don't know what the time frame is for reensitizing but it's possible that you could end up taking a lesser dose by doing toggling the dose on an every other day or every third day basis and get essentially the same amount of growth hormone released over those days. It's going to be sort of it's not pulsatile with the same time frame as normal growth hormone is pulsatile. Um there actually another study that shows increased number of pulses with growth hormone with the MK-677 and that's kind of interesting but so there's some this idea is coming coming forth that there's a loss of sensitivity. Here's the IGF-1's values here and we see um about 47 or so becomes then at the 480 minute post administration comes 85 and then it continues to rise. So even though between day 1 and day four we've lost growth hormone secretion sensitivity, we still have higher growth hormone when they're using it every day. So the MK so the IGF-1 continues to rise and then that eventually would plateau off. Guys, I got to take a break to do the whole like, share, subscribe thing, but I also want to say thank you to you. The internet's kind of a weird place in case you didn't know. And I I'm glad that we've put the community together that we have. I'm grateful to read your comments. In fact, I I know a lot of YouTubers that don't read comments. I read all of them and I try to get back to everybody. So, if you comment, I will see it and I'll try to get back to you. Also, the like button is absolutely free of charge. You don't have to pay anything to hit it and it does help us out a ton. It's not going to like push us into your algorithm, but it will help other people to hopefully find the show. So, if you like our stuff, please try to help us out. So, so I'm going to there's this is another study from NAS at AL. Um, and I have all these references for someone who wants them. Uh, but we've got three studies coming up. This one is with older folks. Another one is with obese people and another one is with dieting subjects. So, um, when people diet, their IGF-1 goes down for sure. actually growth hormone can potentially be elevated but IGF-1 goes down for sure in older and obese people they will tend to have lower GH and lower IGF-1 the whole idea of growth hormone with um an anti- as an anti-aging idea comes from the very very clear data that growth hormone release lowers it becomes lower as we get older and you see this also with older folks or sorry obese people really so this is so this is with a study with men and women aged 60 to 81 25 milligrams a day. So this is our standard dose. I think the rest of the studies all use this and this is humans. These aren't dogs, right? And um they were given that per day. Here are starting values um for growth hormone. We got a placebo group and MK-677 group. Um baseline values, they're the same. Basically, there's a large minimum and maximum here in terms of mean growth hormone, right? But if we look at six months and just looking at the arithmetic mean change, they also do a geometric mean and that's a kind of a whole other topic unto itself. Um they uh you do geometric means. So if you wanted the geometric mean of like 1 7 and 14, you take 1* 17 by time 14 and then you take the cube root of that. Um, so that's kind of a total aside. That's better for things that seem to distribute themselves in a kind of a nonlinear fashion. So anyway, that's we're going to kind of ignore these values for now just for that reason because it's it's difficult for for folks who've never even heard of geometric means to kind of make sense of. But looking at growth hormone, we we've gone from this is an arithmetic main mean change of 0.81 um and then we've added 0.57 to that. So it's about a 60% increase in mean growth hormone over 24 hours. So that's roughly equivalent to what we're getting from an area under the curve value. That's 6 months in. So you're still getting um maybe about a 60% increase in growth hormone over the course of a day doing 25 milligrams per day over six months in older folks. It's important here. This matches kind of matches the dog data. If we look 12 months in, basically the same increment over the um uh the baseline values. If we look at IGF-1, um we're at 87 here um micrograms per liter. It's a stable values. They just put um just put the the value when they drew it a particular time. And we're getting about the same increments. It's going from 87 to 50 in this case, different values. It's about a 60% increase. We're still at 45 12 months later. So, taking it every day for 6 months, 12 months, you basically got a persistent elevation of IGF-1. Um, and this is in again in older people with IGF-1 deficiency. Mhm. That we would expect. Everyone's different. There's a lot of variability here. So, here's the uh a study with obese subjects. In this case, um they're doing uh initiation treatment. This was after the first dose. So some of these baseline measurements are baseline without MK77 in it or 677 in it. Um in this case the first dose was uh after they given a singular dose. So here we have a placebo. We're looking at just peak GH. This is fen cinidadal um obese subject again the 25 milligrams per day. Here's our base. Here's our non-supplemented and here's our supplemented value. So huge increase in the what the peak GH was. a little bit different measurement, but just gigantic. That's 30fold, right? 32 and a half fold or something, right? But this 65, we're still running around two. In fact, it's a little bit lower here, but this is two and eight weeks in. So, we're in the two two one to two value range here. Um, it's always nice to have a placebo because this is sort of trending downward. I don't think there was anything significant about the change otherwise they'd have a value here, right? But there's some variability. But this 65 which is a 30fold plus increase at 2 weeks in now becomes 17. Right? So we've got a 20 to 30fold increase here in growth hormone. Same pattern with growth hormone area under the curve. Right? So we're just looking at growth hormone now. Right? But there's in this major tachilaxis it goes from 144 to 33. We're only at a 5 to 10fold increase. This is still good. Right. This is still fantastic. Still impressive. Yeah. Right. Exactly. Um but you know your body is producing like one to two IUs of growth hormone a day and an average healthy p person. So if you're taking um eight IUs or 10 I 10 IUs let's say that could be a 10-fold increase too. So this is pretty impressive in these uh in this case obese subjects who are growth hormone deficient. So it's very important to point that out. This is the rationale behind doing these these studies is to figure out what medical application things like MK-677 could have. Right? So, but we got this tackyaxis again. We're going from really high values on the first dose and we're losing a good bit um of what we once got off the first dose, but it still persists in this case up to about eight weeks. Um and here is an interesting study. This is from this is from 1998. This has been around for forever, right? Um, this is with dieting subjects. They put them on a caloric deficit. Um, and this was an interesting study. So, they had um they dieted them for a week. I'm going to look at another this is a different figure. We'll go back to the the table up above, but they dieted for a week and then they added MK-677 or standard 25 milligram dose. They compared that to placebo and we got a nice um increase or peak GH was much higher. So this is five and a half sixfold higher. The area under the curve is even higher than that. Even more than that, we're talking about an eight-fold increase here. Um and then by day 14, so this is the first day of MK-677. It's day eight of the study. dieted for a week. One on the next day of the second week, they got the MK-677. Great response to GH. They took it for a week and now we're getting we're losing about half of our responsiveness. Okay. Um so still this uh but these are individuals that are dieting and they had been dieting, right? So this is a situation where especially in terms of IGF-1, we're going to expect um a loss of IGF-1. You actually you actually see that here they diet this is IGF-1 values and they go from uh let's just say they're pretty close to one another that's like 230 and they drop down into theund maybe 175 180 185 so we're losing 230 to 180 you know we're losing um 20% 25% of our of our IGF-1 an old way that people used to use an old trick that people would do to try to get a doctor to prescribe them. GH would be to diet. Yeah. Really hard because your IGF-1 will go down. And because of this situation, this relationship, growth hormone stimulates IGF-1 release. Less growth hormone means less IGF-1. People think, okay, your IGF-1 is is is low. So, your growth hormone release must be low. You need a replacement dose. Yeah. But that's what happens when you diet. IGF-1 is is is controlling in a global sense whole body anabolism. And it's reflective of whole body anabolism. But here's the cool thing. Um, so this is nitrogen balance. And there's issues with nitrogen balance. It's not the best uh in there's not really terribly quantitative, but it's sort of a qualitative indicator of protein balance um or how well you're able to hold on to fat-ree mass, muscle mass is what we're worried about. So these are the day-to-day values um for the placebo and MK-677. And um nitrogen balance is is negative when they're dieting here. It's kind of it's actually kind of creeping back. That actually happens. Um that's not so unusual. But when they added MK-677, they then went into barely here for part back to neutral and then they went into what was for at least part of that that week where they took the MK-677 a positive slightly positive nitrogen balance. So, you'd expect this would then be then mean that you're going to be able to hold on to muscle mass better because you got more IGF-1. You've got more growth hormone, too. That's helping with fat loss. That's changing the the sources of fuel that you need in order to make up for that caloric deficit. It comes from being in a dieting situation. So, this is, you know, this is sort of points in the direction of MK-677 having some beneficial effects while dieting. Um, problem with that being for most people is that you get an appetite elevation from it, too. So, Oh, yeah. So, yeah. Yeah, you can kind of be [\h__\h] there. Um, and and what I suspect happens, and this is actually addressed in this next study a little bit, um, I don't know, I have to go and look now that I think of it, um, to see if, uh, if they measured cortisol. You don't, you see sometimes a slight elevation in cortisol from MK-677. Um, but if someone is, for instance, let's say they're just ravenous, right, and they really really want to eat and they have to resist that and makes the diet more stressful, it would make sense to me that cortisol could also be elevated. Um, so that could work against you to some degree. So, um, there might be some fine tuning like how much MK-677 would you use for this? How much creates that unwanted side effect of an increase in appetite that then could stress you out and and actually basically work against your goals of just having better fat-free retent mass retention. Instead, you're so stressed and so hungry you binge, right? Or the cortisol, you know, counteracts the impact to some degree of the MK-677 on IGF-1. So, but that's an interesting study. So now let's what hap most of our listeners are I would I would be we talked a little bit this before the podcast but we've got a lot of healthy young men here right young or middle-aged men that don't have growth hormone deficiency that they know of. Um this is all those three slides put together. I've just put them together in case we want to go back to it. Um so here's a study. This one is um from co copini. It's here in case someone wants that. Um from 1996 27 year they were 18 to 31 on average 27 year old male males. This was a low versus high dose comparison. So they kind of had the ability to create um a dose response. Sorry for this typo. Um typo variable. Now it's fixed. All right. Perfect. Now it's good. Yeah. No one not No one will notice that. Um uh so they went for one week um nothing placebo one week on a low dose. So five um milligrams per day. So very low dose. Like this is a very economical dose if you're thinking about money. And then the standard 25 milligram dose. and then they took two weeks off to wash out the effects of having had whichever condition where they're in and came back and of course they they randomized them. So this was a crossover design. So we have in this case nine subjects here um and uh we can compare a couple different things for the actual individuals number of pulses um uh per 24 hours after seven days of treatment with with these things. So this is at the end this is the last day. This isn't looking at the first day versus the last day. This is looking 7 days into treatment with a low dose. So 5 milligrams. This is the five versus a high dose. This is a 25. Sorry, it's my best with my mouse. So um interestingly enough, we look across here are averages. We went from seven on average to 11. So there was an increase in number of pulses. Like that's that's a good thing. Yeah, that's nice. But if we look at 24-hour secretion, so total secretion, right, this is in micrograms, there was nothing zippo for I mean statistically speaking, 414. And this is actually the most important comparison. This is in the placebo. So no MK this is our control and then 426 with the 25 milligram dose. That's no difference at all. Interestingly enough it wasn't significant but the number that would you is the numerically the highest was with the low dose. Huh. And if we look here this is a this this value is a standard deviation. So this is 544. Yeah. And there is a huge standard standard deviation here. It's almost equivalent to the the value itself. That's monstrous. Normally you see standard deviations if something is a there's a very common phenomenon. Um you will see standard deviations that are much much much less than the actual value itself. A percentage like a single digit percentage often less than 50% of the value for sure. That's a huge huge standard deviation. And um sorry for all the squiggies here but we have some interesting things going. We're just looking at total GH released at the end of these seven days. So this is really like what's going on after you've been using MK-677 five um milligrams a day and a week in. So you've got that tackyaxis is now no longer um doesn't it's not a matter you you basically have that's happened. You still got some growth hormone elevation or you would if you were someone who's deficient in this case when these individuals are not deficient. These are young males. They're not older. They're not obese. We don't have any dieting situation going on. We're not getting on average on average any elevation in growth hormone over the 24 hours. We're getting more pulses, but average growth hormone release in total is not elevated in these individuals with either a low or high dose on average. Super important. So, let's take a look at this subject number one here. I got circled in green and I won't write on this anymore. So placebo is 558. Low dose almost 1,400, right? That's more than twice. That's a doubling. The high dose is less. It's less than a doubling. This is two and a half almost two and three/4ers times as high. The high dose is less. This is an inverted udose response for this individual. Right. We'll go down one line. We're at I think that's 367. This individual goes from 367. Their low dose they actually go down. It's less. The high dose they go up, but it's pretty much the same. 428 is really in mathematically there's a difference there, but that's not really, you know, you're not getting a lot of bang for your buck if you're only going up 15 20%. It's better than nothing. But, um, this person had had a U-shaped dose response. They actually got less growth. So, this is Did growth hormone go down? Well, high dose, no. Low dose, yes. Here's an individual. Look at this guy. 510 bottomed out at 85. Oh [\h__\h] This is why the individual subject data is so important to have. And I always like I'm like, "Yes, jackpot." They showed the individual data because you don't see these phenomena from the averages. You don't see this [\h__\h] You see it when you look at the standard deviation. You're like, "Okay, something's wacky going on here. Look at all this variation." So this person, this person, I mean, I didn't put I put a question mark there because the high dose was pretty good. This growth hormone is 350. On the high dose, it's 510. That's not okay. That's a 30% drop roughly. It's like I don't like that much. But look at this guy. 1128. Not with 25 milligrams a day. With five. What? With five. Now what is what is that? That's a four-fold elevation. Yeah. With an itsybitsy teensy winceensy dose. Yeah. But but Yeah. Then what's the 30 the 302 after with the high dose? That's the same 281 to 302. Like high dose does nothing. High dose does zippo. I'm so confused by this man. I mean not confused but I'm so perplexed. You know it's a beautiful example. I'm going to kind of cover some ideas. It's a beautiful example of biological interindividuality. So, so like let's we have a if let's just take a look at this value here. Let's just look. So, what happened here? We don't know. This is at the end of seven days the high dose, right? Um this individual maybe there was maybe they got a good response at day one and then the 25 um milligrams was so high and so much overkill for them the tackyaxis was essentially complete. they com they literally lost complete sensitivity to the MK-677 but when they had a little dose of five milligrams very small dose um there may have been lesser uh absorption I haven't seen absorption value for low versus high dose they may have had a really really for their unique biology obviously we're all humans we all you know very many many things in common genetically but there's lots of variability amongst us As we're seeing here, this 5 milligram dose was just enough to get a really a nice response because you're really sensitive. We've seen in other studies, you're really sensitive with the initial dose and but it wasn't so much to cause whatever is creating that tacky filaxis. So maybe a smaller dose was just perfect for this person in a certain way to give them a really good response and then it was out of the system, cleared away because it's just much smaller dose. it's going to be easier for the liver to process that maybe a little bit lower. So a smaller amount was absorbed for sure because it was only five, right? And so they didn't have tacky flaxis. So it would really interest to see this person were they getting 11 10 11 1200 from the first dose and it stayed that way because they just used five milligrams. So and here's the thing. So one more thing here. We'll get we'll get get to some um um concluding remarks here. So this is what happened to IGF-1, right? So we really didn't see um uh this is very interesting because the average for high of GH 24-hour secretion did not go up with the high dose. But if we look at placebo versus high dose in terms of IGF-1, it seems to be higher. Um it is trending up. This is the there's a dose response here. low dose to high dose. So there's some nuances of the of the pharmacocinetics here and the dynamics of growth hormone release then causing IGF-1 release. So that there was some elevation in IGF-1 right at the higher doses it seemed to be trending upward. But again, if we look at the individuals, so each of these little little dots here, the open triangle or the closed triangle, the circles, the square, the closed circ squares, etc. show individual subjects because remember this is a crossover. So in this this I'll cover the one on the bottom here. This is the this person I don't know which subject number it was. They may have may have been in the caption there, but this is their IGF-1 after the placebo. At the low dose, it went up and then at the high dose it came back down. Hm. Inverted U. This could have been this guy. Subject number eight we were just talking about here. Here's someone who shows sort of that same inverted U a little bit. It's not really that powerful. Here's someone who showed a dose response. They got more um of IGF-1 elevation after one week of the 25 milligram. So there was an upward trend in terms of IGF-1. And on average you did see this to some degree. Okay. Right. So, um, but it's not anything like we were seeing in these other studies, you know, where we're talking about, um, uh, much much greater elevations in IGF-1. Not so much here with the dieting, but if we look at these older folks, let's see, go back. Here's the older folks, we're talking about 60% elevations in both GH and IGF-1. Huh. Right. So this is this isn't this is like 250 and that's maybe it's not that bad but it's it's not as substantial and it's highly variable. Yeah, highly variable. As a coach, it just gets me thinking immediately like, hey, maybe if you have somebody who is really out of shape. You know, a lot of times we're like, hey, you don't need to take anything. Just get into a healthy diet and get into better. And that is true. You know what I mean? But hey, maybe they would more benefit from better benefit from MK. Older folks, obese folks, folks who would tend to be deficient in growth hormone or and or IGF-1, they would be like a better candidate. It this these studies and again this is just a cursory review. There are some studies probably that I didn't dig up that I didn't find. I've looked at this a few times. Um but these are the ones that um I thought I could in a what I was hoping kind of a short presentation would kind of um be examples. I wasn't trying to cherrypick at all. I was you know there's some ideas here that can be gleaned from this I think. But if someone knows of a a really important study that for instance contradicts this one or what have you, let me know. Um that very very well could be out there. I just I put this together yesterday afternoon and looked through it again this morning. So, is there really a consistent dose response in terms of growth hormone? Eh, I don't know. Not consistent. For some people, it goes the other way and that creates mayhem, right? Yeah. Um, yeah. So, uh, yeah. So, it's very very interesting. Like another thing here. So, like this is um here's IGF-1 in this case with the placebo group, right? Okay. Um, and it's pretty stable. Right. And IGF-1 is not determined solely by growth hormone. So insulin is important for IGF-1. You're just your your nitro like your overall anabolic picture is reflected in IGF-1 and it's also controlled by IGF-1. So oops, sorry. We go back to here and we're looking at um let's take a look at this person here with who who had this sort of inverted U and their growth hormone went down on the low dose right I don't know which person they are here in terms of IGF-1 but they might have been um someone like this isn't them maybe but it doesn'TNE this person might not have seen a loss a reduction in IGF-1 because growth hormone went down because they weren't dieting right? They were just had less growth hormone. And that's not everything that changes IGF-1. It's not that's not the only thing steering IGF-1. But if growth hormone goes up like it did for instance for this person or this guy, um this may then be reflected IGF-1. So lower growth hormone may not necessarily create lower IGF-1. Um in fact, we see it's barely impacted even when someone's dieting here. So if you're not dieting, I could see that it would stay the same. But if you're someone like sorry this guy whose IG or growth hormone was quadrupled that would be something I would expect to increase IGF-1. Yeah. So the IGF-1 elevation may happen with elevated growth hormone but it may not be reduced with reduced growth hormone. So that's something to consider too. So this the nature of this relationship isn't solely dependent upon growth hormone but it does reflect it to some extent. So this was their conclusion. I'll just read it. Um daily administration for one week with MK-677 novel growth hormone secret acting as GRP agonist increases circulating IGF-1s together with an apparent enhancement of GH pulse frequency. So that's what we saw over here. So more pulses, right? And there's something I didn't cover here, but this is that's why I put this quote. But without detectable elevation of growth hormone secretion, it's just more pulses, but there the area of the curve was not really or the total growth hormone. In this case, they didn't do area code. They did total growth hormone secretion. Yeah. Over the day there was no consistent effect on that parameter. This treatment does not induce any hypercortisolism. So that's a good thing. That's one thing that's measured. Furthermore, it is associated with enhancement of both stage 4 and REM sleep. So they had some sleep improvements there. Okay. Yeah. So that's then a lot of people um report that too. Yeah. So um and sorry I didn't show that data. I was just trying to put this together and kind of keep it focused. Yeah. Yeah. Understood. So some quick takeaways then. Uh and I've covered all this but I like to repeat myself. It's helpful for learning I think. So in those with potential GH deficiency, the age of obese for instance, or where IGF-1 levels may may decline, caloric deficit, MK-677 increases growth hormone substantially with a single dose. We know this shows this tackyaxis, but still a consistent elevation and promotes a higher IGF-1 versus placebo. So we've kind of got that. That's basically the takeaways here. At least this one study in younger men, healthy, non-obese, non-smokers, etc. less clearly defined dose response to say the least. One period exam. This is the study we just looked at. Um some individuals may get a greater GH GH release total micrograms with a lower dose versus a higher dose. Five versus 25 milligrams. Um some individuals may have a lower GH release with a lower dose. So this there's high variability there. Um so in young healthy men this is just from this sort of from this one study and piecing some of the things together that we've from the other studies hypothetically to minimize tachieaxis and manage negative side effects less is better might consider testing lower dose regimens in general right um theoretically consider less frequent dosing as a strategy hypo hypothetically reduce the tachlaxis the loss of drug sensitivity so don't take it every day and an intermittent strategy then could be combined combined with dietary variations, calorie toggling, carb rotation, training versus non-training day diets to coordinate the hyperphasia. I'm using the technical terms so people know what these means of if they dig in on the literature, the appetite stimulation versus the caloric intake. So for instance, if someone's dieting and higher IGF-1 would behoove them, right, growth hormone is also not a bad thing. um they might use the MK-677 on those days when they can afford the increase in appetite because they're eating more on those days. It's part of their caloric their daily plan. So you're not taking on days when your calories are really low. You take it on the days when you're doing a refeed or you're eating more because that's the day when you've trained weak muscle groups. You want to make sure you hold on to that muscle as best you can or what have you. So coordinating these things. So this last So that study was really interesting. The last thing and and this is what you were talking about. You've you've introduced this perfectly Scott for me so thank you. Um so some other other thoughts related to to supplement trends and this is just me sort of you know it's just spitballing but if we have individual variability which we have here right this is going to give us mixed results just anecdotally you know people are going to post like this stuff was uh you know a godsend for me it was absolutely amazing worked great helped me you know more fullness and blah blah blah um and this variation in anecdotes depending on how the search engines and the algorithms are all sending you stuff and depending on whose voices are the loudest um based on how much they talk or how much important they are or you know if they are an influencer in this area that substances or or they just want to say hey you know this is something you may have missed and they want to make themselves known right um substance will trend then over time um they won't be consistent staples they'll get used sometimes everyone uses them and all a sudden they sort of fade away they're not consistent because they're not consistently effective among across individuals at those doses. I should have added here at at certain doses. This is one that's really really interest um I'll put dose dependent here if I can write this out. Um just put dose exclamation mark. There we go. So um and then when dieting versus in an isocchloric eating a surplus where IGF-1 would already be higher. So, that's the one thing about um that's not in the study with younger men that we just covered, but um if you're dieting down and this helps elegate your IGF-1, that would tend to be a good thing for holding on to fat-free mass. But if you're in a caloric surplus already, which is going to mean you have high higher IGF-1 and you're otherwise healthy, you're not GH deficient in any way, shape, or form, there might be even less of an effect on IGF-1 because it's already elevated. You got a ceiling effect. Having a little more GH may not boost your IGF-1 anymore. I don't know. The data are are not here um not there that I'm aware of at least. So um those are some thoughts as to why this particular supplement especially in the context of this really really fascinating study and all these barely read this stuff now but all these individual data that suggests we got we got responders and we got maybe responders yes responders and we got people that are non-responders. Yeah. Right. And and some I mean most people aren't using five milligrams. And why? because the these are the studies these are the first three studies I cover all 25 milligrams that's the standard dose right and like I said I haven't dug in super deep in the literature but if I just if you just had this study to look at right just this study you would think well you know at least a five milligram dose makes sense you know and you know it's going to work for some people and not everyone would be going and testing their growth hormone Right. After the MK-677, maybe a weekend, they would use this as a template for determining whether it's going to work for you. Right. Yeah. And I was going to ask that. I was going to say, you know, if somebody said, "Hey, I want to try I want to find out if this really works for me. What would you suggest?" Because, you know, back when we first started talking about MK Scott, we didn't have the availability to do private labs the way we do now. You know, it it was much more rare. Wasn't as widespread. Yeah. For sure. Yeah. Yeah. So, if if somebody were going to do that, what what do you think would be a good way to find out if you were a good responder? Um, let me let me see if I can clear this here. And then now we're back. Okay. All right. Um, yeah. So, that's a difficult thing because you're getting you are getting an elevation that happens over time. So you do you know I haven't even seen those pharmacinetic datas to know what the peak looks we have it in beagles when the earlier studies the growth hormone goes up right there's also increase in pulsatility so more pulses but you'd want to make some sort of a growth hormone measurement but what do you go in three hours like people typically do if they're using GH because that's when you see that peak right I don't even know exactly um IGF-1 is something you could measure that's for sure give that you know, a week or two seems like it probably plateaus after maybe a couple weeks. Um, you know, things will be changing depending on what your dietary strategy is. So, IGF-1 would be in one indicator. And you could also try growth hormone after you've taken the dose and and also you could see, I mean, you could do all these sort of things, you know, with yourself and do multiple trials. People have limited funds and time. Um, but it'd be interesting to see if someone, you know, you're only going to be realistically able to get like one growth hormone more hormone measurement. You can't go in and like keep going back to LabCore like every hour and have to drop your blood, you know, because you're not they won't get you in on time anyway. You'll wait one time and the other time they'll get you right in. Um, but let's say you go to the threeh hour mark, that would be just, you know, that that would make sense. Um, this halflife of four to seven hours, like I said, I haven't found that data. That's that's an elimination halflife. Um, so you know, you might you might expect if you go in at maybe two hours, something like that, but I don't again I don't know what the curve look I haven't seen it. I looked, so there's a little bit of guessing in there, but maybe get maybe go in and get some, you know, baseline, right? Get some control first. Get your IGF and GH, see where that's at normally, right? And probably then keep that diet consistent. You know what I mean? Whatever diet you're doing, because diet is going to influence your IGF levels at least, right? and you're then you know maybe a week later a week later get your IGF levels tested again and like you said who knows with the growth exactly but maybe maybe it is 2 hours 3 hours after your dosing you know I I I would think that you know yeah I at least you might get an idea that way I'd be really curious too if anybody does do that you know if anybody's like hey you know I'm a real science nerd and AI'm a bodybuilding nerd I want to do this uh let us know because wouldn't it be to have our listeners if they, you know, embarked upon an adventure like that to share with us what they came up with. Yeah. And and getting the low dose and highdose measurements, too. So, I I don't like something people could do if they're really in tune is just try the low dose. Yeah. See what happens with a low dose. um you know and see what you get growth hormone wise or or look at you know you could do if you from that one individual seemed like he got a he got a four-fold increase with the week of low dose five was that five milligrams yeah five milligrams oneif of the normal dose right um I I don't know that would that might allow you to avoid the hunger you wouldn't even feel it per se some people but I mean who knows maybe you'll start to feel it in terms of like carpal tunnel syndrome and the typical you know gates But but that I would if you're that individual and you get that and some people don't get that right but you would I would hopefully see that reflected in your GH blood work two hours three hours afterwards. Um and you could test to see you know two hours afterwards a week later see if you don't have any tachieaxis. So that so things you could test initial response get a baseline initial response to a five or 25 milligram dose you know do do your best with that right? Yeah. Um, and then go wait a week and see how much tacky flaxis you have in both of those situations. So that would be five measurements of growth hormone IGF-1 to see keeping your diet and everything else pretty much the same. And somebody who was really invested in trying to figure this stuff out. Yeah. It's not too much. You know, you really could do that, especially with the pricing. Labs are cheaper than ever nowadays, too. So Yep. Yeah. Well, we're getting sicker and sicker. Yeah. You know, so yeah, demand's going up so they can reduce the prices. But well well no I think that's another topic but the insurance is charging more and more than they're charging insurance more and more than ever but our labs that we get through like I have no affiliation with Merrick but Merrick for instance is super competitive on their their pricing you know. Yeah the one I use is really it's not bad at all. So, I mean I mean gosh, I don't know. MK is not that expensive, right? But heck, if you if you were someone to figure out that five milligrams works better, the lab it would pay for the lab work, you know, over the course of a few years because you're using hardly any like a year's supply would last would cost you like nothing. Um, and if you're that guy who gets this massive GH release and it's and this is a week into it, he got that and like like that was like if you talk about equivalency, you know, that total microgram release and he was sort of on the low end to start with. So that may have been part of this is that he was relatively deficient for whatever reason. Yeah, that makes sense. But this could be a ticket for you. So yeah, so there's lots of things to look at, but I think that kind of gives us some insight as to why this kind of comes and goes and some people rave about it and some people think it's just hogwash and just causes water retention and makes you want to eat stuff you shouldn't. Yeah, I used it. So when I had used it a number of times back, you know, way back in the day, um I, you know, I hoped that there was a GH response, right? But I did know that I would get the appetite and I used it in offseason to help, you know, provide more hunger and it did help with that and I did notice that my sleep did improve. So, it was cool to see that you noted that it was noted in uh one of the studies there that it improved REM sleep and stage four sleep. Um yeah, man. And and I found it wasn't a continuous thing where I didn't always get good sleep from it every time, but it was especially like that first week. And back then we would run it for three weeks on and then three weeks off or whatever and you would tend to gain a lot of water. So if I can and here's what I thought my mindset if I can gain better appetite to help me be able to continue eating an extremely high calorie diet. If I can get better sleep and that helps me with better recovery and I'm also, you know, holding some additional fluid. Weight moves weight in the gym. you know, I can get some some some better strength. Then even if the GH isn't, you know, doing everything I'd want it to, I am getting some level of benefits there. That was kind of what I told myself. And hopefully GH was up, you know, but I never did any personal testing. And you know, I will note one thing. Um, and and and I can't say because I wasn't in a controlled situation. I don't even remember where I was now. But and I had heard this from a couple other people too of uh mild elevations in in liver uh numbers and uh as so there there was that as well to consider, you know. Yeah. And the lower dose would pro presumably help with that. Yeah, good point. Yeah. So, um anyway, so there's some info for people on that that um and like I said, I can send all those references to people want. They're all noted in the you can probably stop and zoom in if you want to look and find the reference. They should be easy to find. Let me ask you one more thing, Scott. So, if with with consult and and I'm gonna pitch Scott here, guys, now just let you know. This is my sales pitch for you. Yeah. Um, if I were a follower of the podcast and I was like, you know what, let's say we didn't just do this. If I was like, you know what, I really want to know about MK-677. uh I could hire you for a consult and you could basically share this type of stuff. You we could we could go over a lot of different things. It wouldn't have to just be MK. Maybe we were talking about um what are some thoughts on um you know h I I need to figure out how to do a water manipulation. I'm coaching myself. I've got your book, but I would love to do a consult with you on that. Or I'm going into my offseason and I'm doing fortitude training. or I'm familiar with fortitude and I would love help with setting up a plan that would work for me. Those are all like consultation topics that you could literally hire Scott to do, right? I I I try as much as I can and this happens a lot, but it's just it's the right thing to do. I let people know about the other resources about the be our own bodybuilding coach book, the fortitude training book, the I have a free the discussion board is free for fortitude training. This just this happened this week. Happened a couple times this week. Um, people can ask their questions there for free and I'll answer them. Um, because they bought the book and they supported me already. And if they be the buy the be your own bodybuilding coach book, they buy that for a hundred bucks or whatever and that's going to be cheaper than a consultation and they get much more bang for their buck. But then they come back to me like, "Okay, Scott, I've been doing this training. I'm not sure how to do this. I've read the board. I can't find it." Now they have awesome questions because they have they've already learned. they've kind of got to as far as they can go. They're informed as far as learning things and they and and now they need some help with finer and then I'm like, "Yeah, now let's go for now we can dig in on the finer details." And I but I have people too I have several clients who um just want to know the sciency side of stuff. So we go into like go to the thickets and I put I put together PowerPoint presentations for clients um in this in this sort of way and we go through them on Zoom and like literally I mean some of those I will probably refine and give as as seminars at some point down the road because I've gone into pretty significant depth in many cases for CL I know that that that will benefit me in the future. But so like this sort of thing like now if someone ever asked me about if they haven't seen I'd say check out the podcast first. It's free right? This is a perfect example. And now they're like, "Okay, Scott." So, um, it's if they're really sciency, it's like, "Well, you know, I want to find out more about like the grlin receptor agonism and why that caused this, that, and the other, and what can we do in terms to pre prevent the tachilaxis, etc., etc." Then we we could go into that from a very sciency perspective. Or maybe they listen to it. They're like, "I don't quite follow all this stuff." Like, what do you think? Or, you know, this is what I am hypothetically planning on doing. what you know my my hypothetical lab subject would do. What do you think about this regimen and how should I test my blood or what that sort of stuff and I and I can answer those things theoretically. I'll answer any question I possibly can, you know, with and not make up [\h__\h] I'll I'll let you know if I can't if I can't help. I don't ever tell people what substances to take. I say this is what I know hypothetically, blah blah blah. So like this would be a topic like if someone let's say a week from now or a year from now someone comes to me and says hey that's one of their questions they've outlined and I say check out this podcast first. Yeah. And I may have shot myself in the foot like they don't they're like okay all my questions are answered that was awesome. I don't get anything from it. Right. But if they do come to me then I know we're going to have a highle discussion that they're going to find really valuable. And most of these clients are also coaches. So that makes them better coaches. And that's my goal is to make people better or help people figure out how to make themselves better, so to speak. I'm not like magical like woo poof, you're better. It's not how it works, but I'm there to, you know, um, pay it forward and to help people out. So, yeah, this is Yeah, this is the kind of stuff I'll do in in consultations with people. And even if you guys don't have a question, if you don't have a consultation idea for Scott and you just wanted to support him, you can buy the Fortitude Training book for like 20 bucks. 20 bucks. Yeah. So, I mean, literally, it's it's pretty cheap. Plus, you get the book, then you get something from that and you're definitely helping to support Scott that way. Uh, we mentioned Be Your Own Bodybuilding Coach. It's definitely a wealth of information and as you mentioned, uh, you know, a a great way to to to get a head start in coaching yourself if you want to figure things out. Um, and, uh, I'll have links to that below. And of course, the channel. Don't forget about Patreon, guys. We appreciate everybody over at Patreon. And I know that uh we had another question that was related on Patreon that we'll we'll get to. We'll have to get to that in the future. Uh it would be a shame to step on that topic and you know sure to try try to cram it in at the end here um about solid foods versus protein and versus supplemental powders. Uh but of course to true nutrition.com use our code think over there. Uh great supplements supplementsource.ca. They have great freaking prices Scott. You can get a preworkout on closeout for like $10 to $15. like good stuff like AllMax, but they changed the label and so they're trying to dump the old stuff, you know, great deals on that stuff. And uh leave us questions for the next show, guys. Thank you, Scott. This was really cool, man. And pushed my my knowledge forward on MK, which is kind of novel. I I can't remember the last time I've actually used it in someone's plan, you know what I mean? But hey, maybe I'll consider it now. You know what I mean? Who knows? Well, thank you because you're the one who said, "Hey, people keep on asking about this. Can we c talk about this again?" And that other podcast isn't. It's only audio. So, I think there were images for that one, too. So, thanks for giving me a cool topic. I had a good time kind of digging in for the last few hours. Man, this is my freaking pleasure. And I hope that everybody at home enjoyed this, too. If you're watching this far in and you haven't hit the like button, then please do for, you know, Muscle Minds is the most education. the all our shows are educational. This is the deepest level of education on all of our programs. And but for that reason, it doesn't get the mass hits as like how to run trend, you know what I mean? So, for that reason, guys, we need your freaking help at home. If you enjoy Muscle Minds, then please help us out by leaving us a comment, hitting the like button, and share this stuff, you know? Share this stuff with people who who need to hear it. Everybody knows somebody who's asking about MK. When they ask about MK, send them this podcast, please. Should I take it or not? Yes or no? Tell me the answer. Thoughts on. Yeah, right. Here they are. Here are the thoughts. Yeah. Guys, for another episode of Muscle Minds, thank you for tuning in. Thank you for being with us. We will see you soon. And Scott, thank you as always. Absolutely. My pleasure. Adios.