for like the first four meals. Yes. The same same protocol, a number of meals and then basically I'd go again to four. Now I usually around four was when you'd start to see a little bit of mild, you know, you can just feel that edge where you're you're on the edge of what your limit is depending on your carbs, right? Yeah. Depending on but this is all set. So your diet stays the same, right? So, your diet is preset and and then when you start to feel like you're just on the edge of hypos, you just dial it back one and that's what you run with. Okay. Yeah. Promising, but it works. I can get with that, man. You could test your blood sugar, too, you know, uh, between meals and see where you're getting. I know a lot of people are enjoying like getting to that level of scientific uh, exploration to actually see, you know, how much is your blood sugar clearing. What's up, guys? Welcome back to the podcast with Dave Crosslin. I'm Scott McN, and all of our programming is brought to you by evalysis.com. If you're in the UK, you can get your lab work done by Dave. In fact, if you call Evale, Dave might even pick up the phone. We have a comment about that later in the show that we'll discuss. We're also brought to you by Strongports Nutrition. You can go to strongports.net. Check them out in the UK for great health stats, including now in the US. They've got a US branch. So definitely check out Stum, especially if you're on cycle. Uh true nutrition.com. I did some wheeling and dealing with True Nutrition, and our code think now gets 10% off all orders. So definitely keep checking out True Nutrition, get your protein from them, get your creatin from them, and all your other basic uh bodybuilding supplements. Of course, uh supplements.ca for our Canadians. They have great deals that change week to week, including like blowouts on label change products, stuff like that. Dave, we got a lot of feedback on the last show. Dude, we had people who were telling us, so we did the show like, "What gear can I get from my doctor? How can I get jacked on my from my my TRT script?" Um, man, some of these guys are getting legit cycles. Like, we had a guy who was like, "I get 300 tests, 300 Deca, 50 uh Anavar." I saw a list that had like a 100 millgram anadrol tabs. I was like, "Dude, this stuff is crazy, man." And look, I'm like, are you sure this isn't a source list? No, this is a TRT list. They call it add-ons. Add-ons to your TRT. Yeah. What do you think of that? It's a different world, man. It's a different world. Yeah, it's it's a bit mad. Um I mean, you know, at the end of the day, if you if you're cycling, you can get legit prescribed farmer. Why wouldn't you? Of course you would. It makes perfect sense. I just Well, I'm I'm amazed they can get away with it. I just Here's the deal though, man. You're paying for that prescription because did you see some of those prices? Like we're talking five times what you would pay from a source, you know. Yeah, there is that. You do pay through the nose. Now, question because I don't really understand this. So, question. Yeah. If I was in America and I had a TRT doctor that was giving me a script and he was allowing me to prescribe Deca and say boxes for argument sake. Yeah. Would that be something I would be getting paid for by my insurance or would that be something it'd be out of pocket to me? I think it depends on the insurance in some cases, but generally no. Generally what you'll have is like a a cash only initial signup fee and that will come with like you know blood work done x amount of times per year or maybe it's not as expensive but you have to pay it more often each time you visit the doctor that kind of thing. Uh a lot of times it's done tele medicine so you're not actually visiting in person. You're getting labs drawn remotely and then having a meeting of some type. It might not even be a meeting with the actual doctor. You might be with a physician's assistant. you might be with a representative who's the go-between for you and the doctor, you know. Um, but yeah, no, it's it's usually usually out of pocket, but you know, insurance insurance will cover like insurance covers my TRT. I get it legit through my doctor. I get prescribed 200 milligrams per week, uh, which I don't necessarily need to use 200 at all times, but it it's at 200 a week. And um I I want to say I pay something like maybe gosh $15 for a 3 month supply of test at that rate. Something like that. Yeah. See that I could see making sense. But if you're paying, you know, hundreds of dollars over the odds to buy farmer, I' I'd be well, to be honest, I'd just go get UGL, but then I'm tight. So, you know, there is something to be said too for the quality of those products and and I know there are a lot of people who are like, "Yeah, well, I want that because I want real pharma." I'm going to be completely honest with you. I've run real pharma anavar. Um, and I a couple times I had capsules, I had 50 mgram troaches that you just like you like they're like a sublingual uh little puck kind of thing, a little cube. Uh, I didn't notice any difference than just good quality UGL antavar. So, you know, I think as long as you're getting, you know, where to get the stuff, that's that's really the key, you know, if you're going UGL. Anyway, slight update as well. There is a small amount of mast and primo kicking about from China now. Okay. Yeah, you're seeing you're seeing a little bit more. You got to I got to have you speak up a little bit. I think Mike's real quiet today. really really small amounts. Okay. Like one milligram for each of you. Um what was uh 68 grams was the offer. That's what they had. 68 gram of raw. Not 70. Not 68. Yeah. So obviously it's still incredibly thin on the ground, but it does look like there's a little bit of movement. And we did see somebody with a Primo script, too, in the comments. You guys are freaking awesome, by the way. Thank you for commenting. Um, and we're going to take all your listener questions today. We're going to try to power through them because we have a lot. We did get one question that I thought would be an interesting lead topic. Uh, one of the topics that came up on the last episode was, uh, you know, over- the-counter products as well, like insulin. And we can get, uh, you know, Novvelyn R, Humalin R, and then somebody mentioned you can, uh, in the comments, you can also get the Novalin 7 uh, 7030. So, it's, you know, a slightly slower blend. Um, if somebody were to start insulin for the first time, how would we propose that it were used in uh your bodybuilding in a growth phase? So, I'm for me, I like to stick with rapid. I'm I'm not a big fan of of putting a baseline in. I know it's got more popular over the years, but I I just I I like my insulin to spike with my food. So, I I want it to be responsive to the intake I'm doing. Whereas, if I've got a baseline, I've got this background driver all the time. And if for any reason I miss a meal, I'm late with a meal that there's added pressure on there for for blood glucose levels getting low. So, I like it to be timed around my meals only. And that's why I like the rapid. Yeah. Um, normally if I was looking at an insulin protocol to aid an offseason, I'd probably look at two, three, four, depending on food volume and individual IU with each meal. And that would be about it. But you can do the very high dose stuff. You're going to get incredibly full off that. I'm not saying it's going to add anything from a growth factor point of view, but cosmetically you're going to get very full. And depending on where your baseline is, you could probably comfortably put 10% body weight on, okay, with with a high dose growth and insulin protocol, uh, and that would be super compensation of water and glycogen getting drawn into the muscle. So, you're literally going to be as full as you ever could possibly be, right? Um, I mean, Rich exploited it a lot. He he was quite open about using insulin growth protocols before expose and that he would come in at an expo 20 3540 pound. I've heard really so I know people that were close to him and I've heard the protocols he used which Dave they were nothing short of the highest protocols I have ever heard in my life. Like ridiculous man. people who were with him firsthand going to the grocery store to get the carbs he was going to use to use this insulin the night before the the day before the expo. Yeah. I mean, he he was he was definitely touching, you know, possibly three figures of insulin in a day uh for some of his protocols. It was up there, though, because it was very myossesque. Yeah. Yeah. Um, and and you know, there's no doubt those sort of protocols will make you massively full and make you appear a lot bigger than you actually really are. Yeah, if you earn your living by the way you look, it's a useful tool to have in your arsenal, but it's not really adding anything to a long-term sustained muscle growth. Whereas I find with growth and insulin, small, frequent, properly timed is the key. Um, and the big stuff, I mean, I know when I tried I tried the Milo stuff where it was massive doses of insulin preworkout, massive intra nutrition through the workout, massive doses of insulin post-workout. I think the highest I did in a day was about 120 IU. Wow. Okay. So, hold on. Hold on. So, how uh when you say massive doses preworkout, do you remember what the number would have been for like just that shot? I think it was about 40 or 50. Okay. So, keep in mind guys, the like the standard rule that we start by with pairing your carbs to your insulin is 10 gram of carbohydrate per one unit of insulin. So, if you're doing 10 units, you need 100 grams of carbs. If you're doing 50 units, you need to eat 500 gram of carbs before you get in the gym. You know what I mean? Well, yeah. I mean, it doesn't quite track with the higher stuff, but the other thing is you've got to remember for me at that point. I mean, I I was taking in huge amounts of carbs all day long anyway. Okay. So, there was no shortage of glycogen flowing around in my system at that point, but it was it was a very heavy intra nutrition. Um, I mean, I think direct glucose within the pre and the intra was probably about 100 grams. It wasn't super massive. Okay. But there was citrillin and a whole host of other bits and bats thrown in there to the point where it actually made me sick. You know, I didn't want to train cuz I just felt like Yeah. Um and then post postworkout was 50 60 70 IU. Poor. Um and I mean like I said, massively full, loads and loads of water and glycogen driven into the muscle. Uh but also the downside of it was massively resistant at the end of it all in Yeah. Yeah. insulin resistance. Yeah. insulin sensitivity was trashed. So I noticed that too when I had used it that and we're talking about this is the old school way. I never went that high. But I started with 10 units with meal one and then just ran that with cumulinar, right? So you're getting a coverage of several meals. And then again with my pre-workout meal, I would do eight units. And over the course of time, I recognized that I could build that up higher and higher to the point where I was at like 20 units and 20 units. And and that wasn't because I was increasing the carb so much. It's because I was becoming resistant to the insulin that I had been using. With that, you're going to gain more body fat and it's going to be counterproductive versus the way you mentioned it. you know, using it low dose, say when you're spiking carbs pre-workout. I think that that's that's the wiser method and much more common today, you know. Yeah. And I I think much more sustainable and and and probably if anything actually takes the pressure off the beta cells a little bit and gives your system actually more support, whereas the other protocol of I mean we we have this this core running through our industry of if one is good, five has to be [\h__\h] awesome. and and it's it's just built into us, you know, I mean, nothing exceeds like assess. More is always better. insulin is definitely one of those products where it doesn't stand true long term. But it was that super glycogen compensation that gave way to insulin have this reputation of being able to put 30 40 pound of muscle on somebody. Yeah. And and it wasn't muscle. It it was water and glycogen, but the muscle swelled so much for the most part. you didn't see a huge drop in condition. Yeah. Particularly, you just saw people super super full. Um, so it's not surprising that people misunderstood that as muscular growth and as actual size until they stopped taking the insulin and spent a week pissing their asses out and realizing that that was all water. Yeah. You know, I will say this that back in the day when we did the type of protocol I was discussing with, you know, the 10 in the morning, 8, you know, uh, preworkout later in the day. Um, it would be like 8 hours later for that second dose. Uh, we did that every day and it so it was irregardless or regardless of, which are both real words, by the way. If I say irregardless, sometimes people will comment be like, "That's not a word." It's kind of redundant, but it is a word. um that was done every day and it would be done for like 3 weeks only and then you would discontinue it. that was the common thing versus now if you're using it as a pre-workout like you mentioned Dave and let's say it's four units with your pre-workout meal um then you might be able to do that and you're doing it three days a week you could do that longer term you know yeah I I think the low dosing particularly um can it's it's not going to be you know a night and day scenario you're not going to see dramatic changes but when you look back over a period of time you will see an improvement in progress. U it might equate to two or three pound of extra muscle over the length of a full cycle, but that's still 2 or three pound you wouldn't have had. Yeah. And the the incredible pumps that go along with that, you know, you there's like some definite daytoday or instant gratification I think that comes with insulin use, you know. Definitely definitely is. So um and and I mentioned that number for IU. I think that's a pretty decent place to start. three four IU and depending on timing um I mean so let's talk timing of when we say fast acting I mean we have Humalinar which is super common over- the counter we have Humalog and then we have other real fast stuff like Fiasp I have another one that's I can't remember the name of it off hand in the fridge that's like radically fast I'm a bit old school so I used to use nolva Rapid okay so nolva Rapid is that Like what's nolva? It peaks at about I think it's 90 minutes. Okay. So like a like a humalogue type product. Yeah. So I would I would I would generally take that sort of just before a meal or even with the meal or or you know at the most 30 minutes prior to a meal depending on what the meal was. Um obviously by the end of the day you're getting an accumulation effect because you're starting to get it to layer a little bit because you're doing that with each meal. Yes. Okay. So, at the end of the day, you're you what you tend to do is what I used to tend to do was actually the back end of the day taper the doses off a little bit. Okay. Because I was getting a layering. So, I was always going it I was going into the later meals with insulin still active in the system. Yeah. Which is something you got to look out for. Let's talk though like for the new guy who's just doing this for the first time. My vote would be just pre-workout and maybe even three times a week, you know, on training bigger body parts. I I wouldn't go with every day and I wouldn't go with frequent or multiple shots per day. I'd just start with one with either a Humalogue or if you're using Humalin R and you're to take we're all talking subq with these shots, but if you were to take that IM, it will work faster much more like Humalogue. So you could do an IM shot of Humalogue or excuse me a Humalin R or Subq Humalogue. My take Dave, I would do it, something like that. It will start working within 15 minutes, right? So I'd eat my meal 1 hour before training. Make sure I have enough carbs to cover. So 40 grams of carbs at least to cover four units of insulin. I'd take it 15 minutes before training. And then when I start training, I would also have an intraworkout shake with a complex carb like highly branch cyclic dextrin from true nutrition or um you know carbolin uh waxy maze. And I would couple that with an EAAstoo. Yeah. I see I've I've I've tended to use it around meal support rather than than workouts. Uh particularly to try and help push the food to higher levels. Yeah. Okay. Uh, but I would I tend to do a little bit more of a Heath Robinson approach. So, I'd start with two. Okay. Um, and then I' I wouldn't alter my diet because to me the insulin needs to be matched to the food, not the food to the insulin. Now, I'm not saying you're changing the whole diet. You're just moving around because you're doing the single shot that day, right? But so, it would be two IU u with the first, say you had a five meal, six meal protocol. Yep. to IU with the first three or four meals of the day. Okay. Um and then I'd up it to three and I'd just keep an eye on when I felt that hypo came in and then I'd just pull it back. But the um the only way. But just to be clear, you said for the first three or four meals a day. When you say then you would up it to three, you don't mean for the rest of the meals. No, no, I mean as so I'd start with two IU per meal. Yep. Then I'd up it to three IU per meal. Okay. For like the first four meals. Yes, the same same protocol, a number of meals and then basically I'd go again to four. Now, usually around four was when you'd start to see a little bit of mild, you know, you can just feel that edge where you're you're on the edge of what your limit is, depending on your carbs, right? Yeah, it depends on but this is all set. So, your diet stays the same, right? So, your diet is preset and and then when you start to feel like you're just on the edge of hypos, you just dial it back one IU and that's what you run with. Okay. Yeah. But it works. I can get with that, man. You could test your blood sugar, too, you know, between meals and see where you're getting. I know a lot of people are enjoying like getting to that level of scientific uh exploration to actually see, you know, how much is your blood sugar clearing. I like it, Dave. I think that's good. Um any warnings that I can think of a couple things, warnings that we should give them. like you said, you may start. So, with these doses, these doses are very low and we're not talking about something that could cause major issues, you know, um like those crazier, higher old school doses may have. Um but still, you always want to be careful. And so, I would suggest not taking naps after you've taken your insulin. Wait for the insulin to clear. And I would also suggest having simple carbs on hand if needed. And if you do start to go hypo, you probably don't need a lot, but just remember it's going to take 10 minutes. So, as you start to eat, you know, you won't feel better for 10 minutes. So, just understand it won't take much. 10, 20 grams of carbs will probably sort you out. Um, but most people will end up clearing out their refrigerator and their pantry and then 10 minutes later their blood sugar starts stabilizing and they say, "Oh my god, I had to eat 400 carbs to fix it." No, you know, you just didn't wait long enough. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. There there's that. And I I I think it's important that you're super consistent um with it. That that's another thing. Um you're you're highly unlikely to have any sort of major problems from the insulin itself. Yeah. Uh but it can happen. Um I've heard the one of the stories. Yeah. Yeah. Uh yes. Yes. Um I would advise not going hypo and passing out at 90 mph down the motorway. That doesn't end well. Yeah. Did you Was that car completely totaled? Oh, there wasn't a straight panel on it. Ripped two wheels off. You're kidding me, man. No. Thankfully. And And no one else No, you didn't get hurt. No one else got hurt. No, I I had some glass in my head, but that was picking out for a few days, but other than that, I was fine. It was retrospectively, it was funny, but it was also very dangerous. Um, I could have very easily killed myself and even worse, I could very easily have killed somebody else. So, uh, yeah. Yeah, that was that was definitely a learning experience. All right, we got a bunch of questions, guys. If you want to take part in the next show, uh, comment below with questions. If you had follow-up questions about this topic, by the way, I would much rather you asked questions, even if you felt like they were dumb questions, and be, you know, educated on what you're doing. We want to be really careful with this. And also, we should be really clear. I'm going to use this ink pen as a demo. One last thing. So, when we say 2IU, 2 IU, if this were your if this were your insulin pen, two IU is like to write and that's the for start. It's right there. We don't want to show an actual pen pin, Dave. We don't want to show that on the screen. I could do that, too. But we'll say like it's that much. It's like two little tiny ticks. That's two IU versus, you know, it's not to the the two which might be 20 IU down here, you know. Sorry, I had to catch you cuz I knew what you were reaching for and I was like, I don't we shouldn't show that on the screen. I don't know what you're on about. I don't have such items. Yeah, me either. Not right right there. Um, no. I'm a lifetime natural. Hey, what's up, guys? I wanted to take a break from the podcast and do something that would be a little bit different to keep you entertained while I do my True Nutrition ads. So, I brought Maddie with me. I want to let you know Oh, she doesn't like the mic. I want to let you know that uh the code think now offers 10% off at True Nutrition. That's the main thing I want to tell you. You know, I talked to the people over there. We got that set up and now I get commission on orders. So, I get 5% off or you guys get 10% off. I collect 5% commission. There's people coming. Don't you bark. There's a dog walking by. It's okay. You're all right. Anyway, uh I'm going to put a link in the description and uh I think that if you use that link, it'll add it'll put the code in automatically, but uh it's code think. It helps to support the show. You guys get awesome supplements in the process. Let me know if you have any questions. I'm gonna place an order myself this weekend for the cookie butterflavored whey isolate cold filtered. Maddie, she's got nothing to say on that one. Anyway, that's it, guys. We appreciate you guys watching the shows. Appreciate you supporting the programs. Let's get back to it. All right, guys. Questions for the show? Like I said, comment below. We'll try to get them on. And guys, we have Dave, we have a bunch, so let's try to rapid fire these as best we can. Um, it says, uh, all right, Brown Burner. He says, um, can you and Dave recommend a pro Oh, this was the topic or this is what we just talked about. First time insulin user. So, we already covered that. That's uh hope you enjoyed it, man. Uh, Chelsea and she's from Patreon. She says, "Question for the next show. Why would someone's face turn red after starting their first cycle of lowd dose test in deca? What do you do to alleviate it?" Could be blood pressure, could be a histamine response, which is surprisingly common. Um, and I don't I think some people forget about that sometimes. Um, often water retention can be a histamine response rather than actual estrogen as well. Yeah. Um, so there would be the main two. Um, you can be sensitive to things like carrier oil and solvents and stuff like that. So all of them can have an impact. So, but yeah, I mean my primaries would be check blood pressure and if that's not an issue, then I'd look at a histamine response. Okay. I I would agree with all those things. It's if she's just this is just the start of the cycle, it's probably not hematocrit. You know, hemoglo high hemoglobin thick blood uh will tend to make your complexion more red. You'll feel your heart beating your face when you're tying your shoes, but not at the beginning of a cycle, you know. But it wouldn't come and go post ejection either. That would be more of a permanent situation. True. All right. Okay. Another one from Patreon from Duck Dne. He says, "Um, great show. Question for the next episode. Um, how have you ever heard of someone having seizures after coming off 2.5 grams uh two cold turkey? Just a question. Um, yes, I have actually." Have you really? I I don't know if it was true. Um, and I can't remember his name. He was a strongman competitor. H, uh, Scottish. Um, and he'd won Scotland's Strongest Man quite a few times, actually. Uh, this is going back a few years, and he got the wrong side of the law, got sent to prison, went cold turkey, and he was telling me that he was having seizures. Huh? Uh, I'd never heard of it before. I've never heard of it since until this. Weird. So, at the time, I just thought it was a little bit of colorful storytelling. Yeah. Um, and I don't mean to do the man of disjustice. It's just cuz I'd never heard of it before. So, I always liked I always try and look at things with an open mind, but I was like, right, you know, maybe, maybe not. But I was a bit skeptical, shall we say? But having someone else mentioned it now maybe maybe there's more to it than I thought. Huh. Yeah, I haven't heard of it. So, this is the first time I've heard of it. And now the second with the other story you have, you know. All right. Brett says, "Uh, Scott, listening to today's show, meaning the last episode about prescribed gear, wanted to share what add-ons were available for my TRT clinic. Um, I was told that you have to talk to a doctor about the that you don't have to talk to a doctor about these. You just add them on with your order when you reup for test. I sent you that that image, Dave, of the list. I I thought it was a source list to be completely frank, man. Let me get it up. Uh we're talking like 500 something dollars for you know uh you know less than like 70 anadrol or something like that. Deca Winstro Anavar 50s Bravaron. They call them Nap50s. No they don't call them nap 50s. I miss nap 50s. Nap50s were great. But would you take them if you had them today? You know that's the other question. Oh, hell yeah. Oh, you would? Okay. Not now. Yeah. But if I was repeat if I was repeating my journey. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. All right. Um, what's the highest concentration you've kept your GH at? Um, I've been able to carefully mix it up to 60 units per ml and I'm wondering um if I've been if if you've ever mixed it stronger than that. It's just easy to put 2 ml uh in at a time when it's at 30 IU per ml. Hm. That's I I would rather have it diluted lower. Yeah, I would rather have low more volume of fluid. I find more volume of fluid makes it much easier to inject than low volume of fluid because well, [\h__\h] me. With low form of you never know if you're getting it in or not. It's like, well, if I spill a bit, I've spilled half of my dose. Yeah. Yeah. Versus if it's like a half mil that you're putting in, you've got a really good accurate dose. I I don't see any advantage to having it concentrated. Yeah, it's less volume, but it's a water-based injection anyway, so I mean, I wouldn't really give a [\h__\h] Yeah, that one to me. Um, awesome show as always. Could you guys do a segment on uh competition for the AR uh concerning SARMMS as a topic and AAS as a topic when mixing them? So, he's asking like there is none. Okay, as far as I'm aware anyway. I mean someone may may say but as far as I'm aware there is none uh there is no competition. It's people seem to have this when when drugs enter the system they connect with an androin receptor they travel into the cell nucleus. Yeah. Um they impart their signaling. They leave the nucleus. They leave the receptor. the receptor splits in two and causes two androgen receptors and it enters back into the bloodstream and it will carry on until it's converted to DHT, convert to estrogen or dies. Um, so it might go into another receptor afterwards or it it may get picked up by a transport protein and move to another part of the body. But you know this this is a constantly melting pot of things going on. So there isn't there's not a competition for the AR. If there's an AR available, it connects to it. If there's not, it connects to something else or it stays free floating until it finds one. But the body will increase the number of ARs to accommodate the level of gear that's circulating. Yeah. Um what what does change is sort of downstream stresses and things like that. So, you're not always going to get advantages with that extra AR production, but the body will create plenty of ARs to to deal with the anabolics you're putting in. All right, how about this one? Um, love to hear suggestions on best ways to transition from 750 test 400 primo to 750 test 400 EQ, or should I keep the mast in? uh transitioning from a cut to a bulk, learning, excuse me, looking to build mass. Crack on with the great content. I think you're overthinking this. Just stop one and start the other. Personally, maybe go a week with nothing in between if you're concerned, but I I would just stop one and start the other. Uh, I mean I'm I I'd be conscious nothing to do with the question, but I'd be conscious of how long you you've actually been on as well. Um, you know, you've been on a standard time already. It might be better to just actually have a break before you push for your your your bulk. Um, you're going to get some natural progress off the back of a rebound anyway. So, you might find you get three or four weeks of decent growth without any anabolics in there whatsoever. That's true. um and then drop your anabolics at a later date. But other than that, you're there's going to be there's always going to well I say always you can stop there's no interaction issue. So you don't need to worry about anything like that. The only the only concern I would have would be the effect on estrogen uh and mainly whether if you've still got active primo and the EQ goes on top whether we're going to see an overuppression of estrogen. So that would be my only concern, but other than that, there isn't a real concern. You could by all means run the test and mass that you're you're running, drop the primo, leave it out for two weeks, then start the EQ if you were really concerned, but other than that, I mean, all masked. He's going to drop the mast and start the start the EQ. I thought it was test mast and primo and he was dropping the primo. No, no primo. Oh, I apologize. Where have I got primo from then? I don't know. I said test P. I don't know but I still agree with you. Well, my only thought would be so EQU obviously the second you take it guys it is working. I understand that. Um but it will continue to build up being a you know very long uh halflife. Um, I don't like adding EQ in later in a cycle because I do feel like it's doing its best work, you know, eight weeks in and I want to be able to ride that for 16 weeks personally, you know, and assuming that everything's good, you know, blood work looks all right, blood's not getting too thick, everything else is okay. I It's not a compound I want to run shorter term. I mean, if I were doing something like this and I wanted to do something like now I want to go to something more anabolic, I might drop the mast and add in NPP for instance, just because although it's not like radically fast, it's going to be faster than EQ and you're going to get a, you know, a more direct response so that it's built up within the first few weeks. That' just be my thought. All right, what else do we have here? Oh, so Brando the Mando, he says, "Uh, I work for," this is regard to last week's show. I work for a clinic. We have access to test sip or anth uh nandrallone decanoate uh stenos stenosol um methane. I hate that word. I absolutely hate that word. Oxythylone and oxandrolone. Um, you can also get a test sip and prop blend um and a test e and nandrolone blend. Huh. However, the clinics that will give you these are not looking out for your health and won't be around once the FDA/DEA clamps down on the industry. Generally the legit clinics will give you uh a short course of 5 to 20 milligrams of oxangelone or 25 to 100 of nandelone for 6 to 12 weeks only if your labs are in check and they won't prescribe the other orals. Hm. Now that is what I find interesting about that is the the proposed clampdown. Is is that something that the industry is actually genuinely expecting or is that something that's hopeful? Um it's interesting. Really really interesting to know whether there is rumors of things getting stricter and tighter. Yeah. And he had one more note too. generally you can't go above 300 test or the pharmacy will kick it back. So I I'll tell you what Dave um I it's interesting because the the climate is changing. You know we've got the enhanced games that Victoria is affiliated with now. Uh they you companies like this organizations like this are trying to make it more mainstream. The idea of testosterone isn't looked at with the same stigma that it had been, at least in the US, you know, years back. Like all your favorite celebrities that are in good shape in their 30s and 40s, they're all on TRT. Like we assume they're on TRT now, you know. So I don't think it has the same stigma. And so maybe there is going to be a little bit more freedom. But I mean I mean they are taking testosterone itself. They're reducing its like level of schedule the the schedule that it's on. So, it's not considered it's not going to be considered as bad of a a a compound as it used to be by I do think there's there's a valid point there though that these you know these clinics that are prescribing effectively cycles do need to have a bit of pressure on them to be a bit more responsible. Yeah. Because yes, there are people that are going to those clinics so they can take advantage of that situation because they know what they're doing. But there are also people who don't know what they're doing, who don't have particularly healthy lifestyles. Yeah. And are just using it because the clinic's happy to give it and because it's available and the clinic makes more money. Now they, you know, there's a risk element there. Yeah. Without doubt, there's definitely a risk element there. So I I do agree that I think there is there is need for stricter legislation around what goes on in one way or another, but what that should be, I have no idea. Does Mint have the same mental side effects as Nandrallone and Tren? I will attest to this. I had no issues, Dave, when I ran Mint acetate and I was in a contest prep, which back then in 2009, we didn't know what we know about it now and it's crazy conversion to methyl estrogen, all that. Um, but uh uh when I ran men E and I used it with 600 tests and very little to no AI, I know my estrogen was way out of control. Then I had a real like I was bad, man. I got like real dark. I was like lifting in a dark place every workout strongest I had ever been kind of feel, you know? And I just had like a cloud over me. And that's every day in it. That's not that I have a cloud over me. No, that that's that's how you should feel. That's that's normal how a human that's why every day that I don't know what you're going on about. You should feel dark and like brooding and stuff and like when you go to lift it's like that's where you're getting like all your frustration. Where do you think this level of grumpiness comes from? Okay. Yeah, it's all adding up. It's making sense to me now. Um yeah I mean all right there's definitely issues around the high east region conversion if it's not managed I think out of the three Nander loans it's probably mentally the most easily to tolerate uh iPhone trend better personally did you yeah but I the I think a you know a lot of it is down to the individual I mean the amount of people I know that run ADHD meds Yeah and news and say that they feel good when they start putting Nanderlones into the mix. Yeah. Which you wouldn't expect. You'd think it'd be the opposite, but it's like, "No, no, when I'm on Decker or Train, I feel really good." Somebody commented that actually in the from last week because we were talking about you know dopamine being in 19-nor but I think across the board out of the three three nor 19s I would have said the average would be that ment is probably going to be the lower impact in comparative to the other two. Um but there's going to be a high amount of individual tolerance. Deca for me didn't do jack [\h__\h] from a point of view of, you know, mental health stuff. Yeah. You know, I didn't touch the sides and I definitely use plenty of it. Um, but I mean, I've got clients that can't handle two 300 meg of the stuff. Um, so there is a there is a wide spectrum of reactions to the nors and they're very difficult to predict in any way. All right. Um, another guy got prescribed 250 test 200 DECA 50 Anavar through his TRT clinic. Okay. Um, how about this one? Uh, um, what's the best injection frequency for test sip 200 mg per ml? Uh, I hear a lot of peeps say that daily or every three day or two times a week. My guess is um you're trying to not shock the system with an Ebolis dose um thus not spiking E2, but also you know he starts speculating from there. So I mean what do you think Dave? I he isn't telling us the dose he's using per week. Is this TRT? I I would generally just stick it to Yeah. twice a week, which is every three days effectively. Um, yeah, I'm not a fan of daily. Um, I don't think unless you're super super sensitive and having real issues, um, I I don't see much advantage to daily. I wouldn't remember what daily. Yeah. No, I'd forget. I forget now. Yeah, I I I remember to do it today, which it should have been done yesterday. Yeah, I completely forgot last week. Yeah, I I'll tell you, man. So, back when I started podcasting, everybody said two times a week for long acting test, be it a TRT or cycle. I found with acne that if I went to every other day with long acting compounds, then it controlled my acne. Yeah, I could see that. Now, I didn't hear anybody else talking about long acting tests every other day at that time. But today, man, it's the comm. It's the common the is that a word? No, it's the common thing. Um, yeah, brah. Yeah, brah. It's the common. No, everybody does it though. Not everybody, but a lot of people do. Do they'll do like um insulin pins every day? Like guys who are just doing TRT like to do that. No. Yeah. I I I don't think there's a great deal in it personally. I think a lot of it psychosmatic, but I do think there will be people that do find it easier. Um, you've got to I mean maybe not so much with insulin pin, but you've got to remember as well, you know, every time you inject there's an infection risk there. Yeah. Yeah. insulin pin not quite as much, but yeah. No, no, I I get that. But at the same, you know, and the other thing is when you're injecting every day, you do become I mean, you've been there. I've been there where you become extremely casual about your injection protocol. Oh, yeah. Extremely casual. like cooking food, making coffee, taking a little test. You may not quite adhere to the best hygiene protocols that you should. You can start getting lazy. Yeah. Yeah, you can. Uh and and I do think that, you know, every day can be a factor in that because it becomes so commonplace you just start to forget that actually there is a risk here. Yeah. You know, there is an infection risk. You ever hear of people getting insomnia from their TRT? Yeah. Um, more from a a sort of slight overthinking type setup. Okay. Uh, obviously a lot depends on dose and and very often I found that when people do get insomnia from TRT, it's because they're trying to push it at the top end of stuff. Uh, and and literally just pulling it back a little bit improves it. But you get an increased neuron activity with anabolics. Um, and even TRT doses can increase neuron activity. You can't always regulate that well. Um, and effectively you overthink. So you go to bed and then your brain just does not shut off. GABA is very useful at helping with that, but obviously also just sort of fiddling about. People seem very reluctant to reduce doses. Oh yeah. In any in anything, and I've seen it time and time again where people have been running top end of range but have a few issues. And when you get them to finally reduce the dose slightly, they still feel just as good, if not actually better and don't have the issues anymore. So there is sweet spots and sometimes that sweet spot can be lower than you are not higher. Yeah. Yeah, I'm with you on that. I definitely have seen people get insomnia on cycle, you know, when you start really cranking the androgens. Uh Scott, can you give us an update on your SLU? I've been taking 400 to 500 micrograms injectable per day. I don't see seem to feel much from it 6 weeks in. So, I told him I was like, "Listen, I need to do another ask me anything video. I I'm behind on that. I need to get another one out and I can go into more depth there. I just came off it, Dave. Um, I'm taking a break. I feel like, you know, I started it uh like February and I ran that from February to June and I felt like, you know what, I'm not seeing the same benefit I was. Now, I got sick when we took our trip. I told you that last week, like after the trip, I came home and and we think it might have been influenza A. We both got it and we're both dealing with like a bunch of brain fog after this and the SLU wasn't clearing it. So I I decided after all this time I need to take a break. I talked to Keith from Parabolic and he said yeah he's seen down regulation after a period of time. So I'm taking time off but and I don't normally suggest this compound to people. I had found in the past that carterine GW-501516 did give me really good endurance. It helped my breathing and it cut the brain fog. So I decided I'm going to run a low dose of carterine at 10 milligrams. And I'd been holding on to this 5 amino 1MQ which also has a lot of great similar benefits um as it's good fat burner too from what I hear. So I'm testing that out now as well. That's going to be the game plan for the interim and I'm finding Dave like instantly man I was struggling dude hard with mental focus. I thought these were supposed to be fat burners. Well I found that you've not lost any weight. Yeah, I'm down, man. You look exactly the same as you did in February. Oh, no, I don't. Believe me, I'm down. I was 217 in February with Well, you're now 214. All the low back fat you could imagine. Like, all the low back fat that you could possibly have, I had. And um now I'm down to 187 to 190 depending on the day. I I have I have back fat. Do you got a little back fat? Yeah, I've got front fat, high fat, low fat, side fat. Are you dealing with high fat and low fat? You know, it's real common, head fat. No, I I I was holding a lot of fat. Fattest I had been in a long time. But dude, I wasn't consistently training and and dieting properly for like 5 years just because I I'd get into a good groove and you know, I'm not going to go into the whole story, but anyway, I'm I'm happy to be back. This year has been my best year in a few years now. So, doing cardio and I I can't train as hard again because I'm getting back into my groove after being sick, but I'm doing more like a cross trainining, which is kind of crazy. And I I'm enjoying it, man. I had great workout the last two days. All right, I'll go into detail on that later, guys. Dave doesn't want to hear all about it. I definitely don't want to hear about CrossFit. No, not CrossFit. Cross training. You said CrossFit. I'm sure you said you did. I did not. You're dead to miss. You're dead to me, Scott. That's enough. No, I don't do CrossFit. You do? Oh, okay. Contacted Eval a week or two ago and guess who answered the phone. Lol. What was he a grumpy miserable [\h__\h] Cuz usually he is. Quick bit of advice and I have my test in phabbotomy scheduled next week. Thanks Dave. And I said, "Did you get the man himself?" And he said, "Yep." He said, "Uh, yes, I did indeed. recognize that doulit tone was a short call and no time for him to yawn. Yeah. Um I'm I'm not the best at answering the phone. No. Well, you did a good job that day. I I'm I'm trying to get better. One is trying to improve oneself, but All right. I I want to make sure I get this one in because uh he's a a new commenter, new listener. said, um, and then we'll get to, uh, Dave's advice for the week. He says, "I I think I asked in the wrong." Okay, so it says, "Uh, uh, thank you for this, Scott. Uh, the next question, let's see. Um, best peed still talking about how awesome we are. Thank you. We appreciate it." Um, I have a bet with my friend and your answer will decide who wins, me or my friend. Let's get some money on it. I don't know. Let's say 400 milligrams of testbased cycle adding in tren or ACE 150 milligrams a week. Then the other cycle would be 400 milligrams of test base with 500 EQ or 600 DECA. Um which one is better to make more strength gains? My pick is Tren and my friend says the latter. Dave, um what is better? Thanks for answering and for your knowledge. 150 trend E or Tren Ace versus 500 EQ or 600 Deca. 600 Deca. Yeah. Yeah. The the dosing is way too too over the four times the dose. Yeah. You you you know it just just I mean Tren is a powerful drug. Don't get me wrong. It is. And it is a good strength drug. But you you're talking four times and you're talking I mean four times against another Andreone as well which is has also proven to be very effective at strength gains. No. Yeah. No definitely definitely the Deca for me. I'm 100% with you man. It's just that the dose is too far off you know. Yeah. We had Yeah. I mean if you if you were saying comparable dosing then yeah I would have said the trend but when you when you're four times the dose with the Deca No definitely the Deca. We had somebody say, uh, mega vote for Dave to bring out his show and tell box on the show and then 20 people liked it. So, next week, remind me. I don't even know where it is. Mama, do you know where my show and tell boxes? My drug box. Don't need it now. Just curious. Oh, actually, it might be at hands reach. It's down the back of the desk, is it? Right. Okay. Okay. Well, we'll do that. Yeah, Nick, for you guys. Yeah, you can have it next week. All right. Um All right. There's some goodens in there. One last thing. Uh guy said is rea 6 weeks postshow off all peeds using rea to control the rebound body composition remain unchanged um after the normal 12 to 15 post show weight gain feeling great training is great and I'm stronger minimal fat gain remaining very vascular I was expecting to be a smaller softer composition after dropping all the peeds test mast and winnie I just think it's the rebound rea is not anabolic but it will help to keep your insulin sensitivity ity up. So, you know, I have a feeling he's just riding that wave. And the red is, if nothing else, helping him to stay insulin sensitive. So, it will all end eventually. It might also be helping him not to binge as well. Oh, yeah. Absolutely. Because obviously post show there's a big urge to eat. Yeah. All right, Dave. The most important part of the day. Got somebody bringing me coffee. We ask you for our your worldly advice from all the things all the Do you know how stressful this is to have to try and come up with some [\h__\h] every week? I mean, you have said keep swimming a number of times and that one it's to ingrain it into our heads, right? Yeah. And it it's it's good. I mean, it is good. It is. And it's important, Dave. It's important you keep swimming. Consistency to any project, plan, ambition, goal. Uhhuh. Is what will get you there. you know, we we're bombarded with going off that and this is probably going to end up coming a bit the the days of, but we're we're bombarded with, you know, get quick fix schemes on social media and and and you know, things like Only Fans and stuff like that where people with no talent and very little self-respect. So, you like this podcast? Yeah. Well, we we don't really make any money on this, do we? So, it's not breaking for I break even cuz I put in I only have to put in 50 hours a week. You know what I'm saying? And then I I break even to keep living and you know at least get the bills paid. Are you playing the smallest violin in the world for me? I am. Yes. Yeah. Um but you know true success is going to come from consistency. Um and doing small things but doing them continuously. Yeah. Um and it it can be all sorts. I mean we're we're doing some stuff at the moment. Uh we're developing a training company which has required us to get some more qualifications. Ah and um it's just been a case of just you know when I get a spare hour or a spare 45 minutes I'll do a little bit of work on the qualification. and I've done the the assessment side of it for the theory side. I passed all that. I'm now on to the practical side assessments and I'm starting to work through them. Um, now when I first looked at that course, I I very much felt overwhelmed, very much felt, how the hell am I going to get through this? When am I going to find the time to do it? And and yeah, I haven't got through it as quick as I'd like, but I'm getting through it. And it's that consistency. It's that just doing a little step towards your goal every day or every week. and continually doing that is going to get you where you want to be. It may take time, but if you keep at it, you will get there. Enough work will always get you success. I think that's good advice. I think that is and it never changes. But you've got to commit to to doing the work and that's where I think a lot of people fall down because the world tells them through social media that they should be rich because the video's gone viral. They should be rich because of this or that and make money quick and easy. Yeah. And the truth is even you know everybody who's been successful has got there initially through hard work. Once you are successful it's much easier to make money with much less effort. Yeah. But that initial success is is just down to hard work uh and consistently hard work. But a couple of hours a week on a project that's going to move you forward. Be it future learning or or gaining better skills or developing a little side business. It will all come in time and including your bodybuilding too. Like you don't need to do everything right all the time. Like you just take off a little bit at a time. Bite off what you can chew, you know, and stay consistent like you said. And that's literally how you make gains. Dave, I've seen so many people over the years, you know, you and I both coach and I'm I don't know about you, but that's a big part of my day is working with these guys and gals. I've seen so many people that make really good progress over the course of say 12 weeks, then they fall off. It's maybe the holidays are coming and they say, "Oh, I'll hit you back up in, you know, January." I don't hear from them until June or June of the following, you know, two years down the road. And guess what? They stopped. They lost all the progress they made and they're in a constant game of, you know, making that first 12 weeks of progress and then losing it, then making that first 12 weeks. You got to just continue on and hold it no matter. And that's what I told myself, Dave, when I decided like, man, I want to start competing. I I just I was consistent for like two, three years of never missing a meal at that point. Like, it was a it was something that I had already been very plugged into. And it's the only way that you can continue to to build off of your progress is to not let it go. You know, the other thing as well is that people will go at things too hard. They go at things too strongly. Yeah. Yeah. um and they can't sustain it and and then it becomes a burden and it falls away and it ends up stopping. I mean you we've all had clients, you've had them, I've had them, they'll be brand new Monday to Friday, then every weekend they fall off the wagon and they become a mess because they're trying to go too hard during the week where if they just calm down a little bit, did what they could, get a little bit more balance, then they're not going to be train wrecking themselves every weekend. But we do this as well with, you know, careers and relationships and and all sorts of other [\h__\h] where it's just like create consistency, create a habit that you can sustain. Mhm. And then build from that. And then once that habit is built in and you're doing it automatically, it might be something like, you know, every night I'm reading 15 20 minutes of a book that's going to educate me on whatever subject or I'm doing something else that's better for me. Once that becomes the norm, then you can add a second one and then a third one and you build on it and slowly you develop your attitude and your lifestyle into a more productive and more progressive individual. And as a result, you will eventually get the rewards. Look at this YouTube channel. I mean, we we did audio podcast long before we did YouTube. And when we started YouTube on the other channel, dude, we got like 200 views per episode. Like, and I thought that was good, you know? We got 200 views for like years, right? Like we weren't focused on YouTube, but we just kept staying consistent and put the show out and put the show out and and look at it now, man. Now we we are It's still [\h__\h] It's still crap. Don't go anywhere. There are more people watching it. You know this crap. Yeah. Yeah. There's more people watching. It's a great way of putting it. Don't Don't insult our listen. Is that insulting our listeners, Dave? If they're watching us, I don't know. Depends what other crap's out there. I suppose we might be the better of a bad bunch. I don't know. The bar is low is is Yeah. Yeah. But no, it it is, you know, you you just need to I think we overreach very often. Uh and and sometimes we we just overface ourselves when it's little steps but done well and consistently. And I I appreciate the level Dave. You you told me, you know, you said there's like a lot of pressure in you having this uh this uh you know, different insight every week. I I appreciate the pressure that you must be under with all these people that want to hear what you have to say and give them advice. It's real rough. All three of them. Hey, my mom tunes in for your advice every week, Dave. That's what she's here for. And two other friends. Beat your child harder. Guys, we appreciate you tuning in. Thanks for watching another episode of the drug podcast. and uh go to twoe evalanalysis.com, get your labs done by Dave and Dave might even answer the phone if you need to call. But really, you can set everything you need up online at the website and uh of course Strong Sports Nutrition both in the US and now and in the UK. Strongports.com. Go to supplementsource.ca for Canadians. Great deals that change week to week. And of course, truenutrition.com. Use our code think and now get 10% off on all your orders. And uh yeah, thank you to everybody from Patreon. Thanks for leaving those questions. Leave more questions for the next episode on Patreon and we will knock them out cuz that's what we do for another episode of the podcast guys. We'll see you soon. Thanks Dave.