What is up, gang? We'll hang out here for a few minutes. We'll see what's going on. See who we can gather up. You guys are welcome to chime in, ask questions along the way. And I'm just here to hang out with you guys for a couple hours and uh you know, excuse me, talk uh talk the thing that we love, bodybuilding, everything else, everything in between. I'm really excited about this one. It's been a while since I've done an ask me anything with you guys. We're going to do, like I said, do about like five minutes here to to gather up some people and then uh we'll get into things. [clears throat] [snorts] Who's all here with me right now, by the way? Comment. Let me know who's all hanging out. I see you got a handful of people here. What's up, Tybo? Hey, good to see you, man. You're making some incredible progress yourself, man. You're looking freaking great, dude. Like life-changing progress that you've made this year. And uh Tai's in the Tai's a guy that I work with and uh he's been one of the guys that had like a lot of loose skin, right, after he lost a lot of fat. And that loose skin is tightening up more and more each week. We've seen it before. You know, you guys are sick of us talking about UC Suma. He had a ton of loose skin after he had gotten lean. He had been obese for a long time. You know, didn't take care of himself, very overweight. After he got in shape, it was a matter of, you know, holding that conditioning for several years. And slowly but surely, that skin tightened up. So, you know, the key is is getting in shape and then not stretching it back out. Got a bunch of people with us. Angry listeners with us. How's it going, man? Yeah, [snorts] thank you. Hit the like button. Angry listener says, "Yeah, I appreciate it." Everybody here, if you can hit the like button and uh you know, hang out, leave comments, all that stuff, that that makes this fun. That helps me to, you know, be successful with this thing. Believe it or not, it's in your hands. Uh whether whether this gets bumped out to to more people or not. Giorgio, what's going on? Good morning to you. Necroil, what's going on, brother. Good to see you, man. [snorts] Yeah, Ty, absolutely, man. Good day to good to be working with you. And uh at the end of the day, you're the guy who's done all the work. You know what I'm saying? [snorts] So, at the end of the day, that is up to you. You're the one who's doing the work. Stalio, what's up? Stellio K. Joggy, bro, what's going on? Is that how is that am I saying that right? Grayson, what's going on? A skip question. [sighs] Meanitin, too. We can talk about that. In fact, uh I'll save that for when we do questions. I've had a ton of experience with melanitin, believe it or not. You might not know it by looking at me. Uh but I I have some stuff that I can talk about with it. Um it's it's pretty straightforward using dosing melanitin. TriStar Training. What's going on, brother? How's everything going down there today? [snorts] We'll give it about two more minutes and then we'll get things rolling. But like I said, I just wanted to take a few minutes to gather people up. So, if you're watching this uh you know, [clears throat] after it's been recorded, then uh definitely feel free to to jump forward. I'll eventually get timestamps put in this once we're done. What's going on, Michael? What's going on, Jay? multitasking uh while I'm uh you got you got me in the background. That's great to hear, man. I do that all the time with live streams. Love it. Lucas, what's going on, brother? How you doing over there? And Ryan, [snorts] how much Melanitin to look like? Skip. So, all right, we're going to hold on to the Manitin question because we'll get into that. Um Michelle, good to see you. All right, I think we're about ready. What time we got here? We're at four minutes. We'll give it one more minute and then we'll jump in. You guys are welcome to comment with questions. I am going to tackle everybody's listener questions. We're going to clear it out today and uh yeah, hope you guys have been enjoying the shows lately. You know, we've been getting out a lot of fun stuff. Um, we have a conversation with an MMA guy Dave and I had and we kind of tried to talk about the differences between peeds and MMA and for bodybuilding, but you know, spoiler alert, he didn't really have a ton of experience with peeds because a lot of the guys in Ma MMA, they they don't have nearly the indepth autistic level knowledge that we like to develop around peeds and bodybuilding. Parabolic Peptides is hanging with us. What's going on? What's your current trend dosage? No trend in the plan, man. But that's exactly what we're going to talk about today. [snorts] Yep. We could talk about BCT for or BPC for colitis. What's going on, Bill Li? He's uh two weeks out today. What's going on, man? [snorts] All right. All right. I think we're good. I think we'll dive into this thing. First of all, uh, thank you guys for being here. I appreciate you hanging with me. For anybody that may be tuning into this who doesn't know who I am, my name is Scott McN Think Big Bodybuilding Media. Um, I've been podcasting now for the last decade. I guess you could call me an early adopter. Uh, I did that because I enjoy sharing knowledge about bodybuilding, period. You know, full stop. Uh, bodybuilding has done a ton for me. It it honestly was a big part of changing and saving my life. Now, it wasn't that in itself. I made a lot of other changes to improve myself. Got into a 12step program in recovery, but bodybuilding was a big part of getting me to where I am today. It's also how I pay my bills as a coach, which I've done full-time for the last decade now, and I've been coaching for about 15 years. It was about the time I started coaching that I, you know, about the time I went full-time, maybe 11 years now. I've been podcasting. Like I said, you could call me an early adopter. I think everybody's got a podcast today. It used to be interesting if I said, "Uh, hey, somebody says, "What do you do for a living?" I said, "Podcasting?" They'd kind of look at me and they'd be like, "Well, what's that?" And I'd say, "Well, it's kind of like radio, but you can listen to it on your own time." You know, it's like pre-recorded radio. Like that's literally how long ago it was. And now if I say, "Oh, I'm a podcaster." Then people say, "Oh, yeah, my niece is a podcaster, too. That's really cute, you know." So, I I honestly I usually don't say I'm a podcaster or a YouTube person or whatever. But I guess I fall into all of those categories. But the the main thing is is that bodybuilding has done so much for me to help me improve my quality of life that I've wanted to share that with others. That's what I get to do through my coaching and that's directly what I get to do with you guys. You know, I'm not going to say that what I've discovered over the years is the only way to do things. In fact, I think that if anybody does tell you that this is the only way to do it and that everybody else is foolish if they're doing it another way, that that should set off some red flags. And I know it's sexy to be told that this is the answer, you know, make it real black and white. But oftent times the answer is different for each person. And it's going to take some experimentation, but it's also going to take going into those experiments, you know, having some background information. And that's that's what I I try to help with you you guys with here. Uh anyway, today uh I'm going to take all your listener questions and uh you guys are welcome to to comment here and uh we will uh we'll get to all of those. But for starters, I wanted to talk about the transformation that I have made here in 2025. Now, some of you guys don't know how bad it was when I got sick. And I don't want to belabor that whole part of the conversation, but sometimes I even forget how bad it was. Like I I remember. So my office is down here. My studio is in the basement of our home. And this is also where the gym is. And this is where I spend, you know, 15 hours a day literally. Um between talking to you guys, you know, editing podcast, working with clients, helping people compete, and just get in better shape. All that stuff. I do it from this spot. For three weeks after I had gotten sick, I literally could not walk down the stairs. That's how weak I was. You know, and you don't really see it when you're in it. You know what I'm saying? But I can look back at that now and be like, "Oh, I I I had such poor breathing. My my breathing was so poor after having the the bug and then getting pneumonia, being hospitalized, and finally getting home and and recovering." Um, I I couldn't breathe. So, going into that sickness, I was my all-time strongest ever. It took a lot of adjusting, years of adjusting to figure out how to get back into training. Unfortunately, there were some long-term ramifications to my breathing. There were long-term issues with fatigue. And it was maybe in 2022 at Swiss hanging out there with vigorous Steve and my wife Victoria talking to them in depth. We started thinking that maybe this had to do with a mitochondrial issue. And um you know it was way ahead of anybody in the bodybuilding space talking about mitochondria. In fact when I started learning about it I wanted to talk about it here but whenever I brought it up it it wasn't a popular topic at all. Nobody had any interest. It was just too soon. Now, obviously, it's like the number one sales pitch for every supplement, you know, every peptide. Um, everything we do is all about mitochondrial health. It's probably the biggest buzzword of 2025 is mitochondria, right? And, um, you know, it's it's kind of gotten beat to death. But honestly though, it was from that point I started discovering supplements that benefited me. Um I we found I found that co-enzyme Q10 and specifically ubiquininal would help to restore my breathing. Um it's been a long process of then getting into Lcarnitine which helps you to to then utilize fats as fuel that my body was not producing energy the way that it should. It eventually culminated into discovering SLUPP332 and I can honestly say that it has been an absolute gamecher but that wasn't the only thing. Um, you know, I I I think that one of the uh one of the [sighs] how can I put it there there's just so much I can go into. So, I'm going to say this. If you guys have any any questions for me, feel free to post them up. Um, but I but I'll say this, it it it's all come back to setting small goals for myself along the way to improve. You know, when I had gotten sick and trying to make a comeback, and I've talked about this before, it was a a massive undertaking. You know, it was a it it it was a lot to my expectations were that I was going to get back to where I was. I'm still not back there today, but I'm in a a different place. I think that in bodybuilding, you know, whatever works, we think that that's the way the thing that we have to do. And even I can get caught in that. But this past year, I've rediscovered exactly what I needed to do. For me, if you guys looked at my training, you you you would probably laugh. Like, there are days that I'm literally doing three sets of bench, none of them to failure. Uh three sets of a shoulder exercise, lateral raises, none of them to failure. Three sets of tricep extensions, none of them to failure. and uh you know 45 minutes of cardio. So you know it's it's really not that much. But being able to to just get back into that even alone that's all it's taken. I've been you know getting back into better shape. I was 20 220 217 lbs in January, middle of January. And getting on SLU at a low dose, low by today's standards, uh 400 micrograms, allowed me to just stay plugged in, you know, allowed me to not have the chronic fatigue issues that I'd been dealing with anymore. Um, I have I I I would say that that that really has been the biggest mover of everything and then I've built on it from there. Um, I did want to talk about a topic that has been coming up that is related to this and that is like dosing with SLU. I've heard some people saying that uh SLU uh what are all the what are all the 500 microgram bros doing now with their placebo effect that they were getting? Now that we know that you need to take 40 milligrams of SLU to get a benefit and that's the dose that we should be taking, I'm going to go on record and I say that the Gorilla Chemist is doing a great experiment for I'll call it I'll call it advertisement honestly. Like you know you get into a market and you do something crazy and extreme and more power to them, right? Because it's gotten them a lot of attention. I don't know if it's it I don't know if it's a a safe thing for others to be following that those footsteps. I don't know if it's a smart move to or or I don't know if it's a responsible move to be promoting this. And you can say all day uh you can say all day that well this is just me. I don't encourage anybody to do what I'm doing. But I did lose 20 pounds of fat and I recmped and I look peeled. I didn't even change my diet. but don't do what I did, you know, don't listen to me. Like, come on. Come on, guys. You know, it I I do think that it it is irresponsible. We know that SLU, right, and just improving mitochondrial function is definitely going to create more oxidative stress, right? It it it uh creates ROS, right? Reactive oxygen species. And what happens when we have too much oxidative stress? We get cell mutation, right? We get the C-word, not not the C-word that Dave would say in in England, but you know, and we don't know what's the limit before those negative repercussions happen. We have no clue, right? So, I think the responsible thing is is to take the least amount of a compound we don't know about and that we can get a beneficial effect from. you know, I've seen some people doing it well with with, you know, 200 micrograms of SLU. So, if you ask me, do we need, you know, 40 milligrams of it? My answer is I have yet to meet somebody that has, you know, and that's been out of I, you know, it maybe I take that back. Okay. So, here's been my experience. There have been people like me who have, you know, completely remped. I was 217. Uh o over the course of this year I got down to 185. Um and I will talk about the other supplements I used and and peptides. Um but then I began to continue recomping, getting leaner, and now I I've been holding at 190 now for a few months. Yet my waist is getting smaller. My joints are looking smaller. Everything's looking more dramatic. And I'm getting more vascular. I can see that I am still losing fat. I'm just not losing body weight, which tells me that I am recoming, you know. Um I I don't see AI don't see a need for me to use more than what I'm using. You know, now I have seen a handful of people get as good of a response as I have. I've seen a lot more people experience some improved cognitive benefits. You know, I feel a little bit more alert and sharper through the day. And I definitely feel more endurance when I work out. You know, I see a lot more people that are getting that out of it and an improved fat loss out of it. And then I've seen some people that just say, "I don't really notice it, but I am noticing that my endurance is better. That's all I get out of it, [snorts] you know." So, and then there's been a small handful of people, and I'm talking minimal at this point, probably about five or six people who have said, "I got nothing out of it at all." And that's using a brand that I would suggest. We're not going to talk about brands here on the stream today. Uh we don't do that on YouTube, but if you guys follow on Spotify or you're part of the Facebook group for Think Big or anything else, you know, you're you're aware of what brands uh we have for affiliates and uh I believe in all those brands. And if you know if if maybe maybe in that rare case in those five people if they got nothing out of it perceivably then maybe they could have used a higher dose or maybe they just don't need it. Maybe their mitochondrial function is already freaking incredible. Um I've also seen and I know parabolic is with us right now. I have a question for you. Maybe you can answer us. Um, have you have you seen females get increased acne using SLU even at low doses? I have seen a few women now who were using 100 to 200 micrograms only who did experience improved composition also experienced acne. I find that interesting and I want to know what is the pathway that is causing that. So if you have an answer for me parabolic I'd be very interested to hear that. I'll be uh following along um with the comments here and if you guys have questions uh you are definitely welcome to comment up. Um, so Michelle asked, "How do you mitigate the increased uh in free radicals following the intake of SLU PP332?" I mean, I think number one, we can look at antioxidants, right? That's that's our number one place to go. Um, but actually, let me back that up. Number one goes back to dose. We can mitigate side effects through dose and we can mitigate side effects through duration. And that's going to be the two obvious, right, and and key factors with every compound that we use in bodybuilding. You know, whether it be SLU, whether it be testosterone, whether it be trend, um whether it be vitamin C, right? We can mitigate side effects through dose and duration. And that's why I want to harp on that to not just blindly jump into an excessively high dose, what could be an excessively high dose of a compound that we're not quite sure where that line is. You know, just be careful. That's my point. And if you do want to experiment with high dose, more power to you. But definitely go in knowing that you could be potentially a lemming walking off a cliff. You know what I'm saying? like really look into that one and think about it long and hard because I don't think that the side effects of reactive oxy oxyg o oxygen species I don't think that we're going to see those side effects right away it's not going to happen like like gyno pops up from deball you know you're not going to be like oh there's a warning sign I need to stop it may be 6 months or six years down the road you know so I the number one thing though is dose duration after that antioxidants So look at things like glutathione. Um I so I don't have an an official affiliate with uh Ferine C60. This company uh I have no affiliation with them. Heavenly sent me out their C60 a while ago. I've experimented with it. I wanted to offer this product as an affiliate product, but I'm going to be completely honest with you. I just don't know. You know, when's the last time you took NAC and said, "Oh, yeah. I can definitely tell that that's making a big difference in my life." You know, um it it's not something that we're seeing on on blood work a lot of times, you know, especially in in cases like this. Um in fact, with SLU, I've seen people's blood work looking immaculate. So, I it's been actually quite incredible. I'm talking like people who are finishing contest preps, come out the other side, and everything is in really good order. Like, why do we even need to stop gear at this point, you know, postcontest, including running orals? So, definitely though, antioxidants is the the key thing to look at. Um, and you might want to look into folerine. So, a lot of folerine is suspended in liquid. I don't know if you guys are familiar with ferine C60 carbon 60 and um it's it's a a very powerful antioxidant though. Um I've been looking into some of the research. I'm not prepared to talk about it in depth but that definitely would be something that I would consider. Another consideration now that a lot of people are looking at is SS31 as SS31 which is also a mitochondrial enhancer is also going to you know create uh benefit of of cleaning up reactive oxygen species. So you know that you could get some benefit out of that. In fact I've found benefit of running SLU and SS31 simultaneously. I know that people have run higher doses of SS31. I'm finding 1 milligrams per day is a good dose and I couple that now with 250 micrograms of SLU and I take both of those in the morning. I find it to be fantastic. So, I'm AI'm a big fan um of both of those things. Now, I would say so SLU that would be the the main stay there. Um [snorts and clears throat] let's see. Parabolics with us. I want to see if he says uh yep. All right. NMN and five AM with five amino. What is he? What is he talking about here? Don't [snorts] forget to take your NAD plus or or NM. I think he may be talking to somebody else here. Okay, let's see. GSH vitamin C and E. Yeah, he's answering other people. But let me see. Did he answer me? I wonder if he has an answer for that. Why are we seeing some women? Okay. Yep. So, he has seen some acne at 400 microgram. So, I've seen it as low as 200 says. Uh, however, I'm uncertain as to why this is, [snorts] but this is part of my argument that if we're seeing, you know, a side effect like this at 200 micrograms, I can't imagine what somebody is going to get out of, you know, 10 milligrams. You know, it's it's kind of crazy. Um, yeah. So anyway, my big point though is that I think that improving mitochondrial function is important, but I don't think that there is any free lunch for myself. My quality of life was greatly diminished. Um, and I I'm finding that it's it's helping me to improve in a lot of ways. So number two would be uh reatride, right? So everybody's on the the rea kick and there's a there's a debate raging right now, isn't there, about reetta and how frequently to dose it. So of course with bodybuilding um everything that is long acting is still uh broken down into every other day or every day injections and that's what a lot of people in bodybuilding have adopted with rea although I believe it has something like a almost a week like six day halflife right so my question then is you know do do what benefits are we going to get out of splitting it up versus taking bull doses I do So, and I've done all the ways. You know, when I first started it, I started it at every other day. From there, as I built the dose up, I realized that twice a week was good and and I found that that worked well for me. So, I stuck with twice a week. And then little bit into that, my wife Victoria, she started pointing out to me she's had a great deal of experience with uh GLP meds since 2016, I believe it is, when she first was doing trials with uh semiglutide back in Canada, which we didn't even have it available here yet. Um and so this has been some time, right? Like that wasn't even a GLP-1 or GLP uh wasn't even on our minds at the time. Barely at least. I only heard it mentioned by one of my guests back at in in that time frame and she did by the way predict that it would be a huge revolution in bodybuilding. So shout out to Colette Nelson for calling that back in 2016 or so. Anyway, um she had pointed out though that that with the pharmacinetics of it that you're going to get the better overall effect with a higher bullish dose the way that they intended it to be. um versus you're not going to be able to get those peak levels up quite as high with daily or every other day administration. So I thought, hey, you know, she said, so you may want to consider that you, you know, maybe it will make a difference, maybe not, right? So I thought, well, okay, I'm going to give it a try. And I went to one time a week. The only difference I noticed was a slightly stronger effect toward the early portion of the week. And by the time I was due for my next shot seven days later, it was almost as if the effects had completely worn off. And I did that for a month before I said, "Nah, I'm I'm going to go back to what I liked, which was twice a week." And that's currently what I'm doing, too. Maybe dose plays a role in this. I've been using I worked up to 2 milligrams. Um, I have not gone above that. The people that I've worked with, the clients I've worked with, we've all been around that 2 milligram mark. Um, I have a couple clients that have gone higher with Trespatide. Um, I work with one guy who came to me who was using six or seven milligrams of Reetta, another guy who was using six. We've since worked those doses down. I do think that when the dose is super high, it can kind of become counterproductive to bodybuilding. I do want there to be some level of hunger. We want to keep that gastric emptying happening. You know, a a big part of me getting you to your goals. I mean, it's all going to come back to the nutrition, right? We're not This isn't just a get skinny contest. This is bodybuilding. So, we still need to be able to eat food. And I find that as that dose climbs up, people are unable to get in, especially especially like gen pop people who aren't already doing like a standard bodybuilding diet, that it takes them um it it's it's really difficult for them to be able to get in enough food through the day when they're not already used to eating five, six meals, right? And now they're they're dosing a higher uh concentrate the higher amount of of reetta per week. So, I'm finding that 2 milligrams is about the limit. And if a client that I work with wants to do it every day, then I say more power to them. Um, I personally, like I said, I'm sticking with twice a week. But my thought about the whole argument as to where should it be dosed is like figure it out for yourself what you like. And I wouldn't worry about what anybody on YouTube says about it. You know what I mean? um you're going to know what works for you and sure it's it's novel to and and and I think important to be able to hear other people's perspectives on it, but at the end of the day, if you've been doing well with every day, then I wouldn't bother changing it. You know what I'm saying? It's working for you. So, I'd say trust yourselves. I think that a lot of times you guys get assaulted by us on the other side of YouTube, right? You guys get assaulted by people who are telling you that you're doing everything all wrong. You know, like you need to stop every like don't trust your intuition. You're being told that like every freaking day. You know, everything you thought you knew about training was wrong. You know, everything that you thought you knew about GLPs was wrong. Come on, guys. Like, let's give you guys a little bit more credit than that. Um, you know, especially you guys have been around for a while. You've spent years doing this. Your your experience, your opinion is based off of your experience. And I think that that's more valuable than somebody who's telling you to do something that's counterintuitive. You know, I'd say listen to your gut more than anything else. Um, Rea is more than a weight loss agent. I'm genuinely impressed as its glucagon agonist effects for energy. Yeah. So there's no question, man. Um I'm finding that so- with um the improved glucagon, we're finding that people do have better energy levels even on low calories. Um it it it is absolutely fantastic. So I am all for the use of of reetta when dieting. In fact, I I would say that for me, it has been um the other heavy mover. If I were to say what were the two big heavy movers for me, it would be number one SLU. That's allowed me to get the ball rolling and then continuing to keep it rolling. And then Rea has no question helped me to dramatically and rapidly improve my insulin sensitivity and fat loss in a way that it would have been a lot more work otherwise. Um, [snorts] but it's true majority of people are clueless and source the same gibberish information from the same Reddit YouTube sources. Yeah. Yeah. So, sorry I haven't caught up with all the comments. I was busy rambling here for the last 30 minutes, I guess. But, uh, you know, I wanted to get into my next step, which was then saying, of course, what what do we do next? as bodybuilders were like, [snorts] I should add some anabolics to this, right? So, I I started experimenting with gear again and I haven't really had a reason to run a cycle in the last 5 years because I just couldn't keep my consistency up with training, the chronic fatigue and my inability to breathe properly. Now, you know, through my training, even though they're light workouts, um I'm also doing like a ton of core work. I'm doing a lot of planks. In fact, planks are I think the the the biggest secret I think for recmping your waist better than vacuum practice. In fact, I've worked with guys who have like major distension who had been practicing vacuums for like a year, right? And we saw some improvement, but we didn't see the drastic in changes that we have seen um now using uh planks. I think that planks are are an absolute gamecher. It sounds boring, right? Because you're just kind of holding in that plank position, but here's the way that I do them. And it's all about training your breathing. You know, it it it's about not blowing out through the stomach. Instead, the idea, and you guys have probably some of you have heard me talk about this before, it's breathing through your back, which is something I've gotten hounded into me by my wife. And uh um the the idea of breathing through your back is trying to fill up those, you know, the lower loes of your lungs. And what I just did was as I'm breathing in, I'm imagining pushing out my love handles. Like imagine [sighs and gasps] as I'm breathing in, I'm pushing out those love handles. And I try to breathe in as deeply as I can while holding the core in and up. You kind of pull it, suck it, like pull it in and then pull it up while you're holding that plank and then take that deep breath as deep as you can and fight it to keep that stomach in. That's where the real work of the plank comes in. I'll hold that plank and I'll do deep breaths like that for 30 seconds. And I'm telling you, by the end of that 30 seconds, like I am sweating. It's difficult. So, it's it's definitely one that I would suggest to you. I'm doing three planks for 30 seconds. And then after that, I do a leg raise. With the leg raise, I'm just laying on the floor and then I hold on to something overhead here and then I kick the feet up kind of thing, you know. Um, get rid of this. So, those two things have been uh instrumental um in in me, you know, helping to to keep that moving. But anyway, back to what I was saying. Sorry, you guys can tell I'm like full ADD. uh when I just have a free topic and and can go. Anyway, just to to get back to it with anabolics, I tried a few things. I realized I don't want to run a full-blown cycle. I don't want to deal with the logistics anymore of taking multiple large shots each week. So, I started out with an idea, as some of you had heard, running a bunch of EQ and test. That lasted a couple weeks, and I got tired of it. I tried just test and then I tried this and I tried that. I've settled in now. I found that um going back to Masteron wasn't to my benefit. I found that my SHBG would get crushed and it made my mood go down, libido go down, my sense of well-being, my energy, my my like zest to get in the gym and and and train it all went away. So, I want to make sure that I I don't ruin my SHBG. I want to keep that up. And I found out of all compounds, dihydroboldenon, formerly known as one test sip, DHB, to be freaking incredible. And I want to go back to what uh Nola said. Um [snorts] it's true the majority of people are clueless and source the same gibberish information from the same Reddit, YouTube sources. Listen, now I'm not going to say that this is the case for everybody, but I'm finding running DHB with multiple people now, we are not seeing an elevation in uh uh inflammation levels. We're not seeing an elevation in uh uh liver values. We're seeing no changes there. Okay. No more than at least any other compound. So I I don't know if I don't know where it Well, I know where it comes from. I know that there were two studies limited limited research on DHB rat studies. They found increased inflammation in these rats or in these rodents in this study. And that translated into more plates, more dates doing a video saying, "Hey, there's potentially a lot of inflammation from DHB." And then that led to vigorous Steve looking at that same research and also saying hey there's potential for a lot of inflammation from DHB and there is right those things those things have been shown there is potential but I don't think it's the case across the board because I have a very limited scope a very limited study of myself and three other people now who have all done labs I've seen labs from people who took inflammation markers before they started DHP six weeks in and after and we haven't seen any elevation that we would expect from anything else. Like it it it really was just like any other compound. So, every time though that I say anything about DHB, we always get at least one person in the comments who says, "Oh, well, you better start checking your liver values." So, anyway, [snorts] yeah, the only problem, what what do we have here? I took two shots of DHB.4 4 ml and it looked like I got shot by a rubber bullet. Yeah. So, here's the deal. I do think that there can be a great deal of pain from some of these shots depending on how it's brewed, depending on how much you're taking. But that said, um, and that may be where the inflammation comes from, right? Like if you had a really bad shot and then you get your inflammation markers checked, I bet you your inflammation is going to be up, right? But if you have if you have a smooth shot, if you say are using it as part of a larger cycle, you're cutting it with other compounds, you know, and you're not using too much at once, then, you know, I think that you can find a sweet spot in there. Have I had some bad shots? Yeah, I've had some painful shots. I've had a couple shots that I didn't want to sleep on that side, you know, for the first the first night or two after that shot. Um, but uh you know uh outside of that though, I've been able to cut it with just uh standard like pharmarmacra test and a small amount of deca. So I guess you could say I've been using deca too, but I've honestly just added a small amount quarter mil here and there just to help cut the DHB. Now, initially my game plan was going to be to run 300 and 300, 300 test, 300 DHB. That soon went down to 200 and 200. And now due to my inability to stay on track with uh shot frequency, it re reality comes down to about 150 and 150 per week. That said, I couldn't be happier with the results that I'm getting out of it. I would call this to be I mean technically would you guys call this TRT plus 150 test 150 DHB? [snorts] You tell me. I think it is though. Um I'm going to look toward the comments here. Let's see here. I think that's I think that's about the main things I wanted to cover with that. By the way, I'll probably think of some more stuff that I do want to throw in. Um, I haven't noticed any uh any uh major um issues with estrogen, by the way. Um I found that that my estrogen seems to just kind of stay level. So, I'm not at that one one ratio. I'm not finding that my estrogen is getting smashed. The clients that I worked with, all three of them were in a cutting phase. Um no, excuse me. I take that back. One of them wasn't, but we weren't seeing major estrogen issues either. So, I don't know if DHB has the same effects on estrogen that EQ would. I'm not sure about that. You know, it's so that the verdict is out there. Um, and I'm also not seeing the same raise in hematocrit either. So, I've I've seen some people that, you know, were running the guys that that have been using it, they've been using 300 to 400 per week as part of larger cycles. One guy is a pro. he was using closer to a gramma test. Uh I think it was either 600 or 800 um deca and then he was using it was either 300 or 400 I think 400 DHB or 350 DHB along with that. In the past we had done test DECA EQ. He did really well with that and then he did fantastic with test deca DHB. I'm finding that DHB and Nanderlones they it's it's a nice combo. Um, you know, I like getting that nandrallone in there for some some added anabolic effect. You know, it's it's kind of like a low you're not going to get a lot of the androgenic sides from deca, right? It's going to be better for just growth overall. Um, and deca or NPP, it tends to be an easier shot to handle. So, it's nice logistically for mixing a more harsh, you know, compound like DHB that tends to be more painful. Um, all right. I'm going to scroll back up to the top here. Yo, Casey Rice is with us. What's going on, man? He's just about to get started on a plan with me. I sent him over some training this week and uh he's a former CrossFitterbuilder getting ready to do his first show. Shout out to you, my friend. Um, what does Parabolic say here? He says, "Personally, I don't see the advantage of daily pinning redda. The half-life is plenty long. Two to three times a week is sufficient in my opinion. If you need more suppression for a short window, use Oh, he named a drug that I'm not familiar with the name of. I I I I'm going to guess it's the new daily administration GLP med. Is that what that is? Or for Gilprin. I'm sure I said that right. [snorts] All right, what else do we have here? I'm gonna look up see what the questions are here. Thank you guys, by the way, for being here. I have a lot of fun doing these. It's been too long. I've [snorts] got some more stuff that I'm looking to check out. So, I will uh I'll keep you guys posted. [snorts] Bolabs literally contaminated three products with BAM 15. Why it is why is it causing heart and digestive issues? I have raw powder and tested it with Jano. Not sure what he's referring to there. Maybe their SLU has that in it. Could be. I haven't messed with BAM 15. I the reason I just made a decision not to because I had seen the prices for it were really high and I kind of just drew a line there and I thought to myself, you know what, I could probably, you know, justify getting this, but for the cost, I can't justify suggesting it to you. That was the bottom line for me. Does it work? you know, it I it may I've heard good things about it, but uh at the cost it just the way I see it is like, you know what, we've we've been able to do the things we do with so many other compounds, so many other ways. Let's let's not mess with it. You know, if if if it's uh Yeah. Okay. Gooman, he says SLU at micro do is a scam, lol. Yeah, I think he's messing with us here. He says, "I'm doing 90 milligrams injection of SLU." Okay. You know, fair enough. And hey, that's what you got to do. Just know going in, you know, risk and reward, right? [snorts] Um, okay. What if the acne is just coming from women sweating more from the thermogenic effect uh than affecting hormones? Max Hughes says that. Hey, dude, that's totally possible, isn't it, man? you know, it doesn't have to be something hormonally that's happening. Man, you guys are freaking filling up the comments, by the way. Thank you for being here. Um, how about micro doing DNP? How many of you guys have used DNP? Show of hands. Show of hands. Comment if you say just, you know, comment DNP if you've used DNP and comment the dose that you used it at, too. I used it twice and I I just didn't see the the benefit. What's up, Real Report? Shout out to you in Norway, my friend. Um, I'll tackle that question we had early on, which was about, uh, melanitin 2 said, uh, interested in starting melanitin 2. Any quick info on dosing? Is it worth it? I think it depends on what your goals are. If your goals are to get tan, it is definitely worth it. It works incredibly fast. Now, I actually have a um the pump version. I've got uh got a bottle of the uh uh nasal version and I hadn't used BPC in a long time. I picked this up, used a small dose, and I got huge results. You know, I think it was 50 micrograms per pump and uh I'd take like a 100 micrograms per day for a couple weeks. I'd go outside occasionally on our date days and stuff. Before you know it, I got pretty damn tan doing that. I didn't do any additional tanning, anything like that. Um, okay. So, back in the day, we used to do a loading phase of melanitin 2. And if you look online, there's probably still some people talking about doing uh melanitin loading phases. Hold on just a second here. Take a drink of water. Ah, from my gallon mutant jug. You can use code Ron or Dust. Big Ron or Dusky for that. [snorts] I do love that thing. I'm getting in so much water with it. Um, all right. So, Meantitin 2, we used to do a loading phase with it. Uh, like one milligram per day for the first 10 days because a bottle was usually like 10 milligrams. And then after that we would back it down or uh to to you know 1 milligram every couple of days or something like that. I can't remember what it backed down to exactly or we would do one milligram a day until you reached the color you wanted to be and then you would back it down to a couple times a week. But anymore um what I would suggest doing is just starting low and keeping it low. you know, you get that kind of knotted stomach feeling when you first start dosing it. You will get over that generally. Um, it can cause some acid stomach acid issues. In fact, I started getting that even at that low dose after [snorts] a couple of weeks. So, just be prepared that that may happen. And if you do start getting acid reflux or anything, then know like, hey, I usually don't get this. What could it be? I did start melanitin. Hey, that might be it. Maybe you want to back off at that point. >> [snorts] >> Um, I would say on average though about 200 250 micrograms per day would be a great place to be. And I would run that probably every day until you reach the color that you wanted to reach. Definitely the more frequently you do actual tanning with it, uh, the darker you will get. I will warn you though, it is addictive, I think. you know, and and and when I say addictive, what I mean by that is you kind of lose track of how dark you've actually gotten because you're seeing yourself in the mirror every day. You don't realize how dark you've become. You like you can't you become blind to it. Um I it's happened to me. I've seen it happen to many other people. Um we might even know somebody who might not have a real good sense of how dark he is. I I I think that melanitin it it definitely works and it can work too good. You know, after a while you start getting like purplish circles under your eyes. It's it's a weird tan when it gets real dark. So, I would say less is more. Um and and you know, don't rely on it exclusively. Try to get some sun, but then also look for the balance. I know that, you know, back when I was competing, my last show now was 2017, so quite a while ago, right? Eight years. Um, in fact, we're about today, literally today is the anniversary of that or yesterday, I think, maybe it was today was the anniversary of that. uh Western Michigan Western 2017. Before that was uh Titan Classic in Los Angeles and a couple shows before that that season. Anyway, um I [snorts] always discovered that I would get in the habit of using it every day and tanning every day at the gym to get as dark as I could before a show. Tanning before a show, it does help to kind of dry your skin out, get you looking harder, you know, all of that. Um, but I also noticed that postc contest my skin looked older every time. Every time I did a show, I would notice like more wear. And I I kind of thought to myself like, hey, is it the T3? You know, years ago, we used to dose T3 higher as a fat burner. So 75 micrograms was probably pretty common practice to get up to. You just slowly increase every couple of weeks with it. Um, [snorts] I don't do that anymore. I try to stay at, you know, 20 25 micrograms, maybe put some T4 in with that, too. Uh, but yeah, I I used to attribute it to being related to uh, you know, aging from increasing my thyroid, but now I really look back, it was probably I mean, that may have been part of the factor, but I think a big part of it was the amount of skin damage I took from tanning so frequently. So, just be careful, you know. I guess is my point. Um, I would say use a minimal amount. That would be my thought. And, uh, when you when you think you're too dark, you definitely are too dark. What else do we have here? You guys got any questions for me? See, we got here. Hi, Scott. Hi, from the UK. I think the new sports TRT for many people includes the mitochondria peptides and redda blowing up over here now. Absolutely man. Yeah. Yeah. If you say you're on like TRT plus it's not I mean gear is part of it but a lot of it is going to be other factors, right? [snorts] I got too dark on melanitin too. It happened to me. People commented that I turned Jamaican on my vacation. Definitely don't go ham with the Milanitin, too, or you'll change ethnicities. Um, you know what was weird was, uh, I found that after I had gone super hard with melanitin, it permanently changed the way I would tan for the rest like for years because being like super Irish in in uh, you know, Eastern European, um, my skin turns bright red when I try to go in the sun and then it goes back to white and then bright red when I go back in the sun and back to white. And I found after lanitin my skin would automatically turn more brown. Uh and it still to a degree does but there were I think some level of epigenetic changes that I got out of it. [snorts] How do you compare highdose DHB to micro doing trend? Um I wouldn't compare them. I could compare micro dose DHB to micro dose trend. I think that would be more comparable because DHB is a strong compound. Um, I would say that you're going to get overall less side effects from DHB, but one of those side effects is going to be logistics with your injections due to the pain that you can get from those shots. So, yeah, I I'd say that's that's one of the biggest logistics that I've dealt with. Also, I would still suggest that you get your uh you get your CK levels checked uh before you start. um get your uh your liver values checked before you start and get your hematocrit checked and your estrogen. Those are the four things I would definitely want to look at and then check them again 6 weeks in and see for yourself. are you getting inflammation? And uh if you're not, then definitely or if you are, let me know because I want to try to get as many people as we can together to get more information on this so that we can kind of decide for ourselves how much inflammation and damage to the liver does this compound actually cause compared to other anabolics. All right, what else do we have here? I think I saw one further up. I have a bottle of 500 500 gram powder bought a month ago from a local lab uh that is providing chemicals to my medical college. Really curious to do a small experiment with it. I'm guessing he's talking about SLU. [snorts] Yeah. Okay. So, that that med that parabolics was talking about is the oral GLP-1. And from what I recall, um, you can get, uh, an instantaneous like daily effect from that compound. I could see that being beneficial to get like a just a oneoff uh, appetite suppression. Say we have two non-training days, right? We could then maybe drop them in on those two days, but then not have it interfere with appetite or with digestion on days that food is say substantially higher. [snorts] George took some DMP. [laughter] Bill says, uh, no DMP, just a massive amount of hot sauce. Whoa. Greetings from Peru. That's freaking incredible. Just jumping in to say, "Hey, love the podcast." Random Scottish bloke. Nice. [snorts] What's your starting dose on NPP? All right. I would say that um [snorts] it depends on what you're doing with test. It depends on what your experience level is. Let's say you're somebody who's like, we'll call you just like a bro who's done a bunch of different cycles in the, you know, 400 500 milligram test range with another compound. I would say I'd say 500 test 300 to DHB would be a good place to be. If you want to use less test than that, then maybe less DHB. You could do 400 test 4 300 DHB. Excuse me, NP. Uh, I've got DHP on the mine now. Yeah, 500 test for 300 NP. Or if you wanted to, you could do try 400 test 300 NP. I think that would be fine, too. >> [snorts] >> What do we have here? Micro doing DNP. Do you take overseas coaching clients? Yes, absolutely I do. I've got people from uh literally all over the world that I work with. Deca is superior for joint health over MPP due to estster length release speed. I get it from both. Huh. Okay. Would love to hear your thoughts, Scott, on RAD-140. If you have any experience yourself, um, and your clients um, you know, I can't speak on it honestly. I haven't used it personally, so it's not one that I can speak on. Don't use DECA. Probably the worst for neuroinflammation. Okay. I don't think that any steroids are really good for us, are they? I think it is interesting too that with the whole DHB thing, people are so quick to say, "Oh, don't use DHB. It's going to raise your inflammation." But then they're willing to take like everything else under the sun. I don't know. [snorts] So, there there was we were asked uh does DECA help with inflammation locally? I don't know about locally, but um Scott Stevenson and I did look at some research. I think as low as 50 milligrams per week was helpful for overall systemic joint inflammation. So my thought would be 50 to 100 for something like that. I think uh Summit Ryan said um DHB gives me horrible PIP no matter what I did. I think it depends on the brand, too. I think that um back in the day when I first used it, it was dosed at 200 milligrams per milliliter, and that stuff was wicked painful no matter what you did. Um I, you know, at 100 milligrams at most places now, I think it's more tolerable, but I think it still depends on who's brewing it, who's making it. I think that's a factor. Another factor can be too um what kind of solvents are they using with it? You know, obviously I'm just talking about DHB itself, but if you're using, you know, crazy super solvents, maybe that could be raising your inflammation, too. And if you are using super solvents that do raise inflammation, I I think I I think that a lot of us have kind of said like, oh, we shouldn't use any of that. It's not good for you, right? But I I think if you go in with moderation, I'm not saying like it's an ideal situation. We should all be using everything that has, you know, high super solvents. But I think that if you go in using something with a a a super solvent like glycol, eo, uh ethylolate, you know, these things are known to be like harsher on our bodies. And these are solvents that help us to dissolve um hormone into uh the carrier oil, right? for anybody who isn't aware of that. Um, and they also do a real good job at that. So, like Steve had told me that in Thailand, the manufacturers there like to use it because they're shipping that stuff out all through the world. So, they want it to be able to not crash basically. So, it's it's it's good for business to use EO, right? Um, but yeah, it it uh it it's one of those things that, you know, it's not necessarily great for us, but you know, there I I think that if you're let's say you wanted to use some injectable default, that's going to have, you know, a super solvent in it. Um, just like when you would plan to use any other oral, you there's like you know that there's costs to benefits, right? and you know that, hey, I'm I'm gonna have to be careful with this because have that information going in knowing that there's this additional layer that's damaging to your health so that you can better mitigate those issues through once again dose and duration. You [snorts] know, not talking about Scott or Dave, but too many people get caught up in what some YouTuber says about X, Y, and Z. They're just YouTubers and yet the sheep follow them blindly along. Yeah. You know what though? It's one of those things that like we we enjoy talking about this stuff, right? And um we want to we kind of want to believe, you know, like the old the old ads that promised us that a supplement was going to build 10 pounds of muscle in four weeks. We all kind of knew that it probably wasn't and we bought it anyway, but we still hoped. You know, there's there's like a lot of hope in that. So, but yeah. Yeah, there's there's a lot of that today. I've seen I can't even mention the name. I I because it could get us in trouble here, but there's a certain a certain compound that is known to be highly addictive that people are saying isn't addictive. um [snorts] uh the you know the well yeah I don't even want to say the word even but it starts with Nick right and uh people are saying oh no it was just the smoking that was bad for you the compound itself is not addicted at all you know it's uh it's kind of crazy I I have to be really careful I may even just gotten myself in trouble by even uttering those words Um, I wonder was your mast you ran that you had drop in libido something um made recently? I've heard that a couple of times since the shortage happened uh master which isn't a normal symptom. Hey, that's a great uh a great question. Um unfortunately and unfortunately no it was uh this is something I've experienced now for several years. I just was talking to Latz from Professional Muscle, he gets the same thing that when I use too much of a DH or a DHT compound um that my SHBG just gets crushed. When my SHBG goes low, my libido goes low, my mood goes low. It uh just energy, all of that. Um, you [snorts] know, I've tried even small doses of Anavar and it works out great for the first 10 days and then slowly but surely I'm just feeling crappier and crappier but stronger. So, it's kind of weird. [snorts] Uh, talk to us more about your EQ experience, please. Okay. So, Aquaoise, I think I ran it my fifth cycle in and um you know, I I just listened to all the advice that I had heard online, which is, you know, it's it's a powerful anabolic, a lot like Deca, but without the same water retention, right? That's literally the beginning and the end of what we knew. You ran it at about the same dose as you would Deca, which for me was 400 milligrams. Um, I found that it was noticeably weaker than DECA. I I wrote it off. Literally wrote it off for two years. And eventually I came back around to it because I had tried everything else at that point. And I thought to like there's only so many compounds out there for mass, right? There's only so many compounds out there for cutting. And so you kind of run through all of them and then you're like, "Oh, what next?" So I went back to EQ. But I said to myself, okay, and this is in the age where everybody was really into um uh frontloading their compounds. You'd either do a frontload um so that you could and the idea was is that you could build your levels up faster versus having to wait as many weeks. So I started one the game plan was going to be one mil a test 250 milligrams with one mil of EQ 200 milligrams every other week or every other day. So [snorts] I'd be at you know ballpark 1,800 ballpark right every eight days. Um I decided okay I want to make sure this works I because I'm going to dose it up really high plus I'm also going to frontload it. So, I frontloaded it at 200 milligrams every day for the first week and then I backed it down. Let me tell you that stuff kicked in a lot better that time. I mean, obviously I was taking a lot of of EQ. Um, I found that for me at a higher dose around 800 milligram, 750 EQ and a thousand tests, that's where I did make my best progress. Now, keep in mind, I had already been cycling for a number of years. I already had competed twice, um, maybe three times, and, uh, was already a light heavyweight bodybuilder, meaning that I was probably 230 with absish, you know, outlining your abs in the offseason and then, you know, would come down to 195 on stage, you know, super super lean condition. So, I didn't just jump into that. Um that was over the course of slowly increasing to 750 test and 600 of this and you know then a gram a test and 800 of that and that's where it came in. So I didn't just jump to that overnight. If you're using you know like a gram total cycle then don't just jump into two gram cycles. Um yeah. Yeah. I I made really good progress with that. And uh ultimately that's how I discovered my best cycle ever which was uh about 1.25 test 800 EQ and then about 200 NPP 50 NPP every other day along with that. I liked that combo a lot. Just a little bit of Nandrallone. I don't have really much more to say. Um did my hematocrit get high? Absolutely it did by the end of that. Uh, I always felt with EQ, it [snorts] wasn't a compound where I instantly saw the results. You know what I mean? It was one of those compounds where you you get six weeks in and uh you eight weeks in and then you look in the mirror and you're like, "Oh, Jesus. Yeah, this is definitely working." But up to that point, it's like you didn't notice anything. So, yeah, that's that's my experience with it. Um, I think certain people don't handle DHB well, no matter how it is made, like myself. Hey, there is that possibility. Not every compound is for everybody, that's for sure. Just like we're talking about with um, Masteron, right? Mast is definitely not a compound that um, is works terrible for most people. Most people love it. I I in the other hand, man, it's just not not not worth it for me. Um, will DHB alter total test and or free test lab values? Man, I don't think so, Doug. I I can't imagine why it would. Barry Kitchen is with us. What's up, man? Thank you for your service. You said, uh, congrats on the transformation. Been a long time coming. I bet you feel great. [sighs] I do, man. And it has been, you know, pretty minimal dosing overall to get where I'm at. It's just been about consistency. And I'll tell you guys that [snorts] the the number one lesson I learned like this is the secret if you want like the secret to bodybuilding and it's quite simple is this. I know I started training when I was about 12 and I actually made some progress then. I didn't get huge but I made some progress. I got stronger and I did build muscle. Quit by the time I was about 15, right? Started getting at 16. 16 I quit. So it was about 12 to 16 I'd been training. Picked it back up when I was about 19 and I trained for a couple years straight and guess what? Rebuilt mass. Got rebuilt my strength. started making progress and then I stopped. It wasn't until I was in my late 20s, about 30, that I decided I'm going to pick this up and I'm going to stick with it no matter what. And that's the secret. That's literally if you want to be good at bodybuilding, you just keep doing it. It's not going to come to you in a year or even two years. You're going to see differences, right? But you have to take that progress you made in two years and look at that as your new foundation to now build on. The problem that I end up seeing so commonly and it's a problem that happened to me is that people will make progress and then they lose that progress. I I can't count the number of people who've come to work with me. They've had to first lose a lot of body fat to get into better shape so that they can grow. They lose that body fat and then they say, "Okay, listen. I'm going to take a break, but I'll get back to you after the holidays. Okay. Guess what? I don't hear from them for another eight months. And when they come back, they gained all the fat back. Now, we have to do the same diet again. And I've worked with people who have had to lose the same 30 lbs multiple times. If you get stuck in that cycle, you will never reach your goals with bodybuilding. Flat out, full stop. All right? You just need to keep doing it no matter what. And you can look at me as an example of that that I was at my all-time best when I got sick in 2021, right? And from there, I was not able to really stick with a plan and be super consistent. My training sucked for about four years. It wasn't until this year that it finally has gotten good again. And even now, that version of good, it's it's very relative. Uh compared to what it used to be, it's nothing. But I love it and I'm doing great with it. Um, and I'm making progress. But it all comes back to having held on to what I could even when I didn't want to do it. Even when it sucked. You know, you just it's just you, if you want to make good progress, any of you who are watching this, any of you can gain some incredible mass and make a huge transformation. But the key is is that you just keep going. You take that initial fat loss you made, you don't gain the fat back. You know what I'm saying? Now you work on building. It's a it's there's no days off, you know, and you have to find a way to absolutely love what we do in fitness. You have to find like like for me, my training is fun. It's it's I find all the the day it's like it's such a great time. I I get to, you know, focus on myself. It feels good. my endorphins are all kicking. Um, it it allows me to feel accomplished, you know, I get to do something. It also allows me to get rid of anxiety, you know, get rid of that physical energy out of my body that helps a ton. Um, and and and if you fall in love with those daily things, then the big picture is going to take care of itself. It's when we get away from those daily things and we're focusing on what we, you know, I I I I want to look like this down the road. like just don't it's okay to have that vision, but just put it in your pocket and focus on what you're you're going to get out of it today. I think that ultimately that's that's the way that we can keep the process going. You know, [snorts] in all honesty, man, when you put your thumbnail up, I was happy to see your self-confidence. You mentioned a few times that you were not ready to show photos yet. Um, now you're making some solid progress. Yeah, man. I mean, I I'm not comfortable with how I looked. I'm still not even comfortable. Like, I don't feel great. Like, you know, it's not like I feel super confident. I was like, I put that thumbnail out. Thanks for the thumbs down, whoever that was. I appreciate it. But hey, you guys can counteract that. If you are watching now, then definitely please hit the thumbs up button so that we can boost this thing up. Um, but you know, I figured, you know, what the heck? We'll just I'm going to put it out there. We only live once. There's going to be people who, you know, think I look like crap, and that's fine. You know, it's your own perspective. You're allowed to think whatever you want. And thank you for the super chats, too, you guys. Big fan of the show since since uh 2019, huh, thank you very much. I really appreciate it, [snorts] Kevin. You're freaking awesome, man. I appreciate having you here. And thank you, Taibo, for the super chat, man. By the way, guys, comment with some questions. I almost missed the live I was waiting for. Oh, man. [snorts] Thank you guys. You guys are freaking awesome. I appreciate the super chats. And uh just hit me with some questions now, though. And we'll we'll hang out here. I probably missed a bunch of them. And thank you guys. I see you guys hitting that uh the thumbs up button. That definitely helps me out a freaking ton here. [snorts] So DMP, I saw somebody say DMP is trash. Yeah, you're not wrong, man. I don't think that we need it. You know, anytime that we anytime that we like we can we can do everything we need to do without any fat burners, right? But the fat burners, they do work. Here's what I found with DMP, though, and some of you guys have probably heard this story. Um, [snorts] I took it two times. The second time I took it, I kept it at 250 micrograms. I followed a very specific fruit diet that was given to me that was said to really help rip through body fat. Now, I had already had a working plan. I was on a carb cycle at the time. I think I was about 12 weeks out from a show, maybe 16. I mean, I think it would have been like, yeah, 16 to 12 somewhere in there. I only ran it for about a week. Um, and and I lost probably like 8 pounds of fat in that week. Like, it moved fast. But going into that, I had a plan that was working and I was ticking along and I was losing a pound, two pounds a week, right? And I I knew what my diet needed to be to do that. Fast forward, I jump into the DMP, you know, lose a bunch of fat. I come out the other side of that. I couldn't just go back to the diet that I already had been on because now my body had been further advanced and to continue losing fat. The diet needed to be changed. But now I had to figure out, okay, well, what do I do now? And it took me probably another 10 days to two weeks to really get back into my groove. So I was making, you know, good progress. Two pounds, two pounds, two pounds, and all of a sudden eight pounds. But then I had to like, you know, lose water weight after that cuz you gain water weight from DNP and and get back on my diet and then see that I'm not making progress now and then start adjusting and finally, you know, that although I jumped forward in that one week period of time, it took that next week and probably part of the following week to get back on track. So really, I lost, you know, 8 lbs, but it probably all in all took four weeks, you know, 3, four weeks to have that all ironed out completely. I could have just kept losing two pounds each week, you know, and and and adjusted the diet as needed as I as I saw, you know, progress slow. [snorts] Yeah. Plus, DMP isn't healthy for us, right? All right. What else do we have here for questions, guys? You guys posting up any questions? I'll be in the car dropping off a foster pup, but I'll try to stay tuned in. What's up, Phil? All right, just putting my dog in the harness and uh we're going to go get some cardio in as we listen. That's pretty freaking cool. It's kind of cool that we can all hang out like this, isn't it? [snorts] Compounds and dosages. Uh did you run lower test to keep your hematocrit in range? So, I'm finding that keeping my hematocrit in range in large part comes down to definitely keeping the gear in check. Also, my cardio is really high and I think that that's been helping. Um, it was probably a dumb idea when I wanted to run a bunch of EQ again. I don't think that was a good move. [snorts] All right. thoughts on running redda and any other peptides up to the peaking loading protocol for a show. [snorts] So, I found that um it was harder for me to fill out with Rea. Um that said, I don't think that's the case for everybody. So, it depends on the individual. I would ideally have you close to being in shape a month out, right? >> [snorts] >> Um, Steve, what's up, man? Thank you for the super chat, brother. I'll check that out in just a minute. Um, see if you have any questions for me. I'll say this that that for some people, if we're doing practice loads and we're a month out and we have our full reta dose in, which is going to be for us like 1.5 2 milligrams, um, you may not have any interference from the rea to fill out whatsoever. And if that's the case, then we could just totally leave it as it is. If you do, I would want to start backing that down a few weeks out and seeing, okay, well, what amount can we still fill on? You know, that's that's kind of more where I'm coming from. So, for some people, maybe they need to take it out altogether. Um, I haven't really seen that, though. I I've seen us being able to maintain some level of reetta and and still be able to to get full on it. [snorts] Steve's with us. What's up, man? He says, "Minimum effective cycle length for GH." Sorry, my allergies are crazy as always. Um, thank you for the super chat, Steve. I appreciate you, man. >> [sighs] >> Minimum effective cycle length for GH I would say it depends on what your goal is for it Steve. Now, I know what your goals are, and you fit into a category that I think a lot of people fit into, and that is a guy who just wants to get into the best shape he can and maintain that as long as he can, right? So, for you, minimum effective dose would be as long as you can run it. really. I mean, you're you're looking at more of a of a like a a TRT plus kind of lifestyle, an optimized lifestyle, right? And you know, growth hormone is going to at at a lower dose going to help with your recovery, possibly um possibly um build a little bit better tissue as a result of that improved recovery, maybe help with some recmping effect, uh losing a little bit of fat in the process. Um so the longer you can do that, the better. You know, I I I think that, you know, if if you were a competitive bodybuilder and your goal was to compete again in one year, then we would have to say, all right, well, you know, when's the most important time to run it? Well, we could we could run high dose through, you know, your your your cycle. We could even look at like what did Chase Iron say on on uh that interview that we clipped in on drugs and stuff this past week, I believe it was. He said that, you know, running high dose to break through a plateau like a a size plateau could be helpful. You know, there's there's an option like that, but for you, man. And and then of course, contest prep itself. It's it's a great tool for helping to improve fullness and recovery um you know, while while still dieting really hard for a contest prep. um for you, man. I I think that the longer you can get those benefits just the better because you're talking about what you're doing as a a lifestyle thing. You're looking to continue losing fat and build as much muscle as you can in the process of fat loss being the prime the prime objective. You know, that muscle mass is going to come on long term over the over the long haul. You'll keep building muscle. You know, there's no question on that. Um, you know, we keep the protein up high. You're getting the the the uh the trigger from training. So, you're going to gain muscle in the process. I'm sure that two, three units of growth is only going to help with that. [snorts] Yeah. ZH as long as you can afford it. Really wish I could afford HGH lol. Too many family obligations. Hey, totally understandable. And listen, man, it's not the end of the world. I I don't think that GH is as big of a factor for most of us as we would like to believe. And that's even the farm grade stuff. I've used farm grade GH, you know, at at seven units uh in the past. It was strong, right? Um but I I didn't really notice a major difference between that and hydroropen which I had been running up to switching to uh the humatropes. [snorts] What would you consider to be uh good maintenance muscle building? Okay. What would you consider a good approach for a maintenance muscle building phase? establish a baseline where strength is advancing but weight stays relatively consistent. Um, or looking to gain.5 pounds per week. Well, I can tell you what, man. If you're gaining.5 pounds per week, some of that is not going to be muscle. I I I think it's I I I think it's like like I I think that we're gaining I mean that's well maybe it's possible. I feel like here's what I've seen and for advanced guys [snorts] for advanced guys I think we're lucky to get on stage and I've seen this in a lot of people you know five to seven pounds heavier the next year in the same condition that's a huge win that's over the course of a year you know I'd say that if we can gain a pound per month that that's incredible you know a pound of real muscle like real muscle. I'm not talking about the water, the glycogen, the that goes along with that, the body fat that comes along from being in a surplus. So, I'd say that first. Um, [snorts] here's how I would get to establishing that maintenance, though. The first thing we would do is find out what um what it takes for you to lose fat. I imagine that you're probably already pretty lean if you're looking to get into this stage. I just start adding food back in slowly. And I might not add it in every day either. I find that we're more likely to get fat from uh adding in daily calories or daily carbs across the board, seven days a week at a certain point, than we are through adding it in on specific days. Let's say you train four days a week and you're doing like a real heavy progressive overload type thing. I mean, we might start with adding let let's say that you were dieting. Let's say that you're still losing fat right now. That's where I'd want you to get you. If if you're not there, that's the first thing I would do is get you into a position where you're losing fat. And then from there, um, assuming that your body fat was where we wanted it to be, like you like at first when you start dieting, you're going to lose easy fat, I call it, you know, like the weight just starts coming off. Some of it's water retention, but some of it's fat and some of it's putting you into a better position for fat loss. And you can keep doing that long term. After you've gotten into the condition you want to be, then it's as simple as add in 50 grams of carbs on training days, maybe. I I mean maybe the the the dose is going to be different depending on um how many carbs you can handle, but let's say you're eating 200 carbs right now and you're also you're getting leaner, the scales going down and we want to arrest that. We want to try to now stabilize. I would start with 50 grams of carbs on training days. It's simple as that. And then I would see what happens. See, you know, have we arrested the scale from dropping? you know, is are are you now stabilized? Um, I'd try to keep those carbs around training. I'd want to make sure that you're getting plenty of nutrition in all Perry, you know, pre-intra and post. Have the most amount of energy you can going into training. And then from there, I would probably build carbs up like post training after that. Um, but yeah, just as simple as that, man. You know, just if you're if you're in a fat loss state, add 50 grams of carbs to training days and see what happens from there. All right, what else do we have? [snorts] I know what this is in reference to. Bill's getting ready to do his first show. You are not as big as you think you are. Yeah. So, Bill got up to like 300 lb this offseason and um we started dieting him down and now he's like 225. Lost a lot a lot of size, you know, through that process. But I don't think he lost much muscle in the process to be completely honest. It's just been a a case of slowly whittling him down and as he's as he's lost fat, you know, he's he's lost some size. A lot of it was he holds a Bill's got an interesting response to um like storing he like hypers stores nutrients in the muscle. We could put 15 pounds on him in in a very short period of time just filling that muscle back out with glycogen. Like he's it's crazy what he can store. But what I'm finding is though on stage like for stage look it he doesn't look hard enough when we do that. So, you know, we got to keep him that hard and grainy look. And to do that, he's around that 225 mark. So, yeah, I'll tell you what, if you guys haven't competed before, we're never as big as we think we are by the time we get to the show. But then you find out this, you find out you don't need to be the biggest guy to be successful at a bodybuilding show. You just have to be the best shape. And, you know, have good presentation helps a lot, too. Um yeah, [snorts] he's got what's the highest you've pushed T3 and for how long um is it usually run for? So I mean the two different questions there because the highest that I've run it was [snorts] 2005 maybe and I would not do that again. Uh the information I got was from the message boards that you could run it up to like a 100 micrograms. And so I, you know, comp just slowly moved it up to that 100. And um I definitely lost a lot of fat in the process. Um did I lose muscle? You know, I mean, I definitely got stringier, that's for sure. I wouldn't do that anymore, though. You know, it doesn't preferentially um just target fat. It's going to target everything. I think that and there's a lot more people who have gotten on board with this now. We just keep T3 at a replacement dose and I think that that's where it's best suited. You know, we maybe push up a little higher from that at times, but you know, even 15 20 micrograms depending on the person. You know, get some lab work done to see what you need to be in a good strong healthy optimal level. But, you know, somewhere in there 15 to 25, maybe 30 micrograms on average is enough to get you there. And then here's the beauty of it. It's kind of like this that, you know, as we diet, um, our body does not want to lose body fat. Our body wants to hold on. It our body is it's like it just wants everything to stay the same. It doesn't want [\h__\h] to change, you know? So, it'll do what it can to help maintain where you're at, including lower your your thyroid output. So, what ends up happening is then we can counteract that by trying to work in, you know, higher carb days, load days, stuff like that. Um, reducing stress. But I think ultimately though we're we're best suited for just uh you know keeping keeping things stable and at at a good healthy humming along level so that when you do uh when you do reduce the calories, we know that your T3 level is just going to straight across. It's not being affected by that. So we're no longer, you know, um we're no [clears throat] longer constrained to like the dynamics of your body, right? Like we can overcome your body's attempt to find that homeostasis by just keeping that thyroid level moving along and then we don't have to depend on natural production anymore. So that's where I think the beauty of T3 can come in. [snorts] Yeah, Bill said you find that out quick when you get lean that you're not as big as you think you are. And that's the thing though, too, like you know, until you compete, then you realize like you don't have to be the biggest guy. And I know we all we all mostly talk about the really big guys here, right? Because that's the pro level of bodybuilding. But get involved at the local level. You'll see some middleweights that are just freaking tearing it up. you know, guys that literally middleweight is 176 pounds. You go go see some middleweights at the national level. These guys that are literally like 175 pounds, just crazy looking, you know? They're Some of these guys are nuts. their their biceps might be 15 inches, but that bicep next to a tiny waist, you know, that the the the bicep, it looks like it's six inches across, but then the waist looks like it's three inches across. There's a huge illusion. [snorts] You don't have to be massive to win a show. You really don't. So, you figure it out. You figure it out after you get to your first contest. Um, are we seeing GH RAWs from overseas being affected similarly to other RAWs with the crackdowns and shutdowns? So far, I have not. Um, I I've still seen GH not being an issue, but you guys tell me. Uh, it might just be the sources I'm familiar with. Excited for you, Scott. Um, you are uh you have good advisors around you. Uh, keep up the great work. You actually post more content than I can keep up with nowadays. Oh, thanks, man. [snorts] What else do we have here? Anything else? I'm gonna have to I'm gonna have to hit it otherwise. Oral BPC for diverticulitis. Um, I haven't used it for this in particular. But I have found though with like guys with um digestive issues, I've I've seen them have benefits with it. It's not something that I would say like, "Oh, this is something I specialize in." Um but I would definitely say to to give it a go. You know what? If Parabolic still with us, uh he would he would definitely be the man to ask. And you can ask him questions too anytime you guys want. Great show. 55 years old. Started bodybuilding diet lifestyle in 2021. Was 307 pounds when I started. Now at 190. Do you think it is possible to put on new tissue at my age? Keith, absolutely, man. [snorts] Yeah. Yeah. Especially if you're, you know, if you're at least on TRT or maybe even if not. I I I don't even know if we necessarily need high test to grow muscle. I've seen people who have low test that are doing just fine. I've seen guys that are like, "Hey, I never knew that my test was low, but I never had any libido issues and I'm building muscle, so it's never been a problem. I don't want to use that stuff." Okay, fine. You know, I'd say that. Yeah, but yeah, the key is is that you got to be careful. Um, and you know, you're working against the clock now. It's around that mid30 age that our bodies start to break down and then it's just a slow decline over time. But I do believe that bodybuilding is the opposite of that. It's the fountain of youth. We can hold on to as much muscle as possible through exercising it. And you can build in the process, especially with peeds. The weekly episodes you've been doing with Scott Stevenson are my absolute favorite. Thank you for imparting such priceless knowledge. Thank you. So, Kevin, I'll tell you, not everybody's a huge fan of uh Muscle Minds with Scott Stevenson. It's just because he goes super deep on stuff. Um, and I get it. I get lost too sometimes, but he he always kind of brings it around and [snorts] I I always listen to the shows twice because I edit them, right? So, I I listen as he's talking and then I listen as I'm editing. Sometimes I listen to it a third time getting the timestamps later. But um yeah, you know, you you don't have to understand everything completely in order to learn from that show. I have learned so much about training. In fact, I would say that I've learned more about training from Scott Stevenson than I have anybody else in the last five years that he is an incredible wealth of knowledge in really all things bodybuilding. But um especially training, you know, is uh it really is cool. [snorts] It's just there's so many there's so many levels to it, especially now that we're looking at recovery. What should I know about NP before going in? Thank you for doing this. You're the man. Keep it up. What should [snorts] you know? Well, n 19 no, right? It's uh like the faster acting form of Deca, but it's not super fast acting by any means. Um I would say that I you guys tell me you ever do like two two time a week shots with MPP. I I never have, but I think you could almost get away with that. I've done um generally every other day or three times a week with it. I found that to be okay. I I do feel like maybe it's because it kicks in faster. Um but I do feel like more of like a punch from NPP than I do from Deca. I also don't get the same side effects. I imagine that may have something to do with the amount that I'm using. I've always found that a lower dose of MPPP tends to give me a good pop. Um versus Nandra like Deca. You could run a higher it's easier to run a higher dose of Deca. concentration is usually higher per mill per milliliter. Um, yeah. [snorts] Whoa. I lost 30 pounds on DMP in a month. Clen never worked at all for me. It definitely isn't trash. Maybe the DMP you bought was trash. Somebody else said DMP is trash. Yeah. Yeah, it definitely works, man. You got to be careful with it, though. there's no way to um there's no way to to shut off that uh the the effects. So, if you take too much, you literally cook yourself from the inside out. So, you got to be real careful with it. Is it's one of the few things that truly is dangerous in our sport. Um do you find that your approach to supplements and workouts has changed as you become a more mature bodybuilder? things that work for 20somes um that don't work for 40omes. Yeah, man. Huge difference. Huge difference for me. In fact, like I told you guys earlier, some of my training is just like three sets of chest, three sets of shoulders, three sets of triceps, done. And well, and my core work, right? And that's it. And I'm making progress doing that. Um is that ideal for a 20-year-old who's looking to grow as much muscle as possible? Absolutely not. Right? You know, there's there's a lot of um there's a lot of things that I think have they have to get changed over time. I didn't understand what I like how much volume I was capable of ever ever when I was younger. I just did as much as I possibly could until I like I trained until I couldn't train anymore, you know? And uh and then from there, I just uh took more gear. Like literally that was the way we tried to handle things. I think that I think that I think that you can get away with a lot more mistakes when you're younger and still make progress because I still was able to make progress. You know, I I never was a huge bodybuilder, but like if you compare yourself, if you're a competitive light heavyweight, meaning you're holding close to 200 pounds of lean muscle, meaning that that's without any body fat at all, you're probably in some of the best shape out of like you're in a high percentile of your state. Like everybody in your state, you get everybody's composition together, you're probably in like the top 1%, right? We still look at it as, well, he's not a good bodybuilder. You know, we we we were very critical on ourselves. Um, but I still was able to be that guy in spite of myself, you know, when I was younger. Um, that said, I'm glad now that I've learned a lot of this stuff over the years because the things that are absolutely necessary for me still do apply to the guys that are younger that maybe they don't have to do what I did. You know, maybe they don't have to grow in spite of what they're doing. Maybe they can actually figure out what's truly going to work for them optimally. I think that'd be a lot better place. Dne, what's up? Question for my growth phase. Uh, what do you do when you hit a wall with food? Digestion issues, stomach pain, force feeding. How long do you realistically push the growth phase? I hit the wall at 24 weeks. That's a long time to having been just ramping the food up, man. I [snorts] would say honestly I try to not get to that point really. You know I I if I'm working on somebody's complete offseason we're starting say from the time that they finish a contest, right? So we finish the contest and now we're in that reverse phase. Some people can handle a lot of food at once. Some people have to take it real slow. Over the course of the next eight weeks though, you're getting you stabilized to the point where you're not, you know, sleeping, dreaming about food. You know, sleep is good. Again, takes usually, you know, six, eight weeks to get your sleep stabilized after a contest if you've had issues with it. Um, I still want you to be super hungry at that eight weeks post show. And I want to keep that hunger up like through this whole through this whole process, man. you know, I I I don't want you to be force-feeding. In fact, if you get to the point where your appetite starts going down, because that's something I try to track each week with people. If their appetite goes down, I'll adjust the food. We might even pull it back for a couple weeks. You know, I think that if you have a lot of food that you're trying to digest over the course of the long haul, I'm going to use the word inflammation. You know, you just get all your guts and everything, it just it gets to a point where it's just too much. And being able to reduce that food, give you a break. I'm not going to go as far as to say intermittent fasting, but intermittent fasting could be a factor there. Just spending a couple weeks though just getting your digestion back on track and building the hunger back up. That's what I want. If somebody's completely like if they come to me and they are completely like, "Oh man, I completely hit a wall." You know, there's no going forward here. I'm burping up my food. Takes me hours to eat. Like, excuse me. We're going to cut back right away. Um, and I specifically will look to cut back fats because I want to speed your digestion up. If we can reduce, if you have a good amount of fats in your diet, sometimes just by pulling those fats out, give you, you know, a week and you'll be starving again, even with high carbs. I found that for myself, I would build my diet up with clean food and then I would start adding in more healthy fats to just push the calories up higher. But those healthy fats would also bog my digestion down. I found for myself, I can handle a huge amount of carbs if my fats are real low. So, high protein, high carbs, low fats. It's the way I always was able to diet well. And I find that unless somebody has like a major propensity to store body fat, a lot of people do well with that kind of a diet, but the fats sometimes have to be super super low in order to make that work. Um but yeah, I I wouldn't want somebody to be stuck in that position. Not for long. That in fact that to me that's the kiss of death for an offseason is when you you're stuffed like that. [snorts] I've lost approximately 100 pounds over the last 12 months and a hard time with strength loss that's come with it. This channel and others have been great help. Just wanted to say thank you. Right on, man. Glad to have you, brother. >> [snorts] >> Thoughts on two to three units of GH added to a cycle for at least a year? I've heard coaches say don't use GH less than 4 IU because you'll notice nothing much. H I don't know, man. I'd say, you know, I'd say that minimum two to three units, but I wouldn't expect a ton from it. I guess it goes back to, you know, Steve asked earlier, you know, what's what's the minimum effective timing for uh running GH? I think and my first question to him is what's your goal? [snorts] Um, I wouldn't have a problem with it. Would you experience with two to three units for a year, would you experience more out of four units? Possibly. Yeah. you know, duh, it's more, right? You know, you know that, though. So, I'd try it, though. See what you think. It's kind of a weird one. You know, some some people they they I I think some people get more out of growth than others, too. So, I'd keep that in mind. And then, of course, there's there's brands. I've got a guy that I work with who was taking 4 IU and uh he switched brands and we were working on a growth phase. He's 180 lbs, 182, something like that. Switches brands and all of a sudden he and we're moving up slowly like he was like 179, then 180, then 181, 181, then 182, 182, 183, and then we changed the growth and boom, 188, 190. Like, holy crap. So, sometimes it depends on the growth, too. I mean, he may just be experiencing more sides. We're not sure yet, but some growth I found does make people hold more water than others. I don't know if that necessarily means it's better. Um, but you know, it is a consideration the strength of your growth. [snorts] These are all generics, by the way. What aspects of diet, nutrition, training, and supplements don't matter as much when you are young, but become very important as you age? Man, that's a great question. I'd say that when you're young and and it define young, [snorts] young could be a 15year-old kid, 16-year-old high school kid who's playing football. I think for him, um, just getting in plenty of carbs, getting in plenty of food, and making sure that his protein is at a certain level would be, you know, a good idea. making sure he's getting at least like a gram gram of protein, maybe one to two grams of protein per pound of body weight, I'll say, period. You know, if he's if he's 170 pounds, let's say, like a guy a guy that I work with who's a high school football player, aspiring bodybuilder, he's 18 years old now. We started a year ago. Um, he's probably eating 230 grams of He's a special case. He's eating a very strict diet. But I I don't expect all kids to do that. I'd say the first thing though is just protein. And that's that's really [snorts] I mean that's going to be important all the way through. Don't matter as much when you're younger, but become very important as you age. I'm trying to think. I just I guess that you can just get away with more when you're younger than you can when you get older. I think too I think that people's digestion gets more sensitive with age. So you may tolerate foods that don't digest well better when you're younger versus when you get older. I've seen that with people that maybe somebody who has some sensitivities, they get even more sensitive as they age. >> [snorts] >> I think that if you can get somebody's digestion running really smooth using foods that all digest really well, I think that those things are, you know, those things do become more important as we get older. Would they benefit a younger guy? Absolutely. But they they become more important as we age. What do you think if just DECA cycle? It's like a DECA only cycle. Not a fan personally. Would you prefer 800 test 700 EQ or 800 test 700 EQ? Wait for lean bulk cycle. 800 test with 700 EQ or 800 test with 700 EQ. I am so lost here. I had to read that twice. Uh either [snorts] Yeah. Okay. I'm not going crazy, right? That's what he said, guys. 800 test 700 EQ or 800 test 700 EQ. Yeah. I don't know, man. Pick one. [snorts] All right. Anything else here? Okay. Yeah. How about this one? You said a while ago uh that you tweaked your form on barbell rows and started growing your back with it. Um, do you plan to do a tutorial video on that anytime soon? I actually I have a series of tutorial videos that um I have just shared uh with my clients. I don't know if I have any uh that I can share with you guys. Let me see here. Let me see if I can find something. Give me just a second here. >> [snorts and clears throat] >> It's been a a big It was a huge huge game changer for me figuring out my back training. And that that's when I really realized too that Let's see. There we go. That's when I realized too that it, you know, back isn't just genetics. It's It's really comes down to maybe it's genetics, but yeah, I can't find it offhand. I You know what though? I I I'll I'll drop a link in later. Um, let's see here. Yeah, it's not letting me sign in at the moment. [snorts] Let's see if this works. Yeah, I do have a couple videos though and I I I haven't posted that any of that stuff in a while. Okay. Yeah, I can't get into my account right now. Anyway, that's something I could definitely circle back around to. What else do we have here? I think it really comes down to a couple factors. The direction of your elbows is huge. Full range of motion is huge. Um, for me, it wasn't just a barbell row. It would be a combination of my rowing technique and my pull down technique. I found that I always kind of stopped shy of a full stretch. That was a big factor. That was a big mistake I met made. If your arm still is bent, if you have if you get up to the top of the pull down and your arm is still like this, you're holding tension in that bicep, you know, and ultimately I want to be able to um activate the target muscle first in a compound movement. If I'm constantly holding tension like isometrically through that whole set that the bicep never relaxes, I feel like a lot of times the the bicep is going to fail before the back does. So I want to make sure that I can activate the target muscle first. So that requires what I call the like hanging from a bridge stretch. I want to be able to completely just like dangle from a bridge stretch. arm is completely straight and then when I pull down, I used to pull down out to here. You know, you see a lot of people, they pull down like this, right? They pull down like this. I found that I wanted to track my elbows in front of me. So, I pull down like this and I get that all the way down. Boom. And then at down here, I'm really able to squeeze that freaking lower lat. You know what I'm talking about? I can feel that right now. It's a good feeling. So I found that was absolutely critical. Then I found full stretch on the dumbbell row. Let that scapula protract. You know, I think a lot of times because we try to handle a weight that's too heavy for us, there might be a little bit bend in that arm. You're kind of musling it. So you lower that weight down and then you pull it back up. You lower that weight down, you pull it back up. I want to be able to protract that scapula. And I'm not talking about like just twisting your whole body. I'm talking about just boom. That's a full stretch for a lat, right? And then because I wanted to really target that lower lat, I'm going to keep that elbow in real tight like right here. Pull that all the way in. And another cue, I take my thumb and I try to touch it to my hipbone. Right. every time I come up. That way I know I'm getting that full range of motion, keeping that elbow in real tight. You know, that's that to me was the critical factors to growing my back immensely. Like it was a gamecher. Six months later, it was like crap, why didn't I discover this sooner? And I've since seen a lot of people make good progress following that stuff. [snorts] Hey, we got another super chat here. Doug Myers, thank you very much, man. Says, uh, thank you for all you do to help us reach our goals. It's my my pleasure, man. I'm too tall for a full stretch on some lat pull downs. Yes, I've seen guys like you, man. Yeah, Doug Myers there. Uh, I helped him. uh we worked together for number of years and uh I'm helping his son now who's doing absolutely incredible. He's making some really good progress. Um, but yeah, being too tall. I So, I've seen one of the big mistakes I've seen and this is like especially during the like the lockdowns and then after that, a lot of people started training from home and uh I I'm the the pulld downs, the home machines are a lot shorter. I've had guys like I had a a former professional basketball player who's turned bodybuilder training at my house. Dude is incredible, by the way. Like natural athlete, beautiful muscle bellies, super tall guy. He sits down in my pull down machine and his arms go up and he's at the top. Like it is he just had too much wingspan for my machine. And then I see guys that would buy the like the prime handles and that prime handle is a whole contraption on top of a contraption connected by you know it like it you lose another 8 in of stretch. So, in a lot of cases, you have to, you know, with home machines, I've seen people be limited, especially um what I would suggest is that if you do find that you are super tall, the best handle to use is the straight traditional bar because once you put any other handle on there, you're extending the length of that, you know, the cable down. You want that cable to be as short as possible. So, like the traditional pull down straight bar, you know, that's as as close to um being at the like full range as you can get. Unfortunately, for a guy like you, I think you're going to have to find another machine in order to get that that full range of motion. I've seen that happen, but most commercial gyms, I think, will be able to handle you. [snorts] When it comes to the back, watch Samir Ben workout. I bet, man. Yeah, Samir had an incredible back. Should I be concerned that I hold about 15 pounds of fluid when I run 5 IU of generic GH? Um, it's probably not good, man. I mean, I guess it depends on how big you are, [snorts] how much muscle do you have, how does it look on you. I think that um [snorts] I think that I would I I don't know. There's a lot of questions I have. Did you immediately start just straight into five IU and you gain this much water weight or did you start lower and slowly build it up? Um, I have seen people have issues. You know, progesterone levels can go high. Prolactin levels can go high. I knew a guy who got gyno and actually had to get it cut out due to being on a low dose of test and then added in the growth. Boom. He got it. I've seen it happen to more than one person. Oh, [snorts] he's 240. Visible six-pack. So, Christopher is freaking First of all, he's legit. This dude's like legit bodybuilder size. How tall are you, Chris? is a big dude. So, it's not like he's holding a ton of body fat, you know, because that was my first question. If he's like, you know, 30% body fat and now he's gained 15 pounds of water, that's not going to be a good look at all. was running 3IIU for a while during a growth phase. No gyno. So, it sounds like he went up to the five from three. [snorts] Man, I guess it depends on how it looks on you. And and and what's it a he's 5'11, so a little bit taller, but a very big dude, you know, you got visible abs at 240. At 5'11, he's got a lot of muscle on him. Man, I would watch your blood pressure, you know, see how that see how that's going. Um, and and as somebody else mentioned, it may come down. Carlo said, "Your body will stabilize after 3 to four weeks and you will lose the water." That is the case with me when I started GH. Yeah, it's possible, man. He may he may start coming back down water weight after he gets used to it. Or maybe not. But you could find out for yourself. Um, if only ever run TRT dose at 150 milligrams, would you suggest pushing test up for the first time before considering additional compounds? I have DHB, NPP, and Anavar on hand, but in no rush. Want to do it right. Troy, that's a great question, man. Um, I would say if you're at 150 test doing well with that, I would first probably increase the test on its own and see what you get out of it. [snorts] You could literally double that dose. Go to 300 milligrams and you will get a strong effect from it. You will grow from that. Um, you will want to check your estrogen levels, too. I'd give it three weeks. No, three weeks at that dose. See where you're at. If you're prone to gyno, then just watch that. If you if you find and maybe you don't know if you're prone, if you don't you you haven't run a cycle before, I just keep an eye on it. If you notice that you start getting sensitivity at the nipple, um if if the nipple starts feeling tender to the touch, um or just super sensitive or painful or itchy, then I would definitely take a milligram of arimedex ASAP and then get your labs done ASAP. just check your your estrogen levels. You don't need to get uh an ultra sensitive estrogen test. You can just get a standard estrogen test. Um some of these places are charging like 10 bucks for that. See where you're at and then from there you may need a lowd dose AI. But I mean realistically you should be able to a lot of people would be able to get away with 300 tests without an AI. Um, if you're holding a lot of water from it, you know, you could add a little bit of an AI, too. But I, yeah, I'd just start there, man. I I think you could gain an incredible amount of muscle off of just doubling that dose. Let's see. I'm on 15. I use a generic HGH. Huh? That has manitol in it, which is a diuretic. It literally flattens me out. Never heard of that before. Huh. And Christopher said that his blood pressure is going good. So, yeah, man. I mean, I I'd have to see you, too. Like how does that 15 lbs of of water look on you? How is the supply situation is all still scarce? I mean I haven't heard any updates for the good. I have heard that there are um underground labs like some of the big European underground labs and Chinese labs are um they're working on getting the licensing to do everything legally themselves. So they don't have to even worry about uh sourcing raw powders. They can just get it themselves. There's already, I believe, one that does and there's another that's that's working on it. So, I don't think that it's going to completely dry up, but it will definitely limit us. You know, it'll limit our supply, that's for sure. Five IU every eight uh every day or eight IU five days a week in the offseason. Bigger. Is it worth it? The bigger peak of the IGF. I you know what [snorts] I think that across the board I bet you that your IGF levels are if if it's that if that works out to being the same IUs per week, which I think it does, I bet you that your IGF levels are probably going to be relatively similar. you know, you get those higher spikes five days a week, but then you also get GH on the sixth and seventh day, which you wouldn't have otherwise. So, I I don't know. I I really don't know to be completely honest with you, but I don't think it's going to be major. Like I don't think that it's such a difference uh Leonardo. I don't think it's such a difference that like if we had a vacuum with you doing 8 IUs 5 days and 5 IU 7 days we could compare the results. I don't think it would be such a difference that it would you know we'd be like oh this is the answer. I think that it would be like more or less the same. That'd be my guess at least. I was wondering the same about IGF. If you had to run one over the other, HGH or IGF, which would you prefer and why? Okay, so you know, we talked about this when we had the gorilla chemist on. Um, so through when we take GH, you know, obviously we're getting growth hormone, but then through basically like a cascade of of hormones, we end up with IGF increase. Um, from my understanding, what I learned through listening to Dr. Eric Serrano, who was John Meadow's doctor, um, and and also Ronda Patrick, Dr. Ronda Patrick, my understanding is that there is a series of checks and balances that we get um from growth hormone that doesn't allow IGF to go unfettered at at growing cells. That basically, you know, IGF will will what IGF wants to do that we don't want it to do is it will continue to grow a mutated cell. We have cells that mutate through our bodies constantly and a a healthy body will uh will destroy those mutated cells. They'll kill them off will kill them off. IGF on the other hand may strengthen those mutating cells so that they don't die that they continue to grow. And if that happens that's cancer. Mutated cells that continue to grow are cancer. We don't want that. Um, from my understanding, when we're using growth hormone, there is a series of checks and balances that occur that don't allow IGF to just hit the cell unfettered. On the other hand, if you just have pure straight IGF hitting the cell that it may continue to grow a cell that would have otherwise died. So, just keep that in mind. I would prefer to use growth and and to elevate my IGF levels through growth hormone versus just directly elevating my IGF levels. That's that'd be my answer. Now, there's a whole conversation there. You know, Dr. Rhonda Patrick um did I think a lot of her doctoral research on IGF and uh she has a good talk that she called the IGF trade-off where [snorts] you know on one side of it they had uh mice that had low IGF and those mice lived much longer than the mice that had high IGF on the other hand they didn't have as much muscle mass and their quality of life was lower right they couldn't move themselves throughout the world the way a stronger, fitter mouse could, but that stronger, fitter mouse with higher IGF levels also lived shorter. So, it's a trade-off. Just out of topic question, lol. Do you have any kids? I bet you would be it. That would be cool to have a dad into bodybuilding and roids. Wish my dad was interested in this whole thing. No, I have no children. We've got a puppy. Well, she's not a puppy anymore. She's like eight, but she's still a puppy to us. Um, my dad was into he wasn't directly into bodybuilding, but my mom and dad both lifted and uh my mom actually had a good back on her and they were friends with people that were into bodybuilding. This was back in the 80s. So, I was raised around the gym and gym culture. Um, it was, you know, it was different back then. It was a different different time. Uh, but yeah, their their friends encouraged my mom to compete and she she never wanted to. Um, but yeah, it's it's uh, you know, and I do know people who who do use gear that have kids and I I think that's the best way if kids going to get into that stuff, it's good to have some direction versus most of us, I think, came into it learning online or learning from our friends. Do you think Metformin uh, became obsolete? Yeah. So, you know, with RETA coming in, yeah, I think that our need for um glucose disposal agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agents like metformin is a lot lower right nowadays. I never really cared for metformin in general. I was more of or still am more of a fan of bourberine, [sighs] you know. Yeah. I don't think that we need it nearly as much, though. We can get around it. IGF-1 LR3 is way cheaper than GH. [snorts] Uh, he names some prices. Um, I've seen prices cheaper than that, Justin. But, you know, regardless, what are you getting out of, you know, a milligram of IGF LR3? And I don't know how effective LR3 is, honestly, compared to say like Inkrylex. I I just I really don't know. >> [snorts] >> I did talk to um a pro who uh did some very expensive experimentation with Inklex. He said that he felt like he got incredible pumps from it, like incredible hardness, fullness of the muscle from straight ink. Was it worth it? He said he didn't think so. [snorts] Yeah, IGF LR3 is not the same as IGF-1. I, [snorts] you know, I think there could be some merit to IGF, but um I I definitely think that just running it unfettered without growth hormone, there's there's some question in there as to, you know, what what's that going to do long term? I actually know a guy who was a big fan of IGF. Now, I'm not saying this is the reason, but he did he did end up with brain cancer and he is no longer with us. And I just can't help but wonder how long was he running high IGF and rips. He was using rip tropins. How long was he using that stuff before he realized what was going on, you know? [snorts] just turned 50 and struggling to drop the weight. Derek, what's up, man? Yeah, I I'd say that uh first step is just get on the treadmill, man. Just get that cardio going. Don't be afraid. Start with 30 minutes a day, five days a week. Take it from there. You know, I I I started cardio toward the beginning of Janu, middle of January, and uh fell back in love with it. I love the way I feel after getting, you know, 30 minutes, 45 minutes in, getting a good sweat going. There's it feels so satisfying. It's making me healthier. You know, cardio is going to help you to improve your insulin sensitivity directly. It's going to help you to better burn fat all throughout the rest of the day, too. It's it's a no-brainer. Get on the cardio. You will build better. You'll digest better. You'll handle more food. You'll process the food and use it where you you know, put it where you want it. Um I I definitely think though it all starts with just getting on the treadmill. Doesn't have to be intense cardio at first. You know, I started at uh walking at 3 miles an hour on a level three and now I'll um I'll boost that up to like a level six to a level seven and I'm just freaking cranking. And I'm also doing intense cardio with the rower and I'll just do like a 20 minute maybe a 30 minute session with the rower. Those are freaking brutal, man. Let me tell you. [snorts] What dose of injectable alcarnitine is the best for fat lost and is it best subq? I know you enjoy using it. I got to get back on it. So parabolic had given me some um high dose. He has like an 850 milligram stuff. I haven't used it yet and from what I understand it's not painful. Um, so when I first started coming up through bodybuilding and learning about injectable lcarnitine, I'd always been told 600 milligrams was the dose to go with. And at the time that was 3 milliliters. It was a lot. So I never messed with it. I was like, I'm already taking enough gear. I don't need to take all this on top of it. It's another shot, a daily shot at that. I started experimenting with it with the the long bug and and helping to basically improve my my energy levels and clear the brain fog is what I found it did. Um, in fact, I don't think I knew anybody else honestly that that was talking about improving cognitive function with Lcarnitine before I was talking about that. I just never did. Um, I and but I am hearing it more now. So, I feel like we're we're all kind of seeing more of its benefits, but I found that even 300 milligrams would do the trick for me. I found that using Lcarnitine, like I and I know you guys have said this, too, a lot of us will sweat a lot on LCAR, right? Uh while we're training and doing cardio. So, I I started with 600 and then I started backing it down. And I was like, well, if I can get this off 600, can I be cheap and save some by using less? What's how about 450? I think that after I got it built up in my system that um even 300 was beneficial. That said, I I would probably error toward that little bit higher, 500, 600, and start there. See what you think and um and run that for a week. And then um you know from there if you want to back it down, see if you still get a good effect from less then then go ahead and do that. You could also supplement in uh oral Lcarnitine on days that you don't want to take a shot. So let's say that you you get it loaded up in your system for a week and then after that let's say you train four days a week. Well, maybe you just take a shot four days a week and then you use 2,000 milligrams of a strong bioavailable version like acetal lcarnitine. 2,000 milligrams of that orally on your non-training days. I do think you can keep those levels up, you know, that way without having to deal with the daily shots. [snorts] What's up, Jake? I think I heard you were planning on competing soon or competing at 26, man. Oh, yeah. Subq. So, I experimented with subq. I think that when you're doing lower doses, it's more tolerable, but I think that it generally does sit better in the muscle. I've done okay with it. Um, I've had some shots that end up welting up. Here's the thing, too. If you get a shot that tends to be more painful and welt up, it's going to be more likely to do so. Subq, it's a lot more forgiving to put it in the muscle. So, I would say that uh Yeah. Yeah. So, Total Science said uh pin deep into your shoulders. Yeah. He says don't go subq. I mean, like I said, I've been able to tolerate it, but it's not what I would suggest to other people. When I've done it subq, it's been when I've done like 300 milligrams, and even then there was some irritation. Could I get away with it? Yeah. You know, but was [snorts] it ideal? Is it ideal for most people? I don't think so. Um, if you'd want to update upgrade peaking and contest prep knowledge nowadays, who would you go to? Asking for a friend, lol. But Andrew Barry comes to mind, Callum, etc. Yeah, I think that we talk about that kind of stuff a lot here on the channel, uh, especially on Blood, Sweat, and Gear. But the thing with peing somebody is that it's it's it's a very uh personspecific situation. Um you know, one guy he he may already have his food built back up. You know, a lot of times I want to try to get somebody in shape early so that we have about a month left to relax. We pull the cardio back. We we fill them up and spill them, right? Like a month out. And then from there, you know, two, three weeks, we we pull that back. We dry it out. And then we can kind of coast in without having to load hard. We can usually then, and here's the way I see it is like if you take a sponge and you just dunk it in water, it's resistant. It bounces back out at first. But if you've already soaked that sponge, then you know which like four weeks out we start adding a bunch of carbs. Then we dry you back out and then when we need to load for the show, you're already used to those carbs and and you don't need as many to get absorbed back out. You know, it's easy. Put that sponge back in the water, sucks the wa the sucks the water back up immediately. I feel like our body is very similar with carbs. If we've been dieting for 18 weeks, food's been low, don't expect to fill back out in a couple days. You know, it's going to take you a while. And you've heard people say like, "Oh, I look so much better after the contest." You know, it's after they went out and they ate a burger that night. And maybe they're not as dry as they were. That's also a factor. But the muscle gets its most volumized after you start adding more food back in for a little while. It can be a week after the show that somebody's really fully volumized. So, I like to do that a month out and then from there, you know, drying back out into the show, you know, two, three weeks out now. Then from there, we don't have to do a lot. We might be able to even just use like their regular training day carbs and and cardio is low. Um, you know, it's uh and if they're absolutely peeled, a lot of times we don't need to do a lot with water. Sometimes just bumping the water up makes a difference, but then other times it doesn't. Sometimes you still need diuretics. So, you know, I like to practice with diuretics ahead of time. Try to use as little as possible. See what kind of effect you get. You can experiment with all these things if you're in shape early. That's the critical factor. You got to be in shape early. Worst case scenario, man, is that you you haven't had time to test any of this stuff and now it's time for the show and everything banks on getting it right. Like, I would much rather have the time to know. And you put all the work into this thing, right? You want to you want to have some level of um confidence knowing what you're going to get versus just dogma to say that we add carbs and you look fuller and then we cut water and you look drier, you know, like let's see, do we really need to do all that stuff? Sometimes you don't. [snorts] I talked about the DHB earlier. Um, Armsbr says, "Uh, one question I have, which is, uh, a good one. We never talked about, what situation do you use test probe?" I can't find anyone that talks about using it in a cycle. Well, [snorts] I think that Skip and Andrew both talked about switching to test probe as they got closer to shows. Um, skip also is a fan of combining test probe with test sip or test e during just a standard cycle. I'm not as big of a fan of test probe. I found that we don't need to switch to prope to get you dry. It just it doesn't need to happen. Um, but we do have to control estrogen. So, there is that. I I I overall I I think it's an outdated notion that that you have to go to fast acting esters leading into a contest. Yeah, I I really do. Um maybe that's why you don't hear as much about it. Also, people tend to dose stuff higher nowadays, right? And if you're only getting 100 milligrams per milliliter, it's a lot more logistics. [snorts] Hey Scott, I'm from Patreon. Congrats on the comeback. You look incredible. Any tips for tingling hands on higher doses of GH other than lowering the dose? What's up, Kyle? Glad to have you here, man. Thanks for your support over on Patreon. And uh by the way, I'm going to probably wrap up soon. But I do want to say for anybody who's still hanging with me. If you haven't hit the like button, please do because that's one way that you can for free, absolutely free, help me out. it uh it'll help other people to to see the programming and um you know I I love doing this stuff and love hanging out with you guys. So thank you guys very much for that and thank you for all the comments too. Um so Kyle's question man I wish I had a better answer for you. I think sometimes with more time you know we we had a guy a little bit ago who was holding 15 pounds of water from his uh I think he said five IU of GH. with that water, you're probably going to get more pressure on that nerve creating carpal tunnel. Um, over time that water may come off, you know, and if that water comes off, then the the the falling asleep hand stuff, tingling, uh, it may reduce or it may not. It may just be that this is part of what you got to deal with with growth hormone. I have found that some brands do it for people more than others, including like some generics. Some generics will cause this more than others. The only thing I I Yeah, I wish I had a better answer for you, man. I remember like just Oh, god. I dealt with some terrible carpal tunnel knees, too. My knees would get real sore. I I remember I accidentally took twice as much GH once. I I doubled my shot by accident and my freaking knees that day were just so sore. Like it was ridiculous. [snorts] Iron Wolf also from Patreon. Thank you. Um, how do you handle peeking someone who has lost a lot of weight and has loose skin on their body, chest, lower abdomen, and lower back? Are there uh anything you're looking for in particular? That's a tough one, man. So, I'll say this that I think so when it comes to loose skin, time is your best friend. The longer that you can now that you're lean and and obviously you're going to peak for the show and then you're going to fill back out, but don't get fat again, okay? And if you stay leaner and you're not putting pressure on that skin, stretching it back out, you're giving it every chance for it to to to tighten back up for the elastic, you know, response to elasticity of your skin to to pull it back in. And it can take a long time. Like I've seen loose skin improve over the course of years even. Like it's it can take a while. Um, I have also seen people tape it. You [snorts] can use duct tape and if you can get it down, like pull the skin down under your trunk line and tape it, you can tape it across to pull it flatter. I have worked with people, we've done that before, um, multiple times actually. So, if you can do that and make it look right, that that is an option. Um the actual peaking itself [sighs] a part of it is just living with it. I'm going to say that too. Part of it is having acceptance, you know, which I understand that's not what you're asking, right? We want to try to look for an answer to fix this. It may not be something that is totally able to be fixed. Um, but there is an element of like as we age, we're gonna have looser skin. It doesn't mean that you can't still kick ass. And the way I see it is is that if you come on stage looking absolutely peeled and shredded and uh, you know, you look the best you can look. It's a shame that you you've got the loose skin, right? But it's not as big of a detail as you think it is. um like and I mean like socially like the audience looking at you they're still appreciating your physique first and then they'll go oh yeah he's got some loose skin yeah he's an older guy you know or oh wow he must have lost a lot of fat it is that going to affect your you you know your outcome it possibly could right if you had a guy who was just as good as you without loose skin then maybe they're going to give it to the other guy but you could still be better than that guy and still win with loose skin. If you're in better shape, you've got more muscle. Um I I found that, you know, I here's what I would say. Just like Okay, so here's the conversation we were having before about peing. I want to get you in shape about a month early from a show. So if you're in shape a month early, we've got a lot of time to play with this. First we get you filled back out, fill you, spill you, and then pull it back, get you depleted again, and coast into the show. Kind of knowing what your what your fill point is and and what we're cap what your body's capable of. How much can we handle right now? We have a good idea that now we can start playing with water. You know, let's say you drink start tracking your water. First of all, I assume you are. Let's say you're drinking two gallons a day right now. Just flat out, you got it locked in at two gallons. You could try drinking one and threequarters a gallon right through today and then wake up tomorrow and evaluate how does your skin look or one and a half gallons today and then wake up tomorrow and how does your skin look? You know, then you could experiment it is it better? Did that improve it? Did drying out help that skin or did it just make it look more more saggy? You know, how did it affect everything else? It's a balance cuz sometimes your skin may look looser but your muscles all look harder, you know? So, there's a there's a balance in there, I think, of of actually having to play with it and see. I I do find that that having fullness is usually going to be to your advantage. The fuller somebody can be, the less of that loose skin they're gonna have, depending especially like in the in the chest and stuff, you know, the fuller you can be, the better. But there's that line, don't get so full that it takes away from your conditioning. You know, just that a flat guy with loose skin is probably going to have more loose skin than the absolutely peeled guy who is also now full. the full guy is probably gonna have less loose skin than the flat guy with less skin. I'll put it that way. But experiment and and watch, you know, see what happens if I take in less water. What happens if I take a quarter of a diuretic, you know, or half a diuretic? We take a half a, you know, say 12 uh milligrams of hydrochloroide at two hours before bed, keeping water where it is. How do you look the next morning? Or even 6.25 25 milligrams. Wake up the next morning. How does how does that look on you? Like these are all things we can then file away and say, "Okay, well, you know, he looks better when he's fuller." And then when we dry him out, the skin looks tighter, so let's do both of those things, you know, to to a degree, whatever. I it's hard to say because it'd be those are those are the tools I would play with would be the fullness and the amount of and how does that affect it versus how does it affect your overall physique and then the the hydration level how does that affect the skin and how does it affect the overall physique and then find the balance between those two things [snorts] and thanks for the support over on Patreon I appreciate it man I have a client that used GHK and it helped a lot with loose skin. Uh but of of course depends on uh how much of it there is. Yeah, absolutely, man. Check out some GHK. I started using the topical on my face. Um I'm going to let you guys know how it goes. I I don't have any any feedback on it yet. It doesn't seem to like there's no overnight success with it, but it's only been maybe two weeks that I've been using it. So, I'll let you guys know. Thanks for the great life podcast. I've learned a lot. I'm a big fan of the channel and the podcast with Dave. I've been in touch with him about the low testosterone results and he has given me some great advice. Thanks. Right on, Derek. Glad to have you, man. [snorts] I'll live with the extra loose skin I have from dropping the weight and adding the years. Yeah, man. Can't forget that, right? Like getting in shape, it's freaking awesome. like it looks great, but if you lost so much fat that now you have loose skin, I think you also did add years to your life. There's there's no question. And ultimately, like I think we can get lost in like the nuances of like optimizing and peeds and all of that, but ultimately I I think, you know, I I want to live as long as I freaking can. I don't want peeds to take away from that anymore. I don't want to lose sight of that. I think that bodybuilding can be a great tool to help us live the lives we want to live for longer, right? But yeah, I just can't get carried away. I forgot about that part when I was younger. I think we all do. All right, I'm going to get out of here, guys. I appreciate you hanging with me. This has been a lot of fun. I should get back here and do another one of these soon. Um it it had been too long. I just it's hard to find a day. So once again guys, if you haven't hit the like button before you leave today, please do. Thank you for all your comments. Um, of course, check out our advertisers for the channel, True Nutrition. You know, I didn't even get into there's a lot of things I wanted to talk about. I'll have to come back again and do this soon. I wanted to talk about uh the main ingredient in mind. It's pretty freaking uh interesting. Uh, what is it? Peroxine. Peroxinathine. This stuff is pretty crazy. It It gives you like the things we want out of caffeine um without the things we don't want out of caffeine. It's It's kind of a cool supplement. So, and plus of course it's got all the other neutropics in there and torine and elyroine and alpha GPC and everything else. So, it definitely um I I think it's a good product. I'm I'm actually I think it's probably the best pre-workout on the market. So, you know, if you want to pick some up, check it out. Use code uh big Ron or Dusty. That doesn't benefit me in any way, but it helps our boys, right? So, definitely uh you support Mutant that supports them, which you know, keep we keep Ron and Dusty happy. We keep the show rolling, right? And of course, uh true.com. Use our code think over there. Get 10% off. They got 10% off now on all your orders. And um it generates like a dollar here, a dollar there to the podcast, but that freaking adds up because a bunch of you guys do order your protein through True Nutrition and you use the code. So, thank you. I really appreciate that. Got t-shirts, by the way, too. Got a merch store. I usually have that in the description. So, if you guys want to check that out, definitely do. And uh hit me up for coaching. I'm I'm actually a little bit backlogged at the moment. And I have a because I take my time setting people up. I I usually like a good week to kind of figure out what we're going to do with you. I don't want to just throw a generic cookie cutter plan at you. Um but uh yeah, if you want to reach out to me for coaching, it'll take me a couple weeks to get started, but I'd be happy to talk to you about it. And uh yeah, let's do this again soon. All right, I'll see you guys.