As an andelo and part of the nor 19 family, it has a strong binding affinity which means it attaches to the receptor very strongly and that in part is what gives it its strength in building muscle tissue, its signaling capability within to the receptor is very very good. >> I feel like I get a stronger punch in my experience from NPP than I do from DECA. Deca is kind of a slower burn. It's that four to five to 6 weeks where it's really feeling like it's built up versus NPP. I feel like it's kind of up and running within just a few weeks. >> And I think from a psychological point of view, that has a massive impact on how effective people perceive drugs to be because I think when people feel like they're on >> Yeah. >> they respond both in better diet adurance, harder training, more intensity, and then more focus. What's up, guys? Welcome back to the podcast with Dave Crosslin. I'm Scott McNell and all of our programming is brought to you by evalbloodanalysis.com. You can get your labs done by Dave if you're in the UK. And if you're in the UK, you can shop with Strom Sports Nutrition. In fact, you can shop with them in the US now, too. Uh, I'll put links to both of those in the description if you want to check them out. They have great health stacks, especially if you're on cycle. Um, I'm gonna try support max Dave and I'm gonna try the Thrombo product. See what that does for my hematocrit and hemoglobin. I'm excited to to check that out. We're also brought to you by true nutrition.com. Use our code think over there for now 10% off all your orders and including if you buy over $99, you get free shipping. So, there's a lot of good savings to be had over there. And they have high quality stuff like the best protein powders you can get. We're brought to you by uh supplements.ca Canadians and uh we're of course brought to you by Patreon. I got to get my spiel out, you know. Dave, we missed last week. You missed hanging out with uh Rick Collins. Um we did get a little update from him, by the way. Oh, main topic today. We're going to talk about lowest effective dose of Nandrallone. We're going to talk about deca versus NPP. Um and we're just going to dig into that one. And we've got all your listener questions. You guys are welcome to comment with questions below. But yeah, so last week, Dave, what you missed out on was we talked to Rick Collins uh and he he he did allude to there being more pressure from the US on China regarding RAW. He said, "Hey, listen, you know, I of course the the the law enforcement doesn't tell me what their plans are." He said, "But you know, I am privy to conversations with people in the DEA and law enforcement in general." And he said, "From my understanding, they are more interested in the supply from China than they've ever been, and they want to try to do what they can to maybe not pressure them not to sell to the US. >> So, thanks to you, we're all suffering." >> You What do you mean thanks to me? You you represent America as far as this show is concerned. >> So it's because of me. This is what you're telling me. >> Yes. >> Oh, you also too missed the 4th of July. Did you do anything to celebrate our independence from your people? >> Uh did I do anything for you? Um mutiny, you mean? And and and revoling against your masters. I >> we we do fireworks to celebrate the day we left Dave's place. >> Yeah, we do fireworks celebrate the day you left, too. Um I actually did sort of Yes. >> Oh, good. Good. There's a there's a big uh car show called Stars and Stripes which is on once a year. It's basically a celebration of Americana. >> No, but mainly featured around vehicles. And I went to that on the Sunday and it pissed it down and I got so wet through it. Yes. >> Oh, so you got to see some cool American muscle cars. >> Yeah. Yeah. To be honest, it wasn't of recent years. And I think the weather was the problem cuz you don't get the real heavy custom stuff that comes out when it's really bad weather, but you get a lot of the >> So there's there's you get a lot of the stock stuff. So, you get a lot of Mustangs and Camaros and stuff like that, but you don't get the real different stuff unless the weather's really good, which is um fine, but uh yeah, it was still all right. Um I mean, we we normally go and do the weekend, but we haven't had a time to do it for a couple of years, but we're hoping to get back to it next year. But yeah, last week was a bit of a nightmare. >> Some vehicular issues. >> Yeah, that's why Dave wasn't with us. He got trapped on the road. his his vehicle broke down and uh we're glad you could beat it back though. >> I fixed it and it broke down three times. >> Oh god, that is not a fun scenario. So, let's dig into it, man. Main topic of the day is and we had this question uh on the last episode. Somebody asked us, hey, what's the lowest dose effective dose of nolone for growing muscle? um you know he said if I'm running a test base and when he says test test base I assume he means either T or T or you know a little bit above that but he's got the minimal amount of test that he feels is like good for growing muscle probably outside of the norm and he wants to add the least amount of nandrallone he can to get a decent effect from it. All right. Well, we've we've got two formats. We've got NPP or nandrallone fennel propanate and we have nandrallone deconate, also known and commonly referred to as deca, which is the slang name we use for nandrallone. Um, you wanted the numbers, didn't you? I've pulled them up. So, >> it's not the end of the world, right? But like we it helps us understand the basics like the anabolic ratio. What is the an what is the anabolic ratio? What does that even mean? >> 125 to 37. So, a lot of people think these are literal numbers. They're not. They're just And to be fair, you could argue they're outdated now as well. But they give you a sort of rough indication of where it sits comparatively to other drugs for its stress, strength, and and muscle building properties. The irony of this is that Deca on paper is a crap drug, but in reality, it's a great mass builder. So, in this scenario, they're not particularly great. Um now I've seen studies around deca I mean deca not so much now but was used as a treatment for osteoporosis for women. >> Okay. Hey back up though just a second. When you say what did you say the numbers were again? >> 13 125 over 37. So 125. So 125 anabolic >> and 37 androgenic. So on paper this would be slightly better than test from a muscle building >> testosterone you spaz. >> No, no, no. What's the anabolic ratio? Just >> 100 to 100. >> Okay. And that's our and I wanted to get that out there because that's our foundational like everything's compared against. Right. >> Now on paper this that would say that that Deca is slightly better at building muscle but not very good in the strength department. But as we know the reality of that isn't true. >> Yeah. Um, it's a very good muscle building compound and it's actually quite decent for strength. A lot of it's a foundation of a lot of offseason powerlifting programs and strongman programs. So, there's definitely plenty of adult evidence to show that Deca supports good quality strength building. As an andelo and part of the nor 19 family, it has a strong binding affinity which means it attaches to the receptor very strongly and that in part is what gives it its strength in building muscle tissue, its signaling capability within to the receptor is very very good. >> Okay. So the androgenic side, so you're saying like strength is one thing, but then also side effects like hair growth, you know, uh acne, those type of things are more related to that androgenic side. So you're getting and hair loss, you know, you're getting less of those viralizing side effects, more of the anabolic effects. >> Yeah. And now Deca from a an instant stress point of view on the body is actually quite mild. >> So it converts to DHN, which is not as impacting as DHT. So we don't see massive increases in oil production. We don't generally see hair loss. So, I'll do the positives and the negatives. It increases collagen synthesis and it's a proesterine which means it stimulate well it acts like a proesterine. It's not a true proesterin which means it stimulates a progesterone receptor. The the downstream effect of all that is that um it can help with joints and joint inflammation um and it helps produce a natural anti-inflammatory that helps with joint management. So you're not generally going to it does convert to estrogen but only at the rate of 20% of that testosterone. So it's not a hugely aromatizing drug. Um and generally you will see bloods half decent when you're on deca. On the negative side it has some quite direct negative impacts to the heart. It has quite an impact on brain chemistry and can cause anxiety and depression in users. It lowers dopamine transport proteins which means the dopamine is not getting across to the receptor in the same way in the brain and effectively acts like you've got low dopamine. >> Yeah. >> Uh that causes an elevation in prolactin which can lead to things like erectile issues and lactation. So it does have other stings in it and it's particularly adulterative of memory. So it can really affect your memory as well. Um so there's the pluses and minus. Um I personally like Deca. I'm a big fan and I feel that though it does have these negative impacts, it is very dose duration driven. >> Uh and for most people they're not going to be hugely impacting. >> Yeah. Um there's been studies shown that A-50 mgram dose of deca added into a TRT protocol or in the case of females with no other protocol has improved ligament integrity, joint integrity and has lowered overall joint pain and inflammation. >> Yeah. Um, and there's been research, though I'm not aware of the result side of this into Deca being used as a supportive compound in injury repair and injury recovery. >> Yeah, >> it's got a longstanding reputation within the user community that it's gentle on joints and helps joints and and that is in part why it's popular in the strength sports because it gives those joints some extra boost. in part some of the manufacturers like I said is down to increased collagen synthesis and from a dosing point of view deca is a really weird one. Uh I like moderately low testosterone with actually relatively high deca. >> Okay. >> So sort of 250300 test bases and up to sort of 7 900 even a gram of deca. Now what I found with a lot of people and this is not across the board but what I found with a lot of people is that the lower dose deca gives them sides but when they push the dose higher those sides dissipate >> which doesn't make sense. You know what I mean? >> No. And I think what it is and I don't know for a fact that this is all just you know summarization and guesswork to a degree. Educated guess work I'd like to think. Um I think it's to do with DHN. DHN is a weaker u metabolite downstream from five alpha reductase than test is to DHT but I think when you get the levels high enough that DHN negativity reduces because there's just so much of it. >> Yeah. >> So I think there's an overcompensation factor here that even though DHN is much weaker than DHT if you get levels high enough you can get enough of it. Yeah. So I think there's something there. >> Uh it's definitely not for everybody. Um I know a few people who can't get on with it at all. Uh one we were talking about just before we went on air. >> Okay. Um but yes um like I say so it's one of them drugs that you you really got to suck it and see unfortunately but I would have said if you were looking at a a nandalone decanate so de traditional deca uh or decano8 to be exact um excuse my shitty pronunciations because I'm sure you'll pull me up on it in a minute Scott >> uh I would probably say you're looking 200 milligram. Um, NPP, I think you can get away with 50 times a week. >> Okay. So, 150, a little less NP to get a a muscle building benefit with it. Okay. Hey, on that note of DHN, so just to clarify and to point another aspect out to any of our listeners. So testosterone breaks down into DHT is one of the byproducts and with or metabolites uh with nandrallone one of the metabolites is DHN breaks down same same system but if you use a 5 AR blocker like finasteride you're not going to get that reduction so that deca which is normally going to be like more gentle on the hairline it it's no longer the case because now instead of having DHN and attacking the scalp which is milder than DHT. Now you have direct deca which is going to be from what I understand because I've asked a lot of people about this and the consensus has been that deca on the hairline is more harsh than uh uh DHT on the hairline. You will have a greater effect. I don't know but um >> No, I don't actually. First time I've heard that myself to be honest. I yeah I've talked to a lot of people who have said because they've said well hey watch out because if you're using you know finasteride then you know you no longer are having that breakdown to DHN which is gentle on the hairline you have the direct deca now that is going to potentially affect the hairline and you will get more shedding. So you know just keep that in mind for anybody that is using a a 19 noir. I wanted to throw that out there. So 150 dosing wise for minimal effective dose of NPP 200 for deca. Now it said that even though uh it's interesting you know the the the fennel proponate esester isn't usually when we get to faster acting compounds um the the shorter esther the the faster esester is much smaller. takes up less room. So, you have more hormone, you know, like if you use test ace, I can't remember what the the number is, but it's like, you know, we'll call it 90 something% of that 100 milligrams, 90 something of it is yeah, going to be actual testosterone versus DECA, it's pretty low, like 62 milligrams per 100 milligrams. >> You've got like 38 40% of of the the dano8. >> Yeah. And but then with fennel propanate even though that is somewhat faster it's not fast fast but it's somewhat faster you still don't get that much more nanderlone in the nandrolone phenopropanate preparation. So I I find that interesting too considering it is looked at generally as being a you know a faster acting compound. Do you think you could get away with less frequent shots of nandrallone phenyl proponate than we generally use? Because it's often used three times a week to every other day, you know, I I could see two times a week potentially. >> Two a week. Yeah, I could see two a week. I mean, it's it's sort of four or five day halfife. So, yeah, two a week would work would work quite well. >> Yeah. >> Um and and I Yeah. No, I mean there's there's no real argument with that. I I prefer it slightly more frequently. >> Me too. >> Um I prefer a lower dose but more frequent with MPPP than I would less frequent and a slightly higher dose. Um but then I actually like running the two together. But there >> you know somebody else mentioned that in the stream said I like mixing short esters with long esters. Keeps the juice flowing through the blood. >> I I I I can't I can't give you anything scientific. It just a personal experience that I found Deca and MPP together. >> Gave me an effect that was greater than the individual parts. >> Yeah, I could see that. I'm a fan of um Nandrone phonate with EQ and we've talked about that, but I definitely feel like I feel like I get a stronger punch in my experience from NPP than I do from Deca. Deca is kind of a slower burn. It's that four to five to six weeks where it's really feeling like it's built up versus NPP. I feel like it's kind of up and running within just a few weeks. >> And I think from a psychological point of view, that has a massive impact on how effective people perceive drugs to be because I think when people feel like they're on >> Yeah. >> they respond both in better diet adurance, harder training, more intensity, and they're more focused. When when a drug is so gradual that you don't really feel it kicking in. >> I think it doesn't always lead to people getting the most out of what they're doing because they just don't feel like I mean I had this conversation with a client last week. He was like I don't really feel like I'm on I'm not really and it's like well it shouldn't be the drugs that force you to train hard. That should be a mental state you're already in. >> Yeah. Yeah, >> the drugs should just allow for faster recovery and therefore a rapid repeat of that level of intensity. But uh yeah, I mean I do think there's a big psychological impact here on on how people respond to drugs by how they feel off the drug. >> I will say this, I definitely feel some good strength from Deca when I'm you and it's not like the same kind of strength that you get from like a powerful androgen like Tren or Halo. It's but it's a solid kind of stronger in the temp 10 rep range or 20 rep range. You know what I mean? >> Yeah. It's it's it's the only way I if you want to describe it in a real layman's terms, it's like that extra rep's always there. >> Don't make any it don't make it any [\h__\h] easier. I mean, you you'll be you'll be shaking like a shiting dog getting it out, but you'll get it out >> and and then you'll go down and even though that last rep told everything in your head, there isn't another one in there, there still is another one in there. If you go for it, it still comes. Whereas something like Tren, you're banging them. You know, they just bang, bang, bang, bam, bang. >> Whereas, I think with Deca, it it really you really do have to just keep committing that if you get a rep, you go for the next one. And they seem to be extremely hard fought to win, but they are there to win if you if you actually commit to them. >> Yeah, I could see that. I remember Dave, uh I don't think I ever mentioned this to you before, early on in me researching gear and like learning about what the different compounds were. I remember an uh uh an issue of muscular development came out and um uh it was John Romano had a small article about Nanderlone and he he he said he was like I know I and he told this story. He was like I know the deck is kicking in when I'm on the leg press and my legs just feel like pistons pumping out rep after rep after rep. And then he went on to tell the story of like the deck is kicking in and I was out on a four-wheeler and I saw this guy with his girlfriend who their quad got stuck and he was like I used my superhuman Deca strength to help lift that thing out and I know that the girlfriend was impressed. It was like this whole tale that he told of the first time he ran DECA or you know some Deca cycle that he ran. But I was like yeah I I could get with that. Now unlike you, I'll tell you what I I really just didn't feel great on Deca. And maybe it was the amount of test I used because honestly I had always used more test than anything else. Years ago, you know, 20 years ago, there was always the thought of, you know, run your test 100 milligrams or 200 milligrams higher than your deca. I always followed that. Now, postc contest, my first cycle back into my offseason one year, uh I had run EQ a bunch through the past offseason and I thought I I need to do something different, which I really didn't. But I thought like you got to hit the receptors differently, Dave. So, I I ran 800 DECA with a thousand tests. And I'll tell you what, man, I grew muscle, but I just never felt good that whole cycle long. And maybe it had to do with what you were talking about affecting the dopamine transport proteins. You know, I I found that um I've had clients tell me that they haven't felt mentally great on Deca, like something was just lacking. We had a listener who first pointed this whole thing out to me because he said he was using a and we talked about this a few times before, running a powerful ADHD medication that all of a sudden he felt like he needed a higher dose while on nandelone phenyl propane to get the same effect that he had been getting from that prescription medication. So definitely something to look out for. Um yeah. >> No, I was going to say on that point, the weird thing is I've had a lot of contradictory from people on those type of meds saying that they really get on well with Deca and it seems to work well with them within that situation. So people that have ADHD and such like. >> Um so I I honestly don't know. The one thing we haven't touched on actually which we should have done. >> Okay. >> Um, Deca Deca is not great for fertility. >> Yeah, there is that >> it does have a very big impact on sperm morphology. Um, so you can offset it to a degree by supplementing with torine. Uh, but yeah, if if you're in a fertility sort of realms, then I this it's a drug I'd stay away from because it it it does tend to mess the sperm ups a little bit. And 19-nor in general tend to kind of shut you down pretty pretty quickly, right? >> Yeah. Just um there there's there's several aspects of sperm. So you've got morphology, you've got mobility, and you've you've obviously got sperm count. Sperm count's quite obvious, hasn't the number of sperm. Mobility is how well those [\h__\h] can swim, and morphology is how mutated they are. Um, so the higher the morphology, the more misshapen the sperm is, and that then affects sperm's ability to enter the egg. So you end up with loads of sperms with flat foreheads, and when they hit the egg wall, they bounce off. >> So basically, guys, if you're running DECA, you don't have to worry about birth control with your lady. >> No, I don't go that far, right? >> Yeah. No, I I have I have one child, messed up child, so it might actually have something to do with the deck. Oh, dang. >> I have I have one child that's uh decorn decaborn child. All right. Well, we hope that helps you guys out. Uh you know, we gave out some minimal effective dose is what he was looking for. Last episode of Muscle Minds, Scott looked at a research paper that showed 100 milligrams of DECA was effective for um giving your joints an additional kind of soothing benefit. Is that from there's I believe like an anti-inflammant effect to it as well. >> Yeah, I I've seen some stuff at 50 milligram trials for um joint support and injury and I know actually know quite a few more senior users >> that have added it into TRT protocols and have said that it's been very beneficial. Yeah, there was there was definitely some stuff going on around Deca in the form of using it for injury recovery and such like at that 50 to 100 milligram sort of dosage. So yeah, I think if you're looking at Deca as a complimentary anabolic, then you're going to be 50 max 100 and and like I said, I think if you're looking for it as something that's going to help you grow, then you're going to be 200 plus. >> Okay. Yeah. Yep. I'd agree with you there. All right. Well, listen, if you guys have any more questions on that topic, definitely hit us up. I feel like we could keep trying to dig in a little further and a little further, but we do have a bunch of listener questions that we wanted to get to, and you guys are welcome to comment on this show with questions and we will tackle them on the next the next show. Why hello. I wanted to do something different with my True Nutrition advertisement for today. And here's the thing. I just got our order in. Victoria and I, we pay for all the protein that we get. They don't send us anything for free. And that's because I've believed in True Nutrition for 15 years now. I've been using them ever since I contest prep. They have some of the cleanest, best quality protein. A lot of times I use the team skip. But here's the deal. I'm going back to the Pureway Isolate. The Pureway isolate, it just just processes so fast. This is my favorite flavor, chocolate peanut butter cup. But if you want to try just like one pound at a time, you can do that. Just sample it. I've never had the cookie butter, so I'm going to try the cookie butter this week. We got a big old bag of pea protein isolate for the wife. This is what she likes to use. And here's the thing, they're just about wholesale prices at True Nutrition. Plus, they don't add the flavor in when they weigh it. So, you get like legit one pound of protein and then from there, they add the flavor after that. So, every one pound, I think it's like 1.2, I'm not sure. Don't quote me on that. But hey, here's the thing. True Nutrition is a great quality protein. They believe in us. They advertise with us because I literally asked them to. And uh if you use our code think, you'll get some additional savings. Plus, of course, that's like voting for our podcast. So, thank you guys. I hope you enjoyed my uh my impromptu ad. Goodbye. We try to get to everything, but if we don't get to one of your questions, it's nothing personal. We just, you know, so many come in. Um, and and you want to make sure that you're commenting on the latest show when it comes out because then we tackle that within the next couple of days to record for the following show. So, if you record on one that was like from last year, chances of getting it on the show are going to be a lot lower. So, all right, we have enough time on this one for this guy uh because he just posted it a day ago. He says, "Question for Dave. I'm traveling to London for 10 days. Will I face any issues at Heathrow if I carry 20 tablets of farmgrade ox uh what does he have here? Oxandrolone 10 milligrams for personal use. I do not have a prescription. So you shouldn't um now there is a couple of problems here. Um technically you're allowed to bring them in. They are personal use. There's no crime committed etc etc etc. that doesn't always mean that the border control officer knows the law. Um, and they can get a little bit trigger happy, but I I would suspect that you have no problems. In my usage days, I traveled back and forth with sufficiently larger amounts of anabolics on me that were still personal use, I might add. But, you know, when you're using 10 mil a week, you need a couple of bottles with you, don't you, when you travel. So, um, yes, I don't see you foreseeing being any any problems. I'd stick it in your old luggage and I wouldn't be concerned about it. >> I'd also take it out of the box or whatever that says Anavar and maybe put it in another bottle, too. I don't know. That's just >> Yeah, you you could, but there's something to be said for being, you know, if it's there, it's there. Look, I know it's legal in this country. It's personal use. U you'd have a worst case scenario, they're going to take them off you and say, "Look, you can't have them booger off." Um, >> well, by all means, yeah, I'll tell them where to put the [\h__\h] selves. All right. Oh, we did have a um a question from Angry Listener. He that's his name now. You remember Angry Listener? >> Oh, how is he? Yeah, >> good. He says, "Would Deca uh" So, this is a follow-up to our Deca stuff. Would Deca affect people differently if there was a pre-existing chemical imbalance in the brain? For me, it seems to make uh me more docile and less aggressive. I don't know as much about uh get up. I don't know as much to get upset. It's nice. >> Okay. >> Yeah. That that was my whole point that that it seems to be that people that do have um slightly unusual brain chemistry, I think, is a nice way of putting it. >> Yeah. >> Or or different brain chemistry can get on with it really, really well. Um and I've had a number of clients that are under some form of mental health treatment that have swore by using Deca that that they really get on well with it. It makes them feel better. They feel more stable. They feel less impulsive. >> But with less dopamine, I wonder if that gives way because so dopamine and serotonin are like a yin-yang. So as ser But I don't know because it's not that dopamine itself is lower. You're just getting less use out of the dopamine. But if dopamine were lower, then that would encourage serotonin to be higher. So >> Well, now uh do you Oh god, his name's going to help me, Ed. Uh oh, he had cerebral attacks here. He he competed this disabled strongman. >> Oh, I'm not sure. >> I have spoke about him fans. I've got a complete mental brock in my brain. He's passed now unfortunately. Um but he used a lot of Deca and whilst on Deca he managed to now bear in mind his pain was nerval driven. Okay. >> He he was able to significantly reduce his pain medication. >> Oh, yeah. Yeah. Okay. >> And and his consultants were were like, "Look, you I mean, this is going to sound quite harsh, but their attitude was, look, you're going to die anyway." >> Yeah. >> And it's only a matter of time. You know that. We know that. Um, so anything you do that might not be good on paper, you know, that helps your situation and makes you feel better and and manages your pain better, crack on with it. So, they were quite supportive of him using Deca and he he he really got on well with it. >> I do remember you mentioning that once before. >> Okay. Hey, uh, what about this one? And we have talked about this before from frost. He says, "David Scott, what are your top three over-the-counter supplements that you'd recommend for someone on gear, excluding creatin?" And he wrote it out that way. Creatin. Yes, guys. Creatin. Besides that, >> get support max from Strong. >> Yeah. If you want an all in if you want an all-in-one, then support max. Yeah. If we're looking at allin- ones, definitely I'd say support max. If we're looking at individuals, I would be a lipid support. >> Yep. >> Uh potentially a vit. >> And potentially a vit >> lipid support. So what's lipid support though? Because that's not one supplement. >> So you're looking if you All right. If we're going away and we're going to go individual, so I would look at something that's going to support HDL levels, be it something like citrus bergamark, krill oil, or something of that nature, I I would I would be less focused on LDL levels and I would manage that more through diet, whereas supporting HDL through diet gets difficult when you're on anabolics. And it does depend on the type of anabolics as well because some are more adulterive than others. >> Agreed. >> Vit D always gets used in excess anabolics. So, it's always useful to increase vit D. Um, and vitzy is a very nice antioxidant which also supports HDL. So, um, >> A and B. >> I'm going to swap out the vitamin C for something something else. Maybe maybe another antioxidant like um NAC or even maybe I I it's hard it's a hard stretch for me to say everybody needs glutathione, you know, but NAC is a fairly inexpensive supplement. But I do like the idea of an all-in-one like support max. And by the way, um I mention this because I have been researching the product now. Like I've been looking into the Stum stuff and now it's not a product that has like super top-end dosing on everything across the board that's in it, but there is going to be some synergy out of having a pretty good dose of this and a pretty good dose of this that they both do, you know, they both provide health in the same way and you're spending, you know, the same amount you would have spent on a bottle of Trend. So, it's not like you need to buy, you know, $500 worth of supplements for the next, you know, couple months. >> That one of the things, one of the ethoses behind support max was making it cost effective. Um, so yes, you could, you could conversate around certain ingredients being dosed at higher levels, but it was that balance of keeping the cost in a position where it was affordable against effectiveness. and that that was why it ended up how it was. >> That makes sense. >> I don't >> And there is a synergy. There is a synergy between multiple things that that do overlap, you know. >> Yeah. And I I I don't I think you'll struggle to get better value for money, I think, is probably the best way of putting that. >> Um All right, Dave, with you mentioned using a highdosese BPC the other week. Somebody wanted to know if you were using lipoized like standard lipoized BPC for that. I said you probably were, but that I was. >> Yes, I was. Yes, I was. >> Okay. Um, and he says, uh, I have, uh, early, uh, CKD and slightly, uh, reduced eGFR, um, and would like to try this, but I have never administered anything IV u before. I'm guessing it is uh very high purity. Um, that that would be the priority here. So the the IV is not necessary. I chose to do the IV which was how it was administrated in the studies that I'd looked at around kidney support through BPC use. >> Okay. >> I know Andy Bolton saw increases in his eGFR and improvements in his kidney function post uh transplant when he used it to help with an injury. So the injectable format is still viable. It's not going to be as effective, but it is definitely still viable. And even the oral format would be viable to offer some low-level kidney support. In my scenario, obviously I had an eGFR in 20. Um, it all depends where his eGFR is. You know, if he's just below 60 that then I would probably just go for oral to be quite honest. Uh, but if he's at the more severe end of things, then the IV is going to help more. >> I would go with I would pick IM still >> just because you're going to get more into your bloodstream. It's more cost effective. >> Yeah. >> Um, and and to stepping it up to IV, you were in a medical setting. You know, you you legit have a clinic, right? And it's not something I would necessarily think would be as safe to practice at home without all the proper equipment and preparations, you know. >> No, I I wouldn't. If you're going to go the IV route, you need, you know, you need the medical expertise to be able to deliver it correctly and safely. >> Um whereas for most people, the easiest administration is either going to be injectable or oral. Uh and they both will have some effectiveness. What if uh we ask Dave for life advice and he can respond with his infinite wisdom? Well, I think it's a great idea, but you should have also asked some life advice for us. That way we because that would be a great way to do Dave's wisdom, Uncle Dave's wisdom. You know what I mean? You don't have to think of something. You don't have to make something up every week. We we give you something to talk on. I think that's a great idea. You guys are welcome to comment with that stuff. We've been here before and it sort of dried up, didn't it? >> It was early on. We did a segment called uh Uncle No, Ask Davey. >> There was somebody in the UK that did like a love letters thing and we were asking for relationship advice. >> And it was funny because you were still like 415 Dave basically. And so there's like big 415 Dave over the microphone giving love advice to people and it was there was a comedy to that for sure that was good. Um, ask Dave, did he ever compete in a bodybuilding show? A few episodes ago, I swear he said he did. >> As a natural junior, yes. >> Okay. Okay. I didn't remember if you had or not. >> How old were you? >> 19. >> Okay. How'd you do? >> I was 14. I won. I was 14. Stone three on stage. >> I I don't know what a stone is, Dave. 12 pounds or something. Um I I'm too lazy to math this today. Hang on. 14 times >> just today. >> £199 on stage. >> Okay. Okay. >> I hated every >> 19. I hated every second of it. >> Okay. Um I just wanted to know if 2IU GH is effective at 23 years old or is that just a replacement dose? Depends on quality of GH. If farmer, I would say probably yes. If generic, I would say it's going to be you on a good day. >> Yeah. I'd say this. I feel like so the the older we get, the more effective a replacement dose of GH is going to become because our GH isn't that great at 23 years old. So they they now everybody's different, right? And out the gate everybody's GH production is going to be different. But they say that on average 35 years old is your cuto off date where things are no longer improving after 35 they are only going downhill. So at 35 maybe you'd benefit from 2IU but then at 40 you'd benefit from it even more. And at 50 or 60 you might even get greater benefit. I would say while dieting, uh, growth hormone tends to be lower, testosterone tends to be lower. You may find more benefit from it while in like AST a strong deficit at a very lean body fat. Um, and maybe it might help you to stay leaner uh if you if you were say really pushing the food, but see for yourself. And if you don't notice a difference, then maybe need to go to three or four. I you would be my thought, you know. >> Yeah. I mean, if you want to see the benefits of of GH on an older gentleman, just look at Scott. I mean, he's 60 and look at look at how radiant his skin. >> Hey, wait. I was 57 just a month ago, Dave. How did I get from 57 to 60 now? All right. Thank you, Dave and Scott. question for that was the Deca Angelone MPP one. Um Scott, what's your say? What you're saying is NP uh excuse me, MK-677 along with Abbombs to comment appetite suppression on oxies. Huh. I don't know about that. But what do you think, Dave? >> I've done that. Actually, I have. Yeah, it can help. >> Yeah. >> Um yeah, it can offset it to a degree. Um, it again it's going to be very person dependent, but yes, it can can do something. >> I still have these uh modern MK sitting here now. I don't know what I'm going to do with it, Dave, because I I it drove my hunger up like wild, man. I can't believe how strong of an appetite strengthening effect that had on me. So, I Yeah, I'm not touching it for some time. >> I have a question. >> What does your sweatshirt say? It says hard AF. >> That's swearing. >> What does your shirt say? >> Nothing. >> It's got a picture. Is that a crow on it, by the way? >> Yeah, it's an angry crow. >> An angry crow. An F must be earned. I can't just walk around with a bucket of Fs handing them out for free. What does that say there? If I feel like you've earned it, I will give an F. That's not an appropriate shirt, Dave, to be wearing on a podcast or out in public or in the workplace. That is not an appropriate workplace shirt. And you're in the workplace right now. >> What you about? I'd wear this shirt to parents evening. >> You'd wear it what? >> To parents evening. >> Oh, I bet you would. I bet you would. Um, do you remember Epistane? >> Yes. >> Says, uh, do things like Episte still have a place for recreational lifters? Seen some, uh, very similar to orals? Seems very similar to orals like anavar or Tinabal. Um, but I am probably way off. Yeah. I I had you ever used it? >> Never even seen it in real life. I had used it. There was a great deal of popularity to it back in the message board days. And there was a guy who had the raw powders available of that and a couple other like, you know, pro hormones before the ban and all that. You could buy the raw powders from him. And I did that and I measured it out. And uh I I never saw anything. Like I couldn't tell you anything, Dave. Like I didn't notice a single bit. But then I've heard people say like, "Oh yeah, I've gotten great experiences with it." >> Is it even available now? >> I Yeah, I'm sure you can get it somewhere. >> There's got to be some underground place that's still slinging some epistine. I just I mean for with with the legislational changes around those sort of compounds, it just seems pointless to go through the risk of producing that when you can just produce debo >> or whatever else. Yeah, I've heard an AI like effect from it too, I believe, or something. M >> it just like it was so unimpressive that I never bother looking into it further. And and then I've heard listeners though, I bet you guys if you're listening right now and you've had a great experience with Epistine, tell us all about it because I I I know you're out there. I've heard you guys talk about it. But to me, it's just there's other routes to go. >> The the hardcore pro hormone guys are almost on a level with vegans. >> Yeah, there is that, isn't there? There's fewer of them around today, though. But yeah, they would it would never be long before they'd tell you. >> How about this one? Um, for older guys doing safer quote unquote safer TRT plus cycles, what are your comments on mast and primo health impacts on the prostate? >> Primo was designed to be more prostate friendly. So, I don't know any exact data on it, but I I would off the top of my head suspect that Primo probably won't be too bad. >> Um, Mast, I'm not sure. Mast is a a less refined DHT than Primo, so probably there's going to be some negativity from mast. DHTs in general I found can be a bad combo for guys that so it's not everybody but it it does tend to be the older guys and that some fewer older guys that do experience like enlarged prostate especially with gear and DHTs in general but hey we've talked about like dose and duration being a big part of it too you know >> yeah I mean the the development of primabol was was to create a DHT that has had less negative DHT side effects So it it was specifically developed to to try and create a DHT that wasn't particularly prostate nasty or wasn't particularly hair follicle nasty. And obviously it wasn't a complete success, but but again it does boil down to individual sensitivities on on those fronts as to how you're going to react with it. And those you know you take two gram of primo, you're gonna have [\h__\h] problems, aren't you? >> Yeah. >> All right. Um, hi guys. I'm on test e, Tren E, and Dro. I like the way you put that masteron E for 10 weeks now. Started at 250 test, 100 trend, 100 mast, once a week, and at 8 weeks, I wasn't feeling or noticing a lot, so I doubled the dose. How long do you think I can stretch it? because I only wanted to do 10 weeks to see the results, but the last two weeks finally seems to be working and showing some results. Any advice? Stop and go to TRT for a while. Uh then or keep going for a while. Most likely uh most likely most of us enthusiasts uh I like most of us enthusiasts, I don't have blood work. I know. I know. I don't know if he's like most enthusiasts. A lot of guys are getting labs now. >> So he started out at 250 test. >> Yeah, I'm just I'm just doing >> did eight weeks on a low dose. Didn't get much out of it. Doubled the dose. Has done two weeks. Uh I would say probably get away with another four. Um and then I'd be off and mark it up to experience. >> Yeah. you know, you can come back on next time at a dose that's going to be effective for you, right? >> Yeah. >> I don't think that's a bad idea at all, but I'd also recommend getting some labs, you know, it's not expensive. It is getting more. I don't know, Dave, if it changed over there, but there was recently a hike in prices. I noticed over at Merrick, it was like all of a sudden their their nonsensitive estrogen was $10 before, and now it jumped up to 30. uh their their test and free test was less expensive. I think it was 2030 and now it like doubled. >> Yeah, we're we're fighting price increases. We're getting increased pressure. Um I think what people there's a lot of I can only speak from where we are, but there's a lot of costs involved that people probably don't accredit. >> Okay. >> So, um consumable have gone up. So tubes, needles, swabs, cleaning equipment, all that's increased. Uh lab prices have been stable, but there's been I know they they wanted to put prices up. Um obviously labor prices have gone up as cost of living has gone up, but the one that really stings is is stuff like insurance. >> Oh, >> and and and believe it or not, stuff like postage. And postage is a big part of our operation. and they've we've had four postage increases in the last couple of years and our insurance costs have easily doubled in the last two years. >> Yeah. >> So there is there is pressure o on margins definitely. Um, so it doesn't surprise me that labs are starting to put prices up and particularly around stuff like sensitive estrogen where the marketplace is not great in the see the the thing that makes testing cheap is volume. >> Okay. >> So if labs are doing a lot of volume then of a certain test then they can knock it out relatively cost effectively. When they have to do tests that aren't frequent then they become expensive. So that's where you'll usually first see price increases is on the less popular testing. So stuff like sensitive estrogen would be one that doesn't surprise me that it's gone up at all. I mean you'll struggle in the UK to find anywhere that's doing it. >> There are so many people in the US doing labs. I mean I think the volume that America is doing for instance is massive. Just massive. You know I I there's there are some kind of like I don't know. It just it seems like I I I go to Quest and I get labs done privately and I know what the prices are to do that. But then if I get the same labs done through my insurance, they charge my insurance like five times as much and I still end up paying like what I would have paid if I would have just done it privately, you know, after my insurance covers a huge chunk of it. It's ridiculous, man. The >> the medical system >> is just that it's it's not there to help us. That's for sure. No, it it it's yeah, when when insurance starts getting involved, prices do do tend to so astronomically all of a sudden increase for no frigin reason. >> Somebody asked us about uh best way to fix bicep tendinitis due to pectoral muscle tightness outside of BPC-157. And I sent him a video that I have published privately on the channel that I share with clients. And just the long and the short of it is is that all of us get tight pecs that you know, especially if you're training your pecs, they get tighter and they want to pull forward like that. And when that happens, you start getting that bicep tendinitis. Loosening that pec up, being able to fix your posture is a huge element to this. It's not, you know, people want to focus right on that bicep tendon, but it's really the pec. getting into pec minor, which is under the pec, being able to massage that, including then like everything through the ribs, how your lats attach to the rib. Dig for dig for like tender points up in the armpit. There's going to be things in there that are needed that are tight. And if you loosen those up, that's good. And then there's stretches that you can get into too to stretch the pegs. >> Yeah. I mean re reming the localized tendon inflammation in the bicep tendon will shortterm delete but if your pecs still tight it's only going to come back again because you're not removing the cause. >> Yeah. >> So so you need to deal with the cause at the same time which is obviously tight pecs. Now this could be a mobility issue in the sense of not doing any immobility work or any stretching work. It could be a training issue in that your training is contributing to the the factor. Um so it's important to review the background and try and address where the issues are coming from. >> Yeah. >> Without without doubt. Definitely. Um I used to use and I can't remember what you call it, but it's a powerlifting thing. >> Okay. >> And it's a figure eight and um really really dense elastic webbing. Uh, the bow tie hand. Yeah, the bow tie. And I used to have the bow tie. >> Danny Thompson bow tie. >> Yes. And and sit with that. Pull back. I got it off Andy Bolton. It's Andy Bolton's old bow tie. >> Okay. Yeah. It pulls your shoulders back. >> Yeah. I used to use that to open myself up when I was cuz like if I'm sat at a desk, I tend to do this. >> That's not a bad idea at all, man. Yeah. If you're at a computer, you're hunched forward. You're or driving a car, you're hunched forward. On your phone, you're hunched forward and you're shortening those pecs. I just found that the the aftermarket stuff that's designed to do this wasn't strong enough. Yeah. >> And the only thing that was strong enough to pull me back into line was the boater. >> Yeah, that makes total sense to me. And a great purchase. Um all right. I did we cover this one cuz I can't remember. Um when taking a whole year to grow, uh do you do one gradual push for the whole year or multiple small pushes with many cuts in between? I can't remember if we did this one two weeks ago or not. You probably can't either. No. Um I don't think there's there's a right wrong answer here because I think it really depends on where the person is. Um if you're growing well, you're making good progress, I'd be reluctant to disturb that by going into a cut period unless it was a very gentle one. But if you know if if body fat levels are getting too high, you need to manage that as well. And you don't necessarily need to go into a dedicated cut, but you are going to need to pull calories back or at least hold calories and maybe add some extra cardio in just to stop the fat progression. Um, it's it's it's really should be a constant adjust and review situation, you know? I mean, that's why coaches ask for pictures and weight every week because they want to see where you're progressing and adjust calories or output. if you're gaining a little bit too quick in the chub department or increase if you're not gaining fast enough. Um, so it's a concept. I don't think you you particularly need to go in dedicated cut periods if you're managing your progression, but there will inevitably at an end of a push be some fat gain that will need to be cleared off before you start your next push. >> Yeah, I'd do a cycle and then you need to spend some time holding size after that. You don't want to immediately start trying to recmp. >> And then you know after 4 to 8 weeks when you're ready then you can begin tightening up preparing for the next you know upward push. And the key being is once you get too fat to keep gaining that's the end of it. So I think you have more room when you're at your leanest. So one longer cycle and then from there recover and then another cycle. But that second cycle, you usually can't push quite as hard as you did in the first one. You know, food-wise, it's it's not going to be as mass. It's not going to be as, you know, huge changes on the scale that second time usually. >> No. And I think you do need to um you do need to get to a point where you do genuinely cut right back. You'll always rebound better after a period of good diet. Sorry. Agreed. >> Irres irrespective of whether you're going to ever compete or not, there needs to be a point where you do pull right back and right down. >> Yeah. Um All right. Um I've heard, let's see, how about this one? Um what about me doing melatonin as an antioxidant? Uh can't there be many other benefits with megaosing melatonin too? Dante Trudeell posted some studies showing u that it can help with uh visceral fat loss uh a few years back wondering if it's useful for peed users or bodybuilders in general um not just for sleep and circadium rhythm. We did dig into that. Scott Stevenson and I did a whole spiel on it back when Dante had posted that. I haven't seen it pan out in the real world. the mega dosing of melatonin for physique changes. I don't know if you've had any experience with it. >> None whatsoever. But I do when when you started ask a question I was thinking I bet this is one of those where in a lab Yeah. in reality no get stuffed. It is um in the uh uh I can't remember who put this together but like the na national health it is in one of the supplements with that um bug that was out. It's one of the supplements that is suggested to battle the the long version of that bug the symptoms afterward because it is a powerful antioxidant. I went up to 30 for a while and I found that after I went to 30, I actually became dependent on it. Like if I didn't take it that night, then I was like, "Okay, I'm done." And then I couldn't sleep. I had to at least take 20 and then step it back down slowly. >> Yeah. It's what you've got to understand with a lot of this stuff. If if if you're not even if it's a even if it's a compound that stimulates natural production, your body will start to rely on that to the point where your own natural level of stimulation becomes redundant or low. So you can't very often you can't just stop this [\h__\h] You've got to taper and give your body chance to adapt and adjust and come back in line. And this is what drives dependency in a lot of things. you know, it's Yeah, I'm I've always been very wary around sleep aids. Um, I'm not saying they shouldn't be used because I think they can be a godsend, but I always think they should be used in conjunction with addressing and trying to develop mental situations that help cope with a problem. >> Totally agree on that. All right. Um, see if we have anything else in the stream. Uh, do I need SLU at 40 milligrams daily to get the full health benefits and fat burning benefits? Um, thanks guys. And bring back Christmas cabbage, Dave. We haven't seen Christmas cabbage in a while. Where's he been? >> I haven't seen him in a while. Uh >> oh. >> He's just hanging out. Hey, Christmas cabbage, guys. Welcome to the show, Christmas cabbage. Um, I No, you don't need that. You know, I'll tell you what that in real world experience 500 micrograms has been phenomenal. Now, I'm going to share this too. I've used I've seen a lot of people using it. Now, uh through talking to people, listeners of the show that are also using it, seeing my own personal experience, number of clients that have wanted to use it, uh I it is not I wouldn't call it a fat burner by any means. It is more going to tune your body up so that it's functioning more optimally in a more optimal body. mitochondrial firing on all cylinders. Um improving mitochondrial function, increasing mitochondrial number, those things are going to have a benefit to uh fat loss of course because your body's functioning better, but it's not to me like a clen or you know a T3 or yohim. It's not a fat burner directly from my experience. So I would not say use it as a fat burner. Some people and some people do much better with it than others. I have seen guys take it to a thousand micrograms and and get great results from it. Personally, I can't tolerate that high of a dose. It's just like I feel too spun out from it. We had a question about uh creatin for kids. I don't have any experience with it. Dave Cre if kids should take creatin. He said he had a kid who has ADHD. You know, I looked at just what did what did Google say and uh the National Health Institute didn't say that kids should take it under 18, but I don't know, you know, honestly, would it be healthier than some of these like serious pharmaceutical ADHD medications? Yeah, probably. But I don't know if you're going to get the same benefit as you would from that either. >> Yeah. No idea >> for mental stuff. >> No idea. >> All right, let's see what else we have here. Um, not sure if this has been covered, but anyone Oh, having sleep issues while blasting test. This is my first time running a gram a week, 250 milligrams, four times per week injected. Um, I sleep uh I I I sleep log dog crap. I think he means sleep like dog crap. Uh, 9 out of 10 9 to 10:00 p.m. every night and up at 3:00 a.m. like clockwork. Um, yeah, he can fall asleep, no problem. It's 5 hours max, though. And, uh, and then he's wide awake. Just wondering if anyone else uh has experience with this. >> Yeah, not found it uncommon with high dose test. That's all. I used to have very similar, especially in my early days of usage, if I went high on tests, it was I didn't need a lot of sleep. >> Yeah. Um, take advantage. Get up. Do some extra work. >> Yeah. >> Use the time. There's no point lying in bed fighting it, is there? I mean, if you if you're awake, you're awake. >> Yeah. >> If you're not getting out of sleep, get up and use the time. >> Yeah. I I did a show with Dr. Dean St. Mart. It's called Hacking Sleep with Dr. Dean St. Mart. >> Go watch that one if you want to understand the science behind insomnia, especially with steroid use. And you may find some ways to hack that. that's going to give you much more in-depth detailed and information for an hour than we could answer here. In fact, uh I I'll try to find that and put that in the description here if I remember link to that one. But if you don't, you can easily find it easily searchable on YouTube, hacking sleep with Dr. Dean St. Mart. Dave, before we go, we haven't had any advice or wisdom for the last two weeks now. I don't I I feel lost without you. >> You don't get any. What? >> I haven't gotten none. >> You don't have You're no more advice. You're all done with advice. Did we use all your advice up? >> Did we use up all your wisdom? >> Well, there wasn't a lot to start with, really, was there? I mean, let let's be honest, that was a pretty empty bucket before we started pouring it out. >> It's like squeezing a stone. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. This sponge is pretty dry already, mate. You're not ringing much more. Um, >> yeah, I I'm probably I'm such danger of repeating myself on stuff now that I I really struggling. >> We need you guys to ask us for Uncle If you want more Uncle Dave's advice, you have to ask him questions from here forward, guys. >> I mean, I've I've been through the mill these last couple of weeks. not in a drama drama situation just works been particularly taxing and particularly difficult and I have wanted to throw my hands in the air and have a tantrum and throw things at walls and generally just go screw you world I don't want anything to do with you but you can't and you've just got to keep plugging away at it and and you've got to separate the emotional to the practical. Um, a lot of our our responses and our difficulty around things is is emotional responses to things. It's because we're emotional about something. Um, if you can just look at the practicality of it, you know, what can I do to improve the situation? What can't I do? How can I better plan for this, that, or the other, then you'll always get through it. Um, don't feel like it at the time, but you will you'll always get through it. You've just got to keep I remember Brick telling me something. Um, and it wasn't like it was something that he'd been told. So, he was in Dubai. >> Mhm. >> And he was talking to a guy about all the projects that they have in Dubai, you know, how they've made these massive buildings and created islands and >> Oh, yeah. >> You know, they got a world thing. They got the the the the tree palm tree thing and and you know it's like how do you continually push the boundaries of of what you're doing and developing in the country and the guy said two things just doing it for long enough and throwing enough resources at it now financial but also effort. >> Yeah. >> He says and you'll you'll get there eventually. just takes time and consistency and and it's true with everything. I think you know you can achieve most things if you dedicate enough effort and time and so you've just got to head down and just keep putting one foot in front of the other until you get to where you're going. >> Yeah, I like that. >> Um and and it's I mean I've still got a shitload of stuff to sort but I am at least getting through it. >> Yeah. >> Um I find out about CQC probably tomorrow or the day after. I'm [\h__\h] dreading that. Uh, and that has been an absolute night. I mean, the paperwork pile ended up being like this. >> CQC. >> Yeah. Care Quality Commission. >> Okay. Okay. >> Um, the paperwork ended up doing like this. And and for a lot of nonsensical crap that that didn't make any sense to me, but just a case of right, there's no point arguing this, just do it. Um, and and you know, sometimes you just got to I think we spend so much time panicking about the problem or or emotionally reacting to the problem. We waste time that could actually be done with dealing with the problem. >> Yeah, >> I can see that. >> I think you you've just got to try and step out of the box and look at it from a, you know, a practical application, right? What can I do to to fix this, help this, improve this? And if not, what's coming up that's going to add to this that's going to make it worse and how can I offset that? Um, you know, and I I mean, I just overstretched. So, it was very much a case of right, I need to start, right, what can I offset? What can I give someone else to do? What what can I just get rid of? Yeah. >> Even if it means ignoring this other stuff for a couple of days, can I just get rid of that for two days, focus on this, get it done, and then that's one less problem to cope with moving forward. Um, and I I did I had to put a couple of projects on complete hold and go, "Right, this this has to go on a back burner for now until I've got this dealt with." >> Yeah. Yeah. >> Um, yeah. And it's I don't think that's anything we haven't covered before in one way or another. But >> but you said it in a different way today and I I can relate to that and I can agree. I I I give you an example that I wanted to build up our YouTube shorts, which we didn't have any YouTube shorts at one point. And so I was like, "All right, we just start putting them out." And I hired Payton to help start making shorts and I'm putting shorts out. And you know, there's a whole demographic of people that aren't listening to the full shows that might enjoy shorts. So let's try to build that out. And now fast forward a couple years down the road or a year down the road of building shorts. If you click one of them, you can go to the page and there's a whole page of them. And but it took just starting and just continuing to crack at it. Go at it. Go at it a little at a time. just chip away and we've built a library of them now, you know. >> Yeah. Just just do it. Uh you'll I mean I think this is true within training and everything. You'll never know what you're capable of until you try. The issue with a lot of people, issue is probably the wrong word. where people fail or fall is that when the obstacles come and they will come because if anything is worth having, it's going to give you obstacles. >> Yeah. >> Um that we we feel overwhelmed by them. And I mean, I've delved into stuff when we started looking at the training school and the NCON approval. I didn't even understand what I was reading. It was like a different bloody language. But I, you know, step by step, I've dug into it and gone a bit further and gone a bit further. I'm now twothirds of the way through my course, and I've had to put that on the back burner because of the CQC. But, but it's like and and and now it's a language I can communicate in, you know, it's a terminology I I can start to have a conversation in and start to understand. But when I first started, it was like, this just looks like freaking Mandarin to me. This is I haven't got a bloody clue. >> Yeah. But instead of looking at the whole chunk, I just bit off the first bit and then the second bit and then the third bit. And you know, I think planning is you don't have to have a formal plan, but I think having a an approach and half the time we spend this all this time going, "Oh god, look at the problem." When in fact, if we actually break it down and go, "Well, I can do that." >> Yeah. >> And I can do that. And then the time you get to that, you start to realize, "Oh, actually, I could probably do that as well." And you learn and develop as you go through. >> Yep. I couldn't agree more. Guys, we appreciate you tuning in. Go to evalblood analysis.com if you're in the UK to get your labs done by Dave. And of course, if you're in the UK or now the US, you can go to strongports nutrition to get some great health stats. You can go to truenutrition.com and use our code think for 10% off some of the cleanest, best protein powder you can find out there. get your creatine, get your highly branched cyclic dextrin and and all the other basic staple supplements that you need. Once again, use our code think for 10% off and uh supplement.ca for Canadians. If you're in Canada, you can get great deals over there that change week to week. Patreon, we appreciate the heck out of you guys. And uh leave us questions for the next episode. By the way, if you're brand new here, first time you're seeing the show, then be sure to hit the subscribe button and hit the bell if you enjoyed it. you know, if you didn't, that's okay, too. And if you haven't hit the like button yet, please hit the like button, guys. It helps us to push the show out so that more people can find it. I would love to freaking keep growing the podcast. We're doing awesome lately, and it's all thanks to you for watching and for commenting and for liking and just all your interactions. It's been really cool, guys. So, for another episode here of Drugs and Stuff with Dave Crosslin, I'm Scott McD. We will see you soon. Thanks, Dave. Thanks, Christmas cabbage.