 I must enlist an assistant to get my shirt off. He's gonna need help him. He's gonna need help getting his shirt off. He's stuck. I love this. I also love that he left this in. Yeah, yeah, of course he did. Mitsuro left everything. Yeah, there's no editing. So, you're not huge. I have gone through something that only huge guys go through. Okay. It's where you're soaking wet post-work. dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort dort IAMMutant.com. Avoid people. Stay at home. Get stuff delivered to your door. Dusty and Big Ron are your codes. Get your hardcore ISO. Get your MindFK. And every single one of you should get on the gear. And you're not using the codes enough because I should see hundreds of them after every episode. So get your stuff. Save money. Save money. Save money and avoid people. Okay, Scott, reaction. What are we doing? We got somebody fun. We're bringing back one of the classics. We've reacted to him once before. We're not doing Nassar, are we? We're doing Nassar again. Nassar? The gardener? He's got the gloves on. He's got the glasses on. He's got all that muscle on. Which one of you guys sent me a picture of a guy with gardening gloves on randomly? Who was that? Oh, I don't remember. I love the gardening gloves. Yeah. Someone, it was maybe a listener, they saw someone in the gym with gardening gloves and they took a picture and sent it to me. Can we bring that back? Can we get It's Just Bodybuilding Gardening Gloves? I should look into that. Right here? Right here? If they made me look like that, I would wear them. Yeah. Or you could just pretend, you know what I mean? I'd wear those and drink Sunkist after on my cardio. I've got the glasses. And I'd eat papaya. A big tub of papaya. Yeah. Yeah. So this is from, is this from On The Way Dusty? Yeah. Alright. So we had some training. This was some chess training. And then we also had some just like lifestyle stuff. Him and his dog at the end of this and him posing, signing stuff with his fans and everything. I love all these videos so much. I miss all the NPC stuff. Yeah. All the clothing. I miss like the cut off sweatshirts and the boat necks. There's nothing. That NPC USA logo was just such an iconic logo. I don't see enough of it. Dusty, do you know offhand how this show, which is 99, did you say? For the Olympia 99. Okay. There you go, buddy. I'm about four weeks out and I'm being taped by Mitsuri Kabe at the Powerhouse Fontaine Valley in Southern California. This is my sixth Mr. Olympia preparation. And so far I've been competing in over 45 pro shows since 1990. I turned 1990 pro in Helsinki, Finland. That's nine shows a year. That's wild. And the winner of this show was at that time. Or no, five shows a year. Sorry. Nine years. Still. Still. And from 1990 on, I've been straight competing actually every year. And so far I won the Night of Champions 95, which is the third highest title in bodybuilding. Hey, look out there. I won the Arnold's Classic 1999. This year in March, after two attempts, last year I was second, the Ud4 was second. So finally I won this year the Arnold's Classic. It's actually the World Championships, professional World Championships in bodybuilding. And I came also second at the Mr. Olympia. This was 97. I was close, but not there. So still the Mr. Olympia title is missing. And I see myself always as a top contender for this highest title in bodybuilding. And you'll see me on this tape. I got ready for this show. I actually started training in 1983, 84, beginning of 84. Decoying class. And I'm now 33 years old. My body weight was about 85 kilos when I started training. And in my first show, it was the year 85. I competed with 92 kilos. And my contest weight nowadays is between 125 kilos and 130 kilos. This means mostly between 70 and actually 85 pounds. Sometimes I'm a little bit lighter. Sometimes I'm a little bit heavier. This year, the year he won the Arnold, that was a crazy Arnold look. Huge. What do you think held him back from winning the Olympia? His back. Yeah. It just wasn't as crazy as it needed to be. So I stayed on stage with the best possible shape. He had no depth to his back. Yeah. I gained actually 65 kilos. He's just so massive. That most muscular shots does. His front relaxed was awesome. He had like a tight waist, wide shoulders, crazy sweeping quads. I repeat myself all the time. But you see me training now. So he's doing like a rest pause. Like he went to like the hard rep and then did a couple more. And then he's going to like get a couple more and just kind of pound a bit of volume in with this poundage. I mean, it's not a heavy weight, right? It's also a really fast rest pause. Yeah. Yeah. Like what was that? 10 seconds? Yeah. That's where you like unrack it and it just falls in your chest. Yeah. Exactly. He also like other than videos for the most part trained alone. I know him and Jean-Pierre would train sometimes. But for the most part he trained solo, which was and he would move some weight in the offseason. Sometimes you have days where you get a better pump, a better feeling by handling lighter weights. And you shouldn't forget, right now I'm training pretty quickly. Which means one set after the other. I did a couple of super sets. I did triple drops. I did sets with rest pause. And if you get a real incredible pump. So why are you using them three or four points? He's like, nope. That's it. I also think it's funny. He pre-exhausted with rest pause with 225 before going up to 275 and then back down. So there's a lot of failing there. Failing like three times in that one set. Yeah. Ron, you started bodybuilding early enough. Did you ever have a phase where you used gloves? Yeah. Yeah. I remember in high school, Lee Haney came out with these black fingerless gloves. Yep, yep. And they had his signature on the back. I remember those. Totally awesome. Yeah. Totally awesome. Did you have them? And they had a built-in wrist wrap. Yep. And I had a pair of those. And I wore those for a while, but then I went away from them. I never wore gloves again. Those are cool. I had just like standard weeder gloves. They were like gray and they had like some red trim on them or something. And I remember I knew guys back then that would be like, oh, I got to go buy another pair of gloves at the front desk. I forgot my gloves. Yeah. You couldn't train without them. What? But like I knew guys who wouldn't train without the gloves. I remember your hands wouldn't get used. They wouldn't get callous. So if you wore gloves all the time. Soft, soft, velvety flower decorator hands. Yeah. Supple hands. It's no good. Then you'd go to grab the freaking knurling and tear your hands up if you weren't used to it. Versus I feel like we've all gotten away from gloves. We don't even know what that's like now. See, I took so much pride in my brutal callusing because other than that, I didn't have man hands. Yeah. Yeah. My dad had like wrench tool marks all over his hands. He probably broke every bone in his hand over the years with tools. I didn't have that. So I wanted like the palm of my hand to be like at least show that I'd done work. Yeah. You know what I mean? I didn't want my dad to think I was, you know, back of those hands aren't bloody enough, you know? Right. We used to get a little bit of that. He'd be like, how was your workout at the gym? Right. In the controlled temperature environment. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You're perfect. You're perfect weather. How was your one hour shift at the coal mine? My dad said to me a few times, right? I love you, dad. That's amazing. One hour shift. Come home brutally tired. He's like, must have been a tough shift. Good workout. Oh, yeah. I did 14 hours in the field today, son. Yeah. He's just pomping through this chest machine now. Yeah. And he sort of pyramids up on everything, right? Yeah. He's going heavier after he gets tired. He's like up and then back down for drop sets. Yeah. That was a thing back then, though, a lot. Like, JJ and Marsh used to have us run the rack on like a lateral raise where you do like 20, 30, 40, 50, 40, 30, 20. I've trained with people, too, where they want to run the rack up and then down. I'm like, the up part makes no sense. Yeah. Let's just warm up and start with the 50s. Exactly. Yeah. Like, what are you doing? What are we doing here? But you go through it because you're training together. I've done lots of stuff because it's like the training partners are doing it. So you're like, I don't know. Yeah. I'll do it. But I also think that that's like, God forbid. Yeah.  Yeah. It's just hard, yeah. It's just hard and hard is fun. It's just hard and hard is fun. Right? Like how you say Dusty, like when's the last time you just went in the gym with your friends and just tried to kill each other. Yeah. Right? Sorry. The most fun workouts. He just went super brutal early on. Like you said, failure, failure, failure, failure, failure, failure. And now it's like pump, pump, pump, pump. Yeah. That's what I'm seeing out of this. Well, he's got to make room for that one kilo of papaya he's gonna eat. Exactly. Or the bananas. You guys heard about the bananas with him, right? Yeah. Was he big on bananas? Was he big on bananas? No, he just told people he was. Oh, right, right, right. And he went to a seminar. And he was like, he told people, he was like, oh, I eat 20 bananas a day. 20 bananas a day. Yeah, and didn't eat 20 bananas a day. He's like, that's all I eat. You know? At a seminar. At least that's what I heard. I obviously wasn't there. Banana sales in that area went through the roof that week. Right. I remember, yeah. Small percentage of bodybuilders that actually existed at that time, you know? Right. Both of them. Yeah, both of them. I feel pumped. I feel pumped. My chest must be soft. Very hard. Very full and very hard. And very pumped. He's gonna need help getting his shirt off. This is amazing. I cannot get my shirt off. Best part of the whole scene right here. I must enlist an assistant to get my shirt off. He's gonna have Mitsuro help him. He's stuck. I love this. I also love that he left this in. Yeah. Yeah, of course he did. Mitsuro left everything. Yeah, there's no editing. No. So, you're not huge. I have gone through something that only huge guys go through. Okay. It's where you're soaking wet post-workout, and you're having a hard time getting your t-shirt off. And you actually rip your shirt trying to take it off. Because you're squirming around like this. You're like, oh, I'm so pumped. I can't get my shirt off. And you actually pull on it, and you just rips it. 305. And I dropped a little bit. It's like a Hulk Hogan move. 300. Otherwise. And I'm again a little bit up. I think I lost a little bit too early weight. And so, I'm a little bit, trying to go a little bit up. Not too much up. The Olympia is not a contest who is the most heavy guy on stage. Who would he compare to best in the modern era? Well, he's 5'10". I think size is still a big factor. Right. Yeah. Like, who's apples to apples with him as close as Nick Walker? The only thing which I realize... Nick's a little short of that, isn't he? Yeah. I can't even think of somebody, Scott. Like, I mean... I still think he's one of the best. 90 grams of carbs and 210. He was also really entertaining. 20, 25 grams of carbs. And, uh... Yeah. He said 90 to 210 on his carbs. I'm not going so far comfortable. Which, for that much muscle... Yeah, that's nothing. Right. I mean, how much does he weigh? He said he was like 305. I mean, God. I mean... I mean... I think... You know, Brandon Curry's 5'10". He's not 305. No. Like... I don't know. I think I have to get my shoulders wider. And a little bit more detailed. So now we are about four weeks out. Four weeks and I think four days. I remember Nasser always used to say that he held tons of water all the time. I was just thinking that, man. And he didn't care. He's like, oh, I don't care. And then I think later in this video, he shows his sock rings at the end of the day. And they're like pretty bad. Yeah. Yeah. And he's like, oh, that's just from all the growth hormone. And I, you know, I eat a lot of salt. Like a lot of salt in my growth hormone. And I just... Once I pull the growth hormone, I'll just water goes. Yeah. I love that he grabbed a random gym member to help him get dressed. So I try. Is he still going to do some more training here? Oh, yeah. He's got to go get some shoulders next, apparently. I thought this was the end. I thought he was done. No, no. That was just a break to check to make sure he was, you know, pumped up. Pump check. We didn't want to lose weight by accident. He talked about that. His weight went down too quick. He had to bring it back up. Which powerhouse is this? Oh, I said at the beginning. Yeah. I said at the beginning. I've never been to that one. Fullerton or something. Yeah. I'm just loving all the old equipment in the background. Oh, me too, man. That was such a common color scheme in gyms back then. Black and teal. Yeah. Or white and teal. Mm-hmm. Yeah. Or blue and white. Another member taking his shirt off. I love it. She's probably happy to help, though. We had those teal machines at my powerhouse in Canton, Michigan. They were all that black and teal or white and teal. That's free weight behind the neck. So, like, that's impressive to me because I just think that movement's freaking impossible. Oh, yeah. So, the fact that he can, after doing all that pressing, he can still even do those? The fact that he's not flexible enough to take his shirt off, yet he can do a behind-the-neck press. Mine would be an on-top-of-the-head press. Like, there's no way I can do that after that workout. Look at the thickness of that neck. It's like a freaking Rottweiler. Yeah. Like, that's insane, man. That movement just looks like it hurts. He's also, like, a wide grip doing it. Yeah. It's brutal. It's the gloves that gave him the stability. Take my shirt off again. Take my shirt off, Mintz. Yep. It's coming back off. One hand. Mintz is touching this dirty-ass shirt. He's like, this is disgusting. Soaking wet tank top. Yeah. Oh, absolutely. Just keep it off. Just keep it off. I feel like he looks even harder now that he got the shoulder pump, you know? Jesus. I think the thing that's also crazy, guys, is, like, in that era, like, training and filming wasn't like it is now. Yeah. Everyone in that gym is like, what are they? Like, every time he would have people in there, like, oh, he's filming. Like, that's not, wasn't normal back then. And Mintz isn't carrying a little tiny camera. No. No. But the thing, too, is that it was also acceptable in a bodybuilding gym to peel down, possibly even to your underwear, right there on the floor. If it's leg day, you're allowed at that point in bodybuilding to pull your pants down. And nobody's going to bat an eye at you. That's just kind of what you do. And then you flex your legs. It's, like, totally acceptable if you're a competitive bodybuilder. I saw a sign once at a gym in front of the dumbbell rack down by the end. And it said, if you're going to drop your pants, you must be four weeks out. That's amazing. If you're going to drop your pants, you must be four weeks out. No, we don't want to see anybody's fucking fat ass. Right. In the dumbbell area. You better look good. I love the gym owner that writes that. Right? You better look good. This is what matters. His dog's here. Yeah. That's his dog, yeah. She's a puppy, I remember. What's my little dog's? I don't know. What is that? A Japanese dog. Salinoid? A Japanese name? Japanese. Japanese? Sato means Japanese sugar. Actually, her name is Sato. I'm a six-month-old. And she's a female. Still a puppy. She's a pretty girl. I really, really like her. We all get silent for the dog part. Like, this is awesome. What a weird life if you're a dog and you end up with him as your owner. It's the best life. We're home all the time. Yeah. What is it exactly? But I'm thinking him in particular, though. Yeah, yeah. He's just such an interesting guy. See me, she's eating beef liver. We need to bring those shirts back, too. It's a good last time, huh? Yeah. West Coast iron shirts, Ron. That's what I'm seeing. Purple. Purple. Three-quarter sleeve. You think he cut that sleeve off himself, Ron? Yeah. Besides her? Or the wife. There's still four cats. She likes to chase the cats, but I think it's just temporarily. She'll learn to get along with them. And she's very jealous of the kids. Very. It's going to be a big dog. But now the kids are not here, so she's happy. Six months old at that size? Yeah, that's a big... Yeah, right? Hmm? Oh, that's a big dog. Yeah. Neil, he needs that. No, that's beef liver. Oh. Actually, salmon. Oh, he's got a burger. Salmon sandwich with cold salt. I'm actually, like I said mentioned before, four and a half weeks out. I shouldn't eat cold salt necessarily, but I think I can allow this to myself because I know my body. And I think salmon is important to eat in the diet at least twice a week to get, uh, fish oil. Can have also halibut. Can have tuna. I don't like salmon because it's kind of fatty. And, um, I like also red meat, but, uh, twice or three times a week during the whole diet. Normally I prefer Diet Coke. Um, up to a couple of weeks out of the show. Two to three weeks out of the show. But on the other side, I, uh, I like to taste something differently. So they drink mostly Diet Coke, water, coffee, tea, uh, liquids which, uh, don't, uh, contain that much, uh, calories. And, uh, there's actually a sparkling mineral water of no calories. The so-called natural orange flavor. Just the way he reads things. Yeah. Yeah. Not just like water, it tastes like orange water. That was amazing. That made my day. Those are always great. That dog's some kind of inu. That one was? There's a, like, Shiba Inus and a...  Pretty cool. He just said Japanese dog. Nasser, what a character. This says orange water, and it tastes like water, but orange. I probably should not be eating coleslaw, but I know my body. I'm going to allow it. I'm going to allow it. He's like, I eat salmon. He's got a BUN in front of it. Salmon sandwich. Yeah, he just went out and bought that somewhere. Well, he's sitting at an outdoor cafe there. It looks like he just had a salmon sandwich, right? Yeah. Throwing out all the rules, everybody. And once again, I will tell my favorite Nasser story. I was in the hotel room with him before a guest posing, and I just thought, I've got to ask him something. I can't just stand here not saying anything. Everyone's kind of joking around talking. He's in a really good mood. I go, hey, Nasser. I go, what did you do to dry out for the Arnold? What do you do to dry out? Because I was obsessed with that when I was first coming up. I thought there was some formula that was magic, right? Yeah. And he goes, I eat carbs until I spill, and then I take Lasix. Boom. Bulletproof in so many ways. 70% of the time, it works all the time. 100% of the time. 70% of the time, it works 100% of the time. Yeah, yeah. Wow. I just, and I remember thinking like, oh my God, that's not, that's not detailed information. Until I spill, then I take a Lasix. I eat carbs until I spill, and then I take a Lasix. And I was like, oh. Give me a heart attack. Yeah, it just made me even more stressed out. Literally. Yeah, you never even attempted that maneuver. You're like, that's not going to work. Now I have less information than I had before. Right. Right. You told me something, and now I feel like I know less than I did before. Yeah. Oh, so you don't know what to do either. Got it. Yeah, yeah. Also, I will say this. I was shocked when I saw Nassar eat at a Burger King. Because it was like, it was like he was trying to do as much damage as possible. Wait, were you there? Like you saw him in person, or you saw that on video? No, yeah, yeah. Because it was just that group of guys. Okay, so you were with him. Yeah. I don't know if I heard that you were in the hotel room with him. I knew that you met him like years ago. You had the hat and all that, but. No, no, yeah, because I knew him from that. So then when he came to Edmonton, I was like, hey, do you remember me? And he's like, yeah. You know, like that's how I knew him, yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I knew Nassar like weirdly. I kept running into Nassar, like, which sounds weird. But like, I'm in Australia by coincidence, and he just happens to guest pose, and my friend's driving him around. So my friend's like, come with me. So I'm like around Nassar for like this guest appearance, like for like a lot, for like a day and a half, you know? And then like another time he came to an event, and I wound up like hanging out with him backstage and sitting with him in the crowd. Like I just wound up having this weird, like semi-friendly relationship with Nassar. I love it. Yeah. Some people call it stalking, but go ahead. Yeah, like I try not to, but he would just come over to me. He's like, oh, how are you doing? You know, and I'd be like, oh, good, good. I'm doing good now. So really good to see you, you know? So people are going to want to know, dude, because you didn't finish it. Yeah. What was the order? Well, like. What was that all about? Two Whoppers. Two ice creams. Ah. Like, you know, like. He was going hard. Not just have a meal at Burger King, but like, oh, we go off. Yeah. Right. Right. Like, yeah. Maybe he just likes even numbers. Right. Yeah. Yeah. He's like, I can't have one ice cream. That'd be weird. Yeah. I had two Whoppers. Right. Whopper per ice cream. It makes sense. Yeah. And then, of course, did he drink Diet Coke or a Sunkissed? Never mind. I don't remember. I don't remember any of that. But yeah, yeah. Just, you know, funny stories. And then, of course, my favorite line with Nasser that I've said many times, I was on the incline press at the gym and he was doing arms. I remember he was doing close grip bench and then supersetting them with single arm dumbbell. Mm-hmm. And I remember thinking, that's weird. He's supersetting a two-arm movement with a one-arm movement. Hmm. That burned my brain. Yeah. Right? Like, you know, that was like, but he was like, whatever. It's just superset, whatever. It's just alternate, you know? Yeah. And then he came over to me and he goes, I said, hey, Nasser, can I get a spot? Because I wanted like a four-strap on the incline. And I'm on the hammer. And he comes over and he goes, he leans over and he has his glasses on, right? And he leans, like I'm sitting in the hammer incline. And he kind of leans in and he pushes his glasses up. He goes, you are training very hard. Like you have somewhere you want to go. And I remember that just. That was a big compliment. That just stuck with me. Like I was just like, fuck. Because after the set was over, right? I like racked in. He goes, you are training very hard. Like there's somewhere you want to go. And I never forgot that. That's awesome. Neither would I. You know? So every time I see a Nasser video, I just think, ah, he was a nice guy to me. He was really nice. He had a nice, you know, I was a young bodybuilder, right? And he just went out of his way to say hi all the time. And he's super cool. I like hearing that. Because you hear the other stories where he's like messing with people. Yeah. Well, I heard Greg Kovacs told a million stories about Nasser. Because they like, you know, stayed at his house for a while. I'm like, oh, he's like, here's all my growth. Like, you know. You know what I mean? He's like, where did my kit go? You know what? He's like, where's my growth? Where did my kit go? Out of the fridge. And Nasser's at the table just, I don't know. That's a reality TV show. Right to his face. I don't know. I don't know. It should have been a TV show. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Can you imagine? Like before the concept of reality show, you got Nasser living with Kovacs for two weeks or whatever. I don't know. Just completely off. Like no holds bars. Nothing would make sense. No. Yeah, just put it out on NBC or something. I want to see it mainstream. With no context for normal people? Yeah, nothing. Just drop it like it's nothing. Just drop it in there. Two meatheads living day to day in a house. No explanations of what they're doing. I mean, it would probably do a lot of damage to the reputation of bodybuilding as a whole, but I still think it would be worth it. We do it on our own. It's fine. Yeah. Not explain any of the injections they're doing. Yeah, yeah. Just regular talking. Yeah. All they see is syringes and drugs and you don't say what they are. Yeah. Yeah. And you know that real bachelor bodybuilder? He's got like a loaded syringe on his kitchen table for like three days. You don't live with anybody, do you? Yeah. You know? Might want to use that or throw it away or put it away. Protein jugs are lined up on the counter. Yeah. I used to have an empty five-pound iso tub full of my used syringes. It's all been there. It's all been there. Yeah. Okay. Don't pay for sharps containers, guys. You got your five-pound iso tubs. Yeah. Okay. Remember, like, share, subscribe, comment, and... Ring the bell. Yeah. And iamutant.com. Get on it. I don't even want to have to say it again. Hardcore iso, mind FK, and everyone should get on the gear. Dusty and Big Ron, use your codes. Thanks, guys. Remember, it's just bodybuilding. Reacts. Reacts.