who can come out of nowhere. There it is. Yeah, he comes in peeled. It gets interesting in a hurry. And I'm not saying he's winning the Olympia thing. I'm just saying he's going to jump a lot of really good guys. I mean, there's a lot of guys in that like, you know, 5 to 10 range that really didn't need him showing up. Hey everybody, welcome to It's Just Bodybuilding. I'm Big Ron Partllo. Of course, here's Dusty Handshot and the producer, Scott McN. Remember to like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. Yes, absolutely. And remember, I immutant.com. Go to immutant.com. Get your ISO surge. Get your allin. And everybody should get on the gear. And remember, Dusty and Big Ron are your codes. Save money. Don't leave your house. Have stuff delivered immediately. I keep stressing the not having to go see people thing. No one. That's just no one. And it just comes to you, which is miracle. It's a miracle. It's a festivist miracle every day that you order mutant products. And delivered fast. Very fast. Yeah. Okay. So, what's going on? We got uh Nexzilla winning a second show. Yeah. Yeah. So, he's proving Hey, listen. That wasn't a fluke. That was just me figuring it out, right? The condition thing. He got it enough to win that first show and now he just wins the second show. What do we think of that? I think that freaks save bodybuilding and I love it. So, when he first showed up, remember us talking about him? We were like, I mean, we're like, we'll see. We'll see. We'll see. We'll see. Like, the structure is not the best. He's going to have to be overwhelming. Yeah. And now the overwhelming is has arrived because the conditioning is getting better. Every show now that he the last show he just won here, the conditioning was pretty damn good. I mean, what's going on with this? Well, pull up. Do you Can we get some that video you got there, Scott? Absolutely. Let's let people see exactly what we were looking at cuz he didn't exactly I saw Jay talking about him. And Jay just said he said there's just, you know, with the condition that with the condition that he's in. There's no conditioning that can make up for the size. Right. You know what I He's just too too muscular. Like, you know, you have a muscularity round for God's sakes. That's the name of the round. Low back when he hit that. Just the mass hanging off him. And look at the lower body mass compared to like the other guys are pros. They're good pros. Right. That's Nathan to his left. So, think about that. That's Nathan to his left. And the lower body mass just looks different like the the calves. It's otherworldly. But I mean, we had I mean, I'm trying to think each each kind of uh era of of bodybuilding has their freak. And I feel like the guy before him, and one of our listeners mentioned this last week was Big Ramy. Is he like the craziest, wackiest bodybuilder since Big Ramy? H I mean, it's Yeah. Since like like just a sheer mass and just like freakiness, you know? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, when I look at him, it bubbles, it like when he's hitting these shots now, when he first came out, it was look at his legs, look at his legs, look at his neck, and now it's it looks so it flows. Like I I mean, Ramy obviously won some Olympias, but I always struggled with his physique a little bit because I just it something about it just didn't work in my head as well. When I look at his, he looks put together, too. You know, even the posing has gotten way better. You could tell his work with Cormier is really playing paying off cuz I know he was helping with some posing and stuff. Like the presentation looks great in between poses. Yeah. You know, I just couldn't imagine like I mean like in a way he does have that look like we were to say AI, I want you to create a impossible bodybuilder that has legs that nobody could ever develop, right? you know, the we would get that like that literally like that looks like it's AI if you were to ask me. No, this isn't real. This is an AI video. Yeah. You know, right. And he's brought his back up, too, cuz that was initially when he first showed up. That was a thing like, well, his back needs to be a lot bigger. Yeah, good point. So, I mean, it's uh it's going to be really interesting to see him on the Olympia stage, especially if he gets in even better condition because, you know, he's been getting better every show. And uh it gives them, you know, another few months to get him even tighter. Like, I don't know what he weighs here. I'm sure someone Each leg weighs 150 pounds, right? Each leg. They weigh him in by body part. It's just easier. One piece at a time. That's funny. I I didn't want to sl the change they just made on the right when that guy came in. It was funny looking because you're looking at a pro bodybuilder that comes in and and looks like an amateur when he stands next to him. Yeah. When the guy on the far right just at the very end there ended up next to him. I was like, "Oh, that looks funny almost." And this is awful video lighting. Yeah. Yeah. She's like, "And you can still look awesome." So, no, I I think that he's going to be, you know, we were talking in the last show like who can come out of nowhere. There it is. He comes in peeled, it gets interesting in a hurry. And I'm not saying he's winning the Olympia thing. I'm just saying No, no, but he's going to jump a lot of really good guys. I mean, there's a lot of guys in that like, you know, 5 to 10 range that really didn't need him showing up. Yeah. It's not an advantage to them. It's not Yeah. Because he's that wild card look like it, you know, not the prettiest with the best flow or the most aesthetic, but you get to a point where, you know, how piling muscle on a physique solves a lot of problems. Oh, yeah. Like, you know what I mean? You throw enough muscle on and the guy has a better X-frame. Y you throw enough muscle on, the waist looks smaller. You throw enough muscle on, things don't matter as much. It just gets crazier to deal with. And um the guys like you know how many guys are qualified for the O so far? We over are we over 50? 127. 127. It's in the open, I guess. Yeah. But uh but yeah, you're right. that that that 6 through 12 spot where all the the really good guys, a bunch of really good guys show up smashing each other for those spots and you you think, well, he's going to fall in there. Um I always looked at a Ron with with like I would tell competitors that uh when I watch a show, obviously when you're judging a show you're you scan everybody, but I always say it's the guy that my eyes want to go back to. It's hard to deny him, right? the guy you can't stop looking at. Even if there's something wrong with him, you're like, "Yeah, still bodybuilding." Yeah. That's still just a [\h__\h] ton of muscle and this is bodybuilding. Yeah, it is. If if we'll say that he's probably like the biggest freak right now at that level, and if we could say that Big Ramy was the biggest freak before him, who would have been the biggest freak before that? And I have one guy picked out in my mind doesn't quite stand out like these guys, but I'm curious to think if you guys I mean, when I think of the biggest freaks, the biggest freaks on stage, I think of Marcus Rule. Yeah. And John Pierre and uh Jean Pierre Fuks. Um Paul Dilllet. Oh. Um those guys are to me, you know, they were also taller um typically, but um I do think of those guys when I think of like the biggest freaks, you know, Nasser for a period of time. Nasser. Um, and he's one of them, isn't he? Yeah, he's one of them. Um, you know, even then, but you know, certain body parts like the his calves and legs are bigger than all of them. All of those guys. Yeah. They're [\h__\h] crazy. You know who struck me as major freak factor? And this is who I was thinking of cuz I was trying to like chronologically go back. There's always the freak. Now, now this guy isn't, he wasn't like freak size like this, but Roly Winkler at his best was an absolute animal. Like just like, "Oh my god, how did that even happen animal?" And he either absolutely nailed it and just looked abs crazy insane or it's like, "Ah, Roly's off today." You know what I mean? But when he nailed it, it was like, "Good god." You seen him recently? I haven't. No, he looks like that again. Does he really? That warms my heart. He looks like that again. I saw I saw a post where he was making a comeback. Is that a real post? Did you guys see that? Well, based on his I mean, I don't know about the factuality of it, but based on the way he looks. Yes. Because I don't know why I I I don't know why he because he was not a guy who in my experience with him and seeing him when he had shrunk down, he didn't seem bothered by it. He wasn't like a guy who identified as a bodybuilder. So to see him blow back up again tells me that he's absolutely coming back because he is massive. I I think it was like 2016 at the Arnold Classic. I just I they everybody, you know, they come out and they do their like little one minute presentation and before they do the the uh call outs and at prejudging, the best way I described it at the time, and I still have that picture in my head today, it's as if it wasn't even like a bodybuilding routine. It was like a science experiment. And they it's like they basically he didn't even have to walk. They could have just wheeled him out, right? They wheel him out and then he hits this just instantly. First thing is this most muscular. And when he hit that most muscular, everything expanded by like three and a half, 4 in in every direction. All these veins came out. And I was like, "Oh my god, that reminds me like if you poke a puffer fish, right?" Like he just instantly it was like this crazy animal that I had never seen before. And when you poke it, it just goes and covered in veins. That's like what I saw in Roly Winkler that year. Yeah. It was incredible. I saw him Scott the first time after he won the Arnold amateur. Oh, yeah. Yeah. And they just walked him on stage, right? And he was in I don't remember if he was in a tight t-shirt or if he had a tank top on, but when he walked out, I go, "What are those triceps?" I mean, and like you couldn't even help it. And you're thinking, I feel so bad for anyone who competed as an amateur against him. Cuz like you're getting ready for a show, you're like, all right, this could be my shot. Then you see him backstage and you're like, you know, I'm going to get a pizza. This show is over. One thing about uh Rolley is uh I MCEd the Popeye's bodybuilding show. It would have been like 2017 or 2018, and he was a guest poser. Okay. And so, you know, I'm like looking at my cards. I'm MCing the night show and I'm like, "Oh, guest post are coming up. Oh, make sure Rolley is ready." You know, I'm sort of trying to keep the show going and finally I see him behind the curtain pumping up eating and they had all these donuts out and he was eating donuts. He was pumping up and eating donuts and he was very distended. I'm not going to lie. He did look like he did not really care about when he ate his last meal. He was like, "I'm here to guess pose. I'm fine with it." Like, he was totally cool. He he was in like pretty good offseason shape. He wasn't crazy, but he he looked like he hadn't really worried about his food for the day, that's for sure, right? And uh then they, you know, I announced him, hey, Roly, Rolley the Beast, and he comes out and oh my god, like I love seeing the reaction. You know, I MCed a lot of bodybuilding shows for a few years there and I still do our show every year, but I always really enjoyed from an MC's perspective because you can see everyone's faces, especially at those at that level of show cuz I always do the hey, who's at their first bodybuilding show thing, right? And you get like half the crowd, they're at their first show and you're like, oh, you people are [\h__\h] cuz we got Rolley coming out here, right? I Who's at their first show? And half the crowd I'm like, who's here to support someone? And half the crowd I'm like, "Who's ever seen a guest poser?" No. And like half the crowd's like, "Never seen a guest poser." I'm like, "Oh Jesus, here we go. You're in for something." Yeah. You know, and and then Rolley comes out and you just look back at the crowd, you see all these people like their face is got such a kick out of that. Son wants to do. Yeah. Yeah. They're like, they're here to support their daughter or their son and they're like, "What is this?" You know, first time seeing a human that's not human. Oh god. Yeah. And I got to do that with Rammy. He guest posed at that show one year and and he was 3:30 and I announced his weight 3:30. And then I look at the crowd and I could just see like all these people are like, "How's that possible?" My son weighs 175. Yeah, he too is 5'11. Yeah, he he too is 5'11. So that was always like a real And that that year rolly guest post was like super fun. And I remember like I I got a real kick out of watching people's faces just twist and their heads twist. Especially when they like jump in the crowd and they get to see them up close. I've seen so many people like they have to jump up and get a photo cuz they're like I don't even know what this is. Like I got to show my guys at work and you can tell there's like the different levels of support crowd. There's like the I know what bodybuilding is. I'm here to see my brother, right? And then there's like the ones that don't understand why he's a little distended. Yeah. And they don't understand anything of what they're seeing. Like and that those are the funnest people to stare at. Yeah. My dad's very first my dad's very first bodybuilding show was to support me and you know he didn't really follow the sport. he did back in the day like he knew people that were competitors and they you know Arnold all of that but then he came to see me and then he got to watch Tricky Jackson gyate on stage you know. Oh right right. So he's kind of confused kind of knows what Well, not what I expected. Break dancing and doing the robot and Yeah. Yeah. Imagine all the poor people when Kai comes out in like leather and a mask, full SNM, full on BDSM gear, straight from a fetish show. Promoters all uncomfortable. He's like, "Oh, goodness sakes." I ask for Kai Green. Yeah. Came straight from the Pride Parade. Yeah, exactly. He's on the leather float. Okay. Yeah. Oh, I just opened up the chat. Yes. I I threw a chat in there myself and said, "Hey guys, you guys want to throw any questions in?" A It's good to see everybody. Yeah. You're welcome. Yeah. Yeah. Afternoon, J. Okay. Um I wanted to let you guys know how I spent my weekend. Yes. Not that, you know, cuz that's the type of show we have here. Yeah. We care. How did you spend your weekend? I had I had two very big concerts that I spent a lot of time on YouTube trying to find great footage of. Okay, it's important. The uh Oasis reunion show happened. I believe it was Friday. So, of course, I was trying to find good footage from the Oasis uh reunion show. Big fan. And then they had the back to the beginning Black Sabbath final tribute yesterday and it was incredible. They live streamed it. It was like six, seven hours of, you know, crazy list of amazing bands kind of playing 20 20 minute sets. Uhhuh. And they would kind of do a song of their own or two songs of their own and then a Sabbath cover or an Aussie cover. And then the next band would come on and do a song or two of their own and an Aussie cover, a Sabbath cover and they would kind of and all the bands went through. Then they had a couple of super groups where they had all these other people that were invited kind of one-offs, right? Like like the drummer from Mega Death and this guy and this guitar player from FA, you know, Living Color and they would all make a super group and they would play maybe a a cover of one of the songs that one of the bands had done and then a Sabbath cover. So, it was just a super fun day for I watched all this footage, you know, and Panta, Metallica, everyone was on the bill and uh and then at the end they bring Aussie out and he did some Aussie stuff. Okay. And then and then that band left the stage and Sabbath came on and they finished with some Sabbath and then that's the last performance Aussie will ever do. He did it from a throne. He wasn't standing. He was sitting. But he still sounded great. Aussie Aussie still got pipes, man. And crazy. Like he still sounds good. And And they're all old. Like they're in their 70s, man. And Bill Ward on the drums looks like he looks like an old like an old man, but he's still just like cranking. Yeah. Cranking. And it was just it was just great. And it was really touching, too. Like it was an emotional day for a lot of those guys. And and it made me think too like not everybody gets to have an end, right? You know, most people I'm surprised Aussie does. Do you know what I mean? Yeah. Like Azie gets Yeah. Like everyone else dies early and Aussie gets an end. He gets to have a party thrown for him with everyone who loves him. And like also too, you hear these guys telling their stories because there's all these interviews coming out and stuff. Like you know a lot of people in that industry you hear stories of them treating people bad or you know doing this or that and like Aussiey's just loved like literally loved like a granddad loved by everyone who's ever you know cuz he is the type of guy that would take bands out on the like I'm going to make you famous come with me like he saw MLY Crew loved them you're going to come on me on my tour right he was the guy that made all the like he made a lot of bands he made them famous he's like no no you're coming with me get on the You know, and then Ozfest. Ozfest that happened for years and years. Ozfest was, you know, they would find bands that Aussie liked and they would get on the Ozfest bill and that was their big break to get in front of all those metal fans and and it was just uh, you know, makes me makes me happy that he got an he got to have like a party thrown for him and and have an ending and sit on that chair by himself at the end. everyone left stage and just Azie was on stage on his throne and you know it was it was pretty cool. Yeah, I'm a huge fan of all that music. So, it was a special day. Billy Corgan from the Pumpkins, he was in one of the super groups and he he put up a really great post cuz he's obviously he's a poet. He's a wordssmith, right? So, he he wrote this amazing post and and put it up on Instagram yesterday about about his experience at the event and it was just really cool. So, it was a it was a a great event and I'm sure some of the other viewers watched it and I just wanted to share that with you guys. If not, they will now. I mean, I'm inspired to watch it. Not everybody not everybody gets to have a party and then go out like Thank you. You know, people just kind of croak along the way. Yeah. Especially in that industry. Yeah. Right. Yeah. You know, plus he's what 77 or 78? I mean, Jesus. Plus the life he's had. He's 175. He took acid every day for a year once. That's amazing. Like a challenge. Like he's like, I'm going to see what it does. Like it's science. Science. Science. I'm going to see what it does. Well, we found out what it does cuz we all watched the Osbor, right? Yeah. Like you saw the state he's in. That's That's not just drinking. You know, not just cocaine. That's That's a lot of acid. So, man. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He's a one of a kind. There's no one on the planet like Ozie Osborne. Keith Richards may be close second in that regard. You know, we got Keith. Yeah. Yeah. It's so I love all the memes about, you know, people t trying to take care of themselves and having health problems and then Keith and Aussie are still just like touring defying science. Yeah. you know. Yeah. You know what? Am I Why am I wasting my time? Another sign of genetics right there. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. That's classic. I know. Great stuff. Well, on a quick note for you guys, uh, have either of you watched Marchella? Uh-uh. No. What's Marella? It is a It is a Netflix show that is a cop show in England. And all I'm going to say is we we were like scouring around for a show just looking. I started like three or four shows that all sucked and we started that one and is the most Yes. And that's what the the spelling and the way it's said is differently. But uh awesome. You have to watch these. Three seasons and we torched them. Okay. Like I wonder if we were still Oh, yeah. And it's one of the ones where you'll realize during the first first season that you do not know what's happening. You do not know who did it and you just go, "Fuck it. I'm just going to let this roll." I mean, it's And she has mental problems, too, that are taking place during the show, as all good main characters now have some sort. No, but they're they're a mental problem where she doesn't know what she's done and you don't know what she's done. Right. Right. So, it just keeps show your toes. I mean, I don't know how I hadn't heard of it before after we watched the first season. I'm like, how has Ron not told me about this? I'm disappointed in him. No, I didn't know about it. Okay. Well, no taken. I I finally caved. I We kind of We tried to watch Fargo season 1 a while ago. Oh, yeah. And for some reason, Emily didn't like it, so we didn't finish it. Okay. And I just had so many people, including another friend of mine, tell me like, "Dude, you got to get through season one." and and realize what's happening with all the seasons and how they're they're different time periods and but they all so we we started again and we're just finishing we have one episode left to finish season one and it's it's great Billy Bob Thornton is just what he is incredible chameleon of an actor yeah he's incredible incredible like he steals the show but everyone in it is great everyone's great and it's a Cone brothers I mean they just make the weirdest you know It keeps getting better, too, man. Disaster up. The only thing I'll say is like season 2 comes in and then like, you know, cuz it's all new people. Billy Bob Thornton's not there anymore and I'm like, well, where's Billy Bob Thornton? That was kind of I didn't know. Oh, he didn't know. No, when I like when it first came out and then I stopped watching cuz I was like, I don't know any of these people. But watching it around again, it it the the it just takes on so many more levels. But I did do the same thing as you, Ron, where like I watched a season and then I was like, I don't think this is for me anymore. But then when we went back, we watched it all and powered through like and I wanted I couldn't wait for the next night. Yeah. And of course I can I I know what's I know what they're going to do cuz there's been like five or six mentions of Sou Falls. Sou Falls. You remember? Remember? So like the one character's like, "Oh, this case reminds me of Sou Falls." And then a couple episodes later, one of the cops goes, "Yeah, I remember I saw I saw True Evil once back in Sou Falls." And you know that season 2 or season 3 or whatever one of those seasons coming is going to be Sou Falls and it's like 20 years before and I know that that's what they're setting up cuz I mentioned Yeah. Like oh I haven't seen evil like this in Sou Falls and you're like oh god what's that's what's going to happen there and so I know what they're doing. I know what's coming but it's very clever you know the way it's put together. Yeah. Yeah. And I was also told I was told that some of the characters reoccur but it's like decades later so they have another actor playing them cuz it's older person but you realize it's the same character and so I know they're going to move us around a bunch. Yeah. So yeah. Yeah. You will see that. You'll see that once you finish this season real you'll figure it out real quick actually. Okay. Okay. Looking forward to it. Cool. And their sense of place in time is done really well which you might not see in this season but you will as it moves on. Like just the I love like a good movie that's or TV show that's set in a period of time the way like Pey Blinders was like it takes you there. You know what I mean? Yeah. It's 2006 like when the guy's on the computer you look at the graphics on the screen you're like oh yeah it's 2006 and they're on the you know flip phones and [\h__\h] like you know like it's Yeah yeah yeah. Um, I have a friend who's in the movie business and he said that a lot of stuff is written in that time period now because if you allow characters to have smartphones, there's too many problems get solved. Ah, interesting. So, a lot of people writing scripts and screenplays, they're like, "We got to set this in 2002 or it doesn't work." Wow. That's You could have just Googled it and figured that out. Yeah. He'll never He'll never get lost. Like, how would you get lost? It's 2002. He needs to get lost. Like, it needs to be 1997. We need to do a period movie, you know? And then they got a Well, it'll be fun. and we'll do the fashion and the music. We'll make it cars. We need Yeah. Yeah. They just You can't You can't write a lot of these stories now. A lot of mystery stories and crime stories, you can't write them now. Yeah. Yeah. Doesn't make sense. Yeah. A guy filmed it. Got it right here. There's a bit, you know. Yeah. Exactly. You know, 100 people saw it, you know. Hey, I've got to take us back just a minute here because we have a comment that I think you guys would like to address. So, we were talking about freaks and somebody said, "I'm surprised you guys didn't mention Samson." He was He's way freakier than Roelly. Do you say Roelly? I mean then not Rolley, excuse me, than Big Ramy. Well, I think Samson's a better bodybuilder than Ramy. He's more complete and structurally Well, I mean, we didn't mention Ronnie Coleman either, so that wasn't Yeah, we didn't mention Ryan either, so there you go. Yeah, I think that I think Samson is a pretty bodybuilder. And once you're a pretty bodybuilder, you can be a freak. You can be freaky. He's got we like we talked about he's got crazy what 24 in arms. Yeah. Yeah. Legit 24. He is a freak but he is not like plus that type of freak. He's plus once you're Mr. Olympia then it's like we're trying to give the other guys love is what the whole conversation's about, right? You're just Mr. Olympia now. Yeah, you're Mr. Olympia now. Of course you're a freak, but we're trying to show some love to the other guys. Like who are the freaks in this? Often times too I feel like the true freaks are guys that couldn't be Mr. Olympia. You know what I mean? Like nobody thought Marcus Rule was winning the Olympia. Yeah. Like Marcus there's something crazy going on there that's not going to work for the Olympia. Yeah. But it's going to freak people out especially at the New York shows. Right. Yeah. Right. Right. Down to the jean jacket and the Mob Bros. The smoking always got me. Every time I see him smoking I'm like can't be Mr. Olympia smokes. Yeah. Oh, that's classic. Um, so I got I got a few questions left from uh last episode. I thought we'd hit some of those until we get some more uh in the box as well. But uh do you have any memories of some of the funniest stories that you saw had from the message boards days? Examples like can I drink Winnie Sphincter shot poop stories, you know, thing things like those the good old days. Well, I mean the the funny things about the message boards back then was uh I remember Tom Prince used to come on and just like straight up abuse people sometimes just Oh yeah. You know, like I remember Tom back in the day would come on and just say that's the most that's the most ridiculous thing I've ever heard. Pros don't do that. You guys are idiots. Like he would come on sometimes and talk like that. Lee Priest, of course, you know, Priest was on the boards in early days. Le basically picture what he does on videos but on message boarding directly to you. Yeah. I think that was my favorite part about the message boards and the things that I miss is we're in a world now where on my page and your page and anyone's page I can say whatever I want and I'll never really take backlash because I can delete them. I can turn off the comments. I can do all sorts of things. in the message boards. If you pipe off, mouth off, and especially if you stand your ground and you're wrong, you would get annihilated. I remember I got in an argument with a guy one time and he was adamant that you cannot prep without carbs. Your body can't do it." And I'm like, "What do you mean it can't do it?" He's like, "You can't survive without carbohydrates." I was like, "Cool. Tell that to an Eskimo." Um, yeah, right. Like I was like, tell me what are the essential carbs that you're speaking of because I only know, you know what I mean? And then he just got destroyed. I mean, to the point like guys would leave the boards after they got smoked bad enough. It was sort of the the tail end of cuz you know how they say now, you know, there's no repercussions for what you say. You know, there's you know a lot of people, you know what I mean? They say keyboard warriors talk tough now. on. But back in the message board days, it was like it was like the very last bridge between having no consequences and there still being a bit of consequence. Yeah. Because because your IP was too and if you tried to create a new account, the supermods would be like, ah, we know this is that guy. Yeah. It was a small enough world. Like imagine if the Instagram fitness community had um I guess it's so a giant so let's say had thousands of people that were double-checking your your posts and factchecking you and cuz you know we got guys like you know Goob guy that exposes everyone. We got him. Yeah, but he can't do everything, right? But back in the message board days the community was small enough that the super mods could handle it. They were on top of everybody. Oh yeah. So you would get flagged or you would get banned or you would get, you know, humiliated or something if you tried to, you know, say it became, it was also it did cross lines like uh at one point uh I got in an argument with a guy on there that was local in Arizona. Yeah. And uh so he literally said, "Meet me anywhere." No, he did. And he's like, "Meet me at the gym at at 1000 p.m." Oh, wow. I was like, "Okay." And I went to the gym at 10 p.m. and I took a picture of the clock and I posted it. I'm like, "You're not here." Did he he posted that publicly too to call you up, right? And I'm like, "I'm here." And it's like, and that was the that was one of the differences of the days cuz it really did cross over and it's an age where it's like, "All right, I mean, I'm 26. I'll I'll see you there." Like, yeah, right. No problem. You know, so that part those things were fun. And then, of course, you know, he wants to stay on there, so he's got to like back I was kidding. and you're like, I wasn't right. So, no, those were great times though. We would need Skip to really dig into the stories because if you guys remember uh Skip back on Intense Muscle Days, he lived to fight with people like and that would be his thing. Like he he I I can't do that. I don't want to argue with people all day, you know, but you know that some people are and I think it's affected all of my friends that were of the message board days because they're very careful with their wording. Do you guys know what I'm talking about? Because if you say things the wrong, you need to say it in the right way or else somebody's going to attack just the way you worded that because you could be mistaken, you know, and but Dante, you guys want to know why Dante doesn't want to come on the podcasts? Dante is scarred from the message boards from having to word everything just perfectly. That's my take on it at least. You know, that's that's funny. Um I remember Mike Pucinella, you know, Dave's brother, Mike the videographer. There was a stage on the MD forums, I think, where Mike and I were kind of buddies. Okay. And I would always see like, you know, when you log in and you see like the wall of like fresh posts. Y and there was this kind of like religious forum where Mike would always be over there arguing with people. Oh jeez. Cuz he was like he was like anti- anti- relligion and he would always be there kind of arguing with people, right? Like where's your proof? What do you got? You know, and and and so I would log in and I would see a fresh post. I would see Mike Pucinella. Yeah. I'm like, ah, what's Mike arguing with these guys about? So I' I'd go in and then I' i'd team up with Mike and I'd like start arguing with the other guys. Oh god. And it would be like me and Mike. And there was this period of like several months where every day almost Mike and I were in the forum like arguing with people and and then I got to a point where I was like this is toxic. Yeah. Yeah, it is. I'm like the only confrontation in my day that's negative. Purposely going into this forum and then finding Mike and then teaming up with Mike. And we both eventually just like we got to quit this. we can't talk to these people anymore. So, we both like and I remember I saw him at the North Americans and I was like, "Hey, how's it going?" He's like, "Hey, how are you?" Like, we both had this recovering. I'm recum. There was also like, do you guys remember GH15? Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Everyone wondered who it was. Yeah. There was like, you know, for anybody who's younger and wasn't there, it was like, these are the inside secrets of an undercover pro that like he's telling you how it's done. And I remember all these people thought it was Nasser. Yeah. A lot of people. Yeah. Yeah. And you know, there were there were characters like that. I remember a couple people and they'd come out with like a new article and by article it was like a a long post, you know, and that long post was usually like something you never thought of in bodybuilding. secret interview. Yeah. Like and be an unnamed pro gives you his Olympia cycle, right? And and we can't say who it is. Just say that he was top 10. And it's not his first time. You'd be like, "Okay, well that could be seven of them." There's seven of them. And and then I remember everyone thought, "Well, his name's GH15 because he takes 15 IUs at GH a day. That's the secret." His the secret's in his name. GH15, not 16. Yeah, it's key. 15. I saw George from the UK just posted uh Benny Pota, old school freak. 10 points for anyone who know who he is. I know who Benny Pota is. Benny Pota lived in a cave. Yeah. Yeah, definitely. Definitely. Wasn't he was he also a diabetic? I don't know. That's not a good combo. You need No, I don't think it was Benny. Refrigeration for your insulin, but it it does help. You did live in a cave though. Television. Yeah. Vinnie Pada. And then it said Phil Viz had to leave the MD forum after he lost a bet to old man Dave. I do not know about this situation. That's amazing. That sounds I don't know about that either. That sounds like it's old school. Does he mean old man Dave like Palumbo? I don't know who he means. Yeah, I don't know who old man Dave is. Yeah, you have to let us know on that one, George. Okay. Okay. Yeah, Drew. Anyways, hi to George from the UK. Hello. Yes. Okay, you got another question there, Dusty. I know that one ch that one thing you put up was great. We've answered this one in different ways, but there's always a million I can think of, so we'll do it again. Now that you're done competing, what's one thing that you would have done differently in any of your preps, i.e. more posing, harder cardio, more or less food, etc. Gotten a lot bigger. I I've thought about this one recently because we kind of we like almost talked about this a few shows ago, so I was like, "Oh, what would I have said?" And um there were some preps that I did myself that I still did really well and looked great. I thought, you know, but um I was way the reason that I would I would do a prep by myself and then I would hire I would work with someone for a few shows. That's and then I maybe would do a show by myself and then I would and then I worked with you know someone else. Um, and the reason that I would go back to working with somebody is because the doing the preps by myself, even though I still got a pretty good result and it was in a lot of people would be like, "Oh, you look great. You're in condition." That sort of thing. There was just so much micromanaging going on in my brain. The the main thing about doing your own prep is just staying calm and and not making changes too often. And I think now I have the maturity and the hindsight that it would be no problem for me. I'd be like, "This is my diet. I'm doing this diet for two weeks and then I'm just going to see where I'm at." Yeah. Right. Whereas like when I was younger in my early 20s doing my own prep almost every two days, I'd be like, "Oh, do I need to adjust the carbs? Oh, you know, I'm a little fuller here. A little bit." Yeah. A little too Yeah. A little too Not quite, but Yeah. Yeah. But just a little too much micromanaging and it's just too busy for your brain. Yeah. Um, and then when I started like when I worked with guys like Chad, I remember when I worked with Chad for the first time, I was like, "Oh, he like gave me a diet and he's like, "Okay, do this diet for 10 days and send me pictures." And I was like, "Oh, okay." Like, I guess I'll just do this diet for 10 days. Like, he doesn't care what happens in that 10 days, right? Like, you'll be fine. You're going to live. You're not going to lose muscle. There's plenty of food here and we'll see how you look. And then 10 days later he'd be like, "Okay, here's another diet. Do this one for 7 days. Send me Right? And it was like that. And and I was like, "Oh, this is a very like calm. He's not worried about like something radical happening in a day or some like it's just he trusts the process." Mhm. And uh that's something that I think I would I I I could have really used when I was in my early 20s doing my own preps. That's that's what's missing for some people is just their ability to stay calm and not, you know, change things. Overthink. Yeah, I can see that. That was one of the things that Chris used to tell me that I I push on people who do their own preps now too, which is Chris said that he would pull up pictures like at the end or if he saw you in person and he would make a decision and then close out of your email because he's like if I open them again I might be like well maybe I should you know and he said so whatever his kneejerk was first to do he would email it, hit send and then close you out and let it go. Yeah. Chris used to say that to me, too. He'd be like, "Trust your gut and don't second guessess your gut." So, he'd be like, "Ah, I was going to have you cut your carbs, but I already sent the text." So, I guess it's a high day, right? He used to joke like sometimes I joke, "Ah, I already sent the text. Hi day it is." Hey, and the reality is is that you know you regardless of what happens that next day, then you can adjust from there, right? Yep. Yeah. Yeah. You can adjust from there. I I would say something I would do differently is that I would have competed more frequently. Um if I could have sometimes there were situations that I mentioned before like I'd have to schedule this time off work to be able to do a show. I' I'd figure out a way to say, you know, do two or three shows because once I was in shape, it's like, you're already there and I might be able to do better, you know, because I found down the road when I had that opportunity to compete and then go back, change a couple things, and then do it again a month later that I learned so much more than just putting all those eggs in that one basket. It's kind of cool, you know, it's a great experience and and especially for somebody who's trying to figure their physique out. It doesn't hurt to experiment like that. But there was also an idea back then that like you could only do it once. You could only really get that peak that one time and then after that you you know, you couldn't peak again. It wouldn't work the same. You know, there just was kind of like a prevent like an idea that like once you're past the peak now there's no, you know, like now and and maybe back. Yeah. And and maybe it is more true for the guys who are like, you know, really big. If you're 300 lbs, it's harder to repeat a peak every couple weeks, I think, versus if you're a middleweight bodybuilder. A middleweight bodybuilder, I feel like I could do that all day long, just week after week, you know, less maintenance. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Mine would be uh having nothing to do with the stage but everything to do with living life which is I was extremely flexible and mobile as an athlete. And then I got into bodybuilding and you don't think about but everything you do in bodybuilding is squared. You don't twist. You don't turn. And I would have whether it was through stretching or mobility movements, I would have kept all of that stuff somehow mattering because in my head I was like, h it's getting big. And then when you start to realize that there are like dumb little things in everyday life that truly become an issue. I mean, when you don't twist your torso ever, you lose something, you know? I mean, hockey, the majority of my life was twisting and turning and bending and so flexibility was through the roof. And I found that when I would stretch, I also stretched in squared off positions that right in my head applied to bodybuilding. And then you would realize like that I should not have let go of. And actually after my coma when I got smaller again, I was very aware of that and did a lot of those things. And I actually think that that impacted my bodybuilding for the better too. think my when I would see my PT, I had less things going on and I was putting on size fast. I mean, I went from 230 to 280 in like six weeks, you know, because my body just blew back up, but I was on it and it was much much better. So, if I could give advice to anyone who knows they're going to get really big is remember mobility is not just stretching forward and backwards, but movement because I mean I had none. And then you know I've lost some of that again. It's like you know trust me when you have that itch right in the middle of your back and and your wife's not home that's a problem and it shouldn't be. Yeah. Yeah. Like I'd be able to I'd think, "Oh, I'm pretty flexible cuz I could just bend over and grab my toes." Yeah. Cuz that's a stiff leg deadlift, right? So, I'd be like, "Well, I can grab my toes. I'm flexible." But I couldn't externally rotate my foot to 90°. Yep. Cuz I never did that. So, it's like that other stuff, you know? There's a lot of athletic stuff that you just lose. And I think it's um yes, you're adding things you have to do, but I really do think it impacted me. And I probably would have avoided not major injuries, but little things cuz like you said, Ron, like my feet had to be in a very precise position to squat. For my body to move correctly because I had literally locked it into place to where to get to parallel comfortably and really sit into it and keep my chest up, there was only one way I could do it. And when I was a kid, I mean, I could do that on one foot, two feet, pistol squat, whatever you need, and it was no big deal because my body was limber in every direction. So, you know who doesn't understand that when you're jacked? Your friends that want help with you with them moving. Yeah. Like, you're big. You know, you can lift that. You're like, I I can lift in one plane of motion. If you want me to push the couch, you know, from a laying down position, I can do that. I can leg press your couch if need be. But if you wanted me to help you twist and like awkwardly load it down a stairwell, it's like I'm going to get hurt. You will cuz you're too strong to be able to do that kind of stuff, you know. No, I know. I know. That's a very valid point. Okay. So, I'm Oh, I liked this one and uh you brought it up on accident earlier, Ron. You have one superpower. What is it? Oh, I forgot what mine was. No, what is it now? Wow. What do you mean? Is do you want the remembering? Yeah. Wait, did you have No, no, no. But this is a qu This is Son of a [\h__\h] This is a question we went over once before and I remember I had a good one. That's good though. Now you have a new answer. Um Damn. Well, what counts as a superpower? Gez, you can do pretty much anything. Yeah, I mean it's not like time travel. It's like, you know, you have usable superpower. That's a superpower. Yeah, but like good at accounting. I mean, laser vision's cool, but it's really only good for killing people and cutting open safes. Yeah, you might be able to fix one of your machines though with that. Like, you know, little welding. Yeah. Yeah. Handy control. I think uh in um invisibility would be cool. That's the one. Then you're just going to rob banks, I think, is what I Whoa. Whoa. You're You're thinking this too far, Ron. Think of invisibility when you go out and you just want to run to the store real quick and not run into anybody and you're going across the street where everyone knows you buy a car. I'm already thinking I'm ordering a mutant, you know, leave the house. Yeah. Yeah. Um, no, you don't exist, which means no one else does either. I think uh teleportation would probably, but then I would get no steps. I would no fat. It wouldn't change it wouldn't change it at all for no steps. Like what's Ron using teleportation for? He just really doesn't walk anywhere anymore. He's not using it to I'm upstairs and forget my phone. I don't walk down the stairs. Never. He's not helping mankind. He's not like Superman out there doing stuff, stopping crime. He's just not walking anywhere Just got zero steps. Check his phone. A lot of lot of traffic. You're like, "And I'm going to teleport to the gym again." Teleport to the gym. I sold my car. Yeah. You never need it. Oh, that's classic. Victoria is reading um these like fantasy books where there's like fairies and elves and stuff like that and these characters have superpowers and she was asking me which one would you want and like one of them one of the powers was like you can control the weather one was like that you could heal like heal yourself heal others like X-Men kind of Yeah. Yeah. I'd take something like that. I don't know about control the weather. I mean, that'd be good because I don't like it when it's too hot and I don't like the snow either. So, I like I It would be nice to be like a just a nice 65, partly sunny, but I don't know. I I'll take that actually. You wind up just screwing screwing up the whole globe's ecosystem as [\h__\h] Yeah, exactly. Or your truck's clean because you hate rain. Yeah, maybe I would take I'll take I'll take the healing cuz that would be cool. I could use that myself. I could use it for my friends, you know. Maybe you use it for us. You have to like think of others to leave the house. He has five friends. It's fine. You have to get an ambulance scanner so you can listen in to the paramedic call so you can go. Oh yeah. You kind of feel obligated, would you? Oh man, I got to stay up all night. Someone's going to die if I don't. Yeah. That would be a lot of work. Yeah. No, you can't feel obligated because Superman couldn't let people know he was Superman. You can't let people know you can heal them, you know, cuz then people are going to be up your ass. Yeah. Be a lot. You got to keep it small. You got to keep it small. A lot. I mean, you could probably get a good wage off of that, too. Oh, yeah. You know, you know what this sickness costs? What if I fix it right now? No pain, no nothing, right? I don't take payments, but Visa does. Hit me. Yes. It What do you use that new affirm? Yeah. You know, that always makes me laugh when it's Would you like to get this hat? It's also six payments of $4.99. You're like, "What? I don't want to talk about need that." I watch YouTube stuff on like, you know, how like our economy is not as healthy as people would like to believe. You know, the government's just printing more money and this debt spirals out of control and like all this chaos that people are like, I don't want to know. and and some of the evidence they look at about like you know current amount of credit card debt the average person carries and all that sort of stuff and now this affirm thing is out of control like you you know you can buy a frying pan a $30 frying pan on payments like oh my god this is going to get rough you can affirm on Amazon I'll affirm that I don't want to pay for it right now just affirm it you know5 $4 a month pay for it in three more payments and this Pan is mine. Yeah. Yeah. Everything is on payments. I'm like, "Oh, no. This isn't going to go well." Anyways, I don't want to stress everybody out. Oh, okay. This This guy has a question about his postcontest plan. What do you think of this postcontest plan? I'll keep the gear in minus the harsh compounds like orals, trends, etc. Slower taper my doses down while slowly bringing the food up. I'll do the same thing with fat burners, tapering them down, tapering cardio down, leading. goal is to get into a focused health phase 6 to 8 weeks postshow without having a bad rebound or excessive fat gain. Well, I mean, I'll be the first to admit Scott is probably more up on the latest because he's got, you know, shows like Drugs and stuff and Blood, Sweat, and Gear, and I think uh I need to tune in to those. Every time I do, I learn something. But um I don't really believe in like this taking six weeks to taper down all this stuff post contest. I've had great success with myself and my clients. I just have them come off everything except a bit of test. Yeah. I just have them stop everything. Like it they seem to be fine. Like their thyroids are fine. They they just do fine. Like just eat like a responsible person and stay on a little bit of test and just drop everything out. You don't need to taper off trend. Just stop taking it. Yeah, stop. Just stop. It's You're better off just get all that [\h__\h] out of your system. Get everything out of your system. Get off everything. Get off your clan. Get off everything. Um and just uh go on stay on a, you know, a TRT amount of test and eat good. And yeah, the the rebound phase seems to work well just doing that. I'm I'm just not a fan of taking all this extra time. I mean, you were already on for like 16 weeks straight for the show. Yeah. Now you're going to push another eight essentially. Yeah. I just get off everything. Just get off. You don't have to taper off your masteron like I think when people look at when when they want to make sure to get through a 6 to 8 week post show and not have a bad rebound. I think that they're forgetting that the bad rebound is decided by what you consume. It's not the food. It's just what you eat. And I think too many people there's there's a couple things. When you get done with a show and if you're if you're peeled, let me first tell you dieting on your planned diet that's increasing slowly over time is harder than dieting for the show. For whatever reason, at that point, between the show being gone, you've had a little food, you've had a couple of meals, your metabolism just feels like it's burning a hole in you. You cannot use hunger as a gauge of feeding. Yeah, you're going to be hungry for two months after a show if you're doing it right. I have clients, I know you up my food, but I'm starving. I'm like, I know. Worse than I was. Yeah. And I'm like, I know. And you have to stay disciplined because if you don't, that's where the fat comes from. It's not all the other things. I mean, I used to literally like, oh, I mean, and I'm not advising this, but this is kind of our era. Show's over. So is cardio. Boom. Right. That was me. None. I did that. Like not a step of cardio, not a step. You know, that stuff was out the window. Gear was out the window. It was And then, you know, training was right back to full blast. I take Wednesday, I'm back in the gym trying to kill myself. And then the food you you know, there was a few shows where food went back to full blast immediately as well. Don't advise that. No, that 40 lbs in two days is a little rough, a little painful, but no, if you just handle the food first and foremost, and I do think, just to clarify, I don't think that you should just drop cardio, but you definitely, if you're doing 45 minutes, seven days a week, you're 20 minutes, three or four days a week, good to go. And yeah, that's what I should have done. I would often just stop cardio completely, right? I was one of those guys. Lazy bastard. Done. Yeah. don't have to see that thing again till 16 weeks out of the next show. Yeah. Yeah. See, see you next June. I think that some people are thinking now there's a more of a popular idea or people are more aware of the rebound whereas back in the day they weren't expect like before was like just the offseason. Well, now they're like how do I maximize the rebound? So I think part of his thinking, my guess is he's thinking, well, I don't want to come off all the test because I want to keep those anabolics up so I can keep growing. You know, I think people falsely understand what is happening during a rebound. Yeah. You are not putting on pounds of muscle. I don't. And what happens is, and I know you know this, Scott, but you guys, your muscle is full and then you're up 10 pounds and you're like, I'm still really lean. I've put on 10 pounds of muscle. No, you haven't. Like that's the biggest thing. And and the way you can tell and I used to always laugh with myself is I'd start eating after a show and like I said, sometimes it would, you know, be too much too quick and you just look like you got better and better and better and then the next day you woke up and you were fat. Yeah. There's no there's no Yesterday I looked awesome. What the hell did I do in my sleep last night? It's a dangerous game, too, because you get away with it at first, right? You're like, "Dude, I ate a large pizza last night and I look better today and then you're like, I should probably cut back, but I look better, so I'm going to go eat some tacos today. Let's also add some ice cream to this." So, no, it's I think you're right, Scott. I didn't think about that avenue. Um, don't overestimate in any time of year what you can do in eight weeks. Huh. Uh, yeah. Plan on what you can do in a year. And the reason I used to say I had a whole discussion with someone actually um on on Instagram about this because he was set that the best time to grow ever was after a deficit and I said okay well then mathematically wouldn't it make more sense to do that 6 week post deficit because you say you put on 10 pounds of muscle then just diet back down again to peeled over a 10 12 week range and then do another six weeks coming off of a prep. I was like, based on what you're saying, I can do that three times before I need to start a prep and I can go down 30 pounds of muscle. Yeah. Yeah. You know, so and and when that sounds really ridiculous, then understand that's how ridiculous it sounds the first time. Yeah. I think it is a step forward because at least people are thinking about it and they're recognizing like, I got to keep my insulin sensitivity good because I got to maximize the rebound. We just get fat and get blood pressure problems and everything else after a shot. Yeah. Heart. My heart is struggling cuz I'm 30 lbs up. You know why are you leaning forward? My kidneys hurt. Well, that's probably an issue. Might want to look into that one. But no, that's a valid point, Scott. So, you're right. But so, keeping an eye on things and like you said, slowly putting weight back on is the key. And that'll make sure at that eightweek mark you look great and you will maximize that uh rebound period. Yeah. said, uh, James said, uh, Ron, I saw you on Anth and, uh, Dan McNab's podcast. You should travel to Trojan in Bristol, um, when you are next in the UK. Dan will be very entertaining on an episode for sure. And he said, "Scott, are you coming to the UK Arnold next year?" I don't know if I'm coming to the UK, Arnold, but I am coming to the UK regardless because when Victoria finishes with her project, that is where we are traveling for a couple weeks. So, I'm going to probably come to a city near you. We're going to be everywhere in the UK. It's going to be awesome. I'm going home. And uh and and I would love to go to Trojan in Bristol. It looks like aing crazy UK gym. Exactly what I would expect. I uh been following them on Instagram for years and I'd love to go there. Yep. All right. I got another I got another fun one. Yeah. You're transported through time to New York in 1974 and you can give Lou Ferraro one piece of advice from the future bodybuilding information to defeat Arnold Schwarzenegger at the 75 Olympia featured in Pumping Iron. What would you tell Big Lou to do over the next year to pull off the upset? Get the gamma race sooner. Gamma. Oh, that was later. That's funny. That was later. Yeah. Get the gamma rays. Get those gams. Is that what it was? Gamma rays. Put more weight on. You want to beat him. Arnold. Arnold. Arnold. Put more weight on. I want to beat him. That was not at all done by directors. That's just what he did every day. No, I know. I know. It's funny. It's funny. So, what would you give him that comes from now to help him beat Arnold? I'd uh I'd draw him up a training split to work on certain body parts. Maybe have a little more balance, maybe get his legs up a little bit. You're a tall guy, too, Ron. You know, coached him. Yeah, I could give him some uh him do leg, you know, certain maybe I'd help him with his split cuz I mean, you know, he had crazy big arms and pecs, but you know, get him a bigger back and legs. Yeah. Adjust his training volume a bit. They're still on that 70s volume. They're on the 70s train. Oh, yeah. So maybe just like adjust his training split and his volume a bit and uh and give him a food where they're a diet where they're actually weighing their food, right? Get him a food scale. Get him a kitchen scale. The type that you'd have in a restaurant back then, right? Like no one would have one in their kitchen, right? But that's a funny thought. Get him a food scale and write him a diet and get him eating on a food scale and get him on like a adjust his training volume and his split. Those would be You'd be a genius, man. You would be like the first mad scientist and oh my god hemaging is all technical. Well, just imagine his look like you get him just on the diet, right? And you get him peeled up against Arnold. We're going to cut 100 grams of rice out, buddy. He's like, "What?" Then he goes, "What's 100 grams?" You're like, "Think about what you guys do at the party at the weekend. 100 of those." Um Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, let me ask you this though on that subject. If you got Lou shredded in the 75 Olympia, what does that do? Like, does he win or do they not even know to appreci what the or Terminator? Do they think or do they think like oh it's not it's not the it's god look like it's not the it's not Olympia is supposed to he doesn't look as strong as Arnold he doesn't like is it perceive does it change nothing well because think about it like when when Arnold back then and they were both freaks obviously but when they took off their shirts in contest shape women you know and men are like oh wow you peel down with veins everywhere and inside out. I don't think you're getting the same reaction. I think you get what we get, which is Yeah. Right. Yeah. The perception would be interesting to see cuz that would be what you would think, right? Like, we'll just get him in shape. Would the other guys go, "Oh, man." Or would the other guys go, "Why does he look like that?" Yeah. What's wrong with Lou? What would he do wrong? And then will we ever even know who Rich Kaspari is if Lou Faro gets his glutes peeled? But if if he wins, is there ever Terminator and Terminator 2? You know what I'm saying? See, we don't you know what? We're not telling him anything. We don't want to change the course of history there. So, I have done uh I've done some stuff. I did one yesterday, actually. But I often talk to chat GPT cuz loser. I'm a loser. He ain't got no friends. I don't have any actual friends and and I I'll talk to chat. So I I've that'd be a good question to ask Chachi PT because I've asked I asked it yesterday uh paint a musical landscape and I told it to have fun. I said have some fun with this. Paint a musical landscape uh in which Black Sabbath never existed. Right. And it said oh well. And it it just said let's have some fun with this. Like you know how Chachi PT talks. Yeah. Yeah. and and it said, you know, like, you know, for example, without them, you don't get the new wave of British heavy metal, which means Lars Olrich doesn't get obsessed with Judas Priest, which means Metallica never happens. Wow. Then you get this, you don't get Iron Maiden. You still have Led Zeppelin, but they're blues-based. They don't get a metal infusion in 1971. Then they then this doesn't happen. Then you don't get this. You still get Punk, but you don't get Thrash because there's no metal infusion. So there's no black flag, there's no tendencies, and it breaks down the musical tree. And then it says, and without without Sabbath, you don't get Sweet Leaf, which means the Beasty Boys don't sample the guitar track on their first album. So you don't get this rap sampling with guitar riffs, which was a thing. That never happens cuz the Beasty Boys were the first to do it. So now hip-hop is completely altered on its its gene pool, right? And because there's that whole wave of rap that had guitar riffs sampled into it, right? Oh yeah. That doesn't occur. That whole thing doesn't occur. So just really fascinating. So you could ask Chat PT what happens if Lou Ferno wins the 75 Olympia. You know, we'll see what it says, you know. Now, now we have to do it right now and be losers together. Let's go. Okay. What happens if Lou Fargno wins the 75 Mr. Olympia? We'll see what it says. All right. He just answered with how much money he gets. He gets $2,000. Um, maybe you got to change your question is how does the world change if Yeah. And would pumping iron be what it was still? I mean, at the end of the day, Arnold was a charismatic character, you know what I mean? So, yeah. Yeah, but I don't think it has the same hit if the charismatic character loses. Yeah. And like I love how it responds. This is a fantastic what if. Let's run with it. Yeah. Really reaffirming that you're smart. You know, the ripple effects would have been massive for bodybuilding and Arnold's entire trajectory in life. That's what I'm saying. Hypothetical timeline. The myth of Arnold's invincibility would be shattered. Pumping iron would become a completely different film. The underdog would dethrone the king. Lou would become a massive star in bodybuilding and in movies overnight. He would probably appear on Johnny Carson instead of Arnold, right? Cuz Arnold was on Johnny Carson after Pumping Iron. You know, the wind solidifies the trend towards taller, huge mass monsters a decade earlier. Zayn's aesthetics would have never dominated the late 70s. You know, Arnold's influence on the classic shape is completely diminished. The golden era's balance of aesthetics and mass would shift earlier. Most likely, the classic bodybuilding division would never occur the way we saw it occur, right? That's crazy. That's probably it says, if classic bodybuilding, if classic physique doesn't happen the way we saw it, that means Chris Bumstead's career would be completely changed. Arnold loses the perfect champion aura. You know, the studios become more hesitant. Maybe the accent and the giant physique aren't such an easy sell. You know, meanwhile, Lou rides the the people's champion narrative. He gets more press, more talk shows, and a stronger launch pad for the Incredible Hulk. Yeah. Right. Lou is already the Hulk. Lou is already the Hulk at this point, right? But now he's the Hulk. the Champion Hulk, the biggest baddest man on TV. Chances are it would be renewed for more seasons and Lou would be much more famous. He does promotional tours, possibly landing more TV roles, you know what I mean? Arnold probably winds up doing European movies. Like, never meets the maid. Yeah. Yeah. Never meets just Yeah. It goes on and on and on and on, right? Wow. You know, so but that's early on, too. Like, who knows? Yeah. You know, so you think you still might meet the maid you're saying? You know, Arnold doesn't become governor. Yeah, that was great. But I love that stuff. But you can ask you can ask Chad a lot of those things and it'll kind of like butterfly effect it for you in a fun way. Oh yeah. Yeah. I too am a loser that ask a lot of questions. I just wanted to talk [\h__\h] before I admitted it. But you know what it is? I talked to my friend Rob about and it's like the problem a lot of people have with chat GPT is they talk to it like it's Google. No, talk to it like ask questions like it's Google and then they get Google answers. So if you say like what's the meaning of this? It just tells you the meaning and it may or may not be true. Yeah. You have to absolutely act like you're talking to someone and just get their take. And you can go back and forth. You could tell it to go further with things. Go meaner. go funnier. You know, it gets to be uh quite entertaining for sure. Yes. Yes. It's like talking to Ron, but he's not here because it knows all this [\h__\h] that I don't know how it knows it. And I actually call it Ron and it doesn't seem to mind. Uh Payton Payton says, "I had an MRI today with a contrast injection. Could I still go train the same day after all that with my hip filled with fluid?" I I have had that done twice. Um just don't train legs is all. Yeah. Um, but yeah, you go like go train chest or whatever. That's no problem. He's scheduled for stems. Yeah. Yeah. Is he scheduled for stems? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Good. Is he getting like the American ones or is he going to Mexico? Yeah. No, he's going to my lady cuz she does the she does doing the same thing now. And where is she again? Where did you go, Dusty? Uh, I went to Long View, but she's got an office in Dallas now. So, you can literally get off the plane, go see her, go back to the airport, get on a plane, go home. Okay. Yeah. And how long How long does it take? Do they have to like make the stem cells or do they have Well, they're not made. They're human. They're But they already have them. They have them. So, they bring somebody brings them and they're frozen and they literally when you're there, she takes them out and like they're in a little thing. She thaws them in her hand while you're chatting and then bam bam puts them in and you're on your way 10 minutes later. So, the ones that you get when guys go to Mexico, the reason it takes days is cuz they actually harvest them from them, right? So they're going down, they draw blood or whatever they do, and then the next day or two days later, they go get the actual stem cells, right? Is that they expand them? That's what they Yeah, these are uh these are human from like umbilical cord. So is there some laws changing with stems down there? Is that why they're getting your guys did and then the other factor is is some of these other places are just doing it for less, right? Because that was the difference is I mean you could get them but like for example another place I looked at in Dallas it was 14,000 for 1 million units. Um I paid 10,000 less than that for 5 million right it's as it will it will get cheaper and cheaper and easier to get. Yeah. Florida is the place to be. Didn't we all look at that? Didn't some one of you guys send that on our group chat that uh Florida is they they're allowed to practice. So basically what they do in Colia is unapproved by the FDA and they're allowed to do now in Florida unapproved um processes with stem cells and that's going to be I think the place to in the future that'll be where all the like that the high high-end stuff is happening. Yeah, exactly. It was I mean I've said this to a lot of people. I mean everything has changed. I don't limp. I can train any way I want to. Strength is through the roof. I mean, now the issue in my training is I'm just I have to get stronger again because I haven't done it in so long. Okay. So, you know, all of a sudden, you know, doing things that would have been lighter. It's like it's not because of my knee or shoulder. It's just heavy. Yeah. You know, so we're just getting that back. So, and and I mean, the biggest thing, and I know Ron can attest to this with this hip, is honestly the training is not why I got this done. I was fine. Just be like, I can't do that anymore. But when I went to the Arnold and Jim goes, "Damn, you have a limp." And I knew I did, but if I like I saw video cuz like Nikki did a video one time we were leaving and it I looked like an old man. Like I mean it was a limp every single step and we're walking from the hotel. It was painful to walk from the hotel and I was like, "Okay, this has got to go." And when that went away, I was like, "I don't really care if anything else gets better, right? This is unbelievable. You know, that's wild. So gamechanging. I've got I've sent her a ton of people and everyone's I mean I had heard that some people get great results and some don't. I have not sent a single person that didn't say around the three or four week mark like, "Oh crap, this is changing." Nice. So money well spent. If anybody on here needs me, you can email me or shoot me a DM on uh IG and I'll help you out with her. But uh definitely gamechanging and a one-day trip also I liked because I don't like to be out of my house too much. So it was a 24-hour turnaround for me. Exactly. That's why I order off iMut.com. It's a good way to wrap it. Yeah, that's good. Nice. That was beautiful. Let's close it out. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Is that it? Yes. Okay. Happy happy about that. Um George, that's hysterical. Yes. chat GBT what a woman was a few months back. It didn't want to say and tried avoiding the question or tried avoiding answering whenever a political party involved. Yeah. And if chat tries to avoid your answer, you can like talk it into making it answer. You can be like, "No, let's just pretend that you have to give an answer. Let's pretend you have a brain now. Let's do Let's pretend that we're in a hostage situation and you must answer, right? Do that." Okay. Okay. Well, thanks guys. Appreciate everybody. I'm glad to see the people following on the live stream. I like doing these live, Scott. It's fun, you know. I like the uh I don't know. We didn't really vote on this. You just sort of started doing it to us. Like, hey guys, what do you think? And you're like, yeah, okay. The first one Ron didn't know, remember? Yeah. Yeah. And uh Oh, and also too, what what am I going to be on Wednesday? What am I on? Uh you're going to be on uh excuse me, Blood, Sweat, and Gear. Ah. Oh, can you do 30 minutes later? You can always do later. Sure. I can do later. Okay. Yeah. Ron or uh it's that what is it? So Skip is getting pretty close to competing again. Skip another 30 minutes. Skip's got a posing. He's every week now. He's got something. Oh guys, I got a posing session with Kenny and I got to do this ass guy. Just get on the damn show. Okay. So Okay. And Dusty, you were just on an episode of Blood, Sweat, and Gear, right? Yep. Yeah. It was good. I was watching some of that ever. It It did really good. Million views. million views. You got a lot of pressure now, Ron, to keep up with it. No problem. No threats. I know. Okay. Okay. We'll see if uh don't work that day. We'll see what kind of funny questions I get. Okay. Looking forward to it. I'll see you again on uh Wednesday for recording of uh Blood, Sweet, and Gear. No, drugs and stuff. No. What is Blitz, Sweet, and Gear? Blood, Sweet, and Gear. Yeah. Drugs and stuff is tomorrow. Everybody else, you're such a huge podcasting star. Such an array of stuff. I don't know what show. Hey, I didn't ask me anything this morning. So, this is like two and a half hours. I am so talked out now. These and some of these guys watching on the stream, they've been hanging with me for this whole thing. It's like a marathon. Oh my god. It's cool. Okay. Okay. I'm excited. Okay, guys. Thanks for everything. Remember, like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. Yes. And remember, immutant.com. Don't leave your house. Just order Mutant. Gets delivered right to you. They put it right in your hands, even if you're naked. Yeah. Remember, that's where you get your ISO Surge. You're all in and everyone should get on the gear. Code Dusty, Code Big Run, and the Mind FK, of course. It's fantastic stuff. Save that money. Okay guys, I'm going to go listen to Black Sabbath for the rest of the day. And remember what they gave the world, okay? Thanks, guys. Remember, it's just bodybuilding. I think that Iron Man was the first song that I ever learned how to play on bass. And I feel like it's probably the first song that most people ever learn how to play on guitar. You know what I mean? It's it's definitely a big It's a big reason why people pick up guitars. Yeah. Cuz you can do it. You know what I mean? There's that. And that like, you know, that way it opens that big droning and then the drums boom boom. What's your favorite Sabbath or Aussie song if you had to pick one right now? Into the void.