If you had to walk around and spend your life trapped in the body of a current pro, Rean Grimes would be a pretty damn good one to pick. Absolutely. You had to just spend your days strolling around the mall looking like Rean Grimes. Holy. I wouldn't be upset by that. Would not be upset. You had to just look like Rean for the rest of your life. Look at all this hair for crying out loud. Yeah. You know, is he how tall is he? Just six feet. Yeah, he's like six. He's Yeah, he's like six foot, half inch. He's like my height. I don't know. Look at those hands on him. That just corded out hamstrings. He looks pretty good. Hey everybody, welcome to It's Just Bodybuilding. Big Ron Parlo here with Dusty Handshaw. Is that Dusty? I hardly recognize him. Dusty. Smart Dusty Handshaw. Dustin now. It's very new. Dusty Handshaw upgraded V2. And of course, the producer, Scott McN. Same old Scott. There we go. Not any better. No upgrade. There you go. Not smarter like me. Yeah. And remember everybody, uh, show sponsored by Mutant. I am mutant.com. Use code Dusty or Big Ron. Go to immutant.com. Get your all in. Get your ISO surgeon. Everyone should get on the gear. Okay. What's going on, Dusty? First of all, oh yeah, like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. You almost took away the only thing I have. I was so distracted. Well, you're so smart now. I was I still want to ring the bell. I was distracted by your brilliance. The bell ringing was a monkey task we gave you to keep you happy. I still have that in me. So, what's going on? Dusty has spectacles. Yes, spectacles. So, the thing I wanted to open up with before we even touch on the New York Pro is the amazing response we had for arguing why it was okay for Derek to win the Pittsburgh Prize. Is that even what we said? I thought we just talked about the show. I thought, but apparently we were okay with it going either way. Ah, apparently we thought it was close. Apparently Apparently, we thought it was a tie score. Right. Which it was. Which it was. But I wanted to point out reality hurts. Anyone who absolutely hates us. Um, for this reason, never mind. Many many many um go watch Tyler Manion's breakdown of how they did it. Oh, and by the way, um, what I love that he did for those of you who did not see it was he was saying, oh, everyone was saying politics. Yeah. Yeah. He said, "Nick has the biggest fan base in the world." Yeah. If we were doing politics, wouldn't Nick have won? Nick wins. And then he said, "Also, isn't it a better story leading into the Olympia if Nick beats Derek?" Oh, in insult to injury, he also said, "I had Nick winning." Oh, there you go. And he said he was okay with it. And he said, "Oh, by the way, last year Nick and Martin, New York Pro, he had Martin winning." Huh. and Nick one, right? So, I really just thought and he broke it down pose for pose. He explained which pose he had which way, which poses he thought were a freaking coin flip and he could totally find. He said there were only three poses that he thought someone won unquestionably. Oh, right. Wow. So, I really urge you guys to go watch that because I think that he did an amazing job. And listen, I'm retired and I make really bad decisions my entire career as far as saying whatever the hell I want. I don't need to kiss ass. Go watch it and tell me you don't have a better understanding of how it went down and the fact that you're bias or your like I mean listen I too thought Nick would win and I have bias in the other direction because of Aceto but I to me I was like it's just too much. I think part of it is just people want their person to win. Kind of like sports teams. Like I don't care what happened. I want the wings. You know what I mean? It's like and you suck. I hate you. For nine years I've wanted the wings, Scott. I think one thing I think with me um like I had a bunch of guys ask me like, "What do you think, man? You think got ripped off?" And I was like, "Eh, I don't know. It was a close show." And they were like, "Yeah." They were like, "Oh, we were sitting on your wallet." Yeah. I'm like, well, there was one crazy guy that commented who's about to get blocked because every time he comments, leave him. I like those guys. That one guy, I don't know, D. You're on the line. You're weird. What are you talking about? The powers that be, first of all, don't care about our show. They even know we have a show. No one cares. And secondly, like I I think um I'm at that age and I've seen so much bodybuilding where I just don't care who wins. Like people were like expecting me to be like, "Oh, I know. I've slept since the show. Slept since that decision." And I was just like literally they announced the winner and I was like, "Okay, well actually I remember you text us and you go good show." That was it. Like I have no I don't give a [\h__\h] who wins these shows. Like I'm not emotionally invested in any of these guys. I think they're all awesome. Like oh yeah. And then another thing too is I've been to so many freaking shows, man. Unless you're, like we say, unless you're sitting at the judges table, like your opinion doesn't matter. That's true. I mean, was that as close as it gets? Maybe that was one of the closest decisions we've ever seen in like the last 10 years. I don't know. Well, you know what else was great, though? I just don't care. After we took heat for our take on the show, which we said was close, really. All we said, I got annihilated for saying that I thought Nick could win the Olympia. Oh, yeah. That Which side do you want here? He already got third once. Like he's top three once and he's say I didn't say he was going to win the Olympia. I said I think I have more faith that he could win it now than I did back then. You said he was extremely dangerous. So I read I I watched that and I was like okay people just like to argue and at the end of the day guys the only thing that matters is hockey. So you know what I'm you the only thing that makes me happy about that whole debacle is that we got a lot of clicks and views. Oh yeah that was great. We don't even try. We just accidentally say the odd thing once in a while that fits all the algorithmic stuff and we're like, "Oh, this got it. Look how many views this got us. We just said something like not even controversial. Maybe I should watch the show again now that I have We should try to do that more often." Scott, maybe I'll see it better. Yeah, we should try. We should try. Hey, so let's chat some uh some New York Pro. See if we can upset some people. I've got the uh the lineup here. Actually, give me a second. I didn't think there was much upsetting at the New York Pro. I thought that was pretty much the way most people thought it was going to go. Say something unpopular, Ron. I didn't like his haircut that day. Yeah. Who's I thought he was I thought he was better in Pittsburgh. You know what was great actually? Um I have a friend at the gym who actually really knows bodybuilding. Okay. And he text me two things. He was like, "Nick is smoking this show and Bonac will not go away." Oh no. Yeah. And I was like, you understand everything I was watching. You know what? There's one more thing to say about the New York Pro. What's that? If you had to walk around and spend your life trapped in the body of a current pro, Rean Grimes would be a pretty damn good one to pick. Absolutely. You had to just spend your days strolling around the mall looking like Rean Grimes. Holy [\h__\h] I wouldn't be upset by that. Would not be upset. Yeah. You had to just look like Rean for the rest of your life. Look at all this hair for crying out loud. Full head of hair. Six feet tall. Yeah. You know, is he How tall is he? Just six feet. Yeah, he's like six. He's Yeah, he's like I'm 6' half inch. He's like my height. I don't know. Look at those hands on him. That just core hamstrings. He looks really good. Big everywhere. Beautiful structure. You know, I do wish I do wish his tan would uh be darker. That would help me a ton. Yeah, I guess you could could tan that up a little bit. Great back double. I'd just be strolling around in a tank top all day. I wouldn't compete at all. I just walk around with no shirt. Yeah, I'd just be wearing my fancy watch, my fancy designer clothes, different pair of Jordans every day. Was Nick better here, guys, than Yeah, I think he was a little better. Um I saw the back double comparison that was side by side and I know again there's stage lighting differences and all that stuff, too. And I thought he looked a little bit like I thought it looked like he had better oil on at the New York Pro and his hands were popping more. But then again, you're not sure if that's like stage light popping or whatever, but I thought that he was slightly better in New York. And then Bone is just like Bone. I think he was better in New York also. Yeah. Yeah, he might have been a little tighter. Look at that back on how 3D it is. Like you I don't think of Bonak as being like, "Oh, dude, he's got a crazy back." But we're standing next to Nick Walker who's a mass monster, right? And look at the three dimension that Baron has on him. Well, plus you can argue now that Nick has the best or one of the best rear double biceps in the sport. Yeah, the hamstrings are the hamstrings are the crazy. He has the biggest, thickest, craziest hamstrings. Look at the adductors. Yeah, I actually liked watching uh when Tyler put up the videos. He did the videos of them posing, uh, him and Derek. Yeah. And you could see when Nick would turn out the leg and squeeze the hams and then he'd hit the the adductor and he'd actually watch it come out and blow up and like slide to the middle. I just immediately think treadmill must suck for you. Yeah. Yeah. And that adductor is just hanging there. He's not flexing it. It's just tensing the ham kind of pops it out. Yeah. Yeah. Bonanza. So, he was awesome. Um, Terrence came back even better and so did what was the second place guy? He peeled out of his head. I love that. I love that shot of Nick with the three rings. Oh, yeah. Yeah. That's awesome. And like so happy for Nick. Like, you know, obviously you want Nick to be in the Olympia. You want Nick to win shows. Nick's such a like I I don't know. Nick's a great guy. He's a He's just a a great guy. He's always been nothing but awesome to us and and of course hello to Nick's mom and Nick's dad. They're always great. They stopped by and I'm I'm sure they're just extraordinarily proud of him this year and you know he he works real hard. So I mean I'm a fan of all these guys, you know? Like that's the thing when they say like, "Oh, you pissed off about this or that." I'm like, "I don't I like all these guys." Like they've all been really nice to me and they've all been cool. Like Like Derek's super cool to me. Like last time I talked to Derek, I was sitting eating a burger and he came up and s stood beside me for 20 minutes. We just chatted and last time I saw Nikki was super cool to me. Like, you know, it's just I just love seeing these guys put on such a crazy show and show up looking like this and take bodybuilding to this level. And you know, Bone, too, like Bonak's an inspiration to like Yeah. everybody. I think what's great now, and we've discussed this a little bit, but for me coming into bodybuilding in arguably the best era and seeing the the Ronnie rain. Hi. And uh Dusty says hi. He saw your head. And uh at least it was behind you this time. She's cuddling the dogs. The uh I had that moment when they started to retire that I was like, "Oh, bodybuilding's over." H it's it's gonna I mean it's gonna fall. Yeah. And I really do. Even when Phil was winning, I felt like it wasn't competitive. So it didn't it felt like a fall then. Um and now it's back and I'm like we're in the new that era. Yeah. Only even better because we're going to the Olympia saying there are at least three guys that could win the Olympia for sure. Yeah. You know what too, Dusty, that's kind of cool about this era is I feel like in say like the Ronnie era, everybody was trying to be as absolutely full-blown big as possible because they knew they had to keep up with Ronnie and they were trying to play his game. Versus I feel like now we have so many different looks. like Bonick's playing his game, Nick Walker's playing his game, Dererick's playing his game, and they're all coming in looking the best they can for themselves versus, you know, trying to be the best at something else, you know? Well, I think if I think if Nick was competing in Ronnie's era, he would and and this isn't him. If I was in his camp, we'll we'll refframe that, so it's my fault. Okay. I would push him for more size. Oh, for sure. You're not big enough. You're not big enough. And his Walker in that era. Yeah. And but his physique would have would be worse. It could be because you can't he doesn't he doesn't need I mean I have no idea his dimensions but he looks bigger now than he did before and I think it's primarily because he's pulled in his midsection. The taper looks wider. Like are his shoulders actually wider? I don't know. But they sure as [\h__\h] look it. Yeah. But I Okay. So on the opposite side of that, I'll say that the midsection wasn't as important back then either. I And I think that Yeah. There still was an element of like even got out of control. But you couldn't get blocky though. Like when Ronniey's stomach got big, it got bloated to the front. But if he had a front double bicep, it was still shoulders, lats, waist. You know what I mean? You could play the game though. Like I mean, look at Branch. Branch didn't have uh by the end didn't have like, you know, slim proportions. He was an Arnold Classic winner and he was as nasty as you could get, you know. And I I have to say that if it wasn't for being around like and it's almost like Ronnie and then into Phil that like Jay was there there's all those really big big dudes maybe Branch would have been prettier if it wasn't for you know the era but would he have been Branch you know what I don't know man I guess just I'd love to see it you know you're right it does change things it changes your approach but I love what's happening and uh it it's got me back to excited like I've told you guys many times It's like, I'm going to the Olympia. I'm going to watch the show. And there's been many years and people are going to be mad that Ron and I have went to eat instead. Yeah. I've heard you say that. Yeah. Or we could go eat when everyone's at the show and get in and out quicker. Yeah. Yeah. And watch Well, you know, now with the 4K feeds and stuff. Yeah. Yeah. So, but we have some uh questions. I threw up a question box. I know you have some, too, as well, Scott. Um, I threw this up this morning without even asking you guys. I like, "Yeah, let's do this." Um, so I accepted it because I'm a good friend and I don't mind your stuff on my wall, Dusty. You You also You also I put up a video last week, uh, Scott, about the new mutant stuff. Oh, I didn't. And I went ahead and offered the non white sauce people to use Ron's code if they wanted. Oh, that was nice of you. It's fine. Allowed if you don't like white sauce. All right. So, I'm going to just kind of roll down these without even paying attention. What makes a great training partner and who have been all of your guys's best ones? Well, I haven't had many over the years. I spent a great deal of my life training by myself, but I relied on the community at the gym. I was very much like, that's my gym. I train at four. Those guys will always be around. I can get spots in the leg press and the hack, you know. Can you can I Hey, can you give me a force rep on incline dumbbell? Yeah, no problem. And everyone knew how to spot me and I'd had everybody trained how to spot. I was going to say you trained them. Yeah. So, I was like I was very much like that. So, like the crew back at Hardcore Gym in Edmonton back in the day, I was there for 13 years. I mean, that those guys were awesome. And, you know, like a lot of the gyms I trained at over the years. Um, and and I had some fantastic training partners for some shorter periods of time, you know, like I I talked about my friends John and Nick in Australia. They taught me like, you know, half of what I know. And that was incredible. Um, I trained, one of my best training partners ever was uh my best friend, Scott. He trained with me for like a couple of years straight when we lived in Edmonton. He wasn't a bodybuilder. He just was like a n totally natty like, "God, I'll go to the gym with you." And uh he was like it was all about me, right? Like I was doing my first couple of nationals and he was just like I'll train with you set for set and I'll spot you. And it was just fantastic cuz it was all about me, right? There was no he never ever said I want to do this. It was like we're doing this Kate. We're doing this Kate. We're squatting today, Kate. Like you know, so it's great. Um I trained with a guy named Dan Fedelock who won the Canadian Nationals uh in 2004. Um those were that was like a real crazy era where we were, you know, I got real big. I think I first time I ever hit 320 was training with him. Um and uh that was a good time, but it was only really like one year, you know. Um but I had two training partners that were for long periods of time. One was a natty guy named Forest Gavins from Edmonton. He hired me. We'd never competed and wound up winning a bunch of natural shows and getting his Natty pro card and he was fantastic training partner. Natty hardcore set for set rep for rep train to failure. Um and then uh my current training partner Braden Braden Palmer you guys follow Palm Tree but he's I mean he started training with me weighed like I think he weighed like 220 I don't know. And now he's like he hit 280 this year. Yeah. Right. And and so I like to live vicariously through Braden. Um you know, when people say Braden's getting huge, I take it as a compliment because I'm his training partner now. Yeah. And you know, and that that that old like that old line like it's sort of like that old that old samurai saying like when the student is ready, the master will appear, right? Because the student will become the master. And so yeah, that's cool. So, Scott, first off, because he ignored half of my question or the question, what makes a good training partner? What makes a good training partner? Um, I would say somebody who's going to be, and we've talked about this in the past, I think number one thing is somebody who is going to be consistent and somebody who's going to be on time, somebody who's ready to get plugged in to do what we're doing. All those things. Yeah. Those guys were all those things. That's what I mean. Yeah. Generally, somebody who's going to do what I want to do. That makes her a good trainer. mentioned that a few times. That's kind of part of it. Yeah. Yeah. And uh and I'd say that that that really sums it up. I can think of Matt Carney. He was he worked for Pepsi and I worked for Seven Up and he was like, "Hey, look, I I talked to him once, okay? And like I I did a store that he uh was at and that was it. I talked to him that one time and then like a month or two later I get a phone call and he was like, "Hey, this is Matt from Pepsi. I got your number from your manager." He was like, I told him, you know, I wanted to try to get a hold of you. I was like, "Hey, what's up?" He was like, "You know, I want to do bodybuilding." I was like, "Okay, well, come on out to the gym." And I was training for at the time competing and he became my training partner for an extended period of time. And he I just like he learned how to do bodybuilding. I put him on a diet, you know, he learned how to do bodybuilding by working out with me. And then it was great in prep because he'd like do cardio with me, too. And like when I was dragging ass, he knew it, you know, and and uh it was cool to have somebody there that through that like the whole prep. So it was cool. And then eventually he wanted to do a show and he did a men's physique. He planned to, you know, do a men's physique show. That was cool. Ended up having an issue. Ended up getting uh freaking MRSA from an ingrown hair like on his inner thigh like two inches from the boys. Like in way up there. I don't know. Mine mine are way up there. Holy smokes. And and he had to end up going into like IV antibiotics, hospitalization, and that was it. So he was like, "Yeah, I'm not going to do the show." That's a methylin resistant stafloccus urus. Got that. Don't get that. Grampositive bacteria that are genetically distinct. Put your glasses on before you say that. Yeah. Yeah. And I I trained with Shelby for Shelby Stars for about 5 years. And that was before John Meadows uh was putting out his own plans. So we we were doing John would send his workouts. He would write them up on emails and he'd send them to a select handful of friends and say, "Hey, here's a back workout. Try this out." And so we were doing the like the medals 1.0 workouts for the first three years. And then it became JP's workouts by like 2017 1617. And then we kind of did a merge of like doing it what Shelby wanted to do, which was like a combo of Meadows and JP stuff. And I'll tell you what, when I did the JP stuff, Dusty, we were doing more deads than ever, and unintentionally my traps and biceps were the biggest they had ever been at the end of that season. 800 lb is 800 lb, sir. Yeah. Jesus. No, I I thought that was a great question. Um, I won't go into the list because I've been very fortunate. I've had great training partners since I started bodybuilding. I just always Well, because you don't put up with [\h__\h] right? Yeah. I Well, I I found people who who I think knew that before they came in. Yeah. Yeah. And they knew what I would uh want, need, expect. And uh and I've been really really fortunate. Um, one name that, uh, a lot of the viewers will know, I trained with Ryan Hummus for years. Um, and it's funny, he's a big YouTube personality, makes a [\h__\h] ton of money on there. And, uh, what's funny about it is I used to call him the mute cuz he didn't speak, right? Really, we would train and he barely would talk. But, I will tell you this, for for those who are, uh, that know his humor, he's very like dead pan. And I saw splashes of that in our like we went out to dinner one time after a show and uh Nah, my ex-wife's sister told the waitress, "Hey, don't put whatever on her food because she was allergic." And dead silence and Ryan goes, "Are you actually allergic or are you just full of shit?" and I just lost it because I was like the guy who doesn't speak right in front of the waitress just rails her out there. So, it doesn't shock me that he uh that he's cranking out in that style. But, um I mean obviously Tommy Matt, I mean the list goes on and on. And the the big thing for me besides, like you said, Scott, being consistent and showing up was leave your [\h__\h] in the parking lot. I don't care. Um your gear. Well, you can bring that in or out, but just don't sure what you meant by that. But your your personal life means nothing inside the gym, and those guys brought it. And I think uh I think as long as you're a little twist in the head, you'll be fine. So, yeah, we had a a nice run there. Uh up next, let's see here. Sorry, my page disappeared here. I've got a gym equipment one I'll ask a little bit later. I got one. Here's a good one that we can run through quickly. Not a question, but would be a cool topic to cover. making money in the bodybuilding space outside of competing and everyone on this channel is doing that. Yeah. Well, I mean um I'm very fortunate enough to have an endorsement deal with Mutant for I guess technically the 14th year. Yep. Um Wow. Which I don't take for granted. I don't take that lightly. There's Let me interrupt you real quick on that because it's important. Why Why do you bring value to Mutant that they've signed you for 14 years? And I mean before you were a pro, during a pro, long retired. And the reason I ask is because I see people losing sponsorships all the time. Why don't you lose yours? Well, you have to try to make yourself valuable. Mhm. Um you're So you have to ask yourself like why would you have value and so you know if you have let's say you had 200 clients and they were all using the product well that adds value. Sure. I don't have that. I have a smaller number of clients. I keep a smaller stable of people. I don't force them to use the product but some of them do. So then I think well how can I add value? Well the podcast this podcast adds value. I'm reaching a lot of people, representing the brand in a positive way. I try not to be a [\h__\h] I try not to be rude to people at shows and I try not, you know what I mean? Like the like you're always on the clock. That's one thing pe people don't get is when you're in the public eye, you're at a show, you're at an event, you're in an airport, you're always representing the brands that you have endorsement deals with. You're never off the clock. If I'm at the grocery store and some some kid says, "Hey, you're up 300." I'm on the clock. You're also on the clock. If the kid doesn't say, "Hey." Yeah. I'm also on the clock. And you know what I mean? He's watching you and you're being an [\h__\h] in public. That ain't good. Yeah. And I'm not just representing mutant, but now I'm representing my gym, right? I'll be wearing a hoodie. People in town, people around town know I'm one of the owners. So when I walk into a hardware store and I'm asking the guy questions, he's looking at my hoodie and and I know that some of those guys at that particular hardware store know that know who I am. Like you're always on the clock in some way and people don't think that way. And it it it's it's a big element to it. And it's not that you're it's just you just have to realize that like how you behave, how you carry yourself at all times affects your value. And then of course, you know, my gym sells their product and we promote their product and I try to add value. So now, you know, there's there's a lot more to it than just like, have you seen my Instagram? Like, my Instagram is not amazing. I have 50,000 followers or whatever, which isn't like nuts, but there's all these other residual values that I bring. Also, too, like all the shop owners, I get along with all of them and like all that stuff. So there's there's more to it than just like look at the pictures I post. Did you see the workout reel I made? Yeah. The real surface basics. Real surface. People think the value is in that real surface [\h__\h] and it's not. It's in relationships. Yeah. I like that. So hey guys, we g speaking of uh like followings and stuff, we broke 35,000 subscribers for the channel this past week or so. Awesome. And we are getting more subscribers than ever. Like we I figured out some stuff and things are really kind of tipping in our favor. You know, knock on wood, algorithms change and all that. But for the moment, we're we're cleaning up really well. And I have to say thank you too to all of our listeners and all of our new listeners because if we're getting that many more listeners per week, that means that there are a lot of new people watching this right now who might not have ever seen us before. So, thank you guys for being here. Yeah. Yeah. And if you are a new watcher, make sure to go to the very beginning and watch for our episodes so that if you're not impressed now, you'll at least know it's way better than it used to be. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Just to see the scale of impress. I know it's still not great, but it was really bad. Far more impressive. We're here. Far more impressive if you see the first couple episodes. You just watch from now. It's It's not that great. Um Yeah. Yeah. It's good. Yeah. Oh, here's a good one. Um, how do you strike balance between bodybuilding and life when it's something you need to be thinking about this at some level, meals, upcoming training sessions, etc. for most of the day? Bodybuilding is very simple. You don't have to dwell on it all day long. Like it I always try to tell people it's like when you open up like the music window in your on your laptop and then you just minimize it so it goes into the corner but the music's still playing. Yeah. That's all bodybuilding is for like 24 23 hours a day. It's just software running in the background. You could be thinking about like you do not have to think about all your meals. Just eat them when your timer goes off. Yeah. It's mindless. It's mindless and mind-numbing most of the time. Look, it's the most boring repetitive thing. Yeah. If we can do it, there's so many things you can accomplish while you're bodybuilding. This whole like I can't do that. I have meals to eat. It's like eat them in the car. They take one minute. Yeah. Like Yeah. That's my my There's not much I can add to that cuz I think that that's the that is the magic is you shouldn't be thinking about it that much. I mean, you get your food together, especially if you're you'll burn yourself, too. You'll bore yourself to death. Yeah. I pack my food in the morning when I had the stores and I did exactly what Ron said. I had a timer that would go off and I couldn't always answer that timer because I was busy. But I said, "Okay, well, this food will all go down before I go to bed. And when I get to the gym, whatever time, because that's the other thing people ask, like, when do you train? What's the best time?" When you can. And then you go in there and you do what you need to be done. I think it's really over complicated for no reason. Like, it's not harder to eat chicken and rice than it is a cheeseburger. So, I don't know why we're talking about it like as long as you have it prepared, right? Like, preparation is everything. I mean, you know, the only thing that I would say does change that you just brought up is I used to always I've talked about this on the show. I would ask when we were leaving somewhere, "How long do you think we'd be gone?" And she'd go, "Three hours." I go, "Okay, we'll call it six and I'll bring two meals just in case." Yeah. That's it. And you know, and it and it was never a big issue. I mean, sometimes if we're out shopping and she's in the mall, I'd be like, "I'll be back in 10 minutes." I'd walk to the car, I'd eat my meal, I'd put it back, and I'd walk back in. Where are you? quick text message, show up, no big deal. Hey, I'll throw in one other thing. Uh, and and that's just that if you're not there yet, let's say, or maybe you fell off that maybe for some people getting back on track or getting on track, it's it's easy. They just flip a switch and now they're on. And and if you're not there though, and you you do feel like you need to work into it more, then set up real easy goals to reach. Like for me getting back on track, I started putting together some meals that were like real easy to eat. Like 4 ounces of chicken, as much rice as I knew I'd be able to eat. That's not a lot. You know what I mean? And and then that way I just knew like, okay, that's prepared. I can go to that. And over time, I built that consistency and then it evolved and then I could grow that. So it doesn't have to be perfect out the gate. All it has to be is better than it was yesterday. And if you can do that each week, you're going to get there, you know. Very true. Very true. Um, oh, here we go. This is a little bit different. From what you've seen and experienced in your lives, what has brought you true happiness? And what do you think others can do to achieve it as well? I'm going to I'm going to do a real generic answer, but I think it's the most true one. having purpose. Yeah. I think if you if you live a life without purpose, that's why you're not happy. Yeah. Like when I look back at times where things weren't as smooth, it's cuz I wasn't operating a way that I felt I had value to myself, to others, whatever that could mean. And as long as I'm living a life with purpose, I'm always satisfied. Yeah. Um, I I uh I don't like to quote Jordan Peterson a lot, like he says a lot of stuff, but um when I hear him talking about how important it is to bear responsibility, Mhm. I I'm like, "Oh, that's something I've instinctually figured out." Like if you don't have something that you're responsible for, that can really lead to a lot of stray decisions and people getting way off track. And the things that I'm responsible for that I know people count on me for really give me purpose, like you said, Dusty, and tie me to like a reality of of how I must behave and what I must get done. And uh you know you know when we we got the second dog it was more responsibility and I found myself like like it it I kind of found myself kind of thriving on it. I had this extra responsibility going on and I was like I like this. Mhm. and you know, having the the gym and like there's things that I'm responsible for at the gym and I don't want to let my my partners down and I don't want to let the members down and and having like, you know, things that are always important that you have to pay attention to that gives you purpose and it kind of ties in with with what you said. Anything, Dad? We want I made me think we want to get a dog. Well, we want uh Victoria's dad to get a dog for that reason. you know, he's like lives alone. He doesn't have a lot to do. And you know what? Dogs can save old people for that very reason, you know. Um I I liked all of that. And I mean, gosh, I mean, I I I'll add one thing and that's and for me it was really important is I have to make sure that I am not uh looking outside of myself for happiness. that if I try to tell myself like, oh, if I get this new gun, which you know I'm gonna want to get, it's like then I'll be happy. I can't misconstrue that in my head is that that's going to make me happy because I'm never going to get happy from that or from a relationship or from a financial, you know, goal that I'm reaching. Happiness has to, and I know it sounds cheesy, but happiness has to come from within. And that's the number one thing that I had to learn in 12step because that's what addiction is. We're looking for something outside of ourselves to make us happy. So yeah. Yeah, I got to watch that one. That one's a big one. My uh that was actually my dad. He was always buying things, big things, motorcycles, cars, houses, whatever. And he would get the new thing and he'd get that boost and then it was no longer a new thing. Yeah. And he'd get another new thing. And uh this isn't meant to like twist this to a sad story, but I mean he he eventually was an unhappy man that committed suicide. Um he could not understand that it was that those things were never going to do it, you know. So I think that's enormous to to step away and realize I say that all the time like if I lost everything I have financially and worldly, the things that that I have that are unbreakable, we would be fine. Nothing would change. the trucks would become some beat up whatever. It'd be fine. We'd live in a place nowhere near as nice. And in the grand scheme of what makes me happy. Okay. There was this rug. First thing that I realized tied the room together. This Oh, dude. It was such a beautiful rug and it was like this white deep shade rug. And it was like I saw this rug shopping and it was like early early in recovery and it was more than I could afford. But like if I saved my money up I could get the rug. You know what I mean? And I realized like man I'm obsessing about this rug. Like I'm thinking like oh you know I just I'd be so happy to the point where like I need the rug. You know what I mean? But I I caught myself. I never bought the rug and I'd go to the store and see it sometimes and be like damn that's a nice rug. But here's the reality. Had I bought the rug, it would have eventually gotten it. It was white, by the way. White rug. We could be garbage. Yeah. No, I didn't know how to take care of stuff. I still hardly know how to take care of stuff, you know. Thankfully, I'm a little better with Victoria. I'm less feral, but yeah, it was it was one of those things, man. Slightly less feral. I love that word. That's phenomenal. Yeah. Uh what's the equipment question you had, Scott? Oh, so I wanted to ask you guys, I I looked them up. I can't find this company. Maybe you guys know about it though. Um, uh, so we talked about a company last week. It says, uh, you guys, another USbased, uh, company that is making retro remakes is Premier Strength. They are making replicas of a few Flex Leverage pieces and Nautilus Explode pieces. They look really rad. You guys have seen those? Yeah, I Yeah, I have I follow them on Instagram. I have them on Instagram. Oh, you do? Okay. Yeah. So, they've done they've done some of those pieces. I'm not sure how big that company is. Looks like a like a smaller outfit, but they might be I I don't know much about their stuff, but they might be making good stuff, you know. Okay, I did want to throw this in real quick because this came up. Um Oh, damn. It was a text. Um Duke messaged me about the Mega Mass equipment. Yeah. And uh he said that his gym has a piece and it's been broken down multiple times within a year. Oh, no kidding. So, that's kind of back to what I said about the the volume of use. Um, I don't remember where he centered. I'd read the exact thing, but he sent that as soon as he was watching the show and I was like, "Ah, that's what I'd heard." That's things for people to know. It doesn't mean it's not great for your own home and stuff. It's like, yeah, when I first wanted to get a treadmill when I was uh younger and had my place, I went to the gym and the owner and I said, "Hey, can you order me one of those life fitness treadmills?" And he was like, "For what?" And I was like, "My house." And he was like, Why do you need a life fitness treadmill for your house? I was like, "Well, it's a good treadmill and I need it." He's like, "Those are designed to be used 20 hours a day." Yeah. He's like, "How often? How how many hours are you going to put on?" I was like, "Well, an hour, right, a day during prep and then it'll probably like hold laundry pretty solid." He's like, you guys won't know what this word is most of you, but he goes, "Go to Sears. They're $500. It'll be fine." And that for you people now that's uh go to Facebook marketplace 300 bucks you'll be fine in your house because I got a club model life fitness treadmill in my own home from life fitness. I paid $500 for it. Another thing too is people buy the people do this all the time. They buy cardio pieces and they get them home and realize they don't have the voltage. Oh, they've got the 240 or whatever and it's supposed to be the one. I don't know my voltage, but they've got like the indust like, you know, they need the industrial power outlet and they're like, "Oh, fuck." So, I have to call an electrician. Yeah. Real expensive. Yeah. I did have to pay somebody to bringing it into my home, too. So, it's not like it was just $500, you know? Yeah. Yeah. There's another 500 to do that. Yeah. Um, it was worth it, though. I love it. Cadillac, this is uh this was directed to me, but I want to get your guys' version, too. Uh, when you were running your stores and training at 4:00 a.m. with an itemized task list covering each hour of the day, how did you manage recovery to avoid mental burnout from the combination of training, being on your feet all day, manage the workload of the business, and the owner? My schedule's ramped up lately and is similar to how yours described, and I feel my recovery is starting to slide. I prep and carry all my meals and hydration is good. However, between parenting, having full-time employees of 5 a.m. training, it's starting to fall behind. I have a pretty awesome coach who's overseeing everything. but your experience with AM training, running a business, having to make lists every other day really resonated with me. Um, asking as a Gen Pop client. So, my answer in this is not sexy, but it's the truth. Um, we didn't think about those things back in the day. Like, managing recovery was never a thought. Worrying about overtraining never crossed my mind. worrying about not sleeping enough never crossed my mind because I had things that had to be done and they had to be done and that was the end of it. So it I think the biggest thing is you do what you have to do and you don't think about it. I mean because it's if his schedule is as busy as mine was there was nothing to think about. There were however many hours in the day this is the things I had to get done. Okay. I mean, I'm sure if I could go back in time, because I also used to struggle with sleep. I'm sure I would have been better if I could have made myself sleep. I'm sure I would have been better if I had more time. I honestly think it would have only been marginally anyways. I think we way overthink those things now. And you just get done what has to be done. Use your time as well as you possibly can. But other than that, I mean, the answer is you just do it because it's all you have. My friend Travis put up a story the other day and uh he said overtraining is bad. Worrying about overtraining is way worse. Um so yeah, it's a little one second here. I got to pull something up that I that I had to read because I think it's uh way too valuable to be skipped here. M there it is. Going to read a little um train by JP. Oh no, we'll take a little break. This one is fantastic to get into this. I didn't ask about range of motion or rep ranges over and over. Those questions didn't exist 20 years ago and didn't need to because they were people who had the size I wanted. So I emulated what they did and guess what? It worked. We didn't ever talk about fatigue ever. I'm so insanely embarrassed for you. If you mentioned fatigue management to me to get to this, I set lift targets, really [\h__\h] high ones. I knew that if I could overhead smith plate five plates aside, I would have bigger delts than anyone else. Oh, wow. It worked. I knew that if I could get my stiff legs to eight plates aside, I'd have bigger erectors. Oh, wow. That worked, too. Effing funny that I focused entirely on work and didn't give a [\h__\h] what I felt endured to reach those lift targets. I cannot express how much I hate this app now and all the complete utter wank that I read from people with no muscle advising people with no muscle. Ban these [\h__\h] convos from your mind and focus entirely on work. It's a small person thing to find 20 ways to distract themselves from the fact they are too much of an effing [\h__\h] to go after hard sets and set huge lift targets. I don't care if you're natty either. You name two guys. They did it. They set piss t piss take lift targets and built a [\h__\h] ton of muscle doing it. We didn't talk about not doing the work because motor unit rec recruitment declines as the set goes on, f off and just do it and do more of it. And Morgan, until you're so battered that you can't get out of bed. So practical advice, instead of just calling you all a bunch of useless [\h__\h] whatever you lift now for four reps, you must you get that to 12 reps ASAP with zero change in form. And then by this time next year, you must increase your load on the bar by 50%. That is doable, I promise you. Be a savage and attack your sets. Put all of this insane noise out of your mind. Are we trying to get big here or we just gonna be talking about it? I read that. I wiped a tear. I know. I put a comment that got like 200 likes. Did you? I put I put That's an absolute unit of a comment or absolute unit of a of a of a of a quote or whatever. Yeah. Yeah. Something like that. It's good. But but seriously, I mean, I I think we should briefly cover it because what we just said, like you never even thought about those things. I never said like, "Oh, I'm sore today. What should I do?" It's leg day. Yeah. You train legs. There's that. Yeah. It's leg day. You do that. Yeah. And if there was all sorts of stuff like today's hack squat day and I feel kind of like there's a little thing here, but I just warm up really good until it goes away and then I'll hack squat cuz it's hack squat day. Yeah. Yeah. A little more warm up. You know what I mean? Just like Yeah. And just putting stuff out of your mind. Which the putting stuff out of your mind thing I really relate to because there were so many times I remember doing that. Like don't think about that. That's noise. Like that whole thing. You know what I mean? Mhm. And um and just getting to work and chasing lifts. Chasing lifts. Like I remember chasing leg presses and chasing hack squats and chasing barbell rows, chasing incline dumbbell presses. like you're looking at the far end of the rack and you're like, I'm going to [\h__\h] get there, you know, and just that super super aggressive stuff, you know? I think there's benefit to those things. Like there's benefit to recognizing, you know, that like more sleep is going to be beneficial cuz I can say there's times that have been like, you know what, looking back, you know, I had a really tough time in that prep for that client did, you know, in 2015. He had a really weird sleep schedule because of his job. I bet that it had to do with his sleep. And I know that now. You know what I'm saying? So, I think that there is, I think, benefit of knowing those things, but it doesn't mean that you need to like, you know, be paralyzed by it, right? You know, it doesn't mean that you have to not train legs today cuz they're sore. I think one of the main problems is like I would go to bed because I I'm like, I'm going to bed at midnight tonight. I have legs tomorrow. Yeah. But let's say I had a bad sleep. Let's say I went to bed, toss and turn, couldn't get to sleep, wound up only getting 6 hours. Got up in the morning. I didn't dwell on the fact that I only had 6 hours sleep. Yeah. It didn't cross my mind. Did you check your HRV? Yeah, it didn't cross my mind. It's like today's legs. I'm moving on. Moving on. I still have rep totals. I still got to beat my hack squat. But I think what is now app da da and it's they're not putting that [\h__\h] like I the value of putting it out of your mind and just overcoming the nonsense overcoming the nonsense. Don't don't take all this [\h__\h] in all the time. It just crowds up so much of your space. What's funny is um I feel like we we have too much data now. Oh yeah. And we're sitting on it like we don't know how to analyze it to wait. Like they're overanalyzing it. So I had a client, they're doing the stepmill and uh I said, "How's the steps going?" And she goes, "Good." And I said, "Is it hard as it used to be?" And she said, "No." And we're in prep. And I said, "Okay, I want you to kick it up to a level where it's as hard as it used to be." Yeah. And she goes, "Well, what level?" I said, "Whatever one makes it as hard as it used to be." Yeah. And I I was like, "It you should want to get off before your time is up like you used to. That's what I want." And she was like, "So, is there like a heart rate?" I'm like, "No, hard as it used to be." And and I really think that that part has gotten lost because it's a normal the and I'm not faulting her for asking. It's good questions, but I really do think that that's a thing. Like Ron and I agree on this. Cardio should either be easy or hard, right? Those are the two options. So if I want it to be hard, if it starts to get easier because you're getting more conditioned, yeah, make it harder again, whatever that means, you know. So the the data is definitely slowing people down in a lot of ways in my opinion because like you said, Ron, you just never really thought about it. You're like, "Oh, okay. Well, here we go." Yeah, you know, it doesn't all that stuff doesn't matter. We'll get a couple more here. And the number of times that I beat my rep total, even though something that something didn't go perfectly that week, I still beat my rep total. Mhm. You know what I mean? And you pile up those wins and you realize like just smoke through this [\h__\h] you know? I always found that those days were the most rewarding days. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You get done and you're like, honestly, I didn't want to be here today, but I had to be. I got going and then next thing you know, it's a killer workout. Yeah. You're like, you got a new PR on Hack Squat. Yeah. Yeah. There you go. It just clicked through, you know. Hey, Georgina from uh Patreon. She said, "The IFBB rules states that anyone on prescribed TRT uh to keep test within physiological levels is uh unable to compete in a natural contest. I was surprised by this and think a lot of people are unaware. What do you guys think? Seems to be unfair to me." Yeah, I mean that stuff is sort of changing over time. I mean the you know what I mean? We've seen I think there's certain leagues now like aren't they allowed TRT and UFC now? I have no idea. Like but I just I'm not quite sure but I know that stuff is all kind of evolving and changing. I wouldn't be surprised if that eventually changes. Um but I mean that's just the rules. I mean, yeah. Yeah. I mean, you know, a lot a lot of natty people aren't I mean, I got my own opinions on Natty. Me, too. There's people doing natty shows that are using like every peptide under the sun and you know, they're running all this other stuff. It's like they're basically steroid. Yeah. But they're using like insulin and growth hormone and you know, all the peptides and even sit. Oh, I'm on a thyroid prescription. Yeah. Okay. Well, and then there's also there's natural and then there's un and then there's tested. Yeah. You know what I mean? Which I've heard people say is like tested is an IQ test to see, you know, who can pass it. Pass the test. Yeah. Who can do math, you know? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Um good good one here because I think this I think this is great. Can you discuss the times BCA may still be beneficial? I use them every day. Um, I'd say if you had to pick a time where there would be more the most likely to be beneficial, it would be in a calorie deficit getting ready for a show while you're training. I would leave out all the other words and just say while you're training. There you go. I would take EAAsthough cuz figure if I'm going to pay for it, I'm going to get all the amino acids from EAAs. I'd take the that's why I get on I'd get on the gear. But the chains are actually the ones that are made for extending your workout. But you want your workout to be not of the same doses. Okay. So that and that's why mutant continues to make them. Yeah. Because the the the fad has been to go straight. You don't need the branched chain amino acids. First off, we'll start a step further. You don't need any of them. That's a point right there because you're because you're eating. But guess what? I eat a even now plenty of protein in a day and I can absolutely tell like I finish a scoop of the BCAS every single workout. Yeah. And what I noticed it's the same thing. It's funny enough that people don't realize this but the reason that sation called their product extend when it came out branch chain is because that's the idea. You're extending how long you can train at a certain level of intensity over a longer amount of time. Yeah. Whereas a lot of people how they feel in the beginning of their workout versus the end isn't the same thing. You can actually and a great way to test it, Scott, is if you're doing your cardio, and I don't recommend using it for cardio, first off, but for you to get a feel, um, sip on it during your cardio, and you'll see that it the la the end of your cardio is not any harder than beginning. That's not when it should be used. I don't want anyone else to hear that and think it's a good idea. I'm just saying for you to test it. Yeah, it doesn't you just won't slow down. It doesn't feel difficult. I I'm I think I'm a unique person when it comes to this. Uh leucine can create uh an insulin release and that ends up giving me low blood sugar. And I figured that out because back in the day when everybody was all on, you know, BCAAs, I would use them training and then I would go hypo at the end of my workout or into my cardio. So, right. Yeah, for me I I I'd be afraid of going hypo, but I know what you mean because I did use my fair share of them. So I wonder what the dosing is because I know EA BCAAs you're getting usually like what 2.5 g of leucine and 1.25 of isolucine and valine. Um you get 10 you get 10 total in same same ratios but more. So that would be five. So double that. Uh okay. Yeah. So you would I wonder how much you'd have to take of EA You'd probably have to take like 30 grams of EAAs to get that then. So all right. Do we have anything else that we need to cover? I think we'll do one more just cuz I'm hunting for one and then we'll call it a day. Should we put I think we're going to put this episode out first. Okay. And then put the other one out next. And we didn't even tell people that that was like a Memorial Day weekend special. Oh, whoops. Now they know. Let's see. Jeez, this is brutal. Wonder if I got something on Patreon here. Yeah, see if you got anything. I don't have anything that's like a great uh I got this finisher. I don't know how to So, he's from Patreon, so I feel like I owe him. You know what I'm saying? But I'm not quite sure what he means by this. I'm just going to tell you it says question for it's just bodybuilding and new Patreon subscriber by the way southside iron he said check out southside_iron side colombia on Instagram says question for is just bodybuilding men's physique replace the board shorts with the square cut trunks that classic started with let's be honest some of these guys are walking around at 250 it's time to let the board shorts go then he says says, "Rename classic physique classic bodybuilding. Keep the current trunks and have a uh short and tall class. Significantly increase the weight caps and put pressure on the judges to reward the classic look over the open looks. Lee Haney was 5'11 225 on stage and the current uh 511 cap for classic is 219. uh why call a division classic when uh many of the big names uh in classic guys wouldn't be able to compete in the class. PS then he said check out uh the Southside Iron Colombia. So he's saying just redo the whole thing basically. I mean I I think what they're what they're trying to do Yeah. is they're trying to control the height to weight ratio. Um because I I do and I understand what you said. I mean, we got a couple clients that I really wish they had 10 more pounds because their frame could hold it without losing that look. But in my opinion, I I like what the IPB is doing because if not, what blurs the lines and confuses people is you can be within the height and weight ratios and you still don't have a classic physique at all. Yeah, you know, and yes, there are outliers. I mean, it's it's hard not to say that some of the top guys I mean, what would we say Jamie Christensen's uh physique should look like to be a classic guy? I mean, he's 66. I mean, he would, but he's still tiny waist, you know? Yeah. I mean, he's got all the things that would you could argue classic, but I think that's the idea behind it being classic physique and not classic bodybuilding because if not, he is a classic bodybuilder. Yeah. You know, I mean, Tony Freeman would be a classic bodybuilder. Basically, if you have a small waist and everything else billows out from there, you could call yourself classic. So, I don't I don't think they want to blur the lines any more than they already are. Cuz as it is, there's classic guys that I know if they wanted to cross over could be great open pros. There's I mean, men's physique, I've seen some of these guys, they're not hiding their legs. They're covering them. That's the shorts that are there. They have them. Those guys can bodybuild. I can see getting away with getting rid of those trunks or getting rid of the board shorts and going to a more classic trunk. Sure. I if we were going to give him something, I say that we give him that one. You know, the question that I that comes to mind in my head is what how would they present their legs posing the way they do? Yeah. You know, I mean, I don't I'm sure there's an answer, but it would change a lot of stuff. I don't disagree. Um, but I'm one of the few I shouldn't say few, but I love the classic physique look. Yeah. You know, I don't love the way that they are told to present their look. I don't like the little whole move around the hands look ridiculous thing. But the physique, I think I'd rather have some of these guys, classic these uh these uh men's physique guys physique than than the bodybuilders just walk around. They look nuts. Yeah, those guys are getting laid nonstop. Yeah. Nonstop. Not that that's what I'm looking for, but you know it's true. Oh, yeah. Totally full. Totally fully full. Yeah, mine are too, but they're guys. Yeah. Um, yeah, they're just dudes. On that note, episode Dusty, I've also I've got something here. I have some I have some BCAs. I'm going to I'm going to make sure I don't go hypo. Oh, that's a grape. That's the best one. I'm going to make sure I don't go hypo. I'm going to use these on my next workout and I'm going to power through. All right. I want your breakdown. All right. Is that it, Ron? Our work here is done. Dusty so much. Look at He took control. He's got the glasses. Ron, he just took the whole thing. He's a different man. I know that role now. I know. I saw a thing where they said that uh they said if you wear glasses in the US like our society, our culture, you are instantly thought of as being much smarter. Like it's just a fact you were thought of. But they also you're instantly less attractive too. They said I couldn't go further in that direction, Scott. So it was worth the trade. Welcome to the club. It was worth the trade to the club. Oh man, that's funny. I'm sure I have more than enough things that uh Yeah, you can cancel me back out on the uh Yeah, you can do a lot of stuff with glasses. Like a good a good removal take you can do. Yeah, I would practice those. But I'm not doing those now. I'm not ready. Yeah. You know, I I I I think of uh I think of the opening scene for CSI Miami when David Cruso would always kind of take his glasses off and drop the the final line. You know what I mean? That the worst like onelineers. Oh man. Oh yeah. I I have a a friend of mine who has a crazy story about meeting that guy. Really? He um he has a connection through the film industry and he happened to go to a dinner and uh David Caruso was there and uh he wound up sitting next to him. Mhm. And uh he thought, "Oh, this is cool. I'm sitting next to David Caruso, right?" And uh they're chatting away and and they it was going pretty well there. Everyone's laughing and talking away and he's talking to about movies. Yeah. And then and and and he David had told some stories that sort of led my friend to feel a certain way about how he viewed his characters and made him very comfortable and talking freely. Shouldn't have done that. And so my my friend said he's like he's like, "Oh man, like like CSI Miami was like great." Like it was, you know, great. Like what a like what a you know it must have been fun playing like such a cheesy character you know like you got to deliver like the cheesiest lines and like it with a big hit and you know like that character like in any other context would have just been like utterly ridiculous and like how did you feel about like how that character was written and like just went kind of like a little too comfortable with how like how like cheesy the lines were and how like the delivery was just like a certain way and David just changed and he was like, "I wrote that character." And then he like left. Whoa. My friend was just like, "Oh shit." Had the worst worst ever running. And his friend that brought him was like, "What the [\h__\h] did you say to him Caruso?" He pissed him off. He was just like, "I I don't know." Yeah. Oh my god. I think it's great because it's like you didn't know. Like everyone knows that. That's the first thing I said when you brought it up. I'm like those were the worst. Shocked. He seemed like what are you talking about? And my friend was like oh [\h__\h] Yeah. Like oh yeah. I'm just kidding. Yeah. I have to say quick thing before we go. I am watching First of all, Mob Land has been amazing. Oh Dave Dave Crosland's been watching. He told me it's so good. Yeah. Mobland is awesome, Dusty. You'll love it. And then also the Studio. The Studio. Watch The Studio. Seth Rogan's new show. I like Seth Rogan. It is absolutely fantastic. Seth Rogan plays a guy who winds up as the head of a movie studio. So, it's full of cameos. Okay. Cuz everyone else in it is real. Right. Right. He's like the head of a movie studio and he's a kind of bumbling because he's like throwing this job. He's like, "Oh my god, I'm the head now." Like kind of out of nowhere. And everyone else is a cameo playing themselves fictional versions of themselves. It is shot the episodes are 30 minutes. They're super highpaced nonstop and uh we are completely absolut we think it's the best project Seth Rogan's ever done. Wow. Wow. and uh and it's fantastic. So, watch the studio. You'll love it. And that's my TV review for the week. We're still we're still finishing White Lotus, the season three. So fun. Epic show. Yeah. Before the last episode, you and Victoria have to sit down and you have to place some bets on who's going to die cuz you know someone dies, right? Yeah. Oh my god. Season two was epic. That was what a great ending. We can't I don't want to give it away for anybody, but that was epic. Such a fun show. How far in are you to season 3? Oh, we're we're getting there. We're at that point here. So, here's our evolution of a TV show. We start burning through them hard, right? And we're like, oh god, we don't have many left and this is the last season. Slow it down. So, yeah, we start, well, we're going to watch something else tonight. So, we kind of back off a little bit. Before we know it, I can't even remember what was happening anymore because it's been so long. So, has has Sam Rockwell shown up yet? Uh, Sam Rockwell, I don't know who that is. I don't know. I don't know actor's names. That's an actor. Oh, yeah. As an actor, he shows up and delivers an amazing monologue. So, we're at the point where um so her son, the the massage therapist son, he is just about to get in town. Ah, okay. So, we're like I think twothirds of the way two-thirds of the way through something like that. Okay. Yeah. Okay. Well, you look you guys are watching TV soers. All I watch is hockey. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Schwarzenegger's son is in that. So, that's been fun. Yeah. Patrick Schwarzenegger's in it. He's good. Yeah, he is. And I've been like looking at him because they have they have scenes like him at the the pool and we've been trying to like I know you're analyzing the structure of his chest. Does he look like his dad at all? You know, like I think he's got the arms like he does have his collar. Got that. He's the same height. I've met him. I've met him. So, he's like the same. He's a tall guy. Broad shouldered. Yeah. And I think he could have the arms if he were to fill out, you know. And I like how they've got him like making protein shakes. He's kind of he's into fitness. Yeah. Get him on a little primo, some dbol in the office. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Little pre Well, he's in Thailand. He could go get some good stuff. All All he wanted. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I thought they'd write that in there. Maybe he makes a trip to the pharmacy. His his sister at one point is like, "We all know you take steroids, you know." Yeah. There's even a line in there. It's funny. Okay. Well, look up Sam Rockwell. All right. Amazing actor. And you let me know if he's shown up yet or not. Oh, I think he was he uh was he the the friend of the who who lives in Thailand. We watched that was the last episode. It was the greatest out of left field monologue. He starts talking and Emily and I were like, "Holy shit." He's like, "So, what have you been up to?" Well, let me tell you down a rabbit hole with it. just delivering it like it's nothing, you know? Nothing. Yeah. Amazing. Dusty will love it. So, okay. Okay. Thanks. And I guess in real life, Sam is married. You know, the three girls that are on the girls trip. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Yeah. One of those is Sam's wife in real life. Okay. All right. So, she was cast on the show. And as they were writing the show, they were like, "Oh, well, Sam Rockwell could fly out and do a cameo cuz his wife's already on the show." And then Sam Sam, I guess, had input. He's like, "I got a character if you guys." And he had like Oh, he he did that, huh? He did some input there with them. They were like, "Oh, Jesus." And then Sam had a lot of input on that monologue. He like Sam Rockwell somebody then. I assume he's an Yeah. Oh, he's Oscar winning. He was in Tombstone. He was he was he was in Moon, one of my favorite sci-fi movies ever. He's been in like amazing list of crazy Oscar winning movies. If you look up Sam Rockwell, he's just an absolute ace of an actor. Yeah. Victoria started talking during that scene and I was cuz and I was like cuz it was right at the beginning of him getting into that and I was like, "No, hold on." That's against Ron's rule. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, yeah. No talking. Did you walk next go to the bathroom? This is unacceptable. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Yep. Okay, thank you very much, guys. Remember, it's just bodybuilding. Like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. Check out that should be my new one. That's your new one. Take them off and then use them as the bell. Mutant.com. Go to immutant.com. Get your ice search. Get your all in. Everyone should get on the gear and the BCAS. Don't forget the BCAS. Okay. And uh thanks for all the questions, all the Patreon, all the YouTube questions, everything. We love it. Thanks for keeping us in the algorithms. And remember, it's just bodybuilding.