 I would say this, the way his midsection is right here, you can get away with that in bodybuilding, for sure, but in classic, everyone's waist is like this. Does he look a little, like, what, fucking huge? Yeah, you know, no, Andrew knows where I'm going. Where's he going? Like, if I didn't know him, clearly he's a super nice guy. Yeah. But he has like a, that gives him like a crazy look. He looks like the, um, he looks like the end boss at like, in the prison. So I, I knew nothing about him. I knew nothing about foodborne illness back then, but I would take him out of the freezer. What a way to start. Honestly, I don't know how I'm not dead. I knew nothing about disfiguring penis injuries. Let me tell you. What's up, guys? Welcome back to Blood, Sweat, and Gear with coaches Skipp Hill, Andrew Berry, myself, Scott McNeely, and we are joined by big Ron Partlow. What's going on, man? Good to be here. I'm very happy to be on someone else's show. You get to sit back, relax, and basically do nothing today, right? Yeah. Yeah. It's the way it should be, really. Guys, all of our programming is brought to you by IAMMutant.com. Go to IAMMutant.com and you can use code BIGRON over there. We are brought to you by truenutrition.com. Use our code THINK over there for high quality third-party tested supplements, company that you can trust. Unlike, it sounds like I'm saying versus mutant. Like, go to True Nutrition. A company you can trust. Yeah, yeah. That's kind of what it sounds like. I like that Canadian company. Yeah, there's Canadians out there. All those inspectors that come through there all the time. I just ordered some MindFK, by the way, just to let all you guys know because I'm running low. It's our gift to America. Yes. We're brought to you by supplementshorse.ca for our Canadians. And thank you to everybody from Patreon. We've got a couple physique critiques. We're probably going to get to one of those today. We've got a bunch of your listener questions. We've got a Nick Walker training video that we're going to watch. And we're going to talk about Nick's training. Talk about, this is going to be a fun training conversation. We've got Ron with us, of course. We have regular Andrew, regular me. And then Skip is dieting, like, pretty down now. You're just about there, right? I've got a lot of food now. More food than I care to have, quite frankly. You're a little bit nervous? You feel like, oh, man, there's a little too much food? Nah, other than the 55-year-old distension battle that I have to deal with, I'm like, I'd rather do lower volume and not have to deal with this. Okay. Okay. Well, we look forward to seeing how it comes together, man. I'm glad you could make it. I know you were just doing some posing with Kenny, so we were recording a little bit later than normal. We all redid our schedules for Skip. I know. I appreciate that. It's an important show. Big time. So you guys tell me, what do you want to jump into first? We could do the Nick Walker video? We could do Nick. Okay. I was going to say, we could do that or the physique critique. And by the way, too, guys. React. React. All right. That sounds good to me. We, guys, everybody in the comments, too, you are welcome to drop questions in. I'm sure we're going to have a bunch of stuff going on. All right. Give me just a second here. Get this thing rolling. Who's got the fan on their mic? Not a... Maybe my game is way too hot. Okay. We're good. We're good. We're good. Sounds like somebody's AC is running, and that's fine with me. I don't know. Okay. This is a very laid back, Ron. It's not okay with me, Ron. It's not okay with me? No. I'm not good with it. We'll be watching TV or something, and my wife will be, I can't stand that. I'm like, I can't stand what? She'll mute the TV, and she can hear a fire alarm from the other side of the building. Oh. Yeah. Is that kind of her job? Yeah. I think that's why. Yeah. But I'm like, how the fuck can you even hear that? Like, turn the TV back on. That's funny. Yeah. Two hardworking sets there. Ron and Smith now. So I think he just did some pack deck here to start her. What was this? Cable crossovers. Yes. So he's opening up with a cable crossover. Ron, do you like starting off with like an opener like that? I know Skip likes to do. Yeah, I do. Yeah. What do you think? I don't do it often. It's like something I'll do once in a while. Yeah. And yeah, I like it. I went through phases where I did like real Menser style shit where I would like pre-exhaust everything. You know, like I would do like extensions before I would squat and I would do, you know, fly before a press and all that stuff. So I tried a lot of that stuff when I was, you know, trying to get big. Yeah. How do you guys like those pulleys? They're not wide. You know what I mean? Yeah, it's like a totally different type of crossover. It's a different feel. Yeah. You know? You get good stretch load. You know, the stretch load is... I always liked crossovers done that way from high down. Like a most muscular. That's the type of crossover I like. Because you can use your body weight to anchor yourself. You know, when you try to stand up and go like that, it's like, you know, you can't really load them. Well, then you start playing with like a staggered stance and you're like, wait a minute. Am I slightly off kilter and working on one side of my chest more than the other? Should I switch sides on the next? I would always alternate legs. Yeah, exactly. Yeah, yeah. I will not do an exercise if my legs are not symmetrical. If I have to put one in front of it, not happening. Oh, really? Yeah, that's funny. I'm too OCD. And this is why. If you look, if one of your feet is in front of the other, one of your legs is in front of the other, we'll go with that. Your hips are off. Everything up above it is off. You may not feel the difference. It may not be dramatic, but it can't be the same, right? Yeah. I sort of chalk that up to a little bit of like minimal, bare minimal athleticism you have to possess to be able to cope with that. Like you have to be able to cope with that. With a little bit. You know? Like you can't. You can't. The most risk. You don't have to carry anything anywhere. Minimum amount of athleticism I need to maintain is like, I don't mix it up a bit. I like that. I like that. That's good for me here. What about a cable crossover where you take one of the hands over the other one? Not doing that either. No, I typically didn't do that. That was weird. Yeah. Because, I mean, technically, based on the name, crossover. Yeah, it's in the name, right? Yeah. Yeah. I'd rather eat them. They're cable flies. I don't do crossovers. I do cable flies. I always thought of Arnold doing them in pumping iron. Oh, yeah. Like a saran wrap. Yeah. Chewing gum. Now, look. Nick's going to bust me for this, but does he look a little like... What? Fucking huge? Yeah. No, Andrew knows where I'm going. Where's he going? It's because he's bald, because he shaves his head. I'm not going to help you, Skip. I know, but you know what I'm thinking when you laugh. I'm not going to help you. I don't know. I'm not going to help you. I would not want to cross this guy. Like, if I didn't know him, clearly he's a super nice guy. Yeah. But he has like a... That gives him like a crazy look. He looks like the end boss in the prison. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Right, right, right. So he has a lot of the other guys that go and do stuff for him and bring him stuff, and he's the one that... He's the king of the mountain. The glasses do make him look like he would have a plot. He would be the guy with an idea. You know what I mean? He might be a big guy, but he's also smart. That's the vibe I get. Kind of got that Bane look going on, too. A little Bane going on here. But aside from the Bane look, great form on the presses. Oh, yeah. He's got the best form, if anyone, in the IFBB. Yeah. Yeah. Something to be said. Something to be said about that, you know? Well, there's something to be said, too, about being one of the largest guys in the world and not having any bit of ego to look over and see some little 18-year-old kid who's been banging 225 or more, and he's doing 225, four-count negative, pause, squeeze the pecs to drive the weight up, you know? Yeah. I think there's some motivation in there, too. I mean, maybe waking up being 275 shredded has a thing to do with it and not really having to give an F about what anyone thinks. See, I mean, he's up to three plates here, right? Yeah. He's using three plates. Same control. It's just... Yeah, just... I only did it for a couple of reps. I want my body to feel it. I want my body to get acclimated to the weight, not have it be a surprise. You ever notice if you go up too quickly, your first set usually is not hard or not that good at a contraction standpoint because it's a shock to the body. Normally, the second set you do with that weight probably feels a lot better or even lighter sometimes because not your body's acclimated to it. So whatever my working weight is, I always touch it for at least two reps, chill out for a hot minute, get back into it. It usually feels a little lighter. I can contract a lot harder. Huh. I agree with that. Yeah. I can see that. I call that like queuing up. Feeling good? Queuing up the central nervous system, you know? Yeah. There was like a training style a while back that Hollingshead was doing where they would actually ramp up to like a heavy triple. Yeah. And then they'd back off and that would actually be their work set. It would just touch something like for a non-failure triple. Yeah. The only issue I see with that is that like if you're already a maxed out super heavyweight guy using big boy weights like that, just the opportunity for injury. Yeah. And Hollingshead is one of the strongest in the world. Like his squat videos are still what? Eight plates or something? Yeah. That's what he's doing in that video. Actually. He goes up to eight plates and I think he just does a single with it. Okay. And he racks it. And then he goes down to seven. And that's the like working set. Down. It's like priming his nervous system. But it was something he was trying out. He even said in the video. He goes, I'll see how this goes. Five, three or four. Well, think about this. I'm sorry. I'll probably do two heavy sets. Six to eight. Okay. Then probably two lighter sets around 10, 15. No intensifiers here. I just want to keep it straight and make sure we're really getting the most out of it. I came here. And I said, listen. So we can all agree that science has a merit. You know, I think it's science could be a good base to follow. Right. But science shouldn't be end all be all. Because right. Like science doesn't know what my body can do. Yeah. Science don't know what your body can do. Yeah. And what my body can do might not be what you can do and vice versa. Right. So it's a good outline. Yeah. But at the end of the day, you know your body best. You know, and it's like training. It's like science says frequency is the best optimum way to grow. Yeah. I don't disagree. Very true. But then you see people like Jordan Yates who blew the fuck up. Yeah. Doing four days a week. One sense of failure. Yeah. Low volume too. Now he never did the frequency. So who knows how he would look. But we do know based on certain podcasts he did. He tried to hold high volume. It didn't work for him. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So it's, yeah, he didn't, he never did maybe the frequency. But he tried different methods, found one that worked really well. So yeah, we can't say he did frequency. But what we do know is the way he trained got him, what, six, seven Olympias? And then you got Jay Cutler who also wasn't frequency but very high volume. That worked for him. He didn't take sets of failure. No. He just did very high volume and moves high. How long did it take for you to figure this system? See, I'm different, right? Like this system, I actually learned this through Jared. No. But I also incorporated what I like as well. I always said training has got to be something you enjoy. Yeah. So obviously take pieces of things you like that you learn from people that you like, enjoy. Make it your own. You know what I mean? That's how you adapt. That's how you evolve. I can't argue with any of that. No, it's great. Normally in like my growing phase, I'll take a little longer rest periods. Go a little heavier. And this is where controversy will be in. Because normally in prep, when you're low on food, you want to keep the volume a little lower for recovery purposes. I do the opposite. I raise my volume drastically. But I recover fine. Versus when I do it this way, which is weird in the offseason. When I'm eating way more food, I get way more soil. If I do this way in prep. Taking a good long break here before he gets into that working set. I up the volume. Yeah, yeah, yeah. His breaks are pretty long. His body changes dramatically. That's what you're saying, how much it varies. Yeah. He doesn't mind going for that 100% recovery. Yeah. And some would argue, well, it's because he's talking. But he's known for taking longer breaks between sets than most normal people would take. He knows what he's doing, too. No question. He wouldn't get distracted. It's like how long he's resting. I already mentioned Mike Menser once. But I was a pretty huge guy. I wanted to know everything about him when I was younger. Yeah. And there was one quote that he said where someone asked him about something he did, some weird thing he did with a set. And he goes, oh, who says one rep has to come right after the other? Who says all the reps in a set have to happen right after each other? Who says he can't take breaks between reps? Okay. Yeah. He was doing rest pause or something. Yeah. And then he said, in fact, who's to say that the next set in the workout has to be right away? He said that, too. And it kind of made me think, like, you know, we got evidence that, like, it doesn't matter how much you rest between sets of, like, bike sprints, for example. You still get pretty much the same result from the bike sprint. You know what I mean? Yeah. So I can see some guys really want to just recover fully for each set. I can see that mentality. Dusty does that to a certain degree. Yeah. Leg rest periods, like on leg day and back day. You know? Yeah, that makes sense. Just be as recovered as you can be for your next heavy set of your big exercises. Well, think about it. If we're talking, like, power lifting, right? When guys are competing at the meets, they don't do all their three lifts one after another. They do their lift, and then they wait their turn for six or seven other guys to go and do their one lift, and they get a minute or two in between each guy going. So that they're fully rested. Their adrenal, their nervous system is ready to fire again at 100%. I mean, it makes sense. I think it's more because their cardiovascular systems are so bad that they need 17 minutes between sets to recover. Ah. I think it's also, you know, like, this is Nick's job. So, like, you know, he has to do that. He's got the job. He's got the availability to pace himself out to the most optimal level, right? Whereas, hey, I've got to get out of here. I've got to get back to work, you know? Yeah. Never more than 20. And then I'll take a base movement like this. Where it'll kind of be like the heavy base movement. Okay. Put a couple lighter sets at the end. Yeah. And then my next chest movement, what we're going to do, we're going to take a break, go to a shoulder movement after this. But the next chest movement will be a higher rep. Okay. Yeah. So, that way I'm not going so heavy in every single exercise. Yeah. Like, that next, the next chest exercise, 12-15. Okay. What size shirt do you guys think he's wearing right there? I don't know, but his arm looks insane. I know. I think it translates to your look, the higher reps. It does. Like that rounded. Yeah, it does a lot. You have to. Yeah. Legs is always high rep. Yeah. Okay. Any leg exercise, no less than 10. Okay. I stay around 12-15. 12-15 is the sweet spot, yeah. No matter what. No matter what it is. I just feel like I've grown the best. I've stayed around her. And I think anyone can say whatever they want, it creates detail. Yeah. That's where, like, even with the whole science bullshit. Science says, squeezing the muscle doesn't bring out detail. I call bullshit. Because toward the end of my prep, literally at four to five weeks out, I think it was six, maybe. Basically, when I got back to Jersey, I stopped worrying so much about how much weight I was doing. And I would just keep the negative, but I was just fucking squeezed. Squeeze, squeeze, squeeze, squeeze. Yeah. And that's why, like, my back is so detailed to the core. Yeah. And then you see Derek, who's in shape. He's conditioned. Not as much detail as mine. I like that. Yeah. And I think that does result into squeezing the muscle. Yeah. Just think about what you're doing on stage. You're not focused on negatives. No. You're squeezing. You're squeezing, yeah. Exactly. Yeah. So, Andrew, why wouldn't you want to squeeze? Yeah. You know what I mean? It makes a good point. You know what people talk to me about? I'm like, how does this not make sense? I don't get it either. You know what I mean? That's right. When you hit a fucking back lat spread and go like, or a pull down. And you go, what motion? You're basically getting to a back double. What is it? Or when you're doing a cable flyer. You see me going under like this. Yeah. Imitating your most muscular. This is what I always tell people to have to. Exactly. You're imitating a pose. Sweet. Isn't it getting mad? He's passionate. Seems like he's getting upset. Why the fuck wouldn't you want to do that? He's getting mad. Someone needs to throw another plate on the bar right now because he's in VR. Take advantage of this adrenaline dump. Yeah. He did throw a little shade at Derek there. Yeah, a little bit. A little shade. A little shade. Think there's something personal there? No love lost. Just good competition. I like it. Yeah. Let's go down that rabbit hole real quick. The best thing Nick's got on. What does it look like in 15 weeks? Does he have a chance to beat Derek? Oh, absolutely. I think so too. I mean, look, I've said it on other podcasts. I've said it on our podcast. I had Nick winning the morning and the night show at Pittsburgh. I think the world, the audience probably had him winning. The only people that had Derek winning, I believe, were the judges and Chris Aceto. Yeah, I was going to say a Derek's trainer. Yeah. I mean, I know both of them. You know, it's not like I have a dog in the race. I just go on, you know, and I wasn't there in the first row or anything. I was watching on live screen like everyone else. But to me, it was clear cut, you know. But I'll say this about the squeezing. I think there is something to squeezing a muscle. You can, like you have to learn how to contract it. And I found, like, with my hamstrings, squeezing my hamstrings at the bottom of a seated hamstring curl, it helped me out a ton with, like, learning how to contract that muscle. I don't feel like I always needed to continue doing that in order to get a good contraction. And my only fear is for the newer guys, if they spend so much time squeezing and they haven't learned how to develop their strength yet, then they're stuck squeezing one plate. You know what I mean? Yeah, yeah, yeah. No. I think what the squeezing actually does, if anything, is just makes you better at flexing the muscle all at once. Like, you know, that neuromuscular connection so everything's firing. It's like how they have studies where if someone flexes their bicep, you know, 100 times a day, it actually can grow up. Right? Right. So you're just, I mean, technically, you're just practicing, you know, maybe all the fibers just fire a little bit better because of it. Maybe it's not a growth thing. It's a neuromuscular thing. Yeah. That over time, you might get a bit of a crisper look just because everything's firing together. I don't know. You know, again, we would need a study on this. We need Scott Stevenson. Do not have. Let me throw in this example, though. Yeah. He makes a good point with the back double by and biceps and hamstrings, arguably. Yeah. But he didn't get those quads from doing leg extensions. No. I mean, I'm just saying, you know. Yeah. Honestly, I think Nick could pick one exercise, whether it's walking lunch, leg press, leg extensions, and his legs would still be 90% of what they are. No, I don't disagree with that. He has such a good neuromuscular mind-muscle connection that he can make any exercise work for him. All I'm saying is with the quad exercises, you know, whether it be a hack squat or a pendulum or whatever. Sure. You're not getting that. That isn't a peak contraction, for lack of a better term. None of those exercises are peak contraction outside of the leg extension. I mean, you can get more of a contraction out of a, you know, dumbbell press than you're going to get out of a, say, out of your quads during a squat. Right. Yeah. You know what I mean? So, you guys see. I just use that as an example. I'm not saying he's wrong. Yeah. I'm just countering. Because it could be said, if I had to play devil's advocate, that he sees more detail later in prep because he's getting leaner. Well, that's the variable, right? Yeah, there's that. Control for it. So, we have correlation or causation. So, you guys see him going all the way up with this. He does that in all of his videos. Does he? My doubt is like that one muscle that really doesn't get sore. All the way up. You know what I mean? Yeah. The pump is insane. I saw Frank. I've seen. It was Franco Colombo. He used to do laterals. I don't even appear. Don't they really? Oh, my God. You know, you're getting it. My shoulder. You get your traps involved a little bit. Yeah, they really fire your upper traps. Yeah. But it's like, who doesn't need more traps other than there was a guy who used to compete. Everyone used to think he put Synthol. Yes. Yeah. And the big thing was that he put Synthol in those traps, which I don't know. I know a guy in Canada who did. Yeah. Yeah. I knew one guy who didn't. I knew one guy. It's like he. And he wasn't even a competitor. But he was a big jack juiced dude. And, you know, like shoulders were okay. Chest was okay. Legs were like, you know, modest. But in his arms are okay. Chest is okay. But it was traps. Like he hardly had. He hardly had. Like not. There was no straight line from the delt to the neck. You know what I mean? Yeah. Kind of like remember back in the day in the 90s and whatnot. All the football players, middle linebackers all wore the neck rolls. Yeah. Yeah. Some guys like that have traps. It just looks like, man, you got a neck roll on today? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Ron kind of has the thick neck thing. He still has it going on. Your neck is never going to. I had a huge neck. I had huge traps. That was like one thing people would always say to me when I was big is they'd meet me and they'd go, your neck is huge. People would say that to my face all the time. You still have a big neck. Yeah. I don't train traps anymore or anything, right? I barely do, you know, half the old back exercises. But yeah, I remember having huge traps and I remember having them early, like doing five plate shrugs in grade 12 and like every and wearing the open Gators shirt and people like, you know, when I was like 17, 18, were like, your neck is huge. Yeah. Yeah. It was a good time. Good time. Farmers neck. Now, were you from the generation where you guys wore the cutoff jeans too or? No, I didn't really do cutoff jeans, but they were all around me. Yeah. Yeah. Where did you graduate from high school, Ron? 93. Oh, okay. Yeah. Good music. Great music in the 90s. You know the cool thing about Nick? Those look good. He wears, if you look at his neck, he's got the necklace on. He's got all three of his New York pro rings around the chain. Is that what that was? I was wondering. I was like, I see something hanging from that. Yeah. Yeah. That's awesome. Yeah. Yeah. If I put that necklace on with those rings, those rings would be down around my balls. Yeah. That's 55. It's like a, what? Was that like A-50 inch chain? Yeah. And my balls were like by my knees. So there's that. He's got like a 22 inch, 22 inch neck for sure. You don't have any balls left, Skip. You know all the gear over the years? They're gone. Yeah. They're Rice Krispies. Yeah. I got to be really careful with them. That machine looks cool. Is that one of those new techs? It might be. Or Max Pump. Yeah. I like, I like a converging chest press as a secondary chest movement. What does that say? Oh, it's an M torture. Yeah. So it's a new tech. New tech M torture. Yeah. I've never used that before. I don't think I've ever used it either. New tech stuff. I like some of the new tech stuff. Some of it's like, you know, a little bit bigger than I would need. Like giant platform on a back row and stuff. But it moves well and it's made well. Yeah. You know what I mean? Do you guys have any new tech stuff at your gym round? No, not yet. There's a couple pieces that I really like that I've tried that are a little simpler, more up my alley because I'm a picky guy. Refined taste. Refined. Yeah. I love a good converging chest press for a secondary chest movement. Oh, yeah. Someone writes, I also think that Nick has grown fast and this good mentality is also by the misses. Oh, maybe misses. Like missing the O or something that he had last few years. And people don't usually remember that he is probably the youngest of the top five. What's the name of the coach they call him? The CEO? Captain? What? They call him Captain. The CEO of New Tech? Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Captain makes good stuff. He's smart. I think his move back home has been pretty influential in his transition out of the crap that he was dealing with. Oh, I know. You know, the injury and everything else. They're the injuries that he had. When he moved back home, his head, in my opinion, his head is in a much better, much better spot. He also has a coach that's on the ball now. True. You know what I'm saying? That, like, Kyle is a coach. He's not a coach slash business owner doing, you know, five different things. And that's not a shot at anyone in particular. But, you know, Kyle's all in on him. Yeah, he's certainly invested. No question. I think I was pointing that out more that it's his family is not only is his family really invested and supportive. Yeah. But he, it's a good fit for him. Like, it works well. It's not something that he kind of rolls his eyes at and is like, God, you know, that type of thing. He appreciates it, and I think it's beneficial to him. You know, when I look at him, and, of course, you can't tell how healthy somebody is just by looking at him, but he looks fresh. You know what I mean? He doesn't look to me like, oh, man, he's been at it for a while this season. He's been pushing hard. And he doesn't look like he needs a break anytime soon. He looks fresh. Yeah, he doesn't look rosy. He doesn't look like red skinned. And he's very, very fair complected. So sometimes you see very fair complected people, and they just don't look the right color. Me, I just hide it with a tan. If I don't have a tan, I look great. Yeah. It pretty much looks like a remorse. They don't look the right color. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. They just don't look the right color sometimes, I tell you. It's in-depth coaching tips right there. That's right. Yeah, yeah. For free, too. I didn't even charge anybody for that. I just, I think the most impressive thing of this whole video that we've been watching now is just how he looks in that T-shirt. Oh, I know, right? Like, that's the video. That should be Nick in his T-shirt training. That should be the name of the video. That's probably a 5XL shirt. Yeah, I'm guessing at least four. Probably four, at least. You know what? I'm a Texan. Let me throw something at... Yeah, no question. It's massive. Do the wolves make a five? Let me throw something at you guys, though. If you're a viewer right now, and you're only in the game for a few years, and your thing is, man, I just want to get huge, this would be a takeaway for me. I would look and I'd be like, he's not dying between each set. He's not pouring down sweat. He's not huffing. This is a big man. He's not huffing and puffing. He can speak without, you know, like he's going to pass out. Right. I mean, there's something to be said here. You know, we preach about intensity. And we treat, you know, about training your ass off and everything. And yet, there's also the recovery component. Part of the reason I think that he progresses so well is he is 99% of the time very, very optimally recovering. So, there's a balance. There's a balance between training your ass off and making sure that your recovery is optimized as well. Because, and I tell my clients this all the time, you can always do more work. You can always train harder. Yeah. Right. But you may not recover from that. So, you need to do what you can recover from, not what you're able, like, oh, I could do more sets. I have so much more energy. It's not about what you can do. It's about what you can recover from. Yeah. So, you know, there's a little bit of a takeaway, I think, there that there has to be a little bit of, a little bit of balance. And that's kind of what I mean, too, by like, that he just has a healthy, fresh thing going on here. Yeah, I agree with you 100%, man. But, yeah, I think it's one of the things, you know, this generation, and I can say this because I'm, you know, old, this generation gets their balls busted for, you know, not training hard. And, but you know what? They arguably recover far better than my generation does. Oh, we were terrible. Oh, still are. I know I am. I catch myself. I'm like, what the fuck am I doing? What am I doing? Yeah. It just sometimes doesn't make, now, I think, too. That this has to be factored in. The longer you train and the harder you train, you almost reset your, your tolerance for pain and intensity, not pain, discomfort and intensity and what you can tolerate. So, arguably, the longer and the more years that you train, the more that you can tolerate in your, your normal changes. So, it makes it more difficult to pull back. Yeah. Than if you were just starting out. I think it's a psychological, you know, psychological thing. I mean, you know, it was driven into our brains in, you know, in my generation anyway. You just train, you know, you train to puke. You train your ass off. You train. Yeah. Right. Right. Yeah. I mean, you just do, you know, we do crazy shit. And then it drops out. You don't see a lot of crazy shit. Keone is a good example. That's not exactly. I'm not trying to take it where I'm going. I think the guy has arguably the best physique in bodybuilding. Oh, 100%. I mean, he's just a bona fide badass. He looks crazier and crazier every picture. Oh, my God. And the waist never changes. He just grows everywhere. I'm like, what the hell? Yeah. But he doesn't train. I don't think he would be labeled as, oh, my God, this guy trains so intensely. He doesn't train like a pussy. And it clearly is effective. So there's another takeaway. He is recovering very optimally. I had a discussion with my boy the other day. I might not. I might just stay here. That's a good point. And tell everybody, I'm taking care of y'all. Y'all with me. And she's like. I've got to go that far. No, man. It's nice. At the same time, I'm like. I don't want to pay for two places. Yeah. I have the luxury of being at home and then having my place in Vegas. He's still got his place down here in Fort St. Lucie, too. About 30 minutes from me. You can't take that clip off of there and lose it, Ron. You like that? What's that? Oh, yeah, yeah. You don't need to supply the gym with a bunch of carabiners. And that one walks off. Do you see that in your gym, Ron? Like, stuff just goes missing? Like a handle? Or like carabiners? People just randomly take them? Carabiners and pins. Yeah. Pins. Constantly. And it's like I'll walk by a cable stack and there's no pin in it. And I'll look around. I'm like, where did this pin go? Yeah. And I'll look around and I'll see it like laying on the floor over by another machine. I'm like, did someone use this pin to like pin a plate? Yeah. But it's like a machine that doesn't even make sense to do that on. So I just wonder. And then sometimes the pins are just gone. Like they're just gone. Yeah. You know, I bought boxes and boxes of pins. You guys would like West Coast. Andrew, Skip, you guys would like it out there. It's a good gym. I'm sure. What is West Coast? Ron's gym? Yeah. Yeah. West Coast Iron. I didn't know that was the name of it. Sorry about that. Yeah. Yeah. West Coast Iron. Because I'm thinking, I thought you're talking about Nick. And I'm like, he ain't on the West Coast. What are you talking about? No, no. Where is that, Vancouver? Yeah, it's in Port Coquitlam, which is just outside of Vancouver. So, yeah. Yeah, you bet. Got the garage doors open all summer. Big bay doors. Nice. Warehouse gym. It's cool. How far away is that from where the Vancouver Pro is? Like, this year, they moved the Vancouver Pro, so it's closer now. Oh, okay. It's actually back in Burnaby now. So, it's like less than 15 minutes away. Oh, wow. Really? Okay. Yeah. For what it's worth, that machine is sick. Yeah, that's the new tech. It's supposed to be really good. Yeah. Yeah, it looks like it really isolates that tricep here. Yeah. It's just such a boss, like, shot. Triceps fucking bulging out. Yeah. Makes his head... And he doesn't have a small head, so, like, it makes his head look small. I'm thinking the same thing. They're bigger than his fucking head. Yeah, that's wild. His arms are fucking huge. I could have spent the last 41 years doing something a little more productive than I was actually good at. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I think this is the last exercise he does here. This is a good video. I'm glad we watched it. I remember I went through a phase where I was obsessed with being strong with a dumbbell like that. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Yeah. And I would drop the dumbbell behind my head so that I couldn't see it. Like, I would get it real deep, power it up. Yeah. You guys ever see... I've talked about this before. The video of David Henry doing, like, the 120-pound dumbbells, single arm behind the head. Oh, no way. Single arm? Dude. It was 120 or 140. I watched that with Scott one time. Yeah, because Scott can verify, because he was in the video with him. Oh, wow. Yeah, he sure was. It is wild. He said he would do that all the time, too. You know? Yeah. It wasn't just a party trick. Dave Henry was a strong dude. The kids today will be like, oh, fake weights, fake weights, you know? All right. Yeah. That was it. It's a good video. Push day. Nick, you're the man. Yeah. Yeah. Impressive. Impressive as... That's why some of us are on that stage and some of us coach. Yeah. Exactly. Yeah. That's a fucking lot of tissue. You know, we get so used to seeing them on stage and stuff. So when you see a good training video... Yeah. ...where you can kind of get like, you know, like... You know, he's in a real jam and, you know, just the way the shirt was on it, you're like, oh, God. Huge. You know? You're born to do it. Somebody else who didn't train terribly hard, but maximized his recovery optimally all the time. Phil Heath. Yeah. The time he ever made a noise was when there was a camera on. I think there's a theme here, though. Yeah. Well, sure. I mean, don't get me wrong. They got like... If Down syndrome's an extra chromosome, I don't know what gene these guys have, but there's an extra chromosome going on somewhere that... Yeah. But I guess what I'm saying is this. What about the guys... Because I think about myself doing this. If I were to just chill out, maybe not at 55, but the point is, at some point, and pull back a little bit and focus more on optimally recovering versus the mentality of just, you know, driving every set into the ground, I do wonder, looking back, what would the difference have been? Now, it may not have been dramatic. It may not have been, but I bet there'd have been a difference. I mean, that's just me looking back. And I have to wonder, because I never do. I never have. I've never... God, I don't know, man. Not training to failure or damn near to failure. That just is not something that I have ever been motivated to do. I've got an exclusive here. The shirt size that Nick was wearing was a 2XL. You're kidding. Just kidding. It was a four. I was going to say. There you go. Yeah. Hey, you know, one thing I'll throw out there is Dusty has said that if he could train like that to have gotten the size he did, he would have too. But it took him doing what he did to gain the muscle that he gained, because he had to train differently to keep up with guys that had better genetics. You know, he's talking about that a bunch. So, you know, there's that side of it as well. So he did give that a shot as far as focusing more on the recovery and pulling back on the intensity? I don't know. Or did he just accept that he had to train that hard and that was his mentality and he never pulled back? I'm just saying. I just throw that out there. The mystery. Yeah. The mystery. You'll wonder. You'll wonder. Well, we've got a bunch of stuff here, guys. I wonder. I wonder. I wonder. Oh, sorry. Go ahead. We've got a critique, too. So I wanted to get you guys in on that. This is from one of our Patreon guys, Scott. And he says he's, what is he, five and six and a half weeks out. He's competing at North Americans in Classic. He said it's his second and third show ever, second year competing. He's 5'9", 201 currently. And he's coached by Dom Cousa and trained by Dr. Danny Lamartina. Lamartina. Lamartina. Thank you. Lamartina, yeah. Elite FTS. She's a bonafide badass. You know her. Oh, okay. Now I do. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It just took me a minute to connect the dots there. All right. Share screen. I'm going to go over the window. Here we go. This is the one. All right. So we'll start here. And I'll just run through the pictures. I saw this guy this weekend, I feel like. Did he just compete? I don't think so. He said five and six and a half weeks right now. Oh. I feel like he came up and said hi to me at the universe. Okay. What's his name? His name is Scott. What class is he in again? He's going to be in Classic. He's competing at North Americans. He's 5'9". He's competed once. This next show is going to be a week and a half out in five weeks. A week and a half away from North Americans. So he's going to do the qualifier. And then he's going into that show. So he's got five weeks to his show. Yeah. I mean, he's in great shape. Yeah. I mean, the glutes are grainy. And like, I mean, he's an awesome position to be in. Yeah, he looks good. He'll just get more and more shredded. He looks great. Judging by the condition. I mean. Only haven't competed once. Yeah, I was thinking the same thing. He doesn't have a history of competition. That's pretty good. Pretty good shape and pretty young skin. Yeah. I'm jealous. Yeah. Yeah. Look at the back double. Go to the. Yeah. All right. Like, see the glutes? I mean, the glutes are right there, you know? Oh, yeah. I don't see any balance, like flaws or weaknesses. No, like he's pretty. Do you guys? It's pretty. It's just like an overall size thing. The shape is great. The structure is great. How tall is he? 5'9". 5'9". Okay. So that's class. Is that top of B or C? Bottom of C? C-ish. You'll have room to grow, you know? But what did I say his weight was? 201. Yeah. Yeah. Go back to that front double if you would. Sure. If I can give some constructive criticism, definitely got to work on pulling those abs in in classic. Okay. I mean, everybody on there, like just coming from a national show this weekend, everybody's abs are sucked in. Their vacuums are locked in. So they're all doing vacuums is what you're saying? Not even if you're not doing a vacuum. Like, I would say this, the way his midsection is right here, you can get away with that in bodybuilding for sure. But in classic, everyone's waist is like this now, you know? Yeah. So just pull it in. Pull it in. Work that transverse abdominal. You want to see the ridge. Yeah. A little bit more of the ridge. Yeah. And I also, I would even shift this front shot up a little bit and add a little bit more of a hip shift to it. Because that'll help make his waist look a little bit smaller. Especially if he angles at like, if he points his waist at like 1 o'clock or even, you know, 2 o'clock. You know what I'm saying? Yeah. Just slightly. Just slightly. Yeah. Offset. Like those hips are just kind of, I always think of where are my hip bones facing. You know what I mean? It's going to balance out his back too in the front double bicep. Because right now, without that twist, the left side looks a little pulled in versus the right side. And I'm saying his left side. So our right side. Mm-hmm. Looking at it. Yeah. Solid pezito. I mean, what did we say? Five weeks? Yep. Yeah. Five to six weeks. You, sir, will be in shape. Is there anything you guys would suggest after this season that he needs to, in particular, work on? Anything that you see that needs to come up? I mean, I do feel, I agree. I feel like he's pretty balanced. Back is thick, you know, for the density he has currently. His legs look balanced front to back. You know, I don't see anything, for me at least, that really stands out. Like, I don't know. I would say lats from the front. Yeah. Yeah. Lats from the front. And then arms. Yeah. All right. Take it. You know, growing all around. You know, just growing all around. Yeah. And he should have some room to grow in that class if he's five to six weeks out at 201. Not a lot, but there should be room there. Yeah. I would tell him to have a lot of fun in the gym and put on 10 to 15 pounds of muscle, and that's pretty much where all his improvements will come from. Yeah. Yeah. Just keep doing it. Generally, yeah. Nothing right. Classic cutoff at 5'9 is 194. Oh. And what did he say his weight was? He's 201 right now. Oh, I forgot it was classic. But not a lot of room. Yeah. Yeah, but, I mean, he's got a good, let's say he's got eight to nine pounds to lose. Yeah. I mean, that still puts him under the cutoff, and then he's still going to have five or six more pounds of muscle to put on, you know, when you can still make your cap weight, if you get what I'm saying. Yeah. Yeah. And the cool thing is, like, some of these shows, like North Americans, you can go and weigh in on, like, Wednesday morning and compete on Saturday. Two and a half days out. Yeah. Like, that is key. And, you know, when you're picking your national shows, if you're a classic guy, you've got to pay attention to that kind of stuff, you know? Oh, yeah. I mean, I had a guy who did the Oklahoma Pro, and he was 20 pounds over his limit 12 days out from the show. Right. I mean, but he was in shape. So, it's like, you know, we're going to be doing some two to three ounce protein meals for the next couple weeks and not a lot of carbs, you know? Is that what you had to do, is just pull the food way down on him? Oh, dude, he was eating less than a lot of my bikini girls. I mean, he was 700, 800 calories for a couple days straight, for a couple weeks straight, rather. Yeah. And then my whole thing is, like, I don't ever, I try not to ever use diuretics to make weight, and we successfully did that. Me too. Yeah, I just don't, I don't like to start diuretics early. I don't know how these guys used to do it back in the day, but starting diuretics six days out, four days out. It's a miracle any of us lived. Yeah, exactly. I mean, he told me what he had done before, where he was, you know, aldactone Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, and then doubling the aldactone Thursday, Friday, and then adding the diazide in Thursday and Friday just to make weight for a Friday cutoff. I'm like, yeah, throw that plan out. We ain't doing that, dude. I'm like, I'm not, I'm not going to mess with your health, you know? Yeah. And yeah, we were able to make weight by 0.1 pounds. That's close. And then, yeah, it was, oh yeah. But I mean, I tell you what, I, I, I'm not saying like I'm a genius at this, but like, I, if you're a coach, you got to pay attention to your athletes and what their weight's doing throughout the day with what you're feeding them. Oh yeah. And I, I mean, we were checking in like every 45 minutes and I was with them at the hotel. So I was able to watch his food and watch, well, lack of food, I should say, and just watch his weight all throughout the day and just, okay, now we're going to drop your water. And then now I need you to go and do, you know, a couple of flights of stairs and all right, go, go away. And you're going to be like 0.1 under and sure enough, he was right there. So. Yeah. Yeah. Balance between getting on the scale and also not looking like complete crap, you know, in the process too. Yeah. Yeah. Um, all right. We've got a bunch of listener questions too. I'll just start running through them. Ooh, we have an overrated underrated. It was supposed to be for, it's just bodybuilding. But since we've got Ron here, we'll, we'll bring it here. Okay. Let's do it. We'll poach some questions here from our show. Okay. Yes. All right. Overrated or underrated. And, uh, let me tell you guys, skip it, Andrew. It's not necessarily what you think about it, but it's also like the way society currently looks at it. So, you know, I, I think you heard one, uh, from, uh, uh, dusty the other week. Yeah, we did it with dusty. That's right. All right. He questioned us with like five things. All right. All right. So we've got overrated or underrated the reverse hack squat and you can't say accurately rated. I would, no, you would go backwards in a hack squat machine. Oh, excuse me. Reverse hyper. That would make a little more sense. That'd make a little more sense. Yeah. Yeah. Um, uh, want me to take it? Damn. That's a tough one to say. Um, cause it's not my opinion. I, I would say, I would say they're underrated generally by people. I think more people would benefit from them if more people did them. How's that? There you go. Underrated technically. I would agree because from an injury prevention standpoint, it's a great exercise to incorporate, you know? Um, and there's a lot of different functions for it. Like we have a lot of bikini and wellness athletes that just do one leg at a time and just, you know, swing it up and just like slower rather not the whole, uh, West side barbell method. Like an extension. Yeah. Like an extension to really hold that contraction. There's very little weight on the bar, but, um, yeah, no, I think it's a, I think it's a good machine, a good, good, good piece of equipment. Yeah. Plus the decompression stuff. It's the only thing that loads the spinal erectors while actually decompressing the spine, which is like an anomaly. So yeah. Yeah. It's interesting. Interesting. You know, what do you think? I'm ready. I'm yeah. I'm with you guys. Okay. Yeah. I'll plus like, I'll join you. They put, they put every good athlete on them now. Like, you know what I mean? Like all the explosive athletes are doing them and stuff. So it's just, yeah. Yeah. I feel like anyone though, that's like under 27 would probably be like, what exercise are you guys talking about? You know what I mean? Yeah. Well then it's definitely underrated in that case. We have a reverse hyper at our gym and it gets used, but most of the time it just holds people's belts and knee reps. You drink cups and all your shakers and stuff. Yeah. All right. Meal prep like a pro. I want one tip or trick from each of you guys on food prep on a tight schedule. Wow. Just timing of everything. You set up a pot of rice, you preheat the oven, you throw your chicken breasts on a tray, slam them in the oven, 20 minutes. By the time your rice is done, your chicken's done, it's all done at the same time. I don't know. That's how I used to do things. Just do it all together at once. Yeah. I'd go crock pot, but. Crock pot's easy. Put it in before bed, wake up the next morning, it's all ready. I mean, I don't know if there's any less prep time than a giant crock pot. Yeah. Yeah. Would you put like a bag of potatoes and a bunch of sirloin in there or what? Yeah. I used to do a crock pot for the kids. Every morning I'd get up and I would do their dinner for them. And they used to bitch about it all the time. It would be good stuff too. Yeah. And they'd bitch about it. But now that they're older, they're like, oh, I remember. I did like some of those. That's all we ever had. I'm like, just because you cook it in a crock pot doesn't mean that it's the same meal. Give me a break. Right. Right. Right. I'm going to say, all right. So for people to work a busy schedule and they're out of the house early in the morning, as soon as you get home, wash your Tupperwares and then make your meals for the next day. Like right when you're cleaning the old Tupperware out, put them right in the fridge. So all you got to do is grab them and go to the next day. Make sure that you wash your Tupperwares after you wash your underwears too. Had to get that in there. Taking a cheap shot at Andrew. Oh yeah. I just jump in the pool with my clothes on and then I let them dry. Perfect. You know, two for one. Yeah. I got one. I got one. And this is a tip that I'm going to tell nobody to do. But I had done this before. So you need to get a quick meal in and you're already at the grocery store because you work for 7up. So you head over to the dairy department and you get one of those two cup things of egg whites. And you just, well, first you pay for it. You also buy two bagels. You chug that back real quick. And then you start eating the bagels. Head over to the bathroom. Take 10 IU of Humalinar and then get on with your work day. You're good to go. It's like 90 grams of carbs, maybe 100 grams of carbs and 50 grams of protein. Boom. I might add like a juice. A little juice just to cover it. Make sure you cover that. I might add like a five. I'll also add, make sure you know where the next bathroom is about 25 to 30 minutes later. I would go with good culture cottage cheese top over egg whites. But that's just me. How about, do you guys ever do Oikos Pro 25? It's got the 25 grams of protein. It's got some whey in it. 25 grams of protein, like I think four or five grams of carbs and two grams of fat per serving for 170 grams. I don't, but I have clients that do. And for what it's worth, the macro profile. Of cottage cheese, low fat cottage cheese is almost identical to Greek yogurt. Oh yeah. Yeah. Did you guys ever, I remember my first prep, I had chicken, like six of my meals, five of my meals were like exactly the same. Chicken breast, sweet potato and cottage cheese with whatever broccoli or some veggie. Yeah, that's a good thing. And I would always, yeah, but I was always put my cottage cheese on the chicken and it actually like tasted amazing. A little bit of salt and a little bit of seasoning. It all just came, it came together so good. And then you have a little bite of the sweet potato, which with the sweet potatoes, I would cut them up and I'd put them in the, in the oven, but I'd put a Splenda and cinnamon on them. And to me, I'm like, this is like a dessert. It's almost like pumpkin pie or something. Did you cook them until they were just starting to get crunchy? Just like, like, like I didn't cross over to crunch because it still had a nice, uh, like I said, pumpkin pie kind of, uh, almost texture to it. Yep. I've been using. I'm a big cottage cheese fan. I love me some cottage cheese. Yeah. Especially with now with good culture because it's got the probiotics in it. Huh. It's great. And they make a lactose free, lactose free version. Okay. That's to slow my mouth down sometimes. I've been using hash brown potatoes. They have just chopped up. They're like little, they call them like Southern style potatoes. So they're just chopped up in little tiny cubes. And what I end up doing is as I'm making the dog's food in the morning, I have to get these going first. But, uh, I dumped those out into a, uh, a bowl, microwave them for two minutes. That way they're all kind of pre-cooked. Then I throw them in the air fryer, kind of spread it out, salt, pepper, and then a tiny spray of, of the olive oil cooking spray just to kind of get them to crisp up, you know, and then finish. Just throw that in there, finish the dog food, get my eggs going. Eggs are cooking. And five, seven minutes later, pull those potatoes out and freaking dump them in there. Key is, is the eggs still have to be cooking. So they all kind of, you know, gel together. You don't have to take a bite and, you know, potatoes are falling. Oh, and you make like a, like a, like an omelet fry type of thing. Yes. Yeah. That's great. It's good. It's real good. I was telling a story to someone the other day about when I was going from my sophomore to junior year in high school. You guys familiar with the Costco, Costco chicken breast, the frozen ones. Oh yeah. Oh yeah. Like, you know, the big, big fat. Okay. So I, I knew nothing about foodborne illness back then, but I would take them out of the freezer. What a way to start. No, dude. Honestly, I don't know how I'm not dead. I knew nothing about disfiguring penis injuries. Yeah. Let me tell you. Like, honestly, I should have salmonella poisoning and be, but I would do this three times a day. I would, well, my breakfast was like eggs and oatmeal, whatever. The next three meals, I'd pull two chicken breasts out. I'd throw them in the microwave for like six minutes. All right. Now they would come out still like pink and frozen on the inside. And I would just take a bucket of rice and throw it on there. And I would eat those three times a day, cover with barbecue sauce. I gained like 26 quality pounds that summer. And I do not know how I did not die. Like looking back on it now, I'm so paranoid about foodborne illness. But Jesus. This should have been like the food prep tips we don't recommend. I've got the right way to do that, you know? Yeah. I got one more. I don't eat regular rice. I eat Seeds of Change brand that has the flavored rice in the pouches. Okay. Cilantro, lime, and you know what I'm talking about? Yeah, yeah. I know. Yeah. I buy like the Uncle Ben's ones so that I'm in an emergency. Oh, shit. I didn't cook rice. I've got like some packets, you know? There's some nasty shit in that Uncle Ben's though. I'm just telling you. Quick story on the egg whites though, Scott. I had a bikini client. We were at Universe actually last year or two years ago. Yeah. And I go into her room and I'm like, where's your breakfast? Like I want to look at you and then I need you to eat. Yeah. And she's like, and I had her doing, it was two days before the show. And she had egg whites and I don't know, something else on her plan. And I'm like, how are you cooking your eggs? Like where's your skillet? You know? And she's like, oh no, I've just been drinking them. And I'm like, no, no. Remember I specifically told you not to do that. And she had a major distention issue all through prep. And I was trying to figure it out. And I know I covered it with her. And she was eating that shit. She was drinking her egg whites literally peak week going into the show. And I'm like, you got to be kidding me. You got to be kidding me. I did okay with it at one point. Because like I said, it was quick protein. And at the time, it's when I was pushing as much food as I could. So it would be like solid food meal. And then an hour later, a shake with maltodextrin. Solid food meal. Hour later, a shake. So I was doing anything I could. And for one of my meals, I was drinking the two cups of egg whites and then like 100 grams of carbs. So I was like, you know what? Maybe I'll do one later in the afternoon. And that's where things went south. Like I figured out. Like I reached my point that it was too many egg whites. And then I stopped it all together. The body has a max limit of orange roughy too. Yeah. I might add. Yeah. No. Yeah. I remember Jay covering that. It just starts leaking out. You're like, oh, what was that? Oh, that's not good. It's funny. I think I tolerated egg whites better than anyone I've ever known. Yeah. I just never had any problems with them. Just drinking them or eating them? Oh, I drank a million of them. Ate a million of them. Drank a million of them. I just never really noticed anything. Two cups. That was my limit. I could do two cups. Anything beyond that. Oh, really? Like in a day, you mean? Yeah. Yeah. Two cups a day. Yeah. Oh, well, that's quite a bit. So yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You know. I don't know how many times I drank, you know, a liter and a half every single day. That's a lot. I'll still use a little bit to mix my protein at night. And I make like a pudding out of it, you know, with like a teaspoon of peanut butter. Right, right, right. The egg whites kind of changes the consistency a little bit. It's not even protein I'm counting, you know? Oh, yeah. Well, they're great and ninja creamy too. Oh, dude. I put like some egg whites in the ninja creamy and then when it whips up, it's just like it's like, like it's just, yeah. If I ever used a ninja creamy, I would never admit that I used a ninja creamy. I fully admit that I use a ninja creamy every single day. We don't use ours enough. It's my favorite meal of the day. Oh, really? Okay. There you go. See, we have one. We went through a little phase when we got it. Yeah. And then we just kind of got lazy and we quit making them. Yeah. Well, I've got an assistant that makes mine for me. So. I don't know. I don't have mine programmed. I'll have to get mine programmed. Is it like literally her one responsibility? No, no, no. It's just a thing we never really got designated. It's kind of a make your own situation. All right. How about this one? Oh, see. So Gamboni Law has been asking this question a couple of times and we haven't gotten to him yet. But he says, great show is always do any of you see. Benefits of using bands for biceps and side delts. They are problem areas for me and I'm looking for alternatives. No. No, I wouldn't say it's going to be like a game changer. Yeah. Well, with a side delt too, you know, the problem is this is the hardest part, right? Which makes, you know, and then the easiest parts down here. So anything you would do to band it would just enhance that. It would make the bottom even easier and the top even harder. So, you know, if anything, you'd want to reverse a curve, but banding that in any way would just enhance the curve. Right. You don't bother banding anything on side delts. Yeah. I'm going to go the opposite on that. Because I used to do an exercise where I'd put like one of those Elite FTS orange micro mini bands and anchor it to something on the floor. And then I would do a single arm side lateral kind of with a lean and holding onto a dumbbell at the same time to get even more. I did feel like I had more of a peak contraction. You were, yeah, you were trying to overload the peak. I was trying to overload the peak on purpose. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And then I'm going to say I don't really like them for biceps, but I'll tell you what, you take one of those thick Elite FTS orange bands and you anchor it on like a cable station and use it for triceps and do something silly like I'm going to do five sets of 20 reps with like, I don't know, 30 seconds rest between set. And tell me your arm, your tricep doesn't feel like it grew an inch by the time you get done. I love bands for tricep stuff like weird stuff. You can move it all around. Yeah, keep doing that, Ron. Yeah. Keep doing it. You like that? Don't do your face. No, no. A little closer to the chin. Yeah, yeah, yeah. No, no. I'm always careful. It never goes around. What are you guys talking about? I never hit myself in the face. I know how to move. What are you talking about? I like a banded pull apart. And it's not like, oh, man, you're going to grow some crazy rear delts if you do a banded pull apart. But I'll use that as like a warm up or I wouldn't even call it like a pre fatigue, but like a pre activation for rear delts. And just to mess around, I might take that same band you're talking about, Andrew, that like the orange micro band and maybe do like eight of those and then go straight into like a bent over, you know, dumbbell rear raise, something like that. It's a feels good. John's dad was doing a lot of that with you do like a traditional rear delt exercise and then you do another 15 to 20 of the band pull aparts. Yeah. Or sometimes you'd flip it and you do the band pull aparts first and then you'd go and do the other exercise. Great contractions. You leave the gym full of blood because it was always like your last exercise. Right. Yeah. Yeah. And that's where I got it from was from his stuff. Yeah. Okay. So wait a minute here. I need, I think you made a claim there of great contractions and a pump full of blood. Now I need to see some studies. What does a contraction have to do with it? All right. We'll see what else we have here. I'm looking around. I love some of the memes that are still coming out. Well, have you seen the latest trend? And my buddy Phil does this is because there's a lot of like the younger, we'll call them the TikTok generation that they have no muscle. I'll just say that they have no muscle and they're doing these videos breaking down what pro bodybuilders are doing wrong with their training. And like, so someone will take a Nick Walker exercise or Nick Walker, you know, size individual and talk about how he's doing the exercise all wrong. Yeah. And, and this, you know, they pull up research studies and this and that. And meanwhile, you look the dude up and he's like a buck 65 driven wet, no muscle. It's like, if you're going to give advice on fitness stuff, like look kind of like the part, you know? Yeah. Or also like Chris Bumstead looks really good in this rear double bicep pose. But if he were only to turn his foot this way, he'd be able to bring out the, you know? Yeah. Like dude, stay in your own lane, buddy. Yeah. Yeah. All right. What about this one? This is from Patreon. For the coaching podcast with all of these new compounds, like Retta, SLU, MOTC, et cetera, making prep a lot easier for people. What kind of effect do you think that that will have on the overall bodybuilding community in general, the suffering has been tied to bodybuilding for so long. I wonder what the community will think about making prep so much easier to deal with. So I was thinking of something, you know, how we've had the conversation like which drugs in the last 25 years have actually made a difference. Yeah. Right? You know, because we talk so much about the evolution of gear and how people use it differently and everything. And obviously there's some things that have come and gone that have made a bit of a difference. But I actually think that these drugs are going to make a big visual impact in bodybuilding. And it's because it's going to make, to a degree, because I always think of statistics, to a degree it's going to make getting in shape easier, which means more people will be ripped at the local level, at the level one, level two shows. We're going to see better conditioning. We're going to see, that's what I think. I think that's going to make a difference. I think, you know, all this stuff that's come and gone and didn't really make a difference at that level. So the same guy's winning. And like, you know what I mean? But I think this might make a difference. I'll tell you, this is going to make a difference in the master's division. Yes. And it's not going to be good. Well, it has the potential to be good for the guys who can't get in condition. But I will tell you this, I'll never use it again during a prep. I might use it at the beginning, but I won't use it. It has wreaked havoc on me for distention. Yeah. I heard that you said something about it, but I actually didn't know the quote. Yeah, I haven't elaborated on it yet. I really haven't dug into anything with the prep. I'm waiting to be done. And I'll talk about a few things in depth, but that's going to be one of them. It's, to say it's horrible is a gross understatement. You're saying you think retitrutide, for example, or intrusepetide are horrible, specifically for the master's division or just overall in preps? Master's division. And the reason I say that is not as a black and white blanket statement, but because I've had such horrible problems with it. Master's competitors, guys who have been around a long time already battle typically with distention anyway. And this is, it takes it to another level. It's, wow. It's horrible. It's been horrible for me to the point where I've had to, if I had it to do over again, I'd have got rid of it sooner. It took me a minute to figure out, like, what is, how could things change this much in a year? Like, is it, am I just, because if I'm a year older, 55 is different than 54. And then I put it together. I'm like, oh, wait. So then I started, you know, I wanted to be careful because I was halfway through prep. It was starting to get, you know, to the grind phase. I didn't want to just cut it immediately and then be wrong and then be like, you know, starving or something. And I'm not usually someone who starves during a prep anyway. I'll have my points where I'm hungry because I'm depleted. But it's not typically this ravenous, like, oh, I got it. You know, I, I, everything I just need to eat. That's not, that's not a me thing. It hasn't been a me thing for a long time. I guess I'm not tied emotionally to food. I love food. I think that comes with maturity, too, in bodybuilding, you know. I think so, too. And just the experience of it, sure. But, you know, doing it over and over and over for a long time. But I will tell you, the distension just, I just can't, I have pictures. I'll show. That's crazy. Yeah. I just hadn't heard that. Horrible. Horrible. Arguably embarrassing. I mean, it's, it's like, you, you have to be kidding me. You know what came to mind? Lenny. Yeah. I'm like, am I turning into Lenny? Like, what the hell is going on? Oh, geez. Because I had one guy tell me that he's. Yeah. I had one guy tell me that. Not very far south of me, either. Yeah. Both real team. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He told me he started, started it and just ramped it up over a few weeks. And then he had one week where he had a little bit of like, like, gastrointestinal disturbance. Yeah. And then he dropped the dose down. And then he said he just had a super easy prep. And I was just like, huh, interesting. Because like, you know, I missed the window on that one. Yeah. Yeah, you did. So, yeah. Did you try lowering the dose, Skip? Oh, yeah. I mean, I'm down to probably 30% of what I was. And remember, I didn't run a high dose. When I set the initial dose, I just kept it there because it worked so incredibly well until it just didn't. Right. And part of it is, it didn't just cause distension like, oh, I'm distended. What it was was as you get into dieting, or at least as I get into dieting and getting more depleted, then I have those high days are high. And it's a lot of volume of food. Yeah. And especially when it's clean, it's even higher when it's clean because if it's dirty and it's a cheat, you can get a lot of calories in a smaller volume of food, quite frankly. So, it just, it's just out of control. And it's obviously from slowing, you know, slower gastric emptying, but it would linger for two to three days. I mean, I got to the point where I said, I'm literally, I look like a hog for four days or five days, and then I look like a bodybuilder for two. Like, this is just not even, this is not even cool. That's not fun when you're in prep. No, not at all. You want to be looking better every day. Yeah, exactly. At least flatter. You know, like, like, like I should be getting like, yeah, flatter and more, you know, which is another thing. I come back to what you said, Andrew, and I argued with you or I countered. I didn't. I don't know that I argued, but I countered and I said, I don't notice the flatness. Yeah. Flat is like, holy crap. And then very, very difficult. I just literally within the last week have started to fill out. Yeah. I found that for me, loading is a different ballgame. Yeah. I found out real quick that there are foods that used to work really good for me without Retta. And I can't handle that just, and sometimes it's the foods that are real dense, you know, especially like the real sweet stuff. You know, I told you guys that story about I ate like some banana covered caramelized this and that French toast. And I had like a three quarters. I ate two pieces. And that last piece sitting on my plate, I was like, I'm going to power through it. You know, normally wouldn't be a problem. Oh, man. It was the only time in my life that we were getting ready to go to the grocery store after we ate. And I was like, I can't. I got to sit in the car for 10 minutes. Like, yeah, I literally was contemplating, like, I need to make myself puke. I am never doing this again. Yeah. It was bad. It took me about 45 minutes to finally feel okay. But from there forward, it changed the way I loaded. And I'm like, yeah, that's what I was saying. Same here. And then to try to battle the flatness, I ended up figuring out my strategy was more frequent, like frequent meals through the day versus before I was just doing one meal. And that worked good when I didn't need much of a load, you know. Right. My first load was, like, more of, like, a mental break kind of thing. You know what I mean? Where I'm a few more calories, something different, a little bit more than I would have gotten, like a club sandwich. It's like 550 calories and, you know, a cookie. And that's it. And if the load is like that, that's one thing. But I could only see, because I'm not nearly as lean as you are, Skip. You know what I mean? So I came down a good amount of fat, but I still had some fat to go before I'd be even close to bodybuilding lean. So, yeah, I could see it, man. But for me, that was the answer was smaller meals throughout the day. And do you feel like, did you get constipated at all? Because that's another thing, obviously, with the slower gastric emptying. No. So you were good with that. Yeah. Well, I didn't get, I don't get constipated, but I will tell you, I figured out that glutamine is a savior for me because it does help to push food through quicker. Yeah. But, again, compared to bringing, like, if I would have kept the dose the same of the Retta and used glutamine, it wouldn't have had much of an impact at all. But coming back to the sugar, let me tell you, I don't know if you guys saw this or not, but I was raving about this cinnamon roll from Wicked Bread. And it was just, did you see that? And let me tell you something. You've talked about that before. Oh, it was insanely good. But here's the thing. I'm eating it. And I ate, there's three in a tray. Okay. And they are heavy, like dripping with, you know, like oil. And there's, like, butter in the frosting. I mean, it's granulated. Like, it tastes like sand. The frosting, there's so much sugar in it. I get through maybe one of these, maybe one and a half. And I literally can't take another bite. Like, I am, but I'm not full. So I have to change because it's, you know, the cheat meal at the end of the day after the high carb meals, I got to force a big cheat meal, right? Yeah. I go and I eat an Adrian's 14-inch thin pizza, New York pizza, with literally pork sausage on it, truffle oil, all this stuff. So I get the calories. I'm not even, I'm not full after eating the cinnamon roll, but I can't eat another bite. Yeah. Because it literally is making me sick to my stomach from the sugar. It's the most bizarre thing. And I skip-loaded for, you know, I'm not skip-loaded now, but I mean, arguably, it's that same type of mentality. I can eat, and especially when I'm depleted, but not now. Yeah. I'm not ready to run that right, and not the sugar. I can't. Oh, dude, I'm with you. You can do it. You sure it's the sugar, though? What's that? You sure it's the sugar, though? Because what I'm, the food you're describing, because it's, we did an episode yesterday on Unracked, literally just about Retta. Yeah. And Phil Viz, another host, was talking, he asked me and Kyle for our opinion, because he was doing kind of like the meals you're talking about for his refeeds, you know, a Domino's pizza. And what I'm going with is a very high fat content. No, because I could eat the pizza, and I could eat the whole damn thing, and it was, it was awesome. Yeah. And then I stopped because I'm full, not because it's making me sick to my, but I would, when I say finish the cinnamon roll, I'm like, I finish, I eat as much of the cinnamon roll as I could, and then I go to the, immediately just go to the, go to the pizza and finish, eat a whole damn 14 inch thin pizza. And it's loaded, truffle oil, pork sausage, I mean, there's plenty of fat in there. Okay. So, for me, it wasn't the fat. Oh, and I actually crave the, one of the things that I would go to if it wasn't the pizza was, I have ciabatta bread that I literally, you're going to laugh, but, and I crave this. I put butter on it, and then put cashew butter on it. And I'm not kidding when I say I could eat seven or eight pieces of this. Like, I can't eat it fast enough. You've raved about that in previous episodes. Yeah. Yeah, you have. I can't eat it fast enough. Hmm. But it, but not sugar. Like, if I go to put honey on a couple pieces, ooh. You guys go way harder on food than I do. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Way harder. Very passionate. All of my, all of my high carb meals throughout the day, the other five or six, depending, are virtually zero fat. Okay. So, by the time I get to the fat, if you actually, I've looked at the macros, because I'm like, holy crap, there's a lot of fat in it. But if you put all those macros together for the day, I'm able to take advantage of the high carb meals with insulin. And then I come in with very moderate or lower carbs with the high fat, and you put them all together, and it all balances out to a pretty good macro for the day, because I'm putting all that fat in the last meal. But nonetheless, by that time, I am so massively distended that it's, it's just crazy. I just want to offer. Stop doing that. Yeah. I want to offer first, don't do that thing again. I said the same thing. But I was going to say, make your meals a little bit cleaner. That's what I'm saying. I pleaded to not do that. Well, I have days, though, to understand. They're not all like that. No, no. I've only had high carb plus the cheat meal maybe six of those weeks. The rest of it is just the high carb meals. And it's the same damn thing. I am so distended that it's just, it's crazy. And not just then, but for the next couple days. Are you sure you also haven't, in the process of this prep, developed some type of GISU leaky gut or SIBO? I can't be sure. I can't be sure of that. But, because you're right, that has crossed my mind. I even thought of gluten because I noticed it from the bread first. But then I'm like, because I've had problems with gluten before. If I leave it out four or five months and I put it back in, I'd get, like, stomach cramps. But I didn't get that this time. But I did consider that. I'm falling back on. I'm not processing a lot during this prep. I'm going to wait until after. I'm kind of in head down, execute, that sort of thing. That's good. But it definitely, it's a possibility. But what I see is the correlation with a lot of the, I mean, literally the only obvious thing that has changed this year from last year is the Reta. The gear's all the same. The GH is all the same. The insulin is all the same. Everything is almost identical. Almost identical. But it's different. There's a lot to process there. I got one more thing for you guys. We had somebody asking about deadlifts. He's never done deadlifts before. And I wanted to get your opinions. Do you need deadlifts in your workouts? Do you need deadlifts to grow a thick physique? And if so, how would you approach adding them into a program? And I want to hear from each of you guys. And just your own take, too. Like, did you go through a phase? Ron, did you go through a phase with deadlifts? I tried to force deadlifts. I'm not a big deadlift guy. I don't really give a shit. I thought you would be. I honestly thought you would be. No, I went through phases where I was and I tried to be because, you know, we had various reasons why we thought you should deadlift. Sure. Do the hard stuff. Ronnie Coleman. Yeah. So, you know, and, you know, Dorian deadlifted, too. He did, like, a standard set of deadlifts in blood and guts. So deadlifts were in the program. But I wound up loving stiff leg deadlifts, heavy stiff leg deadlifts for hams, glutes. And I also thought they did a lot for your back. And I wound up never really loving deadlifts. I got pretty decently strong at them at a couple points. But I would deadlift on and off throughout the years. And I hurt my lower back a whole bunch of times. So deadlifts were never, like, a core always there for me. But, yeah. I did them. But I don't think you need them. You know? That's where I am. You can do other things. I don't think it's a bodybuilding exercise, quite frankly. Yeah. It has its benefits of strength, anything else. But I think we can all agree. Are you an athlete? Show me someone who has deadlifted for a long time and doesn't have lower back issues, either due to it or exacerbated by deadlifting. It's just other things. The vulnerability there, the risk, the ROI, I don't think it's there. I mean, there's a coolness factor that I appreciate. Sure. And the hardcoreness and all that. Mm-hmm. You know? You know, Johnny O. The coolness factor from being able to squat a lot. So, for me, that was my hardcore exercise that I could flex my, you know, my strength on. Right, right, right. But I echo everything you said, Ron, in terms of try to force them, you know, try to write them into your programming because you want to do the hard stuff. You want to, you know, not take the easy way out. But I don't think, and I echo what Skip says, I don't think it's a great bodybuilding exercise. I rarely write them into people's programs unless they request them. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's how I feel. I'm with you guys. I went through a phase of, I guess I'd put it like Ron did, kind of trying to force them. And it's, there was a phase training with Shelby, and it was later on. You know, we did a lot of metal stuff early on. And then later, he wanted to start working with Jordan Peters. Jordan loves deadlifts, you know. So we worked deadlifts into the plan, and we did them for about a year. And I never, I got okay with them. You know, I never was like a strong deadlifter. I was watching him and Vijay. Believe it or not, Vijay is really strong with deadlifts. And they would go head to head on the weight. And they'd be up at like six plus plates on them doing reps. I, on the other hand, was like lucky to get three plates. My lower back has always been like one rep away from me throwing my lower back out every time I would do a deadlift off the floor. So it never really equaled, like, success for me. But I will say this, that after that one year, like, completely didn't expect this to happen. My traps were the biggest they had ever been, and my biceps were the biggest they had ever been, too. So it grew unintentionally, both of those things. But only one bicep. Yeah. Back was better, but, yeah, traps were definitely, I was like, oh, shit, my traps look much bigger. And biceps were definitely at their best. I think anatomically, you've got to be the right body type to excel at that exercise. You know, if you're a taller guy, it's not going to work for you. But I think that's why they get credit. You've got Johnny O pulling deads, which came first, chicken or the egg? Did the back come first and the structure was there for the limbs and the torso length and everything else that made him a good deadlifter? Though he has great erectors, never pulled a dead in his life. I don't think I've ever seen him do a barbell row. Guys who deadlift and they're good at it, like Johnny O or Jordan Peters. You watch a Jordan Peters video and he's deadlifting? I want to, you know, you see that and I'm like, I want to be a deadlifter, too. And it's just not for me. Yeah, but then you look and you're like, oh, Jordan Peters is, what, five foot six? So it's like, and I'm not knocking him. I'm just saying. No, he just has to pull the bar this far off the floor. That's what I mean. Like, you know, and Ron, you're what, 6'3"? No, no, 6'1", half inch. Okay, but so you probably used to be 6'2", before all the weight crushed your spine. No, 6'1". I was 6'1", yeah. Well, no, because I've lost a good half inch. But, you know, I'd be training with one of my buddies who's a 2'12 pro who's like 5'2". And we'd be doing the hack squats, right? And, like, if you, we took a video of it and we showed, like, no, dude, I literally have to move my glutes. Like, for me to get ass to grass on it, I'm moving two and a half times the distance on this platform than you are to move that. You know what I'm saying? Yeah, yeah. So it's like some people are just anatomically built to excel at certain exercises. Yeah. Yeah. All right, listen, let's wrap this thing up. If I was a midget, I'd do deads. I would do them. All day. Is a midget not politically correct? No, it's not. You're not supposed to say that anymore. Yeah. What is the word now? I think little person is acceptable. You get a pass because you didn't know, but now you know. So it's not dwarf either? What if someone's just little? What do you call them? Yeah, lawn gnome. Short. We're just going to fucking get blacklisted on everything. Guys, we appreciate you tuning in. And, Ron, we appreciate you coming over to hang out with us today, man. Yeah, no, thanks for having me. I contributed exactly what I expected. Which was what? Almost nothing. Making me look tanner. That's all. I wasn't going to say anything. I didn't know if anyone else had noticed. We appreciate having you here, man. And, of course, go over to Mutant. Use Ron's code. Big Ron. Big Ron. You could also use Dusty. He's not with us, but you could use. But let's give Ron the love today. Yeah, that's right, Ron. Yeah. Okay. Thanks, guys. Thanks, guys. Thanks, guys. We're brought to you by truenutrition.com. Thank you guys for supporting the program. Use our code. Think over there. SupplementSource.ca for Canadians. You can actually get Mutant products from SupplementSource.ca. And they have a bunch of stuff, like label change products, short-dated stuff. It's all for really good prices. In fact, I've seen some highly-brained cyclic dextrin for, like, it was like $20, $25 the other day. So definitely check them out if you're in Canada. And, of course, thank you to everybody from Patreon. We appreciate you guys. And for another episode of Blood, Sweat, and Gear. Oh, and go to BodyBerry.com to reach out to Andrew for coaching. Teamskip.com to reach out to Skip. And if they wanted to reach out to you, Ron, what's the best way to get a hold of you for coaching? They could email me if they wanted coaching. They could email me or just hit me on Instagram, Rep300. Rep300. That sounds good, guys. For another episode of the program. We'll see you soon. There you go. All right. Caught me off guard there. All right.