on the American military looking at testosterone supplementation for soldiers from a point of view of elevated levels. Super soldiers. Yes, super soldiers. Yeah. 200 to 250 milligrams per week. Tren. Tren. Lots of Tren. That's the secret. Oh, dude. I wouldn't want to fight soldiers on Tren. Would you? You know what I'm saying? Like if you had your choice, if you had your choice, there's like a bunch of soldiers and they've all got the same guns as all these other soldiers, but the other soldiers are on trend. I don't want to fight the trend soldiers. You know what I'm saying? What's up, guys? Welcome back to the podcast with Dave Crosslin. I'm Scott McN. All of our programming is brought to you by evalbloodanalysis.com. You can get your labs done by Dave if you're in the UK. And hey, listen. If you're on cycle, you should definitely be getting your labs done. So, hit Dave up. We're brought to you by Patreon. Thank you guys for your support over at Patreon. You guys are the freaking best. And you get priority on on all of the questions and everything. Uh we are brought to you by true nutrition.com. Use our code think over there. Supplementource.ca for our Canadians. Great deals that change week to week. And strongports.com. Go to stumportsnutrition if you're in the UK. get some good cycle support over there. Stum US launched either today or yesterday. Oh, okay. Well, check them out in the US, too, guys. You can do that. How about that? Huh? I'm not sure of any links or anything, but I I saw a post from Rick saying that he'd launched in the US. So, well, there you go. There you go. They've always had a great line of of health supplements and great stacks. So, I think this will be really good for, you know, companies like Revive, they need a little competition and uh it's good to see Rick bringing that to them. So, listen, we got a bunch of listener questions, Dave. We uh What's that? No, no, you're just saying they need competition. They need a little competition. You know, competition, man, drives the market. You know what I'm saying? Sometimes. We've uh we got a bunch of listener questions. We've got a main topic today. which is um EQ. Is it going to be the new Primo now that Primo is not available anymore? And uh at least for now. And uh of course, if you guys want to take part in the next show, then comment below. Guys, the show has been doing fantastic and I have to thank all of you for commenting. Even the people who have commented who don't like us and said that we're terrible. We appreciate you guys cuz you're helping us to do our thing, you know. So, thank you. Terrible. No, they're not wrong. No, we're not. They're not wrong. We did have a guy who again who was like, I am I supposed to listen to this guy breathing into his microphone for the next hour? Good. Yes, you are. Yes. Next question. Next question. Oh, and we had uh somebody called you out about your car, too. So, we we got a gearhead. So, we're going to have to talk about that one today. But, let's cover this thing with EQ, man. So, what's the deal is you know, let's first talk about it. You know, everybody kind of ditched AIS, right? Like going back in the history of bodybuilding. When I was younger, everybody used a ton of AIs. They thought it was like completely innocuous, no issue, right? And then they realized, oh man, maybe AIS aren't a good thing. And and there was a big push, especially from TRT people, to not use any AI, if you're running huge super physiological levels of test, you got to have some sort of estrogen control uh to some degree, at least in a lot of cases. Not everybody, not across the board. But now the new thing has become Primo. They're like, "Man, I don't touch AI. Terrible for you." But I'm going to run a gram of Primo. Problem being, man, now Primo supply has been temporarily halted. So, what's up? Yeah. Uh, both Primo and mass seem to be thin on the ground. Um, I think things might be improving, but I don't think it's going to filter down to the grassroots for a while. Yeah. Um, and EQ has shown to have anti-estrogenic effects. What I find, and this is not research based, this is just literally looking at bloods. So, I accept that there is always the caveat that the person may not be using EQ. Um, but what I find is that it's anti-estrogen effect seems to be extremely varied. Hm. Um, the one good thing about EQ from a manufacturer point of view, it's liquid. So, it can't really be replaced from source with anything else. Obviously, a lab can put anything in suspension, right, and fire it out the door. But the supplier end of it, EQ will turn up as a liquid. So, um, if it turns up a powder, you know, it ain't EQ. You're talking about Yeah. the raw materials when you're manufacturing equipoise. It's it starts as a liquid. So, at least there's there's some um assurity there to a small degree that that you know, labs can go, well, yeah, it's liquid. It's most likely going to be EQ. Yeah. Um, but uh, yeah, I I've seen the estrogen response to be incredibly varied, ranging from what would appear to be a slight increase in estrogen, but nothing dramatic, through to nothing at all, down to absolutely destroying estrogen levels. Yeah. Beyond even the stuff that I see from Primo and and everything else, it's when it does work, it seems to be an absolute sledgehammer. Um um I don't seem to have any indication of dose to to effect or or or anything. It just seems to be really wild and really varied. Um whether that's driven to in part by drug quality could very easily be. But beyond that, I have no real idea. Now I know one of its metabolites is an extremely effective AI. H um but it's it's not produced from what I've seen in significant quantities to really be the driving factor here. So, and I know there's been discussion around it possibly lowering E1 and having more of a different effect on the other estrogens, which then somehow has a rollover effect on E2. Yeah. Um, but I'm at a loss as to what is really going on with it and why there's such a variance in people to its effects. Well, listen, man. If so, so let's look at just testosterone. And this is just me kind of, you know, freeballing it for a minute. Not everybody converts the the same amount uh to estrogen, right? So, you put somebody on, you know, 200 milligrams of test, one guy's going to have high estrogen, one guy's going to have low, one guy's going to be in the middle. So and DHT the same, right? So all these conversions are going to be uh independent of each person. I wonder if there is something to that. If there's a metabolite in aqua that does function as an AI, maybe some people are better at converting to that to that than others. You know, it's just how the the range of effect is so dramatically different. Yeah. I mean, of your example, 200 mega test. Yeah, we we can see normal estrogen, we can see slightly low estrogen, and we can see elevated estrogen, but the the scale of range is not super dramatic apart from on a very rare occasion have I seen estrogen super high with somebody at that sort of dosing. Sure. So, so generally the estrogen is quite predictable. Um, you know, it's going to be up. Yeah, it's going to be up, but it's it's only going to be sort of, you know, 20% 30% above upper limit. Yeah. Um whereas the EQ stuff, it seems to range from nothing at all to destroying the estrogen on a grammar test. H and then there's also variability in this. So So I'm the same as you as far as what I've seen. I've seen some people that uh their their estrogen gets leveled in other guys that it seems to not touch them. I think then too, one of the variables is is that not everybody I work with is all using the same doses. You know, we may have one guy who say does really well with testosterone and let's say that he's been using 875 per week. We add in 300 EQ. I wouldn't expect that 300 EQ to be a drop in the bucket for reducing estrogen from 875 test, you know. But on the other hand, maybe if we have another guy who's doing say 300 test, 300 EQ and 300 mast, there's a possibility that he's going to get hammered, you know. Yeah. I mean, obviously dose is always going to play a significant factor in it, but even looking at all these and there's a a myriad of variables, um the the levels seem to swing very wildly. Yeah. Um and it's it's an odd one. Um, I I don't really have an answer for people, I'm afraid. I wish I did. Um, have you ever spoke to Clever Scott about it? No, we haven't talked about that, but it would be a really great topic to dive into. As a matter of fact, I'll text him after the show and see if it's something he'd be interested in in looking into. It is. It does seem to be incredibly varied. So, I would be really interested to know what Clever Scott thinks. Yeah. All right. Well, listen, like I said, we have a bunch of questions. And now, I know you're not presenting this information as this is fact across the board, but you sent me a couple of cool texts earlier today about estrogen and uh red blood, thick thick blood. So, what was that all about? You had a few studies that you were looking at. Yeah, it's sometimes um right or wrong, I I'll have a daft idea and then I'll just wander off and see if there's anything to it. And and sometimes it's not even a daft idea. It's just a oh I wonder. Yeah. So I was wondering whether estrogen had any driving factor in blood thickening. We know testosterone increases hemoglobin. We know we know that you know increases RBC. Um does estrogen did estrogen have any impact? And so I start sniff around and from what I can see now first thing let's bear in mind that these studies are either animal models or they're in women. I haven't found anything in males as it stands. I'm not saying there isn't. I just haven't found anything yet. Okay. And the general finding was that low estrogen potentially promoted blood thickening. Okay. And elevated estrogen was at least neutral if not reducing of hemoglobin. Um but there was a very strong sort of caveat to it all that you know things like iron levels play a significant role and obviously in the female studies menstruational cycles play a significant role as well. Sure. So it was by no means you know definite but pretty much every study suggested that elevated estrogen was either going to be neutral or lower blood thickening lower hemoglobin levels. Um, and it was, like I said, very early findings. I was just stiffing about, so I just fired you three over that I'd just stumbled across. There were a load more that I was working through. Yeah, it's it's interesting. It is interesting. Yeah, I'm going to dig a little bit deeper and see if there's any more. Um, I doubt I'm going to come to any real world conclusion on it. Um, but though the female studies obviously there was the the the issue with iron and menstrual cycles, the animal models didn't have that problem. Yeah. And the animal models supported the same trend. So, um, is it happening? I can't say. Is there enough there for it to go? It might be. Yeah, I think there's definitely enough to to have an interest round. Oh, that could actually be a factor here. Hey, you know what? Because I just jumped topics. I figured we'd jump to that. I just wanted to mention that and then go into our listener questions. But you know what? I should have asked Dave, I should have asked this about the test or about the EQ scenario. So, if somebody wanted to figure out does estrogen work as an AI for me, how would we go about and experiment with that? Cuz I feel like a low dose would probably make sense, right? Depending on what your experience level is. But if we have a lot of guys that aren't doing a lot of gear, let's say they're running their cycles at 3 to 500 milligrams of test per week. You want to find out if EQ works as an AI for you. What do you think an average dosing would look like in that range for that amount of test? Well, the first thing would be you'd need to run the 3 to 500 for about 5 6 weeks so that you achieve peak plasma and therefore peak estrogen conversion. Um, you may have historical stuff that you can use as a baseline for that. So, that might help. Sure. And then I'd probably start with a maybe A-50% ratio. So like if you're doing 500 then maybe 250 BBQ. Yeah. And and then the the anti-ring effects going to be quite rapid I would suspect. Really? You don't think that that the equipoise would have to build up to get that? M there's obviously going to be the peak plasma point that again is going to take four or five weeks and I get that do but at the same time it's going to be active within 24 36 hours your body's going to be metabolizing it relatively quickly. So you got something out of it. Yes. So I I think if you after two weeks of EQ saw a notable drop in estrogen levels and by notable I'm saying 20 30 points. Yeah. then then I think you're on to something and then it would be a case of running it for the full four, five, six weeks and and and then checking again and see where it it plateaued at it full plasma level. But 20 30 points and your scale goes to what 150 in the UK something like that. Yeah, roughly. Yeah. So if you're going to 150 and we go to 40 then maybe five five to seven points or you know if you saw that kind of drop in the US you know seven point drop in in a couple week then you know you're on to something. Yeah, I would say so. Yeah. Yeah. All right. Yeah. I just figured we should give them a takehome. You know what I mean? I mean, you you could potentially if you're concerned about estrogen in the short term, you could run something like Novex as a just I mean, water retention and all that crap. Yeah, it's not great, but at least we know that goes once estrogen is sorted. Obviously, what we don't want is gynos. So yeah, I' I'd be happy for a baseline of Novex just to protect against that until because it's not going to lower the estrogen levels. Yeah. Yeah. All right. So you're going to be able to see the actual effect on the estrogen without Novex still keeping you safe from gyno. Yeah, I think that makes a lot of sense. Guys, I got to take a break to do the whole like, share, subscribe thing, but I also want to say thank you to you. The internet's kind of a weird place in case you didn't know. And I I'm glad that we've put the community together that we have. I'm grateful to read your comments. In fact, I I know a lot of YouTubers that don't read comments. I read all of them and I try to get back to everybody. So, if you comment, I will see it and I'll try to get back to you. Also, the like button is absolutely free of charge. You don't have to pay anything to hit it and it does help us out a ton. It's not going to like push us into your algorithm, but it will help other people to hopefully find the show. So, if you like our stuff, please try to help us out. All right. So, listen, like I said, we do have a bunch of listener questions. We'll dive into those. And um let's see. So, I know Dave, too, you're going to be away next week. So, we're not going to have a show next week. I'm going to be away. You're going to be away. You've got a thing you're doing. You're doing a thing. Are you allowed to say what you're doing? Yeah. Yeah. So, Jamie the Giant, Jamie Jahal, Jamie Christian Big, whatever bloody name he's using. The Giant. Yes. The Giant is doing a charity golfing event in aid of prostate cancer awareness. Okay. Okay. Um and we're going to go with the van. Um now he's playing golf from effectively 7:00 in the morning till about 10:00 at night. Okay. So he's doing four 18 round holes of golf back to back. Wow. Yeah. Um that's going to be one sore back. Um, so we're going to do blood testing. We're offering the prostate test at our normal price, but we're basically donating all the profit to the charity. Are you doing like a finger in the bum right there? No, just a blood test. Your Oh, I thought you were doing like a finger in the bum test right there. Don't bring your fantasies into the show. Okay, it's just no need. Is Jamie gonna do a finger in the bum? He might he might want to after the end of four rounds of golf just to wake him back up a little just just to see if there's any feeling left. Um yeah, so I mean in March it was cancer awareness month so we did free prostate cancer tests all through March. Okay. Um and so this one we're just going to be donating the profit to the charity. Um we're going to be there 10 till 2ish, so 4 hours. So, you're not golfing is what you're telling me. Are you golfing? I am with Billy Connelly on the golf thing. Who's Billy Connelly? Billy Connley is a Scottish. You don't know who Billy Connley is? Heathen. No, I might know him by face or something. I don't know people, famous people and stuff. He's He's a comedian. A Scottish comedian. Okay. And he says that golf is a good walk ruined. A good walk ruined. Okay. Yeah, I could see that. All right. All right, I'll take that one. All right, so questions. Oh, yeah. This is interesting, man. He says, uh, oh, no, this is a different question. Sorry. There's there's one somewhere in here about removing his test and I thought you going to say removing his testicles and using dbol instead. No, we do that on our own just by taking gear pretty much. Um, yeah, but we'll we'll find that one. Using dbol for his estrogen. Okay. So, he says, "Tried 10 milligrams of dbol per day uh to my 750 test and 600 EQ, but I got sick every time. Uh, can uh people are there people that just could not handle orals? And uh can I try Winnie or Anadrol instead to see if that's any different?" It would help if we had some clarification on what got sick means. Good point. You know what sort of sick? If you're talking dodgy stomach, it's probably just the oral stress on the stomach. And that's going to happen with all orals. Yeah. Um if it's um if it's um another form of sickness, then I don't know. Scott, someone's just asked in the chat about the details of the charity. Oh, in case they want to donate. So, I've just WhatsAppapped it you so you can put it in the dubbery diggy thing underneath. Okay. And that will be out in time, too, cuz we're putting this out. Oh, this will be out next Monday. Yeah, this is Tuesday we're doing it. Yeah. All right, cool. So, it'll be just in time then. All right. Let me see what else we have here. Yeah. And I wonder, man, um what does that mean? Sick. if he feels like like really sick like if he's dealing with I'd also too man maybe look at your labs to see well what's actually happening here I mean there is I would be surprised at this this is a stretch but there is the potential that the extra anabolic load is just too much for his immune system and he's already dealing with something and he's tipping over the edge but I I think that's a stretch um upset stomach would be just the orals uh which means you're going to get probably the same effect with any oral. Um, beyond that, I'm obviously without knowing what he means by sick, it's very difficult to to be more clear on it. At the end of the day, if he's only talking 10 milligram doses, he can just try it. No, he can just try it. But I would try and rob a few tablets off a friend rather than buy a full tub if you're just having the potential that they may both be useless. Yeah. All right, let me see what else we have here. We've got a bunch of stuff. And like I said, guys, you're welcome to comment with your questions. We'll tackle them on the next show. Uh, serious question. I've been diagnosed with hip dysplasia. I'm about 10 to 15 years too young to be eligible for a hip replacement. I love training training. It's my mental health reset and coping with life mechanism. What could I run longterm to help with the joint issues that won't wreck my health before I can go to get the operation? Gearwise, I don't think there's anything that's going to particularly help. You might get a little bit off the deca. Um, effect, right? Well, I would have said more you you're looking down the line of anti-inflammatories, aren't you? So, maybe TB-500, something like that going to help with some inflammation in the joint. Yeah. Um but actual anabolic wise I don't think there's I mean building muscle mass in the area will support the joint that's for certain. Yeah. Um but as to any specific compound it depends I suppose on what's getting aggravated at at at the point. If it's the tendon then then yeah like your TBS and BPs and deca are obviously going to have a slightly positive effect there. Um, if the pain's something else, then no, I can't see anything. I could see there being tendon issues. So, I I had uh my Rottweiler had hip dysplasia. And yeah, I'm familiar with it in in dogs, but not particularly in people. Basically, the joint, you know, it doesn't enclose around. Yeah. It's too shallow. It's too shallow. Yeah. The bone. So, it's open and it can just slip right out, which I can only imagine how freaking painful that is. Um, I think that, man, I know, you know, what they recommend for animals is water therapy because it doesn't, you know, it takes the weight off of them. So, if they can exercise in water, that's helpful for them to be able to stay as active as possible. I wonder, man, about getting it done privately. You know, Ron Partllo's talking about getting a hip replacement. He talked with M Mike Van Wick who had both of them replaced. Mike was like, "Listen, I'm just I just went and paid out for it out of pocket because Canada, the health system there, they're going to like have him wait forever and all that, but he just was like, you know what, screw it. This is important to me." He paid for it. Uh Scott Stevenson had both of his hips replaced, but that's an expensive procedure, I would imagine. Yeah, it was like I think 10 grand or something like that. Oh, not as much as I thought it was going to be over there, to be honest. I think that's I think that's I could have just honestly Dave I thought that's what it was but I may have just made that up. Like I may have literally just thought that's what it was and said it. I don't know why but yeah somebody else might know better. Um all right got a bunch more. Um okay. What's the best thing to do for raising your HDL? Diet obviously plays a role. Yeah. Don't let it drop. So good HDL sources avoiding compounds or supplementation say supplementation I mean stuff like AIS that are particularly HDL aggressive. Yeah. So Primo mast well your DHTs in general. Um and then obviously adex is another one. Aromacin is obviously much gentler on lipids. So that helps good HDL sources in your diet. So eggs, oily fish, avocado, healthy fats. Uh and then supplement wise I prefer krill oil uh just because it's um phospholipid based so its absorption is much better its bioavailability is much greater um citrus bergamort and you can do something called poline therapy which is one gram of liposomaal vitamin C and five grams of lysine twice a day. Okay, carterine will bring those numbers up. I don't know how beneficial that is. You know, I I'd seen huge jumps. So, when I was, you know, on off cycle non-stop basically, uh, while competing, my HDL was like stuck at 25, man. Like just freaking stuck there no matter what I did. And when I ran Carterine, I was able to bring it up to like 38 within 6 weeks. I've seen very impressive improvements with Carterine. I'm still on the fence with the cancer stuff and I I I get the your the dosing arguments and everything else. We have this every time the word is mentioned, right? Um and I agree. Yeah. You know, the the study dosing was way way in excess of what you'd see us use, but it still makes me just that little bit apprehensive. Yeah, I I I can respect that for sure, man. Especially when we're now talking stats of one in every two people getting cancer at some point in their life. It's like, you know, those those odds are pretty rough. Yeah, there was an interesting thing Victoria was telling me about with uh animals, dogs, dogs being more likely to get cancers uh than humans or and or excuse me, dogs were more likely to get cancer now than they were in the past. and she said that they were looking at the relationship to pesticides and that dogs have a greater exposure to pesticides than humans do and and I guess that that was a factor. So, do they though? I I guess. Yeah. I I don't I didn't see this is like in passing during a walk she mentioned it. You know what I mean? Yeah. I see. So obviously animals animals like dogs going in fields and stuff is not really common place because mo well around here most farmers will shoot the [\h__\h] Um that's also bad for their health. You know what I mean? But I would suspect that food exposure for a human to pesticide treated foods is probably pretty high. Yeah. I don't know. Is there does the FDA or FDA in the US do we have different regulations? I don't know. And then we do have like everybody's doing lawn treatments here. Um so in you know in the suburbs and we have the little signs don't let your dog walk on the lawn all. Yeah. I don't know. I just it it just got me thinking that is their exposure greater than the humans? I don't know. Yeah. How about this one? Um which would build more muscle? A total of 500 mg of gear being 500 test or 250 test and 250 primo or mast test. Yeah, test. How about next question? 500 test and three I use a GH versus 250 test and primo or mast. I'd still say test even more with the GH. Yeah, I mean I I I think the G if you exploit the increased recovery, I think you'll see better progress with the GH in play. Um if you don't exploit the recovery, you may potentially just see less body fat with the GH in play. Uh but to me, I I you know, this this whole anabolics are equal bollocks. [\h__\h] off. Um if they were, they would never have developed the alternatives in the first They would have stopped with a one. Yeah, exactly. And I know for a damn fact from personal experience that ain't the case. Um, so yeah. No, test. Definitely test on those choices. Test. I personally think my scale would be test and m test and prima. Yeah. How about how about 250 test 250 deca versus 500 test? I think the deck might edge it a little more, but I do think the dosing could be a factor here. How about 250 test and 250 anadrol per week? You know, obviously anadrol split up orally per day. So it' be like, you know, 35 or something. 35 a week. Basically taking that 250 test, replacing it with 250 draw. So the well to be fair I think that's an unfair advantage because the fiber total test is going to give a greater anabolic load than the 250 and 50 anova daily I'm sorry o 35 oxy daily for the simple reason as that's 35 milligrams a day over a constant 500 milligrams you know over a day in the week scenario But the total plasma level of anabolics at 500 mg of test is going to be way above the total because the an the oxy is in and out in a day. Yeah. So you're not getting a compounding effect. How about 250 test 250 trend? But having Oh, that definitely more on that one. But having that if someone can maximize the strength gains from the oxy sorry from the yeah the oxy yeah I'm getting [\h__\h] mixed up today. Um then you could actually see a progress that's a little bit greater than the chemical advantage just because the fact that it's significantly going to increase strength on its own. Okay, I'll take that. I'll take that. Here was that question. I just started 300 mass, 300 primo. Thinking about pulling my test and going to 20 milligrams of dbol a day. Any thoughts on how long I could handle this cycle? That's interesting, huh? I think you'll run into estrogen problems within 6 to 8 weeks. In fact, probably sooner. Too much? No, not at all. None at all. Well, what about the methystrogen from the 20 ball predict? I don't think it's enough. Not against 300 mega of primo and 300 mega mast. Oh, you think you're going to block your conversion cuz you've you've not only got the AI effect of primo, you've also got the receptor blocking from mast as well. That's quite a dose against 20 m 20 people. I know it's daily, but I still don't think it's enough. Yeah, I'd be interested to hear if he does it. Let us know. You know, I think with that combo, you'd potentially run run into low estrogen issues on 300 mega tests to be honest. Oh, I think that's possible, you know, depending on the individual. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. There's there's all that individual sensitivity stuff as [\h__\h] as well. But yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I work with a guy who um he he's a guy who was dealing with like super high prolactin. got that under control. But at 140 test, his estrogen is at like well over 300 now. And he which I wouldn't necessarily have an issue with, but he he doesn't feel great on that. Like he he's like low libido, stuff like that. We are going to try leaving the test where it is and adding in some primo and see how he does with it. Thankfully, he had a stash of Primo, so he doesn't have to rely on trying to find a new supply of it. You know, that's your numbers. You know, 150 being top end, he's at like three something and it's just feeling off to him. Haven't you tried your gluconate? We've messed around with that. He's not done anything. Yeah, he's he's I think needing he's got an interesting situation. He, you know, sometimes Dave like there's those exceptions to the rule. Oh, always. Yeah. He is definitely a like a far exception. In fact, I'm even kind of thinking with him, he might do okay with like 300 primo, 300 EQ, 150 test. We're going to find out though. We're only going to add in one thing at a time, you know, with the test. And is he is he suffering negative from the high estrogen or is it more a numbers treating? Yeah. No. Yeah, he doesn't feel libido is low and he doesn't feel great on it. You know, something's something's off for him and it's it's been a long-term thing for him. So, we're trying to get to the bottom of that. All right. What about using uh a statin uh to control LDL during the cycle? From a a point of view of theory and effect, yeah, it would it would work. Um, you know what? I don't understand and I'll be completely honest with you cuz I I'm I'm hesitant to use drugs if we don't need them. And I'd much rather we've talked about it. You've mentioned it numerous times, Dave, if people hadn't seen the show where like between your cycles, get that cholesterol into a good place knowing that it's going to get adulterated on cycle. You know, there's that aspect and and I I've been able to find good success with that overall to the point where we haven't needed statins. One of the side effects of statins is heart attack and stroke if you come off of them. Now, is that a side effect because your body's your cholesterol gets like crazy after you've come off of it, or is it that you needed a statin because your cholesterol was so crappy and now it's going back to what it was, leading you to have a higher risk of heart attack and stroke? You know what I mean? There are people that genetically will suffer with elevated LDL irrespective of how clean their diet is. Sure. Um, so there is that element, but LDL being a major problem from anabolic use isn't something I generally see if diets in point. The main issue I see from anabolic use is the reduction of HDL. Yes, anaval will increase LDL and and certain anabites will have a more impact on raising LDL, but most people will control their LDL with their diet. And then a push something like red yeast rice or nice nyson. Yeah. Um, so for someone my brain and I I mean those of disrespect to the person who's asked the question in the slightest, but my brain normally goes is is this just because you can't be asked sorting your diet out because like I said someone to genuinely have LDL problems that they can't manage through diet and basic supplementation I find to be very rare. I have had a few people that have been there, but in general, most people can manage it quite well with just having a decent diet. And those that have problems, it is usually because their diet's not where it needs to be. Yeah. Now, I'm not saying I'm not going to stand at a pedal and say your diet should be perfect. You should manage it with diet because the drug is this. The drug is there and the drug does lower LDL. And if you can't be asked sorting your diet out, then yes, you could medicate some of that risk away by using statins. But statins aren't the safest compound on the planet either. And they can have quite a substantial list of side effects. Uh and issues with statins is quite common. In fact, when people are prescribed statins, very often they may have to try three or four different ones before they find one that they can get along with. So, you know, it's not without its problems. And I would start to consider that maybe in this case, the cure could be as bad as the problem when really all you need to do is sort your diet out. But at the end of the day, it's still your choice. The drug does lower LDL, and if that's what you use it for, your option is there. But I would definitely ensure you are well aware of the negatives from statin use. before you make that decision. Yes. Okay. Francis Doyle. Francis Doyle sounds like he's from the UK. What do you think? That sounds like a Oh, God knows you Yanks have weird names. Yeah. Yeah. Like what? Well, you sound like you should be from Ireland or Scotland. McN. Mcnal. Yeah. Um, all right. Francis Doyle says at 54 and thinking about doing a cycle of test at 400, mast at 400 with a oxy dbol and anavar. Oh, all of those. Would this be a good cycle for mass and strength? Any help would be appreciated. I say pick one, man. That's a lot of orals to be jamming in there. Pick one of them and run with it. I don't I don't sign up to this a little bit of everything approach that that some people do. Um some people swear by it and say that you know particularly orals 10 of this 10 of that 10 of that is a really great compound. I I prefer to just stick with one personally. Um but each to their own. Um I would be more leaning towards test math and some MPP with with his age of 54 personally. Oh yeah. I like that. I like that a lot. Yeah, I'd probably go 300, 300, and maybe 75 MP three times a week as a as a start. Um, I'd be a bit reluctant on the orals. Um, does depend on how they affect his appetite, but and also he's not given us any dosing on the orals. So, that's the other question there. Yeah. Or any information on what he's done previously. Is this a big jump up? Is this sort of in line with what he's used to doing? True. If he's asking us, like I feel like if you've done a lot of gear, you're probably not asking us, should I run 400 tests and 400 mass with an oral. Do you know what I mean? Like you already know. I bet you that he is newer. And in that case, yeah, I think I think even just dang, man, just 300 test or 400 test on its own would probably if that were the case would probably do a lot for him. 400 test and 400 math. You do a lot with that, too. You know, if this is if we're talking first cycle, then we'll go back to what we always say, test is best. Yeah. Watching the podcast is always my favorite way to kill time at work. So, does that mean he's like time thefting is that's the term for that. We're helping. Your your job must be [\h__\h] This is fitness with Chris, by the way. Good name. Fitness with Chris. Thank you for watching and your boss deserves every minute that you are you're a hard worker. You deserve to get to watch the show at the job. Um he says, "Makes my Monday or Tuesday 10 times better. Hopefully looking forward to seeing Dave getting my bloods done at Ebell at Fit Expo this weekend." I'm not there. I'm at the PCA Universe in Hall. You will have the pleasure of my wife. Did you just laugh at him? He was like, "Hey, I genuinely like the show. I want to come out and really meet you, Dave." And you're like, "Haha, sucker. I won't be there." Is that what you just did? Yeah, basically. You'll get to meet Mrs. Crosslin. It was much nicer. She is. Unfortunately, we've had to split up because we got the PCA Universe on the same weekend. So, I am in Hull for my sins, though. I am speaking at Fitex Sunday morning. What do you mean you're speaking? So basically, this is a bit of a nightmare. We've got to char's going to Bolton to Fitex with Simon, Charlie, and a friend of ours. They're taking the trailer. Okay. The trailer hire company's rug us today and say the big trailer we normally have, we can't have. We have to have a smaller one, which might mean I might have to run to Bolton to drop some stuff off because they might not have enough room. Okay. Then I've got to go to Hull, do Hall Saturday. Then I've got to come back to B on Saturday night, take the staff out for a meal Saturday night. Then I've got to speak at Fit Sunday morning. Then come back to Hull, finish off at Hull. Then from Hull, go to the lab with the bloods and then come home. And then Monday we're at Ultlex in Roim. And I stopped listening, Dave. I'm going to be completely honest with you. I stopped listening like four minutes ago. I just want to be Is that Is that Do you think that's why that guy called me to see you see you next Tuesday? because I say stuff like that. I agree with him. I told you that. No, that sounds like a lot though is I I was being kind of a jerk on Yeah. So, I will be there Sunday morning to do a talk at 10:00, but I am literally running straight afterwards. So, I do apologize for my absence, but you will have my lovely lady. You'll also have the the joyous Zack on Saturday. Zack Khan will be there. Yeah, Zack Khan will be there. And he's got his new uh dieting ebook out as well, so he'll probably be jumping up and down about that. Is he bringing any bulldogs? No. Why not? Cuz they're a handful. Well, Zach's kind of a handful, too, so that makes total sense. Yes. Oh, uh Dave says, "Please learn milligrams." I'm a bit of an outlier, as I'd also add, please learn Esther weights. 300 mgrams label test e. if correctly dossed is only 210 mg of active compound once the esters cleaved off. Pretty much everyone is dosing their cycle wrong. You're doing it wrong, guys. All of you, you're doing it wrong. I'm surprised this has never popped up as a subject on the show. We have talked about estate. It It has. And every piece of research ever done in the world is done on total weight. Esta weight is not considered when you're talking about anabolics for research which is why we don't consider it. Yeah. No, you just know, man. You know, you just know. You just know. Like, hey, I'm taking 300 tests. If that's not doing what you want it to do, then guess what you do? Up the dose. You take 400. Add in the tren. Yes, the tren. All right. Um, on paper, E2 should convert to EQ should convert to E2, but it doesn't in practice. Um, I'm using it now because mast is harder to get. So, there was part of our main topic. That was one of the reasons we had a number of people that were saying stuff like that. Um, Lionus Wilson says, "Um, I think folks need to escalate doses slowly with blood work uh tracking at least total test in E2. Big swings will likely result in big side effects regardless of the compound. Also, you are just breaking your finger by pressing the elevator button. As Broadick says, jumping from 150 milligrams of test to 300 milligrams of text test right away may not be necessary to make gains. Uh 200 might be good for the next 3 months technically. Right. Technically. No, I'm not. So yeah, I'm not I'm not disagreeing that I I don't think 100 150 increase is particularly significant um when you look at blood plasma because if you're saying that basically you're doubling your circulating levels. Um so I'm not so sure that A-50 migram is is going to be that dramatic. It would depend on the individual and how in point their diet and training is. I definitely don't think you need to track total test. Um unless you've got concerns about the quality of the drug. I think that's overkill. Um you can do it if you want, but I do think it's overkill. I don't think there's going to be any real knowledge gained from that. you know your dosing of your total milligramage is is is suffice to relate to what experiences you're having in the way of progress but knowing your estrogen is handy for correct management definitely. Yeah. Um, I would say that from a muscular point of view, 50, 150 to 200 is not going to yield a huge amount, but it will probably be beneficial in how you feel. I think you'll get dramatic changes in how you feel, but and that's off of 150 to 200. Yeah. Oh. Oh. Going from 150 to 200. I thought you Okay. Yeah. Um, and that's just assuming that everything else is managed correctly. Yeah. U, so I think you'll probably get an impact in how you feel significantly, but I don't think you're going to see a huge impact in muscular changes. And another thing is that when you start getting into higher doses, the increases um are much less impacting. So for argument sake difference between between 1,000 and 1,200 is fairly noticeable or in this case between 1,000 to 1,50 would be nothing. You know dropping you wouldn't no you wouldn't feel a thing. You might get that just simply by not measuring correctly on a couple of your shots through the week you know. So um you know as you get into the higher doses the jumps to see significant improvement do tend to have to be a little bit on the higher side. Yeah. Yeah. I think you're right. And it's interesting, Dave, because you know, years ago, um, people people were I feel like we always had the there was the attitude a lot of people were like, "Hey, hold hold on. Hold your horses. We don't need to jump up that fast." You know, like the guy does 500 and he says, "Okay, right now I'm going to do a thousand." You know, no. But, you know, now I almost feel like this may be in my personal opinion, and this is just based off of experience, too. There's there there there's nothing to tell us like oh no when you're doing a steroid cycle you need to increase from 150 to 300 in order to get an effect like there's but I I can tell you out of experience that you need enough of a jump to elicit that you know good super physiological blast like could you do better I agree with you man I bet you that if you'd always run say like you always did 150 and for whatever reason let's say 150 puts you in range And now you add 50 and you went from a US, you know, 900 range to whatever. You're slightly outside of range now. Um, you probably feel better. You probably will get better performance. You for a while, you know, but I don't know if that's going to be enough. There there's that minimum. It goes back to that minimum effective dose conversation, you know, and I guess everybody's everybody's different and everybody has their own perceptions of what it takes. But I I just in my experience, and when I say my experience, I'm talking about coaching full-time for the last decade and 5 years before that. So, 15 years of experience seeing people transform their physiques, literally thousands of individuals. And I would personally say in just my experience with those people and myself, I don't think that going from 150 to 300 to create a super physiological effect is crazy talk by any means. In fact, I would say that it's, you know, healthwise, I I don't see there being much difference. maybe you might need a little bit more management that you know going to outside of that normal range doubling your dose maybe your estrogen is going to be a little bit higher than it would have been you know at 200 but that might not even be a problem for you I Brick tends to do his doses on milligrams per kilo anyway okay so it's weight driven with him um and he prefers a high TRT so 200 300 anyway so I'm not so sure on that front. Um I think the problem with all of this is that the nature of people involved industry is extremes. Sure. So we go to extremes on both ends. Um and and what tends to happen is we go extremes one way and then that triggers a counter that ends up being extreme in the opposite way. Um and and I agree that you want to be using the minimum to get the job done. always the minimum to get the job done. But I also think that, you know, going from a 150 dose, which for a lot of people is going to, like you say, put them at top end of natural range or just above, going to 200, is going to have the same negatives healthwise as going from 150 to 300. But you're going to see a much more productive cycle at the 300 dose than you are at the 200 dose. Yeah. Yeah. That's my personal opinion anyway. I' I' I'd side with that. I I could see I I'd agree with that, man. It's it's like the Yeah. You know, when we've talked about like anavar say or a low dose of any oral 5 10 milligrams that yeah, you're going to see a performance benefit, but you're you're not going to see the muscle growth that we're looking for out of that super physiological cuz that's the thing, man, is that we're looking to build this up to a drug-like level, you know? Well, that's the other thing is, you know, what are you expecting? What are you happy with? You know, if you're wanting a few pound of muscle, then then crack on. That's fine. Yeah. if you're one in, you know, my my biggest gains in my biggest cycle was over 50 pounds. That's a lot. It is a lot. And it it was painful doing it, but at the same in lots of different ways. But I bet now that that's growing like injection sites, injection sites, food, training, the whole lot. Just that rapid weight gain as well. But so, you know, a lot of it is as well, what are your expectations? What are you looking to achieve? Because there are people that go, "Oh, you can't gain more than seven pound a muscle." Yeah, [\h__\h] off. Yeah. No, you just can't train hard. You're funny. Um it's, you know, that you can achieve more than people realize, but it's it's safe, isn't it? We're not a failure if we have all these these nice rules that mean we don't have to work hard and we don't have to achieve anything and we can still be classed as progressing. Yeah. Bollocks. Bollocks. As Dave says, bollocks, guys. Couple more here. I didn't think you could donate blood if you're taking anabolics, at least in the UK. That would disqualify you from donating blood. No. Yes, that is correct. But any injectable drug user, even tattoos, can disqualify you from donating blood. But there are services where you can have a blood let, which is the same thing, and the blood is destroyed, not used for anything. Also, there's this little thing called lying that you can do. Scott, please. Actually, you know what? In the UK now, um they've started doing fingerprint hemoglobin checks. Oh, they do that here. If they're high, they won't let you donate. Yeah, they do that here, too. Yeah. So, yeah, but you you can do I mean, Eval does it, but we're not the only one. There are plenty of others that do it as well. Skip got turned away uh one time. So I got turned away because my hemoglobin and it was too high and they told me now you get out of here you gear user. They didn't know. I mean they probably knew I was bigger at the time. Skip got turned away because in the US if you're donating blood you're not allowed to do that for therapeutic purposes. And Skip is a talker. So you get him if he gets up to the register at the like the grocery store he's like oh and how's your day and blah blah blah. And he's like I don't even care what her day is like. I don't even care, but I just been sitting at my house working on my computer all day. And see, so he starts I It was kind of my skip accent. Um, so he gets to Was it accurate? It's close. I I can do a If you give me time, I can work into a good skip. Anyway, um, here's the deal. He He's getting his blood drawn, right? They're taking the blood out and he starts opening his mouth and he's like, "Yeah, you know, so my doctor told me that I should come in and do this cuz it's good for my health and you know, my numbers are a little bit high." And they're like, "Oh, wait. You're Why are you here?" And he was like, "Yeah, you know, my get my blood numbers down." What's it matter if the blood's usable? It's still donation. So what does it matter? Kill two birds with one stone. You got to do it out of the goodness of your heart only. if it's for medical purposes, for health, they can't do it. So, she said, "Oh, I'll be right back." And then she came over with somebody else and they pulled that knee right out of his arm, patched him up, and they're like, "We can't do this. You got to go home." Mid mid blood dump. That don't make any sense to me at all. No. Yeah. You're not allowed to here for for therapeutic purposes. If the blood is viable, what difference does it make around the reason the blood donation benefit? They have blood stock. you benefit, you get rid of some blood. I don't see the issue. I understand the issue if blood's too thick because it's then not viable for use as a donation sample. But if the blood's viable for donation, I don't see the cause makes any [\h__\h] difference. But yeah, I think it's because it's a medical purp, you know, like it I I think it Yeah, I don't know, man. You know, whatever. Yeah. Yeah. But that's the deal. Just don't tell them. That's what it comes down to. Oh, and we had one more good question here. Dave, um says, uh uh okay, better update that transmission. I'm not sure Dave knows as much about power to rear end transmission ratio as he does about injectable juice. The power he's talking about will vomit a stock transmission in the street. yard sale parts scattered everywhere. Right, so quick rundown. The engine is currently sitting at about 580 600 crank. Okay, roughly you got 17% power drop to the rear wheel through the drivetrain. Um, when the procharger goes on, it will be sitting at around high 7s to 800 crank and about 650 rear wheel. Okay. The transmission in that truck is a ZF8 HP70 that will handle around 700 rear wheel. Okay. So, it will take the power at that point. Granted, it is going to be close to its limit. I'm not going to be hard launching for very obvious reasons. Um, the car is not going to be the the truck is not going to be set up for that type of driving anyway. However, the transmission is then on the cards to be rebuilt. I have somebody in mind, but it's just finances willing. So yes, I am aware and I have done some research and I have spoken to the powers that be that specialize in Dodge Rams and basically what I can put through it, what I can't put through it and what my limitations are with driving. But the engine build and the procharger setup should be good for around a,000 crank if I want to go there. maybe slightly higher and the drivetrain is in no way capable of handling that. And and you did tell me before, we've talked about it off the air, you're like, I don't know a lot about this stuff. I'm just learning. You want to talk to people that know more than you, you know? I'm I'm deliberately keeping the tires stock, but um I I don't want to do a conversion to like a Der 80 rear end or anything like that. So, I am going to be upgrading the shafts, UJ's, ring and pinion and diff. But again, the real problem is when you're hard launching, and this truck is not going to be launched hard at any point. Launch hard. Does that mean like ripping it off the off the go? Yeah. Um, because it won't grip. There's no weight over the back axle. It's a pickup truck. It won't grip. So, the idea is to have a car that will perform from sort of 50 60 mph rolling. Oh, okay. Okay. You could always put some sandbags in the back, Dave. No, I'm not bothered about that. I've got a car if I want to accelerate hard. You just It' be fun, man. Just like like donuts everywhere. No, that's how you wreck transmissions. Yeah. Oh, I could imagine, man. I could imagine. You got Yeah, he has a valid He has he has a valid point, but it has been considered. You got any uh advice for us today? Any Uncle Dave's wisdom? No, nothing. No, not a thing. Not a thing. I'm sorry. I'm so Dave was at the dentist today, guys. He literally came straight from the dentist. He was like, "All right, mate. I'm home." He might even use those exact words cuz he's British. No, I I haven't got any Dave's advice. Okay. I haven't I haven't even considered it at the moment. Well, you'll have two weeks to think about it now. You're gonna be off playing golf with Jamie the Giant. [\h__\h] play goof. Dave's off playing golf next weekend. I might steal a golf cart. We totally I'd totally do the show next week if it wasn't for Dave. But Dave, you're liar. You'd already told me you were off and then I was I cuz I actually got me dates mixed up. I thought it was this week I couldn't do it and then I realized, no, it's next week. Yes. So, I'll try to do something, guys. I'll put out an ask me anything. We'll do uh we'll do a live ask me anything the following Monday. So, I'm weak from the time you guys are seeing this. So, ask ask Scott for his beauty regime and then do the complete [\h__\h] opposite. The opposite of that. All the things. Ask me about how I like grew up and lived my life to get where I am today. I would probably take the first 25 years and do the opposite of all of those things. I just got lucky, you know, right at the tail end. Just kind of swung around, you know, and I did okay. I'm still here. you know, things are not falling apart, but it could have gone either way. So, yeah, definitely. I like that idea. I have some Dave's advice. I've just thought of something. Oh, did you? No. All right. What you got for us? Caffeine. Drink as much caffeine as you can. Lie to your doctor about your hermatocrit. Get your obviously caffeine. Oh, were you going to say that? Drink caffeine. Drink caffeine. Oh, I thought this was going to be like a legit thing where you're like, "Guys, you need to stop thinking about, you know, you need to not use this is a legit thing. Drink caffeine. It's good for you." Yeah. I thought it was going to be like, "Guys, you got to really cut back on your coffee intake." And there's too much caffeine being used throughout the world. There's this many kilograms of caffeine that doesn't sink to your heart. Drink all the coffee, guys. We like you. We love you, as a matter of fact. And uh we appreciate you tuning in as always. Leave us questions and comments for the next show. Tell us how we are wrong in every way that we are wrong. We appreciate that. You know, it helps to boost us up in the algorithm. But we do appreciate you guys tuning in and hanging with us. Especially if you got this far into the show. As a matter of fact, Dave, you know what Kuba's been doing on the show at the very end? Just messaged me. Oh, yeah. Oh, we could have gotten him on. I bet he just messaged me. Gone. What has Kuba been doing? Huba's been saying like, "Hey, if you listened all the way this far through, comment with a specific word to let us know that you saw this far into the show cuz not everybody watches the whole thing. Not everybody gets this far. They by now they would have turned us off, you know, found fouad or something better. Maybe bodybuilding came out. I don't know." Yeah. Fouad or somebody else. Watching crazy cat videos or something. Greg Ducet is calling somebody out. He's calling out, you know, Mike Isertell again. You know, they got to check that stuff out. Much more important. What's one word? Is Is Mike still being bonkers or is he calmed down a bit? Oh, I don't know, man. I I don't follow that. I think anything for for a while, dude. I think it's an act anyway. I don't think any of that's real, you know? I mean, yeah, maybe it is, but it's also like uh it's a you know, it's reality TV. You know what I'm saying? Yeah. I I I don't know. Comment with the word bonkers. Boobies. Boobies. Boobies. Oh no, don't say boobies. You know what, dude? Somebody wrote boobies. And so YouTube will automatically like take something that they think was not supposed to like like it was just a a spam comment and they'll not show it and then I have to go through and find it and approve it. It's like the It's weird, man. I don't know. Yeah, say bonkers. Bonkers. But why do they think that is a weird comment then? I don't know. They might, dude. Who knows with these freaking people? The earth is flat. There you go. Oh, hey, one more thing. Do you ever hear of operator syndrome? No, I told you about that special forces video. I It turned out not to be a great video. it wasn't worth reacting to for us. But this guy was talking about how in the military, in the special forces people, they're getting more in line with prescribing TRT and recognizing the need for testosterone replacement in the military. Uh, and they're they're starting to get more on board with that. But they have a term for those high-speed dudes that are, you know, just adrenal overload uh, and low testosterone. They call it operator syndrome. I believe cops get it too. You know when you think something and you think I don't know where I've read this. I'm sure I've read this or heard this, but you may have just made it up in a dream in your head because like when I said that hip surgeries were $10,000. You mean like that? Yeah. I'm sure I read a piece on the American military looking at testosterone supplementation for soldiers from a point of view of elevated levels. Super soldiers. Yes, super soldiers. Yeah. 200 to 250 milligrams per week. Tren. Tren. Lots of Tren. That's the secret. Oh, dude. I wouldn't want to fight soldiers on Tren. Would you? You know what I'm saying? Like if you had your choice, if you had your choice, there's like a bunch of soldiers and they've all got the same guns as all these other soldiers, but the other soldiers are on trend. I don't want to fight the trend soldiers. You know what I'm saying? Yeah. Tren and a side of Halo. Yeah. Guys, we'll be back. Leave us questions for the next show. We appreciate you. Dave, are you taking any new clients right now? I am. Yes, I am. We should have mentioned that earlier in the show. Yeah, because by this time we've only got three people left. I know. Well, that's we're putting the weight on them. Those three people need to sign up right now. Yes, I I I I definitely have coaching space available at the moment. Um Bill's course is starting more well's course is starting pretty much straight away. Um so people can jump in on that as well if they want. All right, reach out to Dave, guys. We got his uh Instagram down below. Hit me up, mcnell diets@gmail.com. Go to strom sports nutrition and check out stum in the US apparently. Also go over to uh true nutrition.com use our code think over there. Get yourself some protein, some creatine and everything else. They've got all your basic health or all your basic bodybuilding supplements as well as supplements.ca for Canadians. They got great deals that change week to week. Thank you to everybody from Patreon and Eval Blood Analysis. Guys, go over and get a thumb in the bum over at uh Evale this next uh week with uh Jamie Giant and uh Dave during this prostate screening guys for another episode of the podcast stuff. We'll see you soon. Thanks, Dave.