Like you used to judge the dbol by whether you got nose bleeds. You'd be like, "Good sign." You'd be like, you'd be like, "Oh, I got nosebleleed on the leg press today. dbol's working." Like, it was a good sign. That's a good sign. You'd get a nose bleed squatting. You'd be squatting, you know, heavy and you'd get a nose bleed during your set and you'd spray some blood on the mirror and you'd be like, "Ah, knee ball kicking in. Let's roll." Oh god. You'd put tissue paper up your nose and you'd do your next set of squats. You're hardcore. Yeah, man. And we were so crazy. Like I I think now if I got a nose bleed in the gym, I'd be like, "Oh, this is terrible. I got blood." You know, but no one no one wants any blood around. Right. Yeah. Not to mention, you'd probably be like, "My health, I need to go check my blood pressure." I just finished the workout and then I was always considerate enough to go up to the front and ask for a spray bottle and I'd go Windex the mirror. What a good guy. Hey everybody, welcome to It's Just Bodybuilding. We're doing this on the live channel today and then we'll throw it up on the normal channel. I'm uh Big Ron Partllo here with Dusty Handshaw, Spectacles, Handshaw as we like to call him. And of course, the producer, Scott McN. Remember to like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. And today, if you're watching live, take part in the chat. We don't see everything, but you know, we might get lucky and throw your question up. Hey, Payton, what's up? Hoo. Oh, Payton's with us. What's up, man? Okay, so guys remember immutant.com. Go to immutant.com. Use Dusty or Big Ron as your codes. Save money, get stuff delivered to your door. You don't even have to get off the couch. You can continue to smoke weed and play video games and have your supplements delivered right to you. Just assuming that some of our audience may partake in those two things in a legal environment. In a legal environment, of course. Absolutely. Oh yes, it's the same Ethan. Oh, he does have a smaller one on his forearm, but thanks guys. That don't count. Still his first. I thought that was his first. Oh, Tanya. Okay. Pre-training lock in going down. Okay, we'll try to be I don't know, decent today. Inspirational. Inspirational. I set the bar a little low for decent. Okay. Yeah, perfect. Incredibly inspiring. Okay, what's what's what's on the agenda today, guys? We got some questions. We had a lead topic, but do we want to jump into that right away or are we going to Let's just go Let's just go to it. Dusty, I have to tell you just real quick, I got to go out and train with Ron last week. Oh, yeah. Braden is like a 100 pounds bigger than the last time I trained with him in about 2019. Like he's big, dude. He's really big. And uh it was cool. Um we had a couple listers come out, which was really cool. Yeah. Powen Powen came out. Yep. She was awesome, man. I never got to meet her before. Uh she she had a lot of heart, you know what I mean? Like every set she was freaking pushing hard and and I feel like she she might have picked something up with the workout, too, cuz she's like, "You know what? I usually go to six reps." She's like, "This is different and I think this is good." You know? Yeah. She had fun. And then it was Steve, right? Your client Steve. My client Steve from North Van came uh came out to slum with us. Uh cuz North Van's like the real nice areas. Yeah. He he lives where all the lawns are perfect. Yeah. Well, he lives where people have lawns. Yeah. Yeah. That's what it is. That's what that's all it takes. Yeah. So, it was cool. It was cool to get to meet him in person after working with him online for, you know, long time. So, thank you again for having me out, man. That was cool. That was awesome. Yeah. No, that was great. We had a little group workout. Braden enjoyed it, too, you know. Cool. Next time I got to get to his uh to the the compound and see that place. Yeah. Yeah, definitely. Well, next time you got to be around long enough for more than one workout and then we can go do one at his place. I like that. You know what I mean? What did you think of the gym? You give me a quick uh what' you think of West Coast while you're there? Oh, dude. It uh it never ceases to amaze me. Like I I love the energy, you know. The only thing I'll say is I've never been there. Well, no, I take that back. We trained at like 5:00. Uh you know, like like the the the busy hour when it was busy that one time. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And that was cool. I'm usually there. I end up showing up around noon, you know, and there were a lot of people, man. a lot of people training for noon at the gym there that day. Uh, and it was great, man. You guys have like just, you know, all the equipment and it's got that Here's the thing, Ron, and I'm sure both of you guys can relate to this. I don't care where you're at in the world. If you find a good hardcore gym to get into, get a workout in, you instantly feel like you're home. You know what I mean, right? Yep. Absolutely. Yeah. Well, I'm glad that you had a good time, Scott, cuz you know, I made sure everybody knew Scott was coming. There was one guy I thought he said my name in the parking lot like I I was like oh he must know me you know so I just like he's he's kind of like and I didn't so he was on his phone and I think he was saying something to somebody on his phone and I looked at him and he looked at me and I go oh hey what's up man and I start walking over to him and he just looked why is this guy hold on Scott some weirdo is walking towards me I literally like took two steps toward him I'm like hey and then I literally just like turned and walked away. Oh man. I We've all done that. Yeah. We're in an environment where we think, "Oh, this guy must recognize me." Yeah. Yeah. No, he doesn't. No idea who you are. He knows another Scott, believe it or not. Yeah. There's more than one Scott. Yeah. Believe it or not. Okay. He probably said, "Stop." You know, Well, I'm glad there's an American coming. Stop. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No, I told everyone you were coming. We played lots of freedom music and uh you know lots of people wore you know any shirts they had with American flags on them like any gasp or anything like that we Nice. Made me feel at home feel at home. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You know that sort of thing you know anything like a LA Kings jersey. Anything you got that'll make Scott feel American. Yeah. And I got to tell the listeners so everybody knows Ron has the wall where everybody signs. I was like where where's your signature at and where's Dusty's? And Ron tells me he was like, "Oh yeah, so you know, we got the new window put in and everything." So because the UV was fading it, I don't think our names are up there anymore. So Ron and Dusty's names aren't even on the wall in his own gym anymore. They got faded into the history of the paint. This is almost poetic. As you get forgotten, your signature gets forgotten by I'm pretty sure my signature lasted longer than my memory. Yeah. Yeah. No, definitely. Definitely. Okay. So, what's the lead question? Was it the worst worst cycle or most worst experience? Worst experience with gear ever. Yes. Yeah, that was the topic. Damn. So, worst gear experience like what it how it made you feel cycle that you were that you thought I can't do this again. That sort of thing. Something something that just took you for a loop. Something you're like, oh my god. Was there ever a time that like this is this is a bad idea and I I can't do this. I got to stop. Did you guys ever run into a situation like that? There's a couple things that come to mind. The first one is I look back and this is not a feeling thing. This is just a a process thing. I look back on some of my very early cycles because we used to get a lot of veterinarian test proponate. Mhm. And although the vet test probe was awesome, like you take 300 milligrams a week and like grow like crazy, like a kangaroo, the uh Yeah, just like a kangaroo or or a cow. Um those kangaroo ones. Yeah. So uh we were taking a vet grade test probe, which is excellent quality. People hear vet grade and especially new school people hear vet grade. I'm like, trust me, vet grade is better than underground. Yeah. It's It's like awesome. But we were taking this test probe and I don't know what it was about that old school test probe, but man, every shot hurt like cripplingly bad. And once I moved on to other things, I could never ever go back to test probe. I was just scarred from the pain. I just even like now I I'm like all through my competitive days in the last like twothirds of my career, I never touch probe because I was just no I just just in case. So there's that. But that's not what we're talking about, is it? No, that's talking about feelings. We're talking about feelings, gentlemen. Let's talk about our feelings. Yes. So, I used trenalone and fate one time. It had to be a trend story. You know, trenbalone and fate. And it's for those of you that aren't familiar, it's it's very long acting trend. And also too, people have asked me before when I've told them this, they're like, "Well, isn't parabolan an even longer acting trenolone?" It's that like cycllohexel. What's the esester on trenone on parabolex? Yeah, cycllohexyl carbamine or I can't remember the the esester, but technically it is a even longer active, but they're only 76 mig amps. M so back in the day guys were only using like three a week or four a week or something right because it was so hard to get so their total dosage was so much less right and they were spreading them out like 1 amp Monday 1 amp Wednesday that sort of thing hexobenzyl carbonate I think it's honestly a little shorter around is it short I thought it was longer than I'll look it up I'll look it up because I know that if we don't get it right smoked exactly I'm pretty pretty confident it's like 5 days versus seven for well it's still longer than acetate. Oh yeah. Yeah. Longer than acetate. Sorry. Yeah. Yeah. Still longer than acetate. So, but the the moral of the story is trenolone anthate hits the market and it's 200 mg per mill, right? Beautiful because of course everyone wants to like how much can we fit into the mill with a solvent, right? And um I used it. I thought, oh, a long acting trend. This would be great. You know, man, I tell you, within 10 days of that first shot, I remember driving in my car and I remember like daydreaming about every person on the road. You know what I mean? Clean that one up a little bit. Daydreaming about about about, you know, deroding everyone. There we go. There we go. Droiving. unaliv unal aliveing everyone and uh and and and and thinking, man, I why am I so grumpy? Because I'm such a like calm guy. Like I'm just not a Canadian person. Yeah, I'm very Canadian. Like you could cut me off and I'm like, oh, that guy must be in a hurry, you know. Um and I was like, man, and then I remember just being like super grumpy and irritated and and going to the store and you know, they couldn't possibly bag things fast enough. Why is this person so there's so everyone's so slow and just I I don't like feeling like that and I thought holy crap this is a tremolo entity. Yeah. And so I discontinued it and it went away and then you know 6 months later like any good crap it's instant like within a week and it I I I can't express how much worse it was than anything else I ever tried making me and I don't know why the halflife like I know I've I used tracitate for every prep I ever did and I never really ever felt like that right but That tremble anate man, that was the worst. I hated it. It was by far the worst thing I ever used for how it made me feel. Yeah. For me, that would be Halo. Oh, yeah. Yeah. That's close second. When I when I would throw it, I used to remember like at the end of a prep, I'd go, "Okay, we're starting this now." So, I imagine my you know, you're about 3 weeks out, so you know, you're like, "All right, my fuse is about here. So, we're going to lose about threequarters of that fuse, about two days of this. So, that'll be good. And I would just I would just remind myself every day. So, you have to like pause before reacting to anything. Yes. I'm like, think, pause. What would Ron do? Okay, now answer. That was the key with that. But that I never I never stopped using it. I just understood the only thing. No. Hell no. No. because it turned me into sandpaper. So, I loved it. But, um, the one thing I did stop doing, which was an abrupt stop, was uh, injectable Winstrol. Oh. And it and it wasn't because it did anything bad to my attitude. Yeah. It's because you only need one bad shot of injectable Winstrol to know you don't ever need to do that again. Yeah. I hit my uh, it was a late night like cuz that was when I still own the stores. So, I went to the gym after the work, got home. It's like 11:30 at night. I had my ex-wife hit my tricep and she went to bed and it was like, "Oh, that hurts." And I'm like, "It still hurts. It's been like an hour now. It's throbbing like a toothache." And I'm like, "Well, it's already in me, so there's nothing I can do about it." Yeah. Go to the doctor and they'll go, "Yeah, you shouldn't have done that." So, I found that moving my arm helped the pain. So, I went to Walmart 24 hours a day, and I just walked around picking things up off the shelf and putting them back just to keep my arm moving. I stayed up all night. At 5:00 a.m., the moment I knew my friend would be awake, I called him cuz he just had a surgery. I'm like, "I'm going to need a pain pill." I literally met him on my driveway with a cup of water in my hand. Oh, yeah. He had me boop boop. Drank that. My arm was a good 25 in by the end of the next day. Oh god. It had swelled out of control. It ended up actually, and this was before the 2013 USA. I thought I was going to have to drop out. I was like 6 weeks out. Oh jeez. And it swelled up so bad. And the skin actually started flaking off like I was burning from the inside out. Yeah. That swelling reaction. Yeah. Yeah. It was horrific. And actually, if you go back and look at the 2013 year, you could see it was still bruised. It was discolored. Like, we did a little change to my tan to try to cover it up. Okay. And that tricep had a point on it for 2 years. Oh, god. Where I was like, well, this is a problem. Yeah. So, I never use it again. I do not allow clients to use it. No. Terrible. I'm like, oh no, you're swallowing a pill or you're not taking it. Like, no two ways about it. I mean you're it's basically I'm pretty sure what it is it's Winstrol mixed with glass. Yeah. Ground finely ground up ground up glass and Winstrol. So I I don't suggest it. Longest night of my life most pain and yeah it almost it almost took me out of a show and that was literally 6 weeks out. So that's how long that stayed an issue. So to anyone listening and the problem was it it all I always had a little swelling with it. So I was like, "Oh, perfect. I'll put it, you know, it didn't hurt." So I just put it in my arms, let it do its thing. Yeah. Take the swelling. That's fine. And it wasn't swelling like blurring muscle. It just kind of filled it up. So I'm like, "This is great." It was great until it wasn't, right? Yeah. It works until it doesn't. Yeah. I I can agree with you on the halo thing, too. But the the reason I didn't list it is cuz like you said, you're like 21 days out and you're like, "Well, I can just not be around anyone for 21 days. I'll be all right." But the the the the trend annotate stories I told that was like you know like I'd never really used trend offseason, right? And I was trying oh put a little bit in like even just one mil. Yeah. And like you're supposed to be happy offseason, right? You're eating pizzas eating pizza. Just misery. Misery. Yeah. Yeah. Not worth it. Yeah. So that's awful. I had my Halo story that I've told on the show before. I still took it. I just had a really bad day getting lost the first tab of the cycle the first tab of the cycle Halo and then I got in the car and proceeded to get lost and it was before there was iPhone so we had like map quest printed out direct and it was bad um and I'm trying to think I think the next nearest thing was um methyl trend and and it was the heat man the heat cuz it was like a hot summer and I was working outside so that was a a rough one and I pulled it. I was like, "No, I can't do this. I have to just stop because I'm just like overheating all the time and I feel like garbage." Yeah. And I think that was maybe that and yeah, if I'm thinking of one more thing when I ran DNP. Oh, you did that? Oh, yeah. I forgot you actually tried that. I I did it twice. One time was for a short fiveday run at 200 milligram. So low dose milligrams or micrograms. It's milligram. I think it's milligrams. Yeah. It's been a long time. I mean that tells you how how often I think about it, right? You know, I'm not familiar. So yeah, but the time before that I gave it the like the old college try, you know, where you do like the I think it I think you worked up like 400 500 a day. How did you feel on that? Well, you know, it basically just zaps your ATP, right? And you have no energy to train. Yeah. you you don't you don't have any energy to train. You don't have energy to do anything. And and honestly, I don't think it was worth it because like the second time I took it, I did get some that it was that lowd dose protocol and I changed my diet all up and everything and and it did jump me forward. Now, I had already been making progress. My number one reason for saying it wasn't a good idea was, you know, you're at one spot. You know what kind of carbs you need. You're moving forward. you begin the DNP even at that low dose you gain water from it and five days later you're now 10 pounds less um your diet isn't gonna the diet that you used before isn't going to work now so I come off the special DMP diet and I go back to my old diet and now it takes me you know 7 to 10 days to figure out what I need to do next so I felt like gez I could have just continued doing what I was doing you know but you know what it's like I was like well I want to see I just want to know, you know, in case somebody ever wants to use it. And I never use it with clients, so it's not like I ever needed that information. But yeah. Yeah. It was the heat that got to me with the whole cooking from the inside out thing was enough for me like I'm good. And it's it's uh transermal, too, right? You're not supposed to get it on your fingertips. Correct. Yeah. John Romano has a story about that. Have you heard that one? Yeah. And I had a friend who was handling DNP and he didn't he didn't realize he was handling all these capsules that someone made him. Okay. And like some broke open in the bag. Oo. He just dipping his hand in there. He didn't think. And then like he he wound up in a bathtub full of ice. Oh god. And then he went to emergency and they had him on like an IV and he was trying to explain to them what happened and they're just staring at him like he's a lunatic. Right. They're like, "What are you talking about?" Yeah. Industrial die. Yeah. Back before Google like there's no Google. The nurse can't just Google DNP and read like she they're just looking at them like are you making this up? This is insane. Yeah. It's the worst lie they've ever heard. So, it was very popular back in like the I think it was the late 1800s. They discovered that it was a fat burner because they were using it as an industrial dye and the people who were handling it were noticing that they were feeling hot and they were losing fat and it became a popular fat burner until amphetamine was developed and then after that they were like yeah we'll use this instead. Yeah. Um but yeah it had been popular back then and it's because it was getting absorbed through the skin is how they put it in pills back in like the 20s wasn't it? Yeah. Yeah. Like a long time ago. Yeah. you know, and then we brought it back in like keeping housewives slim. Yeah. Right. Yeah. Yeah. It was it was Dan Duchain who brought it back and uh he had that John Romano has told that story on podcasts before where they were like capping it up at a kitchen table in Venice Beach and then they're like, you know, sitting there and looking at each other and asking like, "Hey, are you feeling hot, man? Is it hot in here?" Damn. Wow. I remember Stan Eerting told me about an incident where they were in like he was getting ready for a show and Flex Wheeler was helping him. They were staying in like a not an Airbnb cuz they didn't have them back then, but like a longstay condo type of hotel. Okay. And he wound up in the bathtub with ice. Oh, really? Yeah. Yeah. They like discontinued it after they figured out there. It was not worth it. No. No. Quickly. That's wild, man. Nuts. Good old days of bodybuilding. The the only other the only other like health related story I have is back from the early days I joke with people that I took um you know I joke with some of the guys I oh yeah you know I took a 10,000 tabs of dbol right cuz dbol was like classic massive drug like for if you were bodybuilding in the 90s it was like dbol was like awesome everyone you had some pink hex's in your Oh yeah those hex's breakfast of champions put them on your cereal you Um, and it was like the best, right? And I had like Russian parabolins or not parabolins. Uh, they were called piranha ballal fives. They were like Russian d balls and pop out full. They were amazing. But the market was flooded with these Russian dbol tabs that came in sheets. Huh. And afterwards, like as time went on, we started hearing those aren't debal, they're just methyl test. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Right. Oh, but we were already like hundreds of tabs deep by that point. And and looking back on it, I mean, it I mean, you know, it was the '9s. It was hard to get good [\h__\h] You're getting European amps if you're lucky. And then you're getting these sheets of of what you think is dbol, but it's just cheap methyl test tabs that are being made. And that was like the old school counterfeit underground stuff, right? And uh I took a ton of those. So if there were methyl tests, I'm lucky I have any had any hair when I was 40. and all that. But I mean, I think that's maybe why like you used to judge the dbol by whether you got nosebleleeds. You'd be like, "Good sign." You'd be like, you'd be like, "Oh, I got a nose bleed on the leg press today. dbol's working." Like, it was a good sign. That's a good sign. Yeah. You'd get a nose bleed squatting. You'd be squatting, you know, heavy, and you'd get a nose bleed during your set and you'd spray some blood on the mirror and you'd be like, "Ah, [\h__\h] dbol kicking in. Let's roll." Oh god. You'd put tissue paper up your nose and you'd do your next set of squats. You're hardcore. Yeah, man. We were so crazy. Like I I think now if I got a nose bleed in the gym, I'd be like, "Oh, this is terrible. I got blood." You know, but no one no one wants any blood around. Right. Yeah. Not to mention, you'd probably be like, "My health, I need to go check my blood pressure, maybe just finish the workout." And then I was always considerate enough to go up to the front and ask for a spray bottle and I'd go Windex the mirror. What a good guy, you know. But uh yeah, those methyl test tabs, man, we took so many of those. I'm sure if there's anyone out there my age who remembers the old thinking they're taking dbol, but it's pretty sure it's not quite dbol. That was that was that Russian Russian methyl test. Probably cost 10 cents a tab and we probably paid a dollar a tab. So yeah, good old days. You got that one, Scott? Uh we have a bunch of stuff actually. Guys are commenting in the stream. So everybody on the live stream, you guys are freaking awesome. Thanks for hanging with us. Scott is with us. Not me. Another Scott says, "Question for the guys. Currently wrapping up the last four weeks of my cutting cycle. 450 test." So, I guess we're doing a bunch of gear stuff today, guys. Why not? 450 test. 450 mass. We're selling out for the views. We're doing the money. Reaching for our pockets. Reaching for our wallets. That's what it is, right? That's how it goes. Uh, okay. 450 test, 450 mask, 150 MP, and 350 trend E weekly. and he's pinning every day. So, he's splitting all that up every day with 25 milligrams of Winstril two times a day and two units of growth hormone taken at night. He's currently 11% body fat and dropping. Um, he's using Justin Harris's carb cycle diet. Is there anything I can do to increase the crispness look before I go on my beach vacation? I thought he was going to say like before I get to, you know, universe. Yeah. Hey, you got to get ready for the beach vacations, too. I do that. Do what you got to do. Be the most jack guy in the beach, man. I'll keep it short. You're 11%, so you just need to get leaner. There's Don't worry about water or anything like this point. However, I always held water on any kind of nandelone. So, the NPP for me, if I dropped out that 150 NP, I guarantee I would get leaner or harder looking. And then, like I just said, trrene made me feel [\h__\h] horrible. And that's quite a bit of trendy uh and and people think tren is like you will never hold water on it, but that's not true because it's also stressful to your system. So even though it doesn't convert to estrogen, it's also like stressful on you. So I would maybe cut that down to 200. And I know that sounds counterintuitive because you're on less drugs, but trust me, we've all seen this a million times. Sometimes less drugs equals a better look. And um and you're just trying to get lean for the beach, man. you're on plenty of gear. I would drop the MPPP out if you're, you know, worried about water and uh I would run less trend to be honest. Um, and you're on plenty of other stuff and I would just diet hard. If you're doing Justin's carb cycle diet, just pound that. But that's my quick little two cents. I have nothing to add. I love it. Yeah, I think that's all good advice. Um, let's get a restock on the shirts. Justin says, does he mean the at mutant? Good luck with that. Are there shirts available that we're going on? What shirts are you talking about? I don't know. Tell us, Justin. What are you talking about? Yes. Oh, all right. Okay. Tanya noticed I said Map Quest. Yes. Um, I'm trying to look here. We got a bunch of stuff. How was Scott Ael as a coach run? Oh, dude. We've been getting asked that a bunch of times. And also B question, like have you heard anything about him at all? Like is he still coaching anybody or anything like that? I don't know what Scott's doing. I know he um he he sort of retired from the bodybuilding scene. Um I know he got really tired of like the drugs were just getting crazier and crazier and crazier and he just had enough. Um so I don't blame him. Um, I remember he told me one time he was backstage at a show and this would have been like I don't know what year this would have been like 200 odd something like 200 9 10 something like around there and he said that was kind of remember that period where everyone was really banged up like their delts were loaded arms were loaded everything was loaded there was that phase when a lot of the kind of lower tier guys were trying to shoot up everything and it was always the lower tier guys right they were trying to make up for size and he just saw so so much sight injection he was just like I'm out of here and he kind of got tired of the bodybuilding. I don't want to put words in his mouth but he was helping a lot of like athletes and a lot of like also helping a lot of women. He really got into that market. Um I mean I I think he had plenty of money. I think he retire I think he's like pretty retired and I think he's doing pretty good. I haven't talked to him in years. Um yeah. Who who is he even? because we might have some newer people that don't even know. Um, well, I mean, it's hard to sum sum a person up. He's just he was way ahead of his time. He was a coach from Ontario back in the 90s. He turned like I don't know how many people pro. He turned, you know, 30 people pro in the 90s when there was one pro card a year. Yeah. Right. So, I mean, like it was a lot. He was You go to the nationals and you'd see strided glutes and there was only a couple people that it could have been. Right. Right. And Scott was one of them. He was he was ahead of his time. He I worked with him. He had me doing HIT cardio in like 2004. Okay. That wasn't a thing yet. He had me doing like super high calorie, super compensation days and then really low calorie dieting which was like kind of revolutionary too. Um and uh he was he was a volume trainer though. He was into like volume being, you know, having everything else standardized and then using volume as a sort of like what you use to regulate your training. Um, which, you know, I I tried it for a while. You know, I did win my first national title with him, so I had to hand that to him. Um, and yeah, he turned a lot of guys pro, man. And a lot of his guys were in great condition. And uh, but that was the old school days. there was, you know, a lot of water and diuretic manipulation and um pretty hardcore loading. He was into fat loading and stuff like that. So, um yeah, it was an interesting era. But yeah, Scott Ael had his hand in the bodybuilding scene for a long time. I believe he helped Linda Murray the year that she didn't win and then they found out she was pregnant. Oh wow. You remember that year Linda Murray like tried to win another Olympia and she got second and then afterwards she said she's like, "Oh my god, I really found out I was pregnant during my prep. I didn't even know." She dropped 9 lbs and was shredded. Yeah. Something like that. Like dropped 9 lbs and was shredded. But um like she was in the early stages obviously, you know, and just didn't know. Okay. But but yeah, so uh I know I think he helped her that year. He helped Greg Kovac like from kind of the start. like he picked Kovac up at a very early stage. And he was very closely working with great Kovac for a lot of those like crazy years at Kovac was getting out of control that Scott had his hand in a lot of that. So yeah, it was it was fun. Scott was fun to work with. Like he loved bodybuilding. He was super hardcore. Um and he was a smart guy, you know, real smart guy. So, you know, did he he work you hard? Like did did you like grind really hard to get to that kind of condition? Oh yeah. Your calories got low. Yeah. He he was the he was the guy that introduced me to the concept like everyone else was doing like you know 500 grams of protein no carbs. Yeah. Mhm. And Scott was like that's stupid. Your body's just turning carbs into pro or protein into carbs. Why don't you eat 250 grams of protein and 250 grams of carbs? Yeah. Your calories are the same. Yeah. and you'd do it and you'd keep your muscle and your pumps would be better, but you'd be starving cuz your meals were small and you know what I mean? Like you're having 6 ounces of chicken and half a cup of rice. Yeah. And you're starving, but that's the name that you'd just be like, "Ah, you're a bodybuilder. You're supposed to be hungry." So, you know, it was that type of a that type of thing. The meals were small, the diet was tough. Um, yeah, he was he pushed people. What about this one for Dusty? Because Dusty, you I feel like you got an answer for this. Dane, who we met, he says, uh, lead question, why don't cheat meals made at home hit like cheat meals from a restaurant? Oh man, there's a list there's a list of reasons. Salt and fat. That's the first one. Second one is you have no responsibility for any of it. You ain't got to make it. You don't got to clean it up. Someone brings it out to you on a nice fancy plate. You know, look at Scott is just breaking every rule there is. I know. I set an alarm cuz I take my SLU and I keep forgetting to take my second. It's like a a [\h__\h] for no reason is always better than a [\h__\h] that you had to clean the house for. Valid point. You know what? I think he just summed it up right there. We walk away. Yeah. And if you get a [\h__\h] at a restaurant Never mind. Never mind. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Ah, I got distracted. That's it. Can I have a booth, please? In the corner. Can you turn this light off over here? That's the darkest booth you have. All right, we had one from Patreon. I'll throw in really quick. Um, yes. How can you figure out food at the airport? Look for a teriyak place or something like or a burrito place. You can get a bowl. Just get rice. Oh, here's a hack. If you go to Chipotle or any sort of like burrito bowl place and they've got the rice in the front, it's usually got oil and [\h__\h] in it. I always ask for rice from the rice cooker. Valid, valid point. Oh, okay. Yeah, cuz it's just like it doesn't have stuff mixed into it. I go, "I don't want this rice. Can you get me some rice from the rice cooker?" And they'll look at you and go, "Uh, no. I don't think so." And I go, "Yes, you can. These are the droids you're looking for." And then they go to the back and they scoop it out of the rice cooker. And I'm like, "There you go." See, it works. So, they put oil in that other rice. A lot of places do. Okay. Chipotle does, especially Chipotle. That's why it's so like shiny and stuff. I didn't know this. All right. Oh, yeah. Yeah. That's a whole thing. I do a lot of um depending on where I'm at. If I'm in a jam, but uh there's always burger places and you can always just get a patty. Yeah. Get a couple patties. It's still got oil in the fat and it's fine. Then you just don't do any carbs, you know, you're getting the fats. Yeah. That's another trade-off, you know, throw the throw the veggies on and call it a day. Um, but I mean, I think the biggest thing is that only happens if you get stuck in a layover that you weren't planning on the way home. Mhm. You know, I've had the 9h hour I got I missed a flight one time. I was stuck in Chicago airport for 9 hours. I went to Chili's three times. The lady laughed the second time and the third time it was a different person cuz her shift was over. You went to Chili's once and you just sat there for three meals. That's what you need. You ate three meals at one time. This story is a lot. Um, I got some questions, too, that I thought were pretty good. Cool. What's a failure in your life that turned out to be a blessing? This podcast I made two good friends. There we go. It's still a failure every day. It's an expensive friendship you got there. I I I I uh I'm always in in retrospect, I'm always glad I didn't turn pro at any of my close calls. I'm glad I lost all those shows. Would have ruined everything. Yep. I would have turned pro before Facebook and then what? Yeah, we wouldn't know, Ron. Who cares, right? See you. Go get a job. Oh, I guess I'm a salesman now. I don't know. Very true. Um, for me it was uh getting injured and not getting to play hockey. And that was a double because part of it was I had zero plan. Like I didn't need another plan. I knew what I was going to do. It was fine. I knew it since I was 12. It wasn't going to be a big deal. So I planned my entire life even where I played what I did because it was going to go pro. A lot of guys didn't go pro out of college back then because it was a very different game. So if you were like a speed that kind of player, you would go to you go to college and still make it. If you weren't, you went to juniors. So when I got injured, I had no degree, no talents, no money. Oh [\h__\h] And uh that all worked out because that put me into this environment which then you know when you look back you you go, "Oh, the the ultimate plan, the universe plan, the God plan, whatever you want to call it." Yeah. Was just to do that to lead you to other things that happened, you know, meeting friends, meeting your wife, meeting whatever, and then ending up in bodybuilding. So, that was a huge in hindsight, I'm like, "Yeah, that definitely worked out for the best." Although, I still wish it would have went the other way. Anyways, I would say photography for me, I burnt myself out with it. like I was 24/7 365, you know, went to school for photography, worked in it, and worked at a place where you were like just go go go. And um I burnt myself out of it so much that I never wanted to do it again. And when I discovered bodybuilding as a as my next passion, which was something I had done before, but not at the level I eventually began to take it to, I realized I was like, I never I love bodybuilding so much that I never want to lose it. And so I always was able to look at the mistakes I had made previously with photography, which was was a huge passion of mine in art, and it was like, I'm I'm not going to make those same mistakes of burning myself out again. So, and it's something I try to pass on to other people because you guys, you know, people, we meet people, listeners and clients, some of them that are just like 24/7 and it's it's great, but some people you have to pull back and you're like, you know what? No, if you go on vacation, like you you're in your offseason, we're off, you know, cycle right now. You just got done with like a big push and now is the best time for you to be able to eat off plan. So like enjoy your time, you know, relax a little bit because in 4 months we're not going to have that opportunity to, you know what I mean? So stuff like that. Also, every other romantic relationship that I had ever been in to get where I am today, honestly. I, you know, wouldn't have wouldn't have been able to be who I am right now, you know. Yeah. Yeah. There really are no like I'm I'm I'm very fortunate that I am in a spot where I don't really see anything as a fail because I I'm happy with where I am in life and who I'm surrounded by. So, you know what I mean? Agree. I failed I failed at relationships, too. But it was all like, well, I mean, you know, look how on a scale of 1 to 10, I'm extremely happy on a daily basis, so I'm in a good spot. Yeah, it worked out. You know that's also mental attitude. Yeah. You know you got another one, Dusty? I have a list. I I shot out text messages. So we got we got loaded. Oh wow. So this is a good one. Three things a younger aspiring bodybuilder should focus on who is getting into the sport. Um having a plan for income. Like we've talked about this a million times. Bodybuilding is expensive and it's just getting more expensive. I mean, you bought steak lately. Yeah. And uh you know, bodybuilding is not a poor man's sport anymore. It used to be, you know, I mean, you can you can can it you can tuna and rice it for so long. It still costs more than it used to. It still costs a lot more than it used to. You know, we used to buy those 99 cent cans of uh tuna and Yeah. and all that stuff, but uh I think those days are long gone. And um bodybuilding is is not an not a uh a poor man's endeavor if you want to be, you know, really good at it. So uh have a financial plan. Um you need to be a boss in your life, not just in the gym. And um so that's one thing. Um also understanding that you have to build a pro physique in order to become a pro. That was mine. I was going to say get big. Just period. Get big. Build muscle. Don't be in such a panic to compete all the time. You're just going to be an also ran with all the other also rans. Um in in a lot of cases, I mean, you know, there's a lot of guys that are ready to win, but I'm just saying, you know, a lot of people that think they are aren't. Mhm. Um and don't waste your money going to nationals if if you you don't have like any shot at all, you know, to be realistic about that stuff. see a lot of people blow a lot of cash competing all year long. Yeah, I would I would strip it down too to even basic stuff in the gym. Work on figuring out what intense training actually is. Um I I don't think that a lot of people realize that intensity is something that grows over time. like what was intense to me which I always was somebody who people thought trained really hard but every two years if I were to look back at what I was doing two years ago it was nothing you know and you start to learn too that intensity isn't about running around the gym and you know feeling all crazy it's it's about what happens during one singular set one singular rep of every set you know finding the ability to call on those things that really take your next pill Scott I don't know why it keeps going off Those are those are things that I see very regularly. I go over it with all my clients. I ask for videos and nine times out of 10 when I see the set, I'm like, "Ooh, we have to learn how to train, you know." Um, and it it's weird to me because I'm I'm a visual learner. So, when I would watch Kevin Levrone, Ronnie Coleman train, I'd go, "Okay, that's what training looks like." And it will throw me off when clients will see videos of my training and then they send me their video and I'm like, "These aren't the same thing." And I'm not talking about the weight, you know? So, I don't think that most people have any idea what their body's capable of. Yeah. Focus on that a ton. Yeah. Yeah. Try to try to figure out a way to that that's why, you know, I I don't want to harp on the science guys because there is a lot of contributions coming lately. But um what one of the things that I I really think people need to do is they need to actually fi find a point where they've drastically overdone it. Yeah. You don't know where the line is until you cross it. Like I I remember like leg workouts where the next day I would be like there's no possible way I can go to the gym today. Yeah. Like I am so smashed. I feel like I got hit by a car. I can barely walk. Crippled around the house getting off. Oh, I can't just get off the couch. It's just like, "Oh, I'm messed up." Like a lot of people, a lot of regular people, if they just woke up that morning feeling like that, they would go to the hospital. Yeah. Yeah. They would be like, I have to book an appointment with like a doctor or I need to get blood work or I need to get a chiropractor to It's like, no, you just did legs. Like, you just have to just like recover from legs. Good news. you get to do it again next week, right? Six days it's going to happen again. You might be just not sore enough to do it again. Yeah. Like that. And and I think without knowing that um you know, I was thinking the other day of what the craziest sets we ever did. And it's so funny that you brought up Scott Ael earlier cuz Scott Ael actually had what he I can't remember what he called it but it was like a challenge set that he he had us do once in a while just to like and I look back on it now and there was no science behind it. It was just a mental thing just turning you into an animal. And you you do it on leg day. You'd go to the leg extension and you you you'd load up a weight you could only get like six reps with. Okay. So I was like stack plus a plate back then on that old extension that I had. and grind out six power reps like like right out of Blood and Guts where it's like the machine's almost moving on the floor trying to get six. And then you pull the plate, count to 10, go again. And if you get more than two reps, you count to 10 and stay with that weight and you only get one. And then when you only get one, you drop a couple plates, wait 10 seconds, go again. And if you get more than two reps, you stay with it again. And you keep staying with the weight until you only get one rep. And you work your way all the way up the stack. So it was like a And you'd time it. And I'd send him my time. I'd be like, "Oh, my leg extension set lasted five minutes." Yeah. You'd be like, "Oh, that's incredible. That's awesome. That's like brutal." And then, you know, you'd do like two sets of leg press and you'd go home. And um and obviously there's no science behind that. There's no studies on that set. It's like breaks all the rules of what people are saying now, but it teaches you like how much is in the tank and how much pain can you endure and how much lactic burn can you stand for like five straight minutes. Yeah. And and we used to do that stuff all the time. And I think it's important that people try to figure out ways to just just find out beat try to beat yourself to death. Yeah. And just figure out where that line is, you know? Hey, we're going to go in the parking lot. Like we train legs and then we take A-50 pound bar. And we'd say, "Okay, we're going to go in the we're going to try to do a 100 lunges." Yeah. And if you get to like 20 and you fail, then it means you got 80 left to give the bar to the other guy. He gets as many as he can. You take it back and you go and you might only get two and you hand the bar to the other guy. He gets two and you hand the bar to the other guy and you get two and you hand the bar to the other guy and we try to get to a hundred. There's no science there. There's no study. It's just like we're just going to do something that's so horrible. And then everyone in the gym is like watching out the door because we'd have the bay doors open at Hardcore in Edmonton and people just be like, "You guys are [\h__\h] crazy." Yeah. I'm like, "Yeah." And then they'd be like, "That's why you're the biggest guys in the gym." Uh, right. I think that that's the missing thing. I just told a client that actually. I said, "You need to be the guy that everyone thinks is nuts." Yeah. you kind of have to if you're trying to become that version. That's what it that's what it takes. And I know there's some science bells ringing off right now, but at the end of the day, I if I could throw away all the information, I would because when I went to the gym, when I decided to be a bodybuilder, I looked at the two biggest dudes in the gym and I said, "What are they doing?" Yeah. And then I was like, I would literally quietly be doing my little workout, not really doing it, keeping track of what they're doing, and then the next day I'd do that workout, and then the next day I do their next workout, and then it was cranking along. And then I was like, "Okay, I'm doing enough now. I'm going to ask them how they eat." And I mean, I'll never forget, Robert Pharaoh wrote my first diet on a napkin in the front of the gym. Yeah. Eat this. And I was like, "Okay." And then I ate that every single day and followed the workouts I stole from him. And next thing you know, I'm growing. And I was like, I never said to myself, I wonder if he's leaving anything in the tank. I wonder I didn't wonder anything. Okay, I'm going to do what he's doing. And then I got really big. And I think that that the lack of information was better because and I understand someone's, you know, I'm very aware that there are people that are just genetic freaks, but they were the two biggest guys in the gym. They were continuously bigger than everyone else. And I said, "Okay, that just seems like the best move." Yeah. you know, and it wasn't until way down the line, you know, and that was the next question Tommy asked actually I think is great, which is what are three things that a newer person shouldn't focus on, the majoring in the minors. Exactly. The nuances. Yeah. Yeah. I remember being a kid and watching Eric Eric Laru. I'll give him another shout out. I give him a million shoutouts on this show. He was one of my mentors when I was a kid. Still a friend of mine. Happy 61st birthday, by the way, buddy. Um, but I remember um Eric uh him and Kevin would come in the gym and they'd go over a squat rack and they'd do the old school thing where you lay the plates against the rack before you start. So there'd be five plates on each side on the floor leaning against the rack. Just telling everybody like these are our plates. Yep. And they get the bar in there and empty bar, one plate, two plate, three plate, four plate, five plate. Knee wraps go on at four plates. Knee wraps go on at five plates. you know, another set with five, then a set with four, then a set with three to failure, and then done squats. Yeah. And that was just like, oh, they're both 250 pounds with and they're massive, and everyone else in the gym knows they're the most massive guys in here. And there's lots of guys in here on juice, but they're more massive than everybody. So that guess what I did on leg day. Yep. Go to the squat rack, stack the plates, get going. Boom, boom, boom. Yeah. So just like same thing as Dusty, like who's the biggest guy in here? Yeah. You know, what's he doing? Let's do that. Yeah. And also it carries over that mentality carries over to when you're prepping. Like remember those first shows you're doing? Like think now about all the people that are doing their cardio and they're like worried about, oh, am I catabolic right now? Yeah. Your body can handle a lot. Well, it's funny, Ron, because I I just told a client the other day um we got started on first time for her on the stepmill and I was like, "All right, let's start at 60 steps per minute." And uh she gets done and she said, "That was really hard." I said, "Did you complete it at 60 steps per minute?" And she said, "Yeah, I did." I said, "Perfect. Keep doing that until it gets easier." And she goes, "Okay, what do I do when it gets easier?" I go, "Pick a level that feels like 60 seconds 60 steps did the first time." Yeah. Well, what about my heart rate? I don't care. What about this? I don't care. I want it to be really hard cuz it's 20 minutes. When it gets easier, make it hard again. That's like no science. No. Is it still really hard? Do you want to get off at 10 minutes? Perfect. You have 10 left. I used to be more locked in to the beats per minute, you know? Like I Yeah, I don't give a [\h__\h] I used to be more focused on it. I'm not as much anymore, I feel like. And I'm just I guess I'm saying like coaching perspective that's something that's changed for me. I don't think it's as important, you know? I mean the the harder you work, the more fat you're going to end up burning, right? Well, Ron and I have the same mindset on cardio. It should be either really easy, okay, for a duration. Yeah. Or really hard. I don't think there should be anything in between the two. Your cardio should be hell or it should be walking, okay? you know, and then let the duration decide how many, you know, what we're getting done here. Yeah. But I've really I've really leaned into liking it. And I find as a as an athlete, I prefer I mean I do it even for myself now. I get on the bike and when I first started riding the bike, I was like, I'm going to ride this at a hard pace and see what it gets me. Okay. And on the particular bike I'm on, I was running like 84 RPMs. And I saw how long, like the distance that took me according to the bike. And now I had data. I just kicked it up, kicked it up. And I mean, now I get on the bike for 30 minutes and I run at 104 RPMs the whole time. Do 11 plus miles. But it's one of those things where now I'm watching. Yeah. I want it to be hard. And then you start going, I wonder if I can get to 12 miles. Do I need to increase my speed? Do I increase the resistance? But it becomes like a game and it makes it fun as much as I hate doing it, right? And then it's also, you know, it's something Rob Bailey taught me. It's like you need to slay a dragon every day. And I really think that's true. Like you've got to do something brutally hard every single day by choice. And I lean into the things I don't like as much. The brutally hard in the gym, I love doing it. I can't even call it brutally hard because I love doing it. But getting on that bike or getting on the steps, it's not really enjoyable to me. So, every time I'm done, I feel like I did something and now the rest of the day is my [\h__\h] And I'm like, "Okay, I've already done the worst thing I'm going to do today. So, here we go." I I have a thing with cardio. I've always hated it. It's always been my least favorite part of the entire bodybuilding experience. It was always almost always a chore. It was always the thing that took the most like [\h__\h] yeah I want to win. I gotta do this type of thing. It was practicing posing and tanning were my two. Right. Right. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Um so so cardio was never like fun, you know. Um but uh now I have cardio is my longevity play. Yeah. I don't do cardio to look better. I do cardio because I like Oh yeah, that's right. I want to live longer. Okay. I got some cardio to do. Right. And and right now sometimes it sometimes I do 30 minutes on the bike, sometimes I do 10 minutes on the sprint bike, sometimes I do 25 minutes on the treadmill. But my daily victory is that I do some cardio. And it's just that I, you know, people who do cardio every single day live longer. Period. End of story. That's all the data I need. Yeah. Let's go do some cardio. Right. So that's my thing with it. That's where I'm at. I started with 20 minutes and uh you know at the beginning of the year like whatever it was January 17th and I I just was like 20 minutes three miles an hour at an incline of 2 and a half to three and that was enough to get my heart rate up and I'm like okay I can get my heart rate up by the like 10 minutes in my heart rate's up and I over time was able to continue pushing it up and it's really cool to see your endurance build with cardio And now I'll do like between 50 minutes to an hour uh on like a level 6.5 in just going as hard any faster than I would be running. So it's like it's pretty high intensity. I'm doing like it ends up being like 130 to 140 beats per minute. Especially if I do it after training because your heart's already up, you know. Yeah. Yeah. And my point now is I'm just kind of like Yeah. You know what? I used to always stick to the lower, you know, keep 120, 125 beats per minute, blah blah blah. And now I'm just like, and I love it, man. Like for me, and it's not for bodybuilding as much as it is for health and endurance. And what you said, Dusty, slaying that dragon, I'll tell you what, man. When I'm done with that, like I am freaking soaked. Like there Oh, yeah. The next thing I'm doing is taking a shower. There's no other opportunity to do anything. There's like it's and it's the greatest feeling in the world. I absolutely love it. That's why I bought that Echo Bike. I hate that thing. I know. I know. But man, I hate that thing because I just do um 30 seconds all out. Okay. And then I do 60 seconds just let the pedals move almost nothing. And I'm telling you, it can get off. You don't have to do when when when you crank that thing through like the first few times and I put it in the garage in the summer when I got it cuz I was like that was like an FU to me. Like I have space in my cardio room. I'm like, "No, no. We're going to start out here." It's hotter. Do you mean it's hotter in your garage? It's hotter. It's brutal. Yeah. And I mean, for the first, I don't know, 10 times, I used to have to come in and lay on my tile floor with a fan directly blowing on me and lay there for like 10 minutes afterwards. Your legs are blown out. You You're breathing like you're still on the bike. You've been off for 5 minutes. Yeah. And Yeah. I hate that thing. It's one of the best purchases I've ever made. That's cool. Yeah. I another thing I have to say about cardio is um one of the things that I get out of it is and the unfortunate thing is I have to finish the session to get the reward. But the you know like I I've really sort of not embraced because I didn't have like any terrible habits or anything but um you know the the the talk we have now from like Andrew Huberman and the stuff we're hearing from people about dopamine and how you want to avoid easy dopamine, right? you know, people that have like, you know, certain terrible habits and that's how addictions form is they just easy dopamine and um reward for no work and stuff like that and it kills motivation and all that stuff. So, I've been on this thing where like if I know I can get dopamine from something that's hard, I know I have to do it, right? And it's like a motivator to make me do it because I it just there's just something I know that that rewarding feeling is there. And it's not just things like cardio. It's anything you don't feel like doing. Like on Friday, I was tired. I trained early that day. I had a ton of stuff on my laptop. I was busy. And I just thought, man, I was going to ride today. I was going to get out on my bike, but I'm pretty tired. And I was watching the sun, you know, the sun move across. It's getting later. And I thought, man, I got two hours of daylight left. And I looked at my app and it said rain Saturday, rain Sunday. And I thought, [\h__\h] if I don't get out today, I'm not going to get out all weekend. And next thing I know, it'll be Monday and I won't get out Monday cuz I'm busy. So I quickly threw my pads on, pounded some Mind FK, grabbed my bike off the wall, and I went and had a fantastic session. And as soon as I got out there and I got moving and stretched out and got moving, man, the music was awesome. I had my had my music playing. I had great session and and uh I remember driving home like I felt high as a kite. Yeah, I know what you mean. I felt fantastic. Like I'm like I'm stopping at the store going to grab some groceries. I'm going to cook a nice dinner tonight. I stopped at the butcher, went in, grabbed some some some steak skewers and some stuff we don't normally eat. and I came home and I made a nice dinner and Emily and I sat down and watched a movie and I just I just that dopamine reward for something that you didn't feel like doing is is something that I think people need to really focus on and use it as a motivator if you're having a hard time with stuff and it can apply to so many things. I've been watching a lot of podcasts on that. They're saying the dopamine information is changing and that that what you just said plays a bigger role. It has to be something harder, something you don't really want to do, something with a surprise result. Yeah. Yeah. You know, cuz of course if you hate doing cardio, if you hate getting on the echoike, well, you know the part you're going to get, which is the shitty part. Um, but that's where the dopamine comes from. Why it's wild, like mildly addicting to do something you hate doing. Yeah. And that's something I tell people I tell clients in the gym. You know why you go grab the explode row instead of a barbell? Cuz it's easier, right? Yeah. Yeah. It's just easier. Every part of it easier. Putting the weight on, it's easier. Rowing, it's easier. What you're using, yeah, you're both rowing. But I'm telling you, the harder one works better. Put the bar on the ground. If you want to make it really hard, don't even use the the lift to put them on there. Slide that [\h__\h] on. It's a pain in the ass. Best back workout you can have. Row a row a bar against gravity. Can't be beaten. Oh, hey. So, the cardio thing we uh I'm doing all this in the house, right? And uh when I had gotten sick after that uh you know 5 years ago now I was like my my my cardio was so bad after that and I couldn't breathe and just like trying to brea sing at my desk sucked and I had this realization where I was like I I don't know if I'll ever be able to go hiking again with my wife, you know, like we we loved we we weren't even married then. I don't know if we'll be able to go hiking again. So, while we were in Vancouver, we went to Lin Canyon and it's a nice little like rocky walk, you know, Ron, you've been there. It just Of course not. It's a beautiful little walk and there's this really cool little pool. Uh there's a little river area and you can jump into that and stuff and people do like some cliff diving that's really not safe. They actually have questionable they have a map there of like where everybody has unalived themselves by jumping in. But at the end of that, then you can keep going to another bridge. And there's two paths. There's one path that's like a flat path, and there's one path that's a set of stairs that literally just goes straight up until it turns and then goes up again and turns and goes up again. You can't even see the top. We took that thing straight up. And I would not have been able to do that had I not gotten my cardio built up. And let me tell you, Dusty, you get up to the top of that mountain and it was incredible the feeling you got just being able to do that. And it sucked. Like my breathing, it was hard. You know what I mean? But it felt so good. Hard but possible. Yeah. Yeah. I was really proud of myself. It was It was like a really big moment. So, I was very happy with that. So, here's one, Scott. Um, I want your take on this because I know it takes a lot of heat now with uh uh Oh, with the science world. Tempo training. When is the best body part to use? things like slow eccentric movements, how and when to add that into training. Slow eccentrics. Yeah. Well, that's that's what she wrote there. Yeah, that that was Yeah, that was the confusing thing. So, you know, there's a lot of push back now on controlling your negatives. That's not necessary really. It doesn't do anything. Huh. And I couldn't possibly disagree more. Like to to me the most simple metaphor I ever heard, which I've used countless times since then, is comparing a rower to a gymnast that does like rings. Okay. If you're rowing a boat, you know, say you're you see those people, they're not jacked. Yeah. But all they do is row all day because there's only resistance when they when they're pulling towards themselves. You know what I mean? There's no negative resistance. And I said, "Now look at look at a ring somebody that's on the rings that has to slowly control how their body moves." Yeah. Explode up when they need to control the negative. And as soon as I heard that metaphor in my life, I was like, "Oh, feeling the negative makes sense to me." Yeah. And now there's science argument against it. And I'm like, "Yeah, I don't care." Yeah. No, that's not even a conversation, you know? Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I really, it's funny to me. Some of the things that come out with different studies, I'm always like, "Yeah." No. Yeah. It doesn't matter. You know, I mean, there are certain things I think even if they don't make sense, they make sense. You know, when like in the in the old days, some of these younger people won't know, but people really push on like switching to white fish at the end of a prep. Oh, yeah. Yeah. And people are like, "That doesn't do anything. Chicken is low fat. That's low fat. It's the same." And I'm like, I agree. It's different, though. Yeah. Yeah. It does make a difference. Yeah. I totally agree with what you're saying. But no, just like that. We've talked about the fasted cardio. Yep. Yeah. Same same thing. It's like it doesn't matter what it does. Do an experiment. Switch to all light fish and do fasted cardio every morning for 30 days and like no other changes in your life. Just do those things. All meats are switched to light fish and you're doing all your cardio first thing in the morning. You're muted one. Ron, you're muted. Yeah. And guaranteed you will be less happy. Yeah. Just like removing Diet Coke from your diet. Yeah. I love I love that meme about Diet Coke. It's like I just concluded my 30-day Diet Coke study. I drank no diet coke and the results are I am less happy. I'm I'm less agreeable. I on and on and on. As he's drinking it, I am no healthier. Very valid. Good. Do we got more or do you want me to keep firing some of these ones off? I have I like these. Yeah, these are I had a good one, too. But you can We could do a couple more. What was your What was your good one? Well, it's kind of a philosophical one, so I don't know. I like philosophical. Let's do it. Okay. It's uh it's it's from uh I'll just get his Instagram name, Rendell. Okay. If if you could never receive external validation or any recognition, who would you be then? What part of you remains when all your roles, reputation, other people's opinions, and all of that are stripped away? Well, this is horrible for me. My whole life is based on external. No, actually what's funny is I I think I I'm going to guess that that's a younger person. And the reason I say that is because at least for me that stopped forever ago. Like the fact that there's external validation that comes in is just a byproduct of me doing what I was going to do anyways. Like the only change is we we have to post on social media. It's part of our job. I wouldn't do that as often because I don't care, right? I wouldn't video in the gym cuz I don't care. I don't need to see it. I've done it 10,000 times. I think he's my age. But yeah. Oh, so then so maybe then then he gets it like cuz for me I you definitely realize that I mean it's the same when someone asked me just recently like, "Oh, what do you you know, do you worry about what someone would think of that?" And I'm like, doesn't even cross my mind to care. Like you do, I think you just reach a point in life where you're like, I just do what I do and that's the end of it. Like my training would be the same. Every essentially everything I do in my life would be identical if no one cared because I you do these things because you care. And if you're not doing it for those reasons, you should probably switch what you're doing because you're going to eventually reach a point where you're unhappy then because at some point no one is going to give two shits about what I'm doing every day. I'm shocked it hasn't already happened. Um so it's important that it validates that you validate what you're doing. You know, I mean, yeah, I think that most people don't realize that the majority of our lives don't go up on social media and the best parts of my life don't go on social media. So, I'm just putting up the stuff that we're that we're just shy of required to. I I I I know that I have to put things up to continue the business side of my life. Mhm. because I know that we're in that weird spot where you know a lot of the stuff that I post in by keeping my social media flowing it ties in with the things that generate income. Yep. Yep. So, it's like this weird all-encompassing thing where you just try to be, you know, you have to do a certain amount of putting you out there because you is the reason that, you know, we're sponsored and we have, you know, businesses and that sort of thing, right? So, it's all sort of this weird thing where everything meshes together. Um, but I, you know, I really appreciate like certain certain guys I look at their pages and their Instagram is literally one thing. Like they're they're hunting. Oh, yeah. Yeah. And I don't see I don't I don't see anything about I don't know what they drive. I don't know what their wife looks like. I don't know what their kids do. I don't know anything about them. And I'm like, I like that. I I that's that's cool, you know? Um, so yeah, it's interesting though, you know. I I do think that I I'm a little I'm I'm old enough that I am happily past a lot of that stuff. Do you think when you look back and I'm answering this simultaneously me I'm grateful that some of my earliest days and the most fun I had bodybuilding was before all of this. Oh yeah. Like the majority of what I have is just memories and the only people that have them are there people that were there. You know, like I would love just for myself to be able to visually hold them in my hand again, but it's like, you know, some of I mean, same with Ron and I, it's like when we started the show, Scott, you know this, we travel for a decade together. Scott's like, "Send send me pictures of you and Ron together, and we had three combined for nearly a decade of travel." I'm like, "We have a billion memories." They tried to pull one over on me, guys, where they and I found out the story afterward, but it's like Dusty holding the camera with Ron in the background. He literally was like, "We forgot to take a picture." Knocked on went and knocked on his hotel room door. Ron opens the door. Dusty snaps a selfie and he's like, "Here you go, Scott. We really worked on this. Here you go. Put a lot of work into that, buddy." Yeah, that was uh that was England one trip. I remember very we spent the whole day together and then I went to his room at like 12:00 and I was like I hope he still has clothes on. Got the selfie and mission accomplished. We took pictures. I believe there was two so we can take pictures. It's good. You guys are a lot better at it now though. We we do a good job. Maybe because I'm there half the time to corral you actually. Dusty, you remember? And did you guys ever put up that video, by the way, of the uh um from Fibo the in the equipment hall? You know what? I just found it. I have it fully edited. Okay. Completely edited. We're halfway there. No, I I I I just realized cuz I I opened my iMovie again and I was like, "Holy [\h__\h] I forgot about that video." And it's completely done. It's down to like for It's a 14-minute video. I was going to I was going to add a little voice over. Should I just send that to you? What should I do with it? Yeah, I'll talk to you about it afterward. I'll text you so great. It's like so I I just got sidetracked by some stuff, but it was completely done. I had it all edited. Dusty was like I was I'm I was when I found it, I was like, "Oh my god, Dusty's going to think I'm an idiot." Yeah. I actually at this point I forgot it existed. No, no, no. It's It was actually I got it trimmed up pretty good. Dusty's I'll try to post that before Feeboat next year. Yeah. Yeah, I know. It'll only be Yeah, it's like two months late. It's all right. It's all right. People still enjoy Oh god. Okay. Okay. Do we have more? We I have one. I have one. I have a quick one that I thought would be good. Okay. A practical tip to to that you use to stay organized. I got married. Yeah, that's a good one. Worked worked for me, too. My main thing with staying organized is uh I do things immediately. Like if I get a bill, I pay it immediately. Y if I get a notification for something, I put it in my calendar immediately. I I I think that procrastination is a massive reason why people get disorganized and behind. It's not necessarily their organizational skills, it's that they procrastinate. Yeah. You know, they have laundry sitting on the table and they have dishes in the sink and they have like that stuff. I just have no patience for that [\h__\h] I get stuff done. If I have a load of laundry that finishes, I don't pull it out and sit it on the table. Yeah. I pull it out, fold it, and put it away. Like, I get things done immediately. I do I complete tasks completely and then they're done. And I just do that with a lot of things, you know, like if something needs fixed, I fix it right now. I go get the tools, fix it right now. I don't say, "Oh, I'll do that this weekend." Cuz you had other things to do this weekend. And there's going to be more things come up for this weekend. It makes so much sense. I wish I could be that way. I'm not. I just handle things as as quickly as I possibly can, you know, like and and Emily sometimes it drives her nuts because we'll be like doing something and I'm like, "Oh, this came up. Stop. Fix it." She's like, "Can you fix that tomorrow?" I'm like, "Nope, needs to fix right now." Boom. Fixed. There we go. What would you do if you were in the middle of a movie? I would finish the movie. Not a boy. I just wanted to make sure you weren't going to break your own rules. That's No, I have boundaries. You must pay attention to the movie. Yeah, I'm horrible for that. If you're watching a movie with me, I expect you to watch the movie, every frame of it, because I want to talk about that movie after. I don't want you to miss that stunt or turn your head or miss a line, cough, get up. And if you're going to get up and go back, I'm pausing it. Like, if don't think you can walk to the kitchen and back and I don't pause it. Oh, like there's a requirement here, too, but we do both directions. I also don't want to step away to go to the bathroom and miss a single word. No, like it's important. Especially on Mob Land. There's a lot going on. Watch. Put your eyes on the screen. Yeah. You'll love this, Ron. Last night we were watching a an episode and it finished and it was a little late and I told Nick, I'm like, "Let's just get the first 10 minutes of this next episode cuz I kind of need to know what goes on." And around 11 minutes later, she's asleep. So, I finished the next episode as well. Oh, see, I couldn't have done that. I was like, I got to keep going. She'll just have to watch this on her own later. I was in too deep. I was in too deep. I know. I know. All right, we need we need one more closer, which Yeah, everyone Ron put me on Mob Land and I watched the entire thing in like 3 days and then caught up to the most recent. So yeah, yesterday as soon as it came up I we finished training, we finished legs, we ate a meal, and I'm like now would be a perfect time to get that last episode in. Yeah, Mob Land's been good. Great. Check this out. Melon Head. Now, I don't know what we were saying, but it must have been like one of the more motivational moments of the episode. He said, "My boss walked in and asked for the link to this." I think he assumes it's motivational speaking. Better give him a different link. Give him a different link. Send him to like a Jordan Peterson. skip the first 30 minutes about trend and everything after whatever portion he got to. He's going to come back and knock on his door and go, "Hey, uh, could I get some of this trend stuff they're talking about?" Yeah. What are these hexagons? I'm going to need some of those. What about What about this one then? Uh, from Ethan, who's been with us the whole episode. All right. I don't know if this is like a big final finisher question, but he says, "Ethan, unemployed?" You will be after this. He says, "Tattoos in bodybuilding, best and worst places for tattoos." example. Uh, I got mine in my arm, uh, but not the arm I show in my side shots. Dust isn't bad for this. I have no tats. I have zero tattoos and Emily has zero tattoos. I think the tattoos, you don't want to cover. So, once you go over the line between your tricep or your arm and your shoulder, it's bad. Like, it never looks as tight as it used to. M like I'm actually it's funny but people will see me and they they think I'm in okay shape and then if they see me with my shirt off they're like oh you're like under 10% body fat. I'm like oh yeah because they can't see that anymore. So that one's horrible. Anything on the abs I mean honestly if you're bodybuilding now just don't get any more tattoos. This this was my retirement plan. This was going to this made sure I never came back. I was like once I go over this line it's done. He did it on purpose. Yeah. Like this will it's funny. Hey, I got the idea from Dennis James. That was his thing. He's like, "If I throw these on, I'll if I get tempted, I'll know I'll suck anyway, so don't worry about it." But yeah, so whatever you have, just don't get more. I mean, you don't want anything that detracts from looking at your physique. I I think as a judge, like if I was a judge, I think I would tell people avoid your back and avoid your quads. Yeah, the quad is a rough one. Yeah. I've seen guys get like the whole mural on the back and then you can't see the detail anymore. It's tough. Yep. Yeah. Yeah. But and again, I mean, there's a lot of guys that did that got into tattooing before they got into bodybuilding. It is what it is. Some of the cover-ups are great. Sometimes they work well, sometimes they don't. But sometimes they work good enough. Yeah. It is what it is. So, you know, if you really love tattoos and it's that important to you and you're not like at a pro, like I I think there's a misconception because of the very old school idea of, oh, you'll get marked down if you have a tattoo. Now, if you go to like a state level show, like you'll see so many tattoos, good ones, bad ones, and everything in between. And it's like, if it's that important, you really want it and you're a state level guy, then just keep bodybuilding, get the tattoo, too. And it's, you know, not going to be the end of the world. I think at that level to be honest, the best guy is still the best guy. Yeah. Like I would still win any local show if I got in shape. They're not going to be like, "Ah, can't see his shoulders very well." Like, "Well, you can see he's bigger than everyone else. Who cares?" It would have to be like I think in any scenario, right, that like you guys are equal in every The only way that a tattoo could truly hold you back would be if you're equal in every single way. like it's that close. Mhm. But the other guy doesn't have the tattoo, you know? Yeah. So, but yeah, I mean, is what it is. I do know that uh when I colored in under here, Yeah. if I do like a normal bicep pose, my arm doesn't look as big anymore because it's dark. No kidding. Right. Visually see it just looks smaller. But I just don't do that cuz I have no reason to do that anymore. I told that to Nikki today because we're we're doing a little fiveweek cut for a trip on social media. That's why I did it because today was just the uh today's day one. I'm starting a diet after actually tomorrow because I'm taking the kids out for one meal. Okay. But I wanted to see the start point. She goes, "Oh, do you are you going to the room?" I'm like, "I'm not a bodybuilder. No, I'm just going to lift my shirt." I love how that I love how Dusty said, you know, today's day one. Well, I'm starting later. Actually, I'm starting tomorrow. Yeah. I forgot the girls. I was like, "Shit, I got to hit one more. I gota I got to hit one more day. I forgot. You got to love this, too. You only tell kids like, "Hey, we'll take you guys anywhere to dinner because we're going to take a break and not go out for a while. Where do you want to go?" They go, "Chili." I'm like, "Okay." I mean, I love Chili's, but that's that's the place you want to go if you can go anywhere. Yeah. Okay. Good choice. Well, at least your kids aren't going to break you out of house and home. That's true. No. Yeah. Yeah. No worries on that. Yeah. We're good there. 30 bucks. We're done. Okay. 30 bucks? She must live in America. Have you guys um have you guys been hearing about this sugar only diet that Mark Debell has put out? I just did a reaction on it today. Okay, good. Because Dante asked me about it and my friend John threw that as a question thoughts on it and I have no idea what it is. So, break it down. Well, if you ask a couple of our commenters on the show, we don't know anything about anything. So, there is that. Keep that. Keep that. We never did. Yeah. No. Yeah. Um, but this is inspirational like somebody commented that I think they were like for, you know, if you're going to do a reaction, you should do some research. We just watched a video. Well, you can't do a reaction if you do research. It's not a reaction. I know. I know. So, it's basically a car load. It's a carb load, but it's uh it's specifically with simple sugar. Does know about this? Well, I did the reaction with him. Oh, no. Yeah. Yeah. Perfect. So, and and it's like I I don't know remember if it actually is a thousand grams of carbs from sugar, but Mark Bell, you know, somebody who's in like a very low carb state and and I believe that he even had, you know, kind of preached that like, you know, kind of, you know, some people have like their like the diet they're on as part of their platform. You know what I mean? Oh, and I true, but I feel like Mark Bell has kind of been like I'm a, you know, specific diet kind of guy and talking about that diet has been kind of his social media platform. So now this is the new thing where instead of being real low carb, he's interjecting these super high carb all simple sugar days. It's like once a week. I don't even know. We didn't see like the video we watched it didn't tell us how often he's doing it. But yeah, it's basically a carb load using simple sugars. My concern would be, and Skip mentioned this, would be like that's a lot of candy. Like it's stuff like Starburst and you know, gummy bears and stuff like that. That would be a lot of sugar to consume. You know what I mean? I didn't want to do that. Yeah. That always falls back into the why for me. Why? It's, you know, if you were to do it. Yeah. I was gonna say if you were to do it and make a big deal out of it and you get a lot of, you know, clicks on it. Perfect. A little, what do they call that? Rage bait. Perfect. Yeah. I fall sucker to a little bit of rage bait on my Instagram and I start doom scrolling and it just keeps giving me more rage bait. I mostly see dogs doing fun and funny things. That's what I wish I would see. I'm trying to You need to click more dog things. You guys follow We Rate Dogs? No. Oh, you really should. Each week, too, they have like a My dogs win. They have a thing that where they like go back over the top five dogs, the top dogs of the week. They rate every dog. No dog is less than a 10. Some dogs are like 13 out of 10. It's It's a really good page. It'll make you feel good. Okay. I just followed. We rate dogs. It's a good one. Yeah. Well, is that it? I mean, dogs is a good place to end. I think we had no dogs. My dogs are sleeping or you'd see them, but I can hear them snoring. The littlest dog snores the loudest. Of course, Donna like saws logs like no one's. And I'm like, "Dude, you're this big." Like a boss. How does this happen? And then when she snores, Nikki's always like, "Oh, it's so cute." I'm like, "Why is it not cute when I snore?" Payton started watching White Lotus. You want to throw that in there? Good choice. Yeah. I started watching Studio. So, and I'm on episode four now. Okay. And it's good. It's a really good show. So, did you watch number four? No, we were on that next. So, you watched the direct the Ron Howard one was three. Yeah. Ron Howard. It's a good show, man. It's a really good show. I gotta say that I think it's the I think it's the best thing that Seth Rogan uh and his writing partner Adam have ever done. Um I laughed that last the last sequence after he has the the talk with Ron and and then it goes into that. I started I was laughing for the last five minutes from Ron, you know, and him arguing on like it just was non-stop laughter. I had tears in my eyes. Every episode has a great cameo in it because everyone wants to be on the show and it's a show about a movie studio so they have access to like think of how many people they're friends with, right? Yeah. like he could get anybody on that show. And and so every episode has like a brilliant cameo from somebody super famous playing like maybe an [\h__\h] version of themselves or or maybe you know a semi-realistic version of themselves, but it's great. The last two episodes are like a part one and two, okay? And David Franco has this amazing cameo that he's he's sort of in both episodes. Uh in it's you just got to wait for the last two episodes. They're complete chaos. But isn't it hectic? Yeah. Yeah. We had to get used to that. Like the first episode it gave me anxiety and then after I after that then I'm like okay. You had to re reframe your mindset before you start watching the show. Yeah. cuz they're like 30 minute episodes, but there's no fat on them. No, no, it is just nonstop like and stressful cuz you're like, "Oh my god." But they wanted to capture the the stress of working in the movie industry. They do a good job at that. How like high pressure it is and how much, you know, like you are we going to greenlight this movie or not? We have to know by 10 o'clock tonight. Like is is he going to play the lead or not? like we need to know like and this the anxiety of all the crap going on and all the moving parts of making a movie and uh yeah the feeling the sense of place they give you the the Hollywood that they create is like it's the world that I would expect Hollywood to be kind of the way in um uh um oh what was it called once upon a time in Hollywood so much of that movie was about feeling like you were in the 1960s in in Los Geles, you get that same feeling, you know, of being there with them. The houses and the buildings that they're in, and it's so crazy. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. And Seth's driving that stupid car. He's got a what, a 53 Corvette or whatever year it is. I love that car. Yeah. And and um the the the ep apparently the most realistic episode is the one where they're casting the Kool-Aid movie cuz you know that Kool-Aid movie is coming. Kool-Aid. And there's an there's an episode coming up where they have to cast the Kool-Aid movie. Oh god. And apparently all the conversations are taken from real conversations that they've heard studio people have to have. Like just the the nonstop franticness of it. Like, well, if we cast a black guy for this role, does what what race does his wife have to be? And like, oh my god. And then what? But then there's too many white people. Oh, we got to fire that person. But are we firing them because they're white? like and then you know like just a constant like juggling of just all the nonsense they have to put up with to make a movie and please every single person and not get called any you know anything bad and just it's chaos. So just wait for that episode cuz it's stressful. I'm excited. I'm excited. Awesome. Okay. Thanks guys. Okay. Remember like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. Yes. And remember, go to immutant.com. I am mutant.com. Get your ISO surge. Get your all in. And everyone should get on the gear. Dusty and Big Ron are the codes. Save money. Get it delivered to your door. You don't even have to put socks on. Come on. I know you're not leaving your house. Most of you are unemployed. Let's just be honest with ourselves. Um so yes, let's do that. Go to Mutant, get your stuff, make us happy, keep us uh keep us relevant. We appreciate we appreciate all of you. Remember, oh yeah, thanks for watching the live by the way. everyone that that chimed in. Yes. Awesome. Thank you. Sorry we couldn't get to every comment, but you know how it is. We're kind of incapable of really handling the stuff that happens. We're doing our best. Okay. Remember, it's just bodybuilding.