 If you want transmedia to talk about you, then you definitely throw a tantrum like a little baby. Okay, we're going in. Okay, we're going in. I had to because... Dusty drags me into stuff all the time. This is my life with Dusty. Hey everybody, welcome to It's Just Bodybuilding. I'm Big Ron Parlow. This is Dusty Hanshaw with his new pants. Jordans everyone. New pants that I gave him because I bought them and they're too big for me which is... Sad story, but also a wonderful story. It's not a sad story for me. Of an older man passing new pants to a younger man. I'm in Ron's pants. And then we, yeah, he knows what it's like to be in my pants. And then we have the producer, Scott McNally. Hello. Hey, who's done a lot of hard work to set up all these cables again and then tear them down and then set them up and then tear them down. Yeah. Yes. And I didn't mean to interrupt. You were just reminiscing with the real deal, Chris Cormier, about your days at Wells Venice. Yes, back when Venice was Venice. I heard you say something like, you did your best with me and my terrible genetics. I think that was the sentence. You had to. Something like that. So I knew you had to kill me or something. I can't remember what the word is. I tried to get a little, get him to make wine out of water. Yeah. Yeah, I couldn't quite hear, but I was, I got the gist of the conversation. So here we are, day three at the 2026 Arnold Expo, and we're at the Mutant Booth. And it's been great. We've got to see a lot of people. And I would say, I would say 80% of the people that stopped to talk to me were because of the podcast. Yes. Podcast related. True. And then also Mutant on a Mission overlap was a great portion of that. And then the other 20% that weren't podcast related were just Mutant on a Mission. Yeah. Like themselves. So that was pretty cool. So it's, it's nice to see that, you know, this is the sole reason why I still am here. We. Sorry, Goose. We. Yeah. I was going to let you tell your version of the same story, but yeah, the podcast, you guys really have been fantastic. Um, did I do the like, share, subscribe, comment, and? No. Ring the bell. Yes. High button. Yes. Four fingers. Yes, you have to hit the high button. Four fingers. Wow, there's so many jokes. I call that. I won't need to do them. Um, you could do them without saying anything. You just do like hand gestures. It feels better. It feels better. Um. Okay, so it was a really good weekend. Um, remember, I am mutant.com, use your codes, Dusty and Big Ron. Yes. Save money, have it delivered, don't deal with people. Trust me, like after a weekend of dealing with all these people, I can't wait to get home and not be, and just be like alone with my wife and my dogs in my condo. Looking forward to it. Um. Is that the message that Mutant wants us to put out? Yes. No. No, the message is that you too will look forward to being on your couch. Yeah, everyone here is going to be looking forward. I think everyone's a little fried. Like everyone's, the people we're talking to today have that slower cadence. Right? That's true. Right? Before we get 20 minutes in, can we talk about the show? Show. There was a show? Yes. And then we can still talk about all that. So I forgot, I remember they said something last year about the prize money going up. Oh God. And I, so when I, like, I got up this morning and I was like looking at the Instagram stuff because I just didn't pay attention to the prize money last night. Yeah. Yeah. And then I was looking at the Instagrams and there's 750K. I'm like, oh shit. Yeah. I forgot about that whole thing. It's a good day. Yeah. That's a payday for Andrew Jack. It's a good day. Congrats. Also, I want to say, doesn't always happen, but we called it. Yeah. We got the right one. We said Andrew was going to win like a week ago. Remember? We did the Arnold show. And I happily lost a $5 bet. What was your $5 bet? Because Nick beat Hottie. Oh yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I didn't know this when the guy said it. That's a client of mine. Okay. So I'm probably going to toss him 10 just because I'm really happy with that loss. That's cool. Yeah. No, that was. So, so where do you want to start with the show, Scott? Oh God, man. I like, we got to talk about everybody. I, first of all, do we just start with Andrew? Cause he won. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Let's start there. Okay. Let's start with first for, for the first, for the first time. There we go. There were two. So what I get from the crowd here, there were two schools of people. Okay. There were people walking up to me going, Nick's got it right. And I was like, ah, I think Andrew has it. And they were like, really? But Nick's so freaky from the back. Yeah. And I was like, yeah, yeah, he's crazy. I have to say, I think Nick might've had the craziest hamstrings I have seen. Like, I don't want to say ever seen cause I'm old and I've seen a lot, but like they were nuts. That backshot was nuts. Definitely the craziest adductors I've ever seen. Yeah. The adductors and hammies, like the thickness through there, just absolutely bonkers. So I think a lot of people are going to be doing leg curls like Nick this year and doing stiff leg deadlifts like Nick. They already are. And they're like, it's going to be, yeah. It'll work just the same. Also, I have to say whatever Nick is doing in the gym is really working cause he is humongous. Yeah. When he walks out towards the front and his delts are like, they're bigger than I've ever seen them. Like he was frigging huge. Yes. And so congrats to Nick on everything that was the, I think, was that the best I've ever seen Nick? I think. That was pretty incredible. And I'm going to say this. So sitting there in the audience, watching it live, I thought at the same time, I'm getting pictures from Skip and Andrew Barry. They're looking at pictures online and they're sending them to each other in our group chat. Ah, yeah, yeah. The group chat. And I'm looking at those pictures while like bikinis on or men's physique's on. Yeah. And they said, well, how do these pictures compare to what you're seeing in person? I felt like Nick's midsection control was far superior to what we were seeing in the pictures. Okay. The pictures did not do it justice. Okay. Because you can take a picture at the wrong millisecond. Right. Right. Whereas like seeing it for the full duration of time, he was really good. Toward the very end of the posing, like when they brought them back out and they were pushing him further. Like I could see like, okay, he's losing it a little bit. But that said, like he had pretty solid control all through. I'm watching him turn to the side. I'm watching him hold it in. You know, I'm watching earlier in the show against Martin and then watching Martin against Brandon Curry. You know, and I'm seeing like Nick's midsection didn't stand out to me at all as being an issue. I mean, obviously as a wider waist, right? You can't change that. But I think he did an incredible job at presenting and holding that tight. That was obviously on his mind. Yeah. I think Nick did a fantastic job. So Nick's far from perfect structurally. Yeah. There's things that are wrong with him structurally. But a good bodybuilder puts muscle in the right places. Sure. To try to, you know, maximize what he can do. And Nick did an unbelievable job. He really did. Of, you know, bringing it in this year. He was, was he totally self-coached? I believe he was. I don't want to like say I know for sure, but that was kind of the vibe. I want to say he was. Yeah. So if I'm wrong, we get roasted. Sure. Yeah. Why not? Fully. So I saw him hanging out with Guy Sister Nino. Right. He's got a great circle of friends. Exactly. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, obviously people are there. Yeah. Yeah. So I'd see that. And then, you know, comparing him, though, as great as he was to Andrew, I just felt like, so, gosh, it was tough. Because there were points where, like, I saw Andrew turn around and he hit his back. And I was, and I look at Nick then next to him, right? He's like a foot shorter and, you know, kind of wider. And he does have some, you know, genetic structure not as good as Andrew, which is hard for anybody to have. No, he does. Yeah. Like, whatever. And I'm thinking to myself, like, okay, so Nick's going to get blown away in this shot. And then they hit that rear double. And I'm like, oh, my God. Nick's still looking incredible. Like, Nick is hanging with this guy who is a genetic phenom. I think that Nick's rear double is the best in the show. Yeah. Because, remember, here, rear double is from the toes to the tracks. Yeah, it's everything. It's not just the back. I can see that argument. That said, like, it makes sense to me. I'm not going to complain with Andrew Jack winning. I thought he looked pretty phenomenal. Oh, I thought he won, you know. For sure. Yeah. Me too. Me too. So I think that my thing with Andrew Jack was I think he had the muscle size. He had the necessary. He had the conditioning necessary. Yeah. And then he just had overwhelmingly good structure. Yeah. Right? I think that that's just hard to overcome. And, you know, just remember who wins shows historically. You know, think of, like, you know, Sean Roden. Yep. And think of all the other guys. Tony Freeman. And Tony. Think of just that look that you get. Yep. That's really, really hard to overcome by just being big and shredded. Cedric. Cedric. Like, so, like, Andrew's in that category with Cedric and those guys. Yeah. Where the shape is just so good that, yeah, you could say, oh, like, Nick's thicker from, you know, the hamstrings or he's this and that. But, I mean, structure and, I mean, the ab thigh pose. Like, nobody beats him in that shot. And so there's just shots. And then Andrew's just overwhelmingly round and massive. And I had him pick to win when I saw the prejudging stuff. And then I had him pick to win when I saw the night show. So I don't have any problem with that at all. I thought he deserved it. And it was, I thought, the best Andrew I'd ever seen in my life. I don't know what he weighed. Did you guys hear? No. I mean, it doesn't matter. I don't know what it looked like he weighed. 500 pounds. Yeah. So I want to ask you guys this. I'm going to derail us like I always do. Okay. What just happened to the Olympia after this show with Andrew hopping over Hottie, Nick hopping over Hottie? Yeah. You know what I mean? It's an interesting question. Like, you go into the Olympia now, and obviously we don't have Derek. You don't have Samson. But it has to make you question, is the Olympia, like, completely up in the air now? Well, that's what we said last year. Like, when Andrew got third last year, I said, he's coming for next year. Like, this could be his show next year easily. Because it wasn't like he got crushed by Derek and Hottie last year. Yeah. It was Derek and Hottie and him, and it was like apples and oranges. It was like two oranges and an apple. Right. And it was like, oh, shit. This is going to be a big deal. Because we were looking at his trajectory of improvement. And then we saw it yesterday. Well, like we were talking about with Sergio. Yeah. I feel like the other added twist is when you add Samson in the mix, now you've got two tall guys. Two tall guys. Three short guys. You've got Derek in there. You've got three short guys, two tall guys. Now what do you do? So, yeah, it becomes a thing where I feel like if the two tall guys are on, then I feel like it becomes a one and two battle. Sure. Right. And then it goes from there. I can easily see that. Yeah. Yeah. When they're all that close. You know what I mean? I mean, it's very possible, theoretically, that you could get Andrew and Samson in one and two. Yeah. It's going to be like a one and two or a four and five. Right. Right. Because it would almost not make sense. If they're all really on, it would almost not make sense to go like short, tall, short, tall, short. Like, you know what I mean? But, of course, we do see that in bodybuilding. And obviously, it's how the scorecards, you know, whenever all the numbers plinko to the bottom, you might wind up with that. And so that sometimes doesn't make sense to people. That's just how things, that's how the cookie crumbles, as they say. Oh. How was the apple cart this weekend? It got tipped over a little bit. So, you know, one of the things I was thinking is, so if this is Nick versus Andrew and Andrew comes away with a win, what does that say for Nick's ultimate goal of being a Mr. Olympia? You know, and I want to see him do it. I would love to see him do it. But does that mean that guys like Andrew are always going to stand in the way? I can't help but wonder. I don't think that Andrew was a runaway impossible to beat winner. Yeah, I would agree with that. I thought he was a definitely better this weekend, definitely deserved to win winner. But, hey, we've seen some inconsistency from every single one of these guys. Sure. Right? I mean, we've seen Andrew not at his best before. We've seen Samson obviously not at his best. We've seen Derek not at his best. We've seen Hottie now not at his best. Yeah, which is rare. Which is rare. So there's all those factors. I don't think there's any guaranteed money. As Dexter said, there ain't no runaways. This ain't the Ronnie Coleman days. So third, fourth, that's where the drama starts, I think. Drama. Well, so I have to say the only thing I'm going to say about Hottie is that his glutes from the back were clearly not as striated as they normally are. The conditioning, although still fantastic in so many ways, was not quite where it needs to be for him from the back to be the Hottie that we saw win the big shows. Let me ask, though. Were Hottie's legs from the back down in size? Yes. Or did the size of Nick's legs make you think they were down? No, they were down. I mean, that could be it, but the way I saw it was. Because if they were down, and I think they were down as well, listen, guys, this is an age game, and it's one of the first things to go. It is. And I'm curious, and it'll be answered at the Olympia, if Hottie's legs don't go back up in size, you're never going to see them that size again. No. And if you don't, then he will start tumbling down the lineup. Because from the back, the first thing I saw wasn't how big Nick looked. Yeah. It was the thigh gap on a guy who's never had thigh gap in his career. I went, oh, Hottie looks shallow from the back and the legs. And then I looked over to Nick, and I was like, and that's when I was like, is he smaller? Right. Or is Nick just so ungodly huge and diced that I'm making him smaller in my head? I'll be honest, once again, looking at the pictures versus seeing it in person, I felt like the pictures made Hottie look bigger than he was in real life. Right. So my thing is Hottie's never had the most shredded Christmas tree. Okay. But he had the glutes. Yeah. Right? And you know how the conditioning is really when they turn around. Sure. Yeah. You know, some guys genetically have more striations in the glutes. Some guys have the ridiculous Christmas tree and less striations in the glutes. But you still see both of them as highly conditioned. Yeah. And Hottie never has the crazy Christmas tree, but he has the glutes. And when he didn't have the glutes, and I know I hate to talk about glutes all the time, but that's just where I'm from that generation. It's bodybuilding. But when there isn't a freaky Christmas tree and then the glutes aren't where they normally are, you just think, oh, this isn't the package. Yeah. I can do that. But I felt like it was very deserved. Like the third place position. Oh, still unbelievable. Like, you know, all the shots are so great. I think he was genuinely surprised, though. Yeah. The look on his face when they announced his name. Yeah. Like, he looked upset at first. Like, which I get. You know, former winner. But do you think it's good, while we're about to transition, when a professional athlete who's won an Olympia can be surprised, maybe even not happy, and then have the professionalism to become a professional, take it properly. Yep. Stay focused for the other guys. He's walking flip a switch. Yeah. He had the moment. He went, oh, not yet. He had to make a decision. We'll do this backstage. Yeah. Or do you think the better move is to throw a temper tantrum on stage when you got fourth and you should have got fifth? Well, it depends on how many bodybuilding podcasts you want to talk about you. If you want a lot of bodybuilding podcasts to talk about you, then it's a really great idea. Trash media, you mean. Trash media. Thank you, trash media. If you want trash media to talk about you, then you definitely throw a tantrum like a little baby. Okay. Oh, we're doing this? Okay. We're going in. I had to because. Dusty drags me into stuff all the time. This is my life with Dusty. Here's the thing, though. When I looked at this, first off, I'm glad we led it with Andrew because, like Scott and I were talking earlier, I felt bad because this morning Andrew's win is being overshadowed. Yeah. By a temper tantrum. That's unfortunate. So, we are all very focused on the positive stuff of this situation. And I personally, on the other side, I was disappointed last night because watching, although not there, I said, Brandon Curry's getting fourth. Oh, I thought Brandon had it. Yeah. I thought that was the best Brandon I have seen in years. I mean, I don't have to go back and review, like, other Brandons, but I thought Brandon looked amazing. I've got an inside bit of information. I don't know if he wants me to say this. Let's do it. Let's do it. Dusty already dragged me into stuff. Well, I might not get any more information ever from. Jim, the boss man. Safe travel, sir. You've got to lean down a little bit more, Jim. You've got to lean down a little bit more. Jim's going straight to the airport. There he is. There you go. See ya. Yeah. So. Thanks, everybody. Absolutely, Jim. Thank you, Jim. Thanks for having us, Jim. Thanks. Jim makes it all possible. Jim McMahon from Mutant. Jim, the man McMahon. I like that. Okay. So here's the deal. I talked to Justin Harris this morning. Right. He said, listen, he's like, Brandon. Inside scoop. Brandon didn't want to make a big deal out of it, but he was sick. Okay. He woke up totally flat, like 14 pounds down flat. Huge. And, you know, coaching is definitely, it's calculated, right? Yeah. Like, we know that if we do this, this should happen. Right. So the answer was just, we've got to start drinking fluids. I know that normally we don't start pounding fluids into a show. Yeah. But like. But you've got to put a gallon. Well, they already left. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So that's what they did. They started pushing. And that's the great, that's the coaching move that I would have done. Yeah. You lose, if you're down 10 pounds, that's five liters of fluid. It doesn't, it doesn't kind of, like, even though you see that, you know that you still aren't a hundred percent positive it's going to work. So it's scary to have to do. So we always talk about on the shows, like, oh, you want to be able to just coast somebody in, you know, have them ready. That's easy. Yeah. Have them ready the week out. You don't have to load. You don't have to do this. But, like, then in the reality of it is things like this happen. Yep. And I think that Brandon probably didn't want to talk about it because he didn't want to make a big deal out of it. Because he's classy. Yeah. Yeah. He didn't want to talk about it. And when things don't go his way, he just takes it. It sounds like if an athlete does it. Because he's a role model for his son and his football kids that he coaches and everyone. Anyways. Yeah. All that. Back to the temperature. No, I think that was the right move, the classy move. And then it also, back to the Olympia, I go, we just said, without that information, that's the best Brandon we've seen in a long time. And then you go, wait, it all didn't work as planned? You know what the funny thing is, though? There's, like, so many times where I've seen guys where they lose too much, say they may be sick or take too many diuretics or they cut water for too long. And then when they put the fluid back in, it goes right to the muscle. Yeah. Yeah. And you almost get this, like, crazy rebound freak look. Yeah. Like, you know, the dice roll. Yeah. Okay, it worked this time, but let's not do it again. And you can't guarantee it's going to work, but sometimes it does. Like, you know? So, who knows? Maybe he, like, sharpened up with a gallon of fluid. Yeah. I did hear some people say they felt like some of it went to his midsection. They had a little fluid from that. Yeah. Which you would. Yeah. But, I mean, again, I just think to myself, if we know that, then Justin and Brandon have this locked. Which then takes us from wondering where Brandon will be in the mix to going, oh, he's going to really mess a lot of people's plans up if everything goes as planned for the Olympia. At 43 years old, former Mr. Olympia, 2019 Mr. Olympia, 2019 Arnold Classic winner. Won, I think, Arnold Brazil before. Like, the dude has been around. Yeah, he's done it. And his name is still in that top. He's got it. Vampire years are the opposite of dog years. He's got it. He's got his ring. You know? As they say in other sports, you know, all I'm missing is a ring. He's not missing a ring. He's got everything. He really does. And, yeah, yeah. And I do want to say this about, you know, we kind of skipped over Martin in fourth, and we didn't even mention him. We're going to mention him. I thought he looked great. Like, he looked great. I thought he was big and full and hard and looked great in the lineup and posed well and just all that stuff. And I know that, you know, obviously he showed, like, visibly, you know, unpleasant reaction to his placing. Yeah. He spelled asshole wrong. But he can't leave anything alone. No. He can't just let me go to the mall and pick something up. He's always got to fucking, you got to grab me this, and he's getting a fight in the parking lot. Yeah, exactly. So, anyways, I thought he looked great. I don't think there was anything to be upset about. Here's what I think, though, Ron. Fourth was fourth. I mean, he could have been fifth behind Brandon, and he was fourth. I thought it was a good placing. I thought he got his check. I just don't see the problem. Yeah. No, I agree 100%, but here's the thing I feel like, my guess is, is that he's got expectations for himself. Well, clearly, yeah. You know. Clearly. And I understand that. And I think that sometimes, you know, I mean, I think we all can be in a position where we feel like, hey, our placing defines who we are. I've been there. And, you know, so I get it. I get it. And I get it that he has, I mean, as far as bodybuilding goes, he has the world stage looking at him when he freaks out about it. Right. You know, so it's tough. But you have to remember, you have expectations of yourself, and Raw has expectations of you. Yeah. And your fans have expectations of you. Like, I mean. It's a business. Everything's a business. I mean, I tell my daughters, you reflect me, how you handle things, and vice versa. So. That's a good point. It's everything. Well. You have to control those emotions. Yeah. Yeah. Because I think from my standpoint, it's like, I know, it sounds like you had a very hard job. Yeah. It was a battle. Yeah. But he should be proud that he overcame all of that. Oh, yeah. It came in as well as he did. And he landed, let's just be fair and say he landed where he should have. Yeah. You know, let's just say fourth is exact. Right. Should have been fourth. I'm fine with him in fourth. He's great. Then that's a successful prep. Yeah. And maybe with some rest, and you bounce back through. You know, look at Nick. Nick, his most disastrous, you know, show probably ever was the Olympia. Just five, what is that, five months ago? Yeah. Took it on the chin, knew what happened, and now look, still the fan favorite. Every, I mean, people want him to win. And I don't think you want to lose that. And I think it's important, and I will say this as I was obviously just talking trash, it's important for everyone to know that you don't need to be defined by one moment. Yeah. So I hope that he will redefine himself with how he moves forward, and then I can say, you're not an asshole. You were acting like one in that moment. Yeah. And I've done that many times. Yeah. So. Right. It's just important to understand when you are in the limelight and people are watching, you don't have the same room for error, so you should be cautious of that and just remember, like, okay, if I'm a hothead, I got to know. I got to take a deep breath and then decide what I'm going to do. I'll also say this. I'm a fan of a lot of athletes that have had a bad moment, you know, said something to the media about, you know, a trade they were in or, you know, a game, a call that happened in a game or something. And I still stayed a fan. And I said, well, you know, hopefully he can get past this moment. And a lot of times you can. And, you know, I would like to see him get past that and make a great showing at the next show and just, you know, put it behind him and move on. I think bodybuilding would let it go. And bodybuilding will let it go. We also have very short memories in bodybuilding. And a lot of people don't really pay that much attention, nor do they care that much about the side drama. I think that when you're involved in it, you think it's a bigger deal than it is because it's all over your page and you're the one getting the DMs and stuff. And I just hope that he moves. He's able to move past it and glide on to the next show. Hey, to be fair. So, you know, everybody woke up to seeing like, oh, this was Martin's reaction when he saw that it got second and he didn't shake. It didn't, from my perspective in the audience, it didn't to me look as dramatic as it was low enough to be. Right. But through the narrative that was created around it. I agree. But I'm also going to say we have an overly accepting world now. Okay. And I don't, you know. I know where Dusty's going with this. Because here's my thing. And I just said, I hope he does better. I hope he moves forward and does well. I don't want to see him, he decides how he's defined. Yeah. But I also say, same thing I tell people all the time, when someone shows you who they are, believe them. So he now has to do things that prove that what he's doing isn't right. Because if he doesn't, then I say the opposite. Yeah. You know, it's one of those scenarios where we really do as a world, but definitely as an industry. Yeah. We go, oh, you pretended that your face got blown off by an IUD, but you said, I'm sorry. So it's fine. Yeah. And it's like, you know, I was talking to Seth about this the other day. It's like, don't be an asshole. Don't lie. And if you do, own your shit. So my hope is that he takes a step back and owns his shit and then cleans it up. But if he doesn't, then okay. This is who you are. Yeah. And that's fine. So it's like I'm talking out of both sides of my mouth. Don't immediately say I'm not a fan anymore, but definitely say, okay, we're watching. Yeah. And who you are will be decided, you know? So I just don't want to be like, oh, we're cleaning it up because I thought it was horrific. And I had, I mean, Ro was here and she said she saw it and the crowd reacted. Yeah. They saw it. And it's like, you know, yes, it was all amped up for us the next day. Yeah. But the 3,000 people there, 2,800 of them saw it and reacted to it. So, you know, that won't be the main focus. Andrew winning. These guys bringing great physiques will be. But, you know, hopefully we can all take a lesson in that. Yeah. And just guys, every good decision, a quick pause really helps. Yeah. Yeah. And I definitely don't want anything to overshadow Andrew's win. I thought it was very, very impressive. Can we add Chris's win? And so, and I sent, I sent Chris, we sent Chris a little video last night. We were eating after the show and we sent Chris a little video. And I said, I said, you have to start charging more because the prize money is going up. So you're, you better, you better be raising your fee. And then he posted that really fantastic picture of him with, you know, Jack and Jay and his son. And there was like a crew of people. Kamal was there and stuff. And he said, beautiful things happen to patient people. That's cool. And I commented, I said, the reason you keep winning, Chris, is because you bring out the best in everyone around you. And that's always how Chris Asito has been. He brought out the best in me, a guy that really didn't have what it took to be a pro, but had like the dream to be a pro. And he helped me achieve that goal. And I really had no business being a pro bodybuilder genetically. But he helped me, you know, close that chapter and make it happen and brought out the best in me. And also, I'll never forget when I was being a fuck up, Chris called me out when no one else around me was. Wow. Right? I had that bad year where I was going through a lot of personal stuff. And Chris called me out on it. And it was like a shock because no one else around me had called me out on it. And didn't he say, you know, good job, but if you are like this again, I don't want to coach you again. Yeah. He said, great job, but you were completely beyond the pale to deal with. And if you're going to be a head case like that, I don't want to coach you again. And I was like, no, I didn't even realize it. And I was like, oh, my God. So like, and Chris is that type of person. And you can, I imagine that, you know, he's not just, he wasn't just there for me. He's there for all those guys. That was my take with Chris, man, was knowing who I was in his enormous group of phenomenal bros. I said, I feel like I'm his only client and I'm his worst client. And so that just shows the effort that he puts into everything. And like you said. And the standard that he keeps what he expects. Which is why they all climb. I mean, look at how many guys at a later stage of their career hit goals they didn't know were possible. I'm not talking necessarily Olympias or Arnold's, but, you know, for every one of those, there's 10 of us that have reached a level that we never thought we could have got. And then you got the guys like Akeem that, you know, start working with Chris late in their career and start showing up in their greatest conditions ever. Yeah. Repeatedly. And we know what Chris does. Half of it's nothing. I'm glad you said that because I want to throw this in real quick because there was another conversation we had. Half of it's just getting out of their way and keeping them from doing mistakes. The amount of focus in the industry in general about all the different peptides, all the magical things. Yeah. I have to laugh that the guy who's winning at all levels. I'm not talking about the best guys. Doesn't even know what they are. None of them. If I were to listen to me go, what's that? We don't need it. If I sent Chris a text about, you know, KJ972X. He'd just reply with like a Johnny Carson quote or something ridiculous. He wouldn't even know, is this from, you know, is this like a joke? I think you pocket text me. Yeah, I think you pocket text me. Yeah. Yeah. So it was a great show. It was awesome to see. The event all weekend was amazing. We're all sitting because we're exhausted. Great turnout. Great Arnold. 2018 basically again. Yeah. It's been, I mean, my wife just came in on Sunday late and she goes, what is going on? Yeah. It's still busy. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's been good. I'm very happy with the expo, gentlemen. What time do we got? We got three o'clock. Three o'clock is a dinner bell for Dusty and I. Ding, ding, ding. Ding, ding. Sing my song. I hope a real quick, ridiculously unfair amount of time allotment because we are out of time. But Wesley Vissers, I thought, dominated the classic. And I thought he just, dude, that guy is awesome. The amount of detail in his physique. I absolutely love that guy's physique. The conditioning he brings repeatedly now to several of these shows. I love the delts and the most muscular. They just are like the most detailed delts in the entire pro ranks. For sure. And just love how he speaks on the microphone, the Dutch accent. I just love it. I love it all. He's awesome. He's a good full man crush. Yeah, he's just fantastic. And he was good on the microphone with Arnold, too, after the show. It was good. So, yeah, congrats to Vissers. And, yeah, I could see a lot of people wanting to look like him. I think he's good for bodybuilding the same way Bumstead was good for bodybuilding. And I wouldn't mind seeing him take the frigging Olympia. I mean, why not? Why can't Vissers win the Olympia? That would be cool. I got to say, too, on the note of being in great shape, that every single men's physique competitor was absolutely freaking done. Yeah, it's a really rough day at the beach for a guy like me. Every single one of those guys looked good. Really rough day at the beach when those guys showed up. I don't know if those guys showed up. Really terrible day. They all look great. They're all incredible, man. I know. Not a single one of them was out of shape. No, it's a fucking superhero convention. It really is, man. You know? It really is. The comic book characters. Yeah. And that division, I mean, it was all fun and games, and we were making fun of them, you know, in the early days. Yeah. But nobody's making fun of those physiques anymore. Those guys are absolutely insane. I mean, if you wanted to look like someone to walk around, I'm staying in that division and picking. I'd go, any of them will do. They're all better than me. Yeah, any of them will do. Any of them will do. They'll do a lot better. Okay. Well, hey, congrats to everybody. It was a great Arnold. Thanks for coming down to the Mutant booth. Thanks to all the podcast crew to come and see us. Oh, yeah. You guys were awesome. And I hope you enjoyed what we tried to do from the booth here with a couple episodes of the podcast. They were fun. Very little prep, except for Scott putting all the work in. Worked his ass off. Worked his ass off. So thanks again to Mutant for bringing us out one more time. Absolutely. And Columbus for having us. And this was full speed, pre-pandemic, 2018 vibes. Wild. Really like Friday morning was like landing on a treadmill. It wasn't like it had to ramp up to noon or anything like that. It was like you walked in and you were like, oh, fuck. Yeah. It's on. Yeah, it's on. So everything's back full speed. Also, congrats to Mutant athlete Mitchell Hooper. Oh, yeah. Four-time Arnold Strongman champion. Mind-boggling. That guy just so dominant. And like I said to Mitchell, I said, hey, congrats. You know, I guess you had a close first day. And he goes, ah, it was just because the first day was all the heavy lifting stuff. So that other guy's really strong. But I knew I'd, you know, I'm more athletic than all. I knew it was going to kill those guys. He was so confident. I was like, oh, okay. I didn't realize day two was so easy for you. He's like, yeah, day two is just about not dropping points. Right. You know, because he knows he's got the cardio for the movement, the carry and all that stuff. He knows that those are his events. So just don't drop points on those. You know, nice, safe, you know, finishes on all those. And you got to win. And, but what a crazy athlete he is. He's a specimen. So congrats to Mitchell Hooper. Sure. Also, too, I want to say, like, shout out to everybody else here. Hanging out with Sean was cool. Oh, yeah. You know, Sean was, he was in prep last, you know, last time we saw him at the Olympia. He was like all business. So it's nice to hang out with him today. Yeah, he's goofing around. He's got more jokes. He's probably got a little bit more weight on him. Yeah. Phil Metas 4X T-shirts a little more. Yeah. So that was cool. It was nice to get a catch up with him. He's up to 5% body fat now. Yeah. Exactly. And also a big welcome to Sergio Oliva Jr. It fits right into the team, too. It fits right in. And I think he's very, very happy with the welcome he got here at the Mutant booth. And, you know, he's very worried about coming with the injury and no one gave a shit. Yeah. And so he was very, very, very happy. So thanks to everyone. Okay, everybody. Remember, like, share, subscribe, comment, and... Ring the bell. Yes. Hi, button. Hi, button. We will see you at the Arnold UK. Dusty and I will be at the Arnold UK in Birmingham, England. We'll be training at Dino's Gym. I'll be shooting a Mutant on a Mission at Ultimate with Simon Phan. And he's got a special guest coming to train with us that I can't announce yet, but he screams a lot. And it's going to be a lot of fun, so I'm really looking forward to it. And then Dusty and I will be at FIBO in Germany, so we will definitely see you there. I'm not shooting an episode that trip, so we'll just train at Trainingschlager. Yep. And maybe we'll go check out another gym if we have time. But, hey, Trainingschlager is going to see us for sure. So thank you. Remember, it's just bodybuilding. I'm ready to call it a day. You ready to call it a day? I'm ready to go. You ready to go? Yeah. Did we tell Dusty that we need him? No, I mean, you're ready to call it a day. Oh, yeah. I'm ready to go. Oh, yeah. As soon as we're on this, we roll. All right. Yeah, yeah. I don't want to hurry Dusty up, though. He's talking to the real deal. I know, right? Should I just intro the show? And we'll just start with Dusty? We can't do that. It might be funny, though. We can go, hey, you're busy talking to the real deal. We'll put this out. This will go out, too. This will just be, like, bonus stuff. Bonus stuff. Yeah. Patreon. Yeah. This is what they pay for. Yeah. You get to see this. Do we get any bonus information? No, you get bonus content. Yeah. Right? Content. Content. When we have, like, three. Yeah. We've got a literally Hall of Fame. Yeah. All-time. One of the all-time greatest. Matter of fact, we just go like this. Just go like that. And just show one of the all-time greatest. Yeah. Sitting there, chilling with us at the Mutant booth. Yeah. Then we got Dusty over here. Who is one of the all-time, like. He's also pretty great. Friendliest. Yeah. All-time. I don't know. What do you say? All-time. So this is all happening. This is the behind the scenes over here. There we go. So now Dusty's sitting with Chris. Yeah. I don't think Dusty wants to do the show with us. No. He's busy. We're going to do a real quick one. Maybe I'll just hold this out. I'll just hold this like this. Yeah. We'll just get their banter. So Dusty was like, so we're going to do a real quick one? And I know what that meant. That was code for like, we're not going to be really long, are we? Right. Exactly what it's code for. Yes. It's code for we get to leave the booth in half an hour. So we're going to do a 29-minute episode. Yes. Because that extra minute, he has to get his bag and get his stuff together. Right? We can't go 32 minutes. No. No. Do you guys get overtime if you stay? No. Longer? Time and a half? No. Time and a half? Time and a half, we hit maybe half an hour extra. Oh, okay. Yeah. Isn't that the labor laws? Right? Yeah. Now they're all sitting. Yeah. This is the way it's going to be for a while. Are we losing, Dusty? Yeah, I think we lost him. Okay. Let's start without Dusty. I still think we start without Dusty. George? What? Are you doing a wrap-up? Yeah. Yeah, yeah. You're doing a wrap-up. We're going to start without Dusty. He's busy talking to the real deal. All right. That sounds good to me. The real deal. The real deal, Chris Cormier. Oh, he's leaving the booth. Dusty's got to get on. There he is. Get him leaving. Yes. The real deal. Okay. Let's see if I can reframe us here. Dusty and Chris were reminiscing about Dusty's days at Gold's Venice. Let's make sure. I got to adjust this. Just get it just right now that Dusty's actually in there. Yeah, because Dusty takes up more space than I ever anticipated. I'm spinning sideways, so I got more room. Dusty, I expect you to mention the pants. Oh, I will mention the fucking pants. Yes. You know. And also, yeah. I want to mention the pants. All right. There we go. Mentioning the pants. Okay. Mentioning the pants. Yeah. We're here on It's Just Free Pants. Yes.