 t-nya, t-nya, t-nya, t-nya, t-nya, t-nya, t-nya, t-nya, t-nya, t-nya, t-nya, t-nya, t-nya, t-nya, t-nya, t-nya, t-nya, t-nya, t-nya, t-nya t-nya t-nya t-nya t-nya t-nya t-nya t-nya t-nya t-nya t-nya t-nya t-nya t-nya t-nya t-nya t-nya t-nya t-nya t-nya t-nya t-nya t-nya t-nya t-nya t-nya t-nya t-nya t-nya t-nya t-nya t-nya t-nya t-nya t-nya t-nya t-nya t-nya t-nya t-nya t-nya t-nya t-nya t-nya t-nya t-nya t-nya t-nya t It's crazy. Like I think now if I got a nosebleed in the gym, I'd be like, oh, this is terrible. I have blood. No one wants any blood around, right? Yeah. But back then. That's amazing. You'd probably be like my health. I need to go check my blood pressure. But back then, we'd just finish the workout. And then I was always considered enough to go up to the front and ask for a spray bottle. And I'd go Windex the mirror. What a good guy. Hey, everybody. Welcome to It's Just Bodybuilding. We're doing this on the live channel today. And then we'll throw it up on the normal channel. I'm Big Ron Partlow here with Dusty Hanshaw. Spectacles. Hanshaw, as we like to call him. I'm so smart. And, of course, the producer, Scott McNally. Remember to like, share, subscribe, comment, and... Ring the bell. And today, if you're watching live, take part in the chat. We don't see everything, but, you know, we might get lucky and throw your question up. Hey, Peyton, what's up? Ho-hoo-hoo. Oh, Peyton's with us. What's up, man? Okay. So, guys, remember I am mutant.com. Go to I am mutant.com. Use Dusty or Big Ron as your codes. Save money. Get stuff delivered to your door. Get that. You don't even have to get off the couch. You can continue to smoke weed and play video games and have your supplements delivered right to you. Just assuming that some of our audience may partake in those two things. In a legal environment. In a legal environment. Of course. Absolutely. Oh, yes. It's the same Ethan. Oh, he does have a smaller one on his forearm, but thanks, guys. That don't count. Still his first. Yeah. I thought that was his first. Oh, Tanya. Okay. Pre-training lock-in going down. Okay. We'll try to be, I don't know, decent today. Inspirational. It's inspirational. I set the bar a little low for decent. Okay. Yeah. Perfect. Try to be incredibly inspiring. Okay. What's on the agenda today, guys? We got some questions. We had a lead topic, but do we want to jump into that right away? Are we going to? Let's just go. Let's just go to it. Dusty, I have to tell you just real quick. I got to go out and train with Ron last week. Oh, yeah. Braden is like 100 pounds bigger than the last time I trained with him in about 2019. He's big, dude. He's really big. Yeah. And it was cool. We had a couple of listeners come out, which was really cool. Yeah. How one? How one came out? Yep. She was awesome, man. I never got to meet her before. She had a lot of heart. You know what I mean? Like every set, she was freaking pushing hard. Yeah. And I feel like she might have picked something up with the workout, too, because she's like, you know what? I usually go to six reps. She's like, this is different, and I think this is good. You know? Yeah. She had fun. And then it was Steve, right? Your client, Steve? My client, Steve, from North Van. Nice. He came out to a slum with us, because North Van's like the real nice areas. Yeah. Yeah. He lives where all the lawns are perfect. Yeah. Well, he lives where people have lawns. Yeah. Yeah. That's what it is. That's what it is. That's all it takes. Yeah. Yeah. So it was cool. It was cool to get to meet him in person after working with him online for a long time. So I thank you again for having me out, man. That was cool. That was awesome. Yeah. No, that was great. We had a little group workout. Braden enjoyed it, too. You know? Cool. Next time, I got to get to the compound and see that place. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Definitely. Well, next time, you got to be around long enough for more than one workout, and then we can go do one at his place. Yeah. I like that. Yeah. I mean, what did you think of the gym? Give me a quick, what did you think of West Coast while you were there? Oh, dude. It never ceases to amaze me. Like, I love the energy. You know, the only thing I'll say is I've never been there. Well, no, I take that back. We trained at like five o'clock, you know, like the busy hour. Oh, yeah. We trained when it was busy that one time. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And that was cool. I'm usually there. I end up showing up around noon, you know? Yeah. And there were a lot of people, man. A lot of people training for noon at the gym there that day. And it was great, man. You guys have like just, you know, all the equipment and it's got that. Here's the thing, Ron, and I'm sure both of you guys can relate to this. I don't care where you're at in the world. If you find a good hardcore gym to get into, get a workout in, you instantly feel like you're home. You know what I mean? Right. Yeah. Absolutely. Yeah. Well, I'm glad that you had a good time, Scott, because, you know, I made sure everybody knew Scott was coming. There was one. Like, I thought he said my name in the parking lot. Like, I was like, oh, he must know me, you know? So I just like, he's kind of like, so he's on his phone and I think he was saying something to somebody on his phone. And I looked at him and he looked at me and I go, oh, hey, what's up, man? And I start walking over to him and he just looks. Why is this guy a person? Hold on, Scott. Some weirdo is walking towards me. I literally like took two steps toward him. I'm like, hey. And then I literally just like turned and walked away. Oh, man. We've all done that. Yeah. We're in an environment where we think, oh, this guy must recognize me. Yeah. Yeah. No, he doesn't. No. No idea you are. Egotistical. He knows another Scott, believe it or not. Yeah. There's more than one Scott. Yeah. Believe it or not. He probably said stop. You know. Yeah. Well, I'm glad. There's an American coming. Stop. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No, I told everyone you were coming. We played lots of freedom music. And, you know, lots of people wore, you know, any shirts they had with American flags on them, like any gasp or anything like that. Perfect. Nice. Made me feel at home. Made you feel at home. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You know, that sort of thing. You know, anything. It was cool. Like a LA Kings jersey, anything you got that makes Scott feel American. Yeah. And I got to tell the listeners, so everybody knows, Ron has the wall where everybody signs. I was like, where's your signature at and where's Dusty's? And Ron tells me, he's like, oh, yeah, so, you know, we got the new window put in and everything because the UV was fading it. I don't think our names are up there anymore. So, Ron and Dusty's names aren't even on the wall. No. In his own gym anymore. It got faded into the history of the paint. Yeah. Like our careers. Which is almost poetic. As you get forgotten, your signature gets forgotten by Tom. I'm pretty sure my signature lasted longer than my memory. Yeah. No, definitely. Definitely. Okay. So, what's the lead question? Was it the worst cycle? No. Worst experience with a singular. Worst experience with gear ever. Yeah. Yeah. That was the topic. Oh, damn. So, worst gear experience. Like, how it made you feel. Cycle that you thought, I can't do this again. That sort of thing. Yeah, something that just took you for a loop. Something you're like, oh, my God. Was there ever a time that, like, this is a bad idea and I can't do this. I got to stop. Did you guys ever run into a situation like that? There's a couple things that come to mind. The first one is I look back. And this is not a feeling thing. This is just a process thing. Yeah. I look back on some of my very early cycles because we used to get a lot of veterinarian test proponate. Mm-hmm. And although the vet test probe was awesome, like, you'd take 300 milligrams a week and, like, grow like crazy. Like a kangaroo. Yeah. Just like a kangaroo or a cow. Yeah, do those kangaroo ones. Yeah. So we were taking a vet grade test probe, which is excellent quality. People hear vet grade and especially new school people hear vet grade. I'm like, trust me, vet grade is better than underground. Yeah. Yeah. It's, like, awesome. But we were taking this test probe and I don't know what it was about that old school test probe. Man, every shot hurt, like, cripplingly bad. And once I moved on to other things, I could never, ever go back to test probe. I was just scarred from the pain. I just, even, like, now, I'm, like, all through my competitive days in the last, like, two-thirds of my career, I never touched probe because I was just, no, I just, just in case. So there's that. But that's not what we're talking about, is it? No. That's talking about feelings. We're talking about feelings, gentlemen. Let's talk about our feelings, yes. So I used Trenbolone and and Fate one time. It had to be a trend story, you know? Trenbolone and and Fate. And for those of you that aren't familiar, it's a very long-acting trend. And also, too, people have asked me before when I've told them this. They're like, well, isn't Parabolin an even longer-acting Trenbolone? It's like cyclohexyl, what's the ester on Trenbolone? Hexyl, Benzol. Yeah, cyclohexyl carbamine or I can't remember the ester. But technically, it is an even longer-acting. Is it? But they're only 76 milligram amps. So back in the day, guys were only using like three a week or four a week or something, right? Because it was so hard to get. So their total dosage was so much less. Right. And they were spreading them out like one amp Monday, one amp Wednesday, that sort of thing. Hexyl, Benzol carbonate. I think it's honestly a little shorter, Ron. Is it short? I thought it was longer than an even. I'll look it up. I'll look it up because I know that if we don't get it right. We're getting smoked. Exactly. I'm pretty confident. It's like five days versus seven for anything. Well, it's still longer than acetate. Oh, yeah, yeah. Longer than acetate. Yeah, yeah. Sorry. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Still longer than acetate. But the moral of the story is Trenbolone anentate hits the market and it's 200 milligrams per mil. Right? Because, of course, everyone wants to like, how much can we fit into the mil with a solvent, right? And I used it. I thought, oh, a long-acting trend. This would be great, you know? Man, I tell you, within 10 days of that first shot, I remember driving in my car and I remember daydreaming about every person on the road. Ooh. You know what I mean? I'll edit it. Yeah, clean that one up a little bit. Daydreaming about, you know, deroding everyone. Yeah. There we go. There we go. Deroding. Unaliving. Unaliving. Unaliving everyone. And thinking, man, why am I so grumpy? Because I'm such a calm guy. I'm just not a person. Canadian. Canadian. Yeah. I'm very Canadian. Like, you could cut me off and I'm like, oh, that guy must be in a hurry. You know? And I was like, man. And then I remember just being like super grumpy and irritated and going to the store and, you know, they couldn't possibly bag things fast enough. Why is this person so slow? They're just so slow. Everyone's so slow. And just, I don't like feeling like that. And I thought, holy crap, this is a tremble and anything. Yeah. And so I discontinued it. And it went away. And then, you know, six months later. Like any good body of the other. Give it a good job. Holy crap. It's instant. Like, within a week. And I can't express how much worse it was than anything else I ever tried. Right. And making me, and I don't know why the half-life, like I know I used Trenacetate for every prep I ever did and I never really ever felt like that. Right. But that Trenbolone Antetate, man, that was the worst. I hated it. It was by far the worst thing I ever used for how it made me feel. Yeah. For me, that would be Halo. Oh, yeah. Yeah, that's close second. When I would throw it, I used to remember, like, at the end of a prep, I'd go, okay, we're starting this now. So I imagine my, you know, you're about three weeks out. So you know, you're like, all right, my fuse is about here. So we're going to lose about three quarters of that fuse in about two days of this. So that'll be good. No pause. I would just remind myself every day. So you have to, like, pause before reacting to anything. Yes. I'm like, think, pause. What would Ron do? Okay, now answer. That was the key with that. But I never stopped using it. I just understood. I didn't stop. No, hell no. No. Because it turned me into sandpaper. So I loved it. But the one thing I did stop doing, which was an abrupt stop, was injectable wind straw. Oh. And it wasn't because it did anything bad to my attitude. Yeah. It's because you only need one bad shot of injectable wind straw to know you don't ever need to do that again. Yeah. I hit my, it was a late night, like, because that was when I sold in the stores. So I went to the gym after the work, got home. It's like 1130 at night. I had my ex-wife hit my tricep and she went to bed. And it was like, oh, that hurts. And I'm like, it still hurts. It's been like an hour. Now it's throbbing like a toothache. And I'm like, well, it's already in me. So there's nothing I can do about it. Yeah. You go to the doctor and I'll go, yeah, you shouldn't have done that. So I found that moving my arm helped the pain. So I went to Walmart 24 hours a day and I just walked around picking things up off the shelf and putting them back just to keep my arm moving. I stayed up all night at 5 a.m. The moment I knew my friend would be awake, I called him because he just had a surgery. I'm like, I'm going to need a pain pill. I literally met him on my driveway with a cup of water in my hand. Oh, yeah. He had to be boop, boop. Drank that. My arm was a good 25 inches by the end of the next day. Oh, God. It had swelled out of control. It ended up actually, and this was before the 2013 USA. I thought I was going to have to drop out. I was like six weeks out. Oh, geez. And it swelled up so bad. And the skin actually started flaking off like I was burning from the inside out. Yeah. Yeah. That swelling reaction. Yeah. Yeah. It was horrific. And actually, if you go back and look at the 2013 year, you could see it was still bruised. It was discolored. Like we did a little change to my tan to try to cover it up. Okay. And that tricep had a point on it for two years. Oh, God. Where I was like, well, this is a problem. Yeah. So I never use it again. I do not allow clients to use it. No. Yeah. Terrible idea. I'm like, oh, no. You're swallowing a pill or you're not taking it. Like no two ways about it. I mean, it's basically, I'm pretty sure what it is. It's windstraw mixed with glass. Yeah. Finally ground up. Just ground up glass in windstraw. So I don't suggest it. Longest night of my life. Most pain. And yeah, it almost took me out of a show. And that was literally six weeks out. So that's how long that stayed an issue. So to anyone listening. And the problem was, I always had a little swelling with it. So I was like, oh, perfect. I'll put it, you know, it didn't hurt. So I was putting my arms, let it do its thing. Yeah. Take the swelling. That's fine. And it wasn't swelling like blurring muscle. It just kind of filled it up. So I'm like, this is great. It was great until it wasn't. Yeah. Yeah. Worse until it doesn't. Yeah. I can agree with you on the halo thing too. But the reason I didn't list it is because, like you said, you're like 21 days out. And you're like, well, I can just not be around anyone for 21 days. Yeah. I'll be all right. But the Trent Anentate stories I told, that was like, you know, like I'd never really used Trent offseason. Right. And I was trying to put a little bit in, like even just one mil. Yeah. And like, you're supposed to be happy offseason, right? You're eating pizzas. I'm just not happy eating pizza. Misery. Misery. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Not worth it. Yeah. That's awful. I had my halo story that I've told on the show before. I still took it. I just had a really bad day getting lost the first tab of the cycle, the first tab of the cycle halo. And then I got in the car and proceeded to get lost. And it was before there was iPhone. So we had like MapQuest printed out direct. It was bad. And I'm trying to think, I think the next nearest thing was methyl trend. And it was the heat, man, the heat. Cause it was like a hot summer and I was working outside. So that was a rough one. And I pulled it. I was like, no, I can't do this. I have to just stop because I'm just like overheating all the time. And I feel like garbage. Yeah. And I think that was maybe that. And if I'm thinking of one more thing, I ran DNP. Oh, you did that. Oh yeah. I forgot. You actually tried that. I did it twice. One time was for a short five day run at 200 milligrams. So low dose. Milligrams or micrograms? It's milligram. I think it's milligrams. Yeah. It's been a long time. I mean, that tells you how often I think about it. Right. You know, I'm not familiar. So yeah. But the time before that, I gave it the, like the old college try, you know, where you do like the, I think it was, I think you worked up like 400, 500 a day. How did you feel on that? Well, you know, it basically just zaps your ATP. Right. Yeah. I don't have no energy to train. Yeah. You don't, you don't have any energy to train. You don't have energy to do anything. And, and honestly, I don't think it was worth it because like the second time I took it, I did get some that it was at low dose protocol and I changed my diet all up and everything. And, and it did jump me forward. Now I had already been making progress. My number one reason for saying it wasn't a good idea was, you know, you're at one spot, you know, what kind of carbs you need. You're moving forward. You begin the DNP, even at that low dose, you gain water from it. And five days later, you're now 10 pounds less. Your diet isn't going to, the diet that you used before isn't going to work now. So I come off the special DNP diet and I go back to my old diet and now it takes me, you know, seven to 10 days to figure out what I need to do next. So I felt like, geez, I could have just continued doing what I was doing, you know, but you know what it's like, I was like, well, I want to see, I just want to know, you know, in case somebody ever wants to use it. And I never use it with clients. So it's not like I ever needed that information, but yeah. Yeah. It was the heat that got to me with the whole cooking from the inside out thing was enough for me to be like, I'm good. And it's, it's a transdermal too, right? You're not supposed to get it on your fingertips. Correct. Yeah. John Romano has a story about that. You heard that one? Yeah. And I had a friend who was handling DNP and he didn't, he didn't realize he was handling all these capsules that someone made him. Okay. And like some broke open in the bag. Ooh. He was dipping his hand in there. I didn't think. And then like he, he wound up in a bathtub full of ice. Oh God. And then he went to emergency and they had him on like an IV and he was trying to explain to them what happened. And they're just staring at him. Like he's a lunatic. Right. They're like, what are you talking about? Yeah. And this is that industrial die. Yeah. That's back before Google. Like there's no Google. Then the nurse can't just Google DNP and read like, they're just looking at him. Like, are you making this up? This is insane. Yeah. It's the worst lie they've ever heard. So it was very popular back in like that. I think it was the late 1800s. They discovered that it was a fat burner because they were using it as an industrial dye. And the people who were handling it were noticing that they were feeling hot and they were losing fat. And it became a popular fat burner until amphetamine was developed. And then after that, they were like, yeah, we'll use this instead. Yeah. But yeah, it had been popular back then. And it's because it was getting absorbed through the skin is how they originally discovered it. Yeah. They put it in pills back in like the twenties, wasn't it? Yeah. Yeah. Like a long time ago. Yeah. You know, and then we brought it back and like deep in housewives slim. Yeah. Right. Yeah. Yeah. It was, it was Dan Duchesne who brought it back. And, uh, he had that John Romano has told that story on podcasts before where they were like capping it up at a kitchen table in Venice beach. And then they're like, you know, sitting there and looking at each other and asking like, Hey, are you feeling hot, man? Is it hot here? Wow. Wow. I remember Stan Efferding told me about an incident where they were in, like, he was getting ready for a show and Flex Wheeler was helping him. Okay. They were staying in like a, not an Airbnb because they didn't have him back then, but like a long stay condo type of hotel. Okay. And he wound up in the bathtub with ice. Oh, really? Yeah. Yeah. They like discontinued it after they figured out it was not worth it. No, no. Quickly. That's wild, man. Nuts. Good old days of bodybuilding. The only other, the only other like health related story I have is back from the early days. I joke with people that I took, um, um, you know, I joke with some of the guys. I do. Oh yeah. You know, I took a 10,000 tabs of dbol. Yeah. Cause dbol was like classic. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Like if you were bodybuilding in the nineties, it was like dbol was like awesome. Everyone just wanted to get some pink hexes in your Thailand hexes, your breakfast to champions, put them on your cereal. Yeah. Um, and it was like the best. Right. And I had like Russian parabolins or not parabolins. Uh, they were called piranha ball fives. They were like Russian D balls and pop up full. They were amazing. But the market was flooded with these Russian dbol tabs. It came in sheets. And afterwards, like as time went on, we started hearing those aren't dbol. They're just methyl test. Oh yeah. Yeah. Right. But we were already like hundreds of tabs deep by that point. Yeah. And, and looking back on it, I mean, it, I mean, you know, it was the nineties. It was hard to get good shit. You're getting European amps if you're lucky. And then you're getting these sheets of what you think is dbol, but it's just cheap methyl test tabs that are being made. And that was like the old school counterfeit underground stuff. Right. Oh yeah. And, uh, I took a ton of those. So if there were methyl tests, I'm lucky I have any, had any hair when I was 40 and all that. But I mean, I think that's maybe why I like you used to judge the dbol by whether you got nosebleeds. You'd be like, good sign. You'd be like, you'd be like, Oh, I got a nosebleed on the leg. I'm so depressed today. D balls working. Like it was just like, yeah, you'd get a nosebleed squatting. You'd be squatting, you know, heavy and you'd get a nosebleed during your set and it'd spray some blood on the mirror and you'd be like, ah, fuck a dbol kicking in. Let's roll. Oh God. You'd put tissue paper up your nose and you'd do your next set of squats. Who's your hardcore? Yeah, man. We were so crazy. Like I, I think now if I got a nosebleed in the gym, I'd be like, Oh, this is terrible. I have blood. You know, but no one, no one wants any blood around. Right. Yeah. But back then you'd probably be like my health. I need to go check my blood pressure. But back then we'd just finish the workout. And then I was always considered enough to go up to the front and ask for a spray bottle and I'd go Windex the mirror. What a good guy. You know, but yeah, those methyl test tabs, man, we took so many of those. I'm sure if there's anyone out there my age who remembers the old thinking they're taking dbol, but it's pretty sure it's not quite dbol. That was, that was a Russian, Russian methyl test probably cost 10 cents a tab and we probably paid a dollar a tab. So yeah. Yeah. Good old days. You got another one, Scott? We have a bunch of stuff. Actually guys are commenting in the stream. So everybody on the live stream, you guys are freaking awesome. Thanks for hanging with us. Scott is with us. Not me. Another guy says question for the guys currently wrapping up the last four weeks of my cutting cycle, 450 tests. So I guess we're doing a bunch of gear stuff today, guys. Why not? 450 test, 450 mass. We're selling out for the views. We're doing the money. Reaching for our pockets. Reaching for our wallets. That's what it is, right? That's how it goes. Okay. 450 tests, 450 mass, 150 MPP and 350 trend E weekly. And he's pinning every day. So he's splitting all that up every day with 25 milligrams of Winstrel two times a day and two units of growth hormone taken at night. He's currently 11% body fat and dropping. He's using Justin Harris's carb cycle diet. Is there anything I can do to increase the crispness look? Before I go on my beach vacation, I thought he was going to say like before I get to the NBA universe. The universe, yeah. Hey, you got to get ready for the beach vacations too. I do that. Do what you got to do. Okay. He's going to be the most jack guy in the beach, man. I'll keep it short. You're 11%, so you just need to get leaner. Don't worry about water or anything like this point. However, I always held water on any kind of Nandrolone. So the NPP for me, if I dropped out that 150 NPP, I guarantee I would get leaner or harder looking. Yeah. And then like I just said, Tran E made me feel fucking horrible. And that's quite a bit of Tran E. And people think Tran is like you will never hold water on it. But that's not true because it's also stressful to your system. So even though it doesn't convert to estrogen, it's also like stressful on you. Oh, yeah. So I would maybe cut that down to 200. And I know that sounds counterintuitive because you're on less drugs. But trust me, we've all seen this a million times. Sometimes less drugs equals a better look. And you're just trying to get lean for the beach, man. You're on plenty of gear. I would drop the NPP out if you're worried about water. And I would run less Tran, to be honest. And you're on plenty of other stuff. I would just diet hard. If you're doing Justin's carb cycle diet, just pound that. But that's my quick little two cents. I have nothing to add. I love it. Yeah. I think that's all good advice. Let's get a restock on the shirts, Justin says. Does he mean at Mutant? Good luck with that. Are there shirts available? Which shirt? What shirts are you talking about? I don't know. Tell us, Justin. What are you talking about? Yes. Oh. All right. Okay. Tanya noticed I said MapQuest. Yes. I'm trying to look here. We got a bunch of stuff. Here's one. How was Scott Abel as a coach, Ron? Oh, dude. We've been getting asked that a bunch of times. And also, B question. Like, have you heard anything about him at all? Like, is he still coaching anybody? Anything like that? I don't know what Scott's doing. I know he sort of retired from the bodybuilding scene. I know he got really tired of, like, the drugs were just getting crazier and crazier and crazier. And he just had enough. Um, so I don't blame him. Um, I remember he told me one time he was backstage at a show. And this would have been, like, I don't know what year this would have been. Like, 2000-ought something. Like, 2009-10 something. Like, around there. And he said that was kind of, remember that period where everyone was really banged up? Like, their delts were loaded. Arms were loaded. Everything was loaded. Okay. There was that phase when a lot of the kind of lower-tier guys were trying to shoot up everything. And it was always the lower-tier guys, right? They were trying to make up for size. And he just saw so much sight injection. He was just like, I'm out of here. And he kind of got tired of the bodybuilding. I don't want to put words in his mouth. But he was helping a lot of, like, athletes and a lot of, like, also helping a lot of women. He really got into that market. I mean, I think he had plenty of money. I think he's, like, pretty retired. And I think he's doing pretty good. I haven't talked to him in years. Yeah, who is he even? Because we might have some newer people that don't even know. Well, I mean, it's hard to sum a person up. He's just, he was way ahead of his time. He was a coach from Ontario. Back in the 90s, he turned, like, I don't know how many people pro. He turned, you know, 30 people pro in the 90s when there was one pro card a year. Yeah. Right. So, I mean, like, it was a lot. He was, you go to the nationals and you'd see strided glutes. And there was only a couple people that it could have been. Right. And Scott was one of them. He was ahead of his time. I worked with him. He had me doing HIIT cardio in, like, 2004. Okay. That wasn't a thing yet. He had me doing, like, super high calorie, super compensation days and then really low calorie dieting, which was, like, kind of revolutionary too. And he was a volume trainer, though. He was into, like, volume being, you know, having everything else standardized and then using volume as a sort of, like, what you use to regulate your training. Which, you know, I tried it for a while, you know. I did win my first national title with him. So, I got to hand that to him. And, yeah, he turned a lot of guys pro, man. And a lot of his guys were in great condition. And, but that was the old school days. There was, you know, a lot of water and diuretic manipulation and pretty hardcore loading. He was into fat loading and stuff like that. So, yeah, it was an interesting era. But, yeah, Scott Abel had his hand in the bodybuilding scene for a long time. I believe he helped Linda Murray the year that she didn't win. And then they found out she was pregnant. Oh, wow. Remember that year? Linda Murray, like, tried to win another Olympia and she got second. And then afterwards she said, she's like, oh, my God, I found out I was pregnant during my prep. I didn't even know. She dropped nine pounds and was shredded. Yeah, something like that. Dropped nine pounds and was shredded. But, like, she was in the early stages, obviously, you know, and just didn't know. Okay, yeah. But, yeah, so I think he helped her that year. He helped Greg Kovacs, like, from kind of the start. Like, he picked Kovacs up at a very early stage. Oh, no kidding. And he was very closely working with Greg Kovacs for a lot of those, like, crazy years that Kovacs was getting out of control. Scott had his hand in a lot of that. So, yeah, it was fun. Scott was fun to work with. Like, he loved bodybuilding. He was super hardcore. And he was a smart guy, you know, real smart guy. So, you know. He worked you hard? Like, did you, like, grind really hard to get to that kind of condition? Oh, yeah. Your calories got low. Yeah. He was the guy that introduced me to the concept, like, everyone else was doing, like, you know, 500 grams of protein, no carbs. Yeah. And Scott was like, that's stupid. Your body's just turning carbs into protein or protein into carbs. Why don't you eat 250 grams of protein and 250 grams of carbs? Yeah. Right. Your calories are the same. Yeah. And you'd do it. And you'd keep your muscle. And your pumps would be better. But you'd be starving. Because your meals were small. And you know what I mean? Like, you're having six ounces of chicken and half a cup of rice. Yeah. And you're starving. But that's the name that he'd just be like, ah, you're a bodybuilder. You're supposed to be hungry. So, you know, it was that type of a thing. The meals were small. The diet was tough. Yeah. He pushed people. What about this one for Dusty? Because, Dusty, I feel like you got an answer for this. Dane, who we met, he says, lead question, why don't cheat meals made at home hit like cheat meals from a restaurant? Oh, man, there's a list. There's a list of reasons. Salt and fat. That's the first one. Second one is you have no responsibility for any of it. You ain't got to make it. You don't got to clean it up. Yeah. Someone brings it out to you on a nice fancy plate. You know, look at Scott is just breaking every rule there is today. I set an alarm because I take my SLU and I keep forgetting to take my sex. It's like a blow job for no reason. It's always better than a blow job that you had to clean the house for. Valid point. You know what? I think he just summed it up right there. You walk away. Yeah. And if you get a blow job at a restaurant, never mind. Never mind. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I got distracted. Can I have a booth, please, in the corner? Can you turn this light off over here? What's the darkest booth you have? All right. We had one for Patreon. I'll throw in really quick. Yes. How can you figure out food at the airport? Look for a teriyaki place or something like, or a burrito place. You can get a bowl. Just get rice. Oh, here's a hack. If you go to Chipotle or any sort of like burrito bowl place and you've got the rice in the front, it's usually got oil and shit in it. I always ask for rice from the rice cooker. Valid. Valid point. Oh, okay. Yeah. Because it's just like it doesn't have stuff mixed into it. I go, I don't want this rice. Can you get me some rice from the rice cooker? And they'll look at you and go, oh, no, I don't think so. And I go, yes, you can. These are the droids you're looking for. And then they go to the back and they scoop it out of the rice cooker. And I'm like, there you go. See, it's easy. It works. So they put oil in that other rice. A lot of places do. Okay. Chipotle does, especially Chipotle. That's why it's so like shiny and stuff. I didn't know this. All right. Oh, yeah. Yeah, that's a whole thing. I do a lot of, depending on where I'm at, if I'm in a jam, but there's always burger places. And you can always just get a patty. Yeah. Get a couple of patties. Still got oil in the fat and it's fine. Then you just don't do any carbs. You know, you're getting the fats. Yeah, that's another trade off. You know, throw the veggies down and call it a day. But I mean, I think the biggest thing is that only happens if you get stuck in a layover that you weren't planning on the way home. You know, I've had the nine hour. I missed a flight one time. I was stuck in Chicago airport for nine hours. I went to Chili's three times. The lady laughed the second time and the third time it was a different person because her shift was over. You went to Chili's once and you just sat there for three meals. That's what you mean. You ate three meals at one time. This story is a lie. I got some questions, too, that I thought were pretty good. Cool. What's a failure in your life that turned out to be a blessing? This podcast, I made two good friends. There we go. It's still a failure every day when you got the friends. A complete waste of our time. It's an expensive friendship you got there. I'm always, in retrospect, I'm always glad I didn't turn pro at any of my close calls. I'm glad I lost all those shows. It would have ruined everything. Yep. I would have turned pro before Facebook. And then what? Yeah, we wouldn't know, Ron. Who cares, right? See ya. Go get a job. Oh, I'll get some salesman now. I don't know. Very true. For me, it was getting injured and not getting to play hockey. And that was a double because part of it was I had zero plan. Like, I didn't need another plan. I knew what I was going to do. It was fine. I knew it since I was 12. It wasn't going to be a big deal. So, I planned my entire life even where I played what I did because it was going to go pro. A lot of guys didn't go pro out of college back then because it was a very different game. So, if you were like a speed that kind of player, you would go to college and still make it. If you weren't, you went to juniors. So, when I got injured, I had no degree, no talents, no money. Oh, shit. And that all worked out because that put me into this environment which then, you know, when you look back, you go, oh, the ultimate plan, the universe plan, the God plan, whatever you want to call it, was just to do that to lead you to other things that happened. You know, meeting friends, meeting your wife, meeting whatever and then ending up in bodybuilding. So, that was a huge, in hindsight, I'm like, yeah, that definitely worked out for the best. Although, I still wish it would have went the other way. Anyways. I would say photography for me, I burnt myself out with it. Like, I was 24-7, 365, you know, went to school for photography, worked in it and worked at a place where you were like just go, go, go. So, and I burnt myself out of it so much that I never wanted to do it again. And when I discovered bodybuilding as my next passion, which was something I had done before but not at the level I eventually began to take it to, I realized I was like I never, I love bodybuilding so much that I never want to lose it. And so, I always was able to look at the mistakes I had made previously with photography, which was a huge passion of mine in art. And it was like I'm not going to make those same mistakes of burning myself out again. So, and it's something I try to pass on to other people because you guys, you know people, we meet people, listeners and clients. Some of them that are just like 24-7 and it's great. But some people you have to pull back and you're like, you know what, no, if you go on vacation, like you're in your offseason. We're off, you know, cycle right now. You just got done with like a big push. And now is the best time for you to be able to eat off plan. So, like enjoy your time, you know, relax a little bit because in four months we're not going to have that opportunity to, you know what I mean? So, stuff like that. Also, every other romantic relationship that I had ever been in to get where I am today. Honestly, I, you know, wouldn't have been able to be who I am right now, you know? Yeah, yeah. There really are no, like I'm very fortunate that I am in a spot where I don't really see anything as a fail. Because I'm happy with where I am in life and who I'm surrounded by. So, you know what I mean? Agreed. I failed at relationships too, but it was all like, well, I mean, you know, look how, on a scale of one to ten, I'm extremely happy on a daily basis. So, I'm in a good spot. Yeah. It worked out. You know? That's also mental attitude. Yeah. You know? You got another one, Dusty? I have a list. I shot out text messages. So, we got loaded. Oh, wow. So, this is a good one. Three things a younger aspiring bodybuilder should focus on who is getting into the sport. Having a plan for income. Like, we've talked about this a million times. Bodybuilding is expensive and it's just getting more expensive. I mean, you bought steak lately. Yeah. And, you know, bodybuilding is not a poor man's sport anymore. It used to be, you know, I mean, you can, you can can it, you can tuna and rice it for so long. It still costs more than it used to. It still costs a lot more than it used to. You know, we used to buy those 99 cent cans of tuna and all that stuff. But, I think, well, those days are long gone. And, bodybuilding is not a poor man's endeavor if you want to be, you know, really good at it. So, have a financial plan. You need to be a boss in your life, not just in the gym. And, so, that's one thing. Also, understanding that you have to build a pro physique in order to become a pro. That was mine. I was going to say get big. Just period. Get big. Build muscle. Don't be in such a panic to compete all the time. You're just going to be an also ran with all the other also rans in a lot of cases. I mean, you know, there's a lot of guys that are ready to win. But, I'm just saying, you know, a lot of people that think they are, aren't. And, don't waste your money going to nationals if you don't have, like, any shot at all. You know? To be realistic about that stuff. See, a lot of people blow a lot of cash competing all year long. Yeah. I would strip it down, too, to even basic stuff in the gym. Work on figuring out what intense training actually is. I don't think that a lot of people realize that intensity is something that grows over time. Like, what was intense to me, which I always was somebody who people thought trained really hard. But, every two years, if I were to look back at what I was doing two years ago, it was nothing. You know? And, you start to learn, too, that intensity isn't about running around the gym and, you know, feeling all crazy. It's about what happens during one singular set. One singular rep of every set. You know? Finding the ability to call on those things. That really, take your next pill, Scott. I don't know why it keeps going off. Sorry, guys. Those are things that I see very regularly. I go over it with all my clients. I ask for videos. And, nine times out of ten, when I see the set, I'm like, ooh, we have to learn how to train. You know? And, it's weird to me because I'm a visual learner. So, when I would watch Kevin LaVronie, Ronnie Coleman train, I'd go, okay, that's what training looks like. And, it would throw me off when clients will see videos of my training and then they send me their video. And, I'm like, these aren't the same thing. I'm not talking about the weight. You know? So, I don't think that most people have any idea what their body is capable of. Yeah. Focus on that a ton. Yeah. Yeah. Try to figure out a way to. That's why, you know, I don't want to harp on the science guys because there is a lot of contributions coming lately. But, one of the things that I really think people need to do is they need to actually find a point where they've drastically overdone it. Yeah. You don't know where the line is until you cross it. Like, I remember, like, leg workouts where the next day I would be like, there's no possible way I can go to the gym today. Yeah. Like, I am so smashed. I feel like I got hit by a car. I can barely walk. Crippled around the house. Getting off. Oh, I can't just get off the couch. It's just like, oh, I'm messed up. Like, a lot of people, a lot of regular people, if they just woke up that morning feeling like that, they would go to the hospital. Yeah. Yeah. They would be like, I have to book an appointment with, like, a doctor or I need to get blood work or I need to get a chiropractor. It's like, no, you just did legs. Like, you just have to just, like, recover from legs. Good news. You get to do it again next week. Right. Six days, it's going to happen again. You might be just not sore enough to do it again. Yeah, like that. And I think without knowing that, you know, I was thinking the other day of what the craziest sets we ever did. And it's so funny that you brought up Scott Abel earlier because Scott Abel actually had what he, I can't remember what he called it, but it was like a challenge set that he had us do once in a while just to, like, and I look back on it now and there was no science behind it. It was just a mental thing just turning you into an animal. And you do it on leg day. You go to the leg extension and you'd load up a weight that you could only get, like, six reps with. Okay. So I was, like, stacked plus a plate back then on that old extension that I had. And grind out six power reps, like, like right out of blood and guts where it's like the machine's almost moving on the floor. Bruh, bruh, trying to get six. And then you pull the plate, count to ten, go again. And if you get more than two reps, you count to ten and stay with that weight. And you only get one. And then when you only get one, you drop a couple plates. Wait ten seconds, go again. And if you get more than two reps, you stay with it again. And you keep staying with the weight until you only get one rep. God. And you work your way all the way up the stack. So it was like a, and you'd time it. And I'd send them my time, I'd be like, oh, my leg extension set lasted five minutes. Yeah. And you'd be like, oh, that's incredible. That's awesome. That's, like, brutal. And then, you know, you'd do, like, two sets of leg press and you'd go home. And obviously there's no science behind that. There's no studies on that set. It's, like, breaks all the rules of what people are saying now. But it teaches you, like, how much is in the tank and how much pain can you endure and how much lactic burn can you stand for, like, five straight minutes. Yeah. And we used to do that stuff all the time. And I think it's important that people try to figure out ways to just find out, try to beat yourself to death. Yeah. And just figure out where that line is. You know? Hey, we're going to go in the parking lot. We'd train legs and then we'd take A-50-pound bar. Mm-hmm. And we'd say, hey, we're going to go in the line. We're going to try to do 100 lunges. Yeah. And if you get to, like, 20 and you fail, then it means you've got 80 left. You give the bar to the other guy. He gets as many as he can. You take it back. And you go, and you might only get two, and you hand the bar to the other guy. He gets two, and you hand the bar to the other guy. And you get two, and you hand the bar to the other guy. And we'd try to get to 100. There's no science there. There's no study. It's just, like, we're just going to do something that's so horrible. And then everyone in the gym is, like, watching out the door because we'd have the Bay doors open at Hardcore in Edmonton. And people would just be like, you guys are fucking crazy. Yeah. I'm like, yeah. And then they'd be like, that's why you're the biggest guys in the gym. Right? I think that that's the missing thing. I just told a client that, actually. I said, you need to be the guy that everyone thinks is nuts. Yeah. You kind of have to. Because if you're trying to become that version, that's what it takes. And I know there's some science bells ringing off right now. But at the end of the day, if I could throw away all the information, I would. Because when I went to the gym, when I decided to be a bodybuilder, I looked at the two biggest dudes in the gym. And I said, what are they doing? Yeah. And then I was like, I would literally quietly be doing my little workout, not really doing it, keeping track of what they're doing. And then the next day, I'd do that workout. And the next day, I'd do the next workout. And then it was cranking along. And then I was like, okay, I'm doing enough. Now I'm going to ask them how they eat. And I mean, I'll never forget. Robert Farrell wrote my first diet on a napkin in the front of the gym. Yeah. Eat this. And I was like, okay. And then I ate that every single day. And followed the workouts I stole from him. And next thing you know, I'm growing. And I was like, I never said to myself, I wonder if he's leaving anything in the tank. I wonder. I didn't wonder anything. Okay. I'm going to do what he's doing. And then I got really big. And I think that the lack of information was better. Because I understand someone's, you know, I'm very aware that there are people that are just genetic freaks. But they were the two biggest guys in the gym. And they were continuously bigger than everyone else. And I said, okay. That just seems like the best move. Yeah. You know? And it wasn't until way down the line. You know? And that was the next question Tommy asked, actually, that I think is great, which is, what are three things that a newer person shouldn't focus on? The majoring and the minors. Exactly. The nuances. Yeah. Yeah. I remember being a kid and watching Eric, Eric LaRue. I'll give him another shout out. I give him a million shout outs on this show. He was one of my mentors when I was a kid. Still a friend of mine. Happy 61st birthday, by the way, buddy. But I remember Eric, him and Kevin would come in the gym and they'd go over to the squat rack. And they'd do the old school thing where you lay the plates against the rack before you start. Yep. So there'd be five plates on each side, on the floor, leaning against the rack. Like, just telling everybody, like, these are our plates. Yep. And they get the bar in there and empty bar, one plate, two plate, three plate, four plate, five plate. Knee wraps go on at four plates. Knee wraps go on at five plates. You know, another set with five, then a set with four, then a set with three to failure. And then we've done squats. Yeah. And that was just like, oh, they're both 250 pounds and they're massive. And everyone else in the gym knows they're the most massive guys in here. And there's lots of guys in here on juice. But they're more massive than everybody. So guess what I did on leg day? Yep. Go to the squat rack, stack the plates, get going. Boom, boom, boom. Yeah. So just like the same thing as Dusty. Like, who's the biggest guy in here? Yeah. What's he doing? Let's do that. Yeah. And also it carries over. That mentality carries over to when you're prepping. Like, remember those first shows you're doing? Like, think now about all the people that are doing their cardio and they're like worried about, oh, am I catabolic right now? Yeah. Yeah. Your body can handle a lot. Well, it's funny, Ron, because I just told a client the other day, we got started on first time for her on the step mill. And I was like, all right, let's start at 60 steps per minute. And she gets done and she said, that was really hard. I said, did you complete it at 60 steps per minute? And she said, yeah, I did. I said, perfect. Keep doing that until it gets easier. And she goes, okay. What do I do when it gets easier? I go pick a level that feels like 60 steps did the first time. Yeah. Well, what about my heart rate? I don't care. What about this? I don't care. I want it to be really hard because it's 20 minutes. And when it gets easier, make it hard again. That's like no science. No. Is it still really hard? Do you want to get off at 10 minutes? Perfect. You have 10 left. I used to be more locked in to the beats per minute. You know, like I don't give a shit. I used to be more focused on it. I'm not as much anymore. I feel like, and I'm just, I guess I'm saying like coaching perspective. That's something that's changed for me. I don't think it's as important. You know, I mean, the harder you work, the more fat you're going to end up burning. Right. Right. Well, Ron and I have the same mindset on cardio. It should be either really easy. Okay. For a duration. Yeah. Or really hard. I don't think there should be anything in between the two. Your cardio should be hell or it should be walking. Okay. You know, and then let the duration decide how many, you know, what we're getting done here. Yeah. But I've really, I've really leaned into liking it. And I find as a, as an athlete, I prefer, I mean, I do it even for myself now. I get on the bike and when I first started riding the bike, I was like, I'm going to ride this at a hard pace and see what it gets me. Okay. Yeah. And on the particular bike I'm on, I was running like 84 RPMs. And I saw how long, like the distance that took me according to the bike. And now I had data. Yeah. I just kicked it up, kicked it up. And I mean, now I get on the bike for 30 minutes and I run at 104 RPMs the whole time, do 11 plus miles. But it's one of those things where now I'm watching. Yeah. I want it to be hard. And then you start going, I wonder if I can get to 12 miles. Do I need to increase my speed? Do I need to increase the resistance? But it becomes like a game and it makes it fun as much as I hate doing it. Right. And then it's also, you know, it's something Rob Bailey taught me. It's like, you need to slay a dragon every day. And I really think that's true. Like you've got to do something brutally hard every single day by choice. And I lean into things I don't like as much. The brutally hard in the gym, I love doing it. I can't even call it brutally hard because I love doing it. But getting on that bike or getting on the steps, it's not really enjoyable to me. So every time I'm done, I feel like I did something. And now the rest of the day is my bitch. Yeah. And I'm like, okay. I've already done the worst thing I'm going to do today. So here we go. I have a thing with cardio. I've always hated it. It's always been my least favorite part of the entire bodybuilding experience. It was always, almost always a chore. It was always the thing that took the most like, fuck, yeah, I want to win. I got to do this type of thing. It was practicing posing and tanning were my two. Right. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So cardio was never like fun, you know. But now I have, cardio is my longevity play. Yeah. I don't do cardio to look better. I do cardio because I like, oh, yeah, that's right. I want to live longer. Okay. I got some cardio to do. Right. And right now, sometimes I do 30 minutes on the bike. Sometimes I do 10 minutes on the sprint bike. Sometimes I do 25 minutes on the treadmill. But my daily victory is that I do some cardio. And it's just that I, you know, people who do cardio every single day live longer, period, end of story. That's all the data I need. Yeah. Let's go do some cardio. Right. So that's my thing with it. That's where I'm at. I started with 20 minutes. And, you know, at the beginning of the year, like whatever it was, January 17th. And I just was like 20 minutes, three miles an hour at an incline of two and a half to three. And that was enough to get my heart rate up. I'm like, okay, I can get my heart rate up. By the like 10 minutes in, my heart rate's up. And I, over time, was able to continue pushing it up. And it's really cool to see your endurance build with cardio. And now I'll do like between 50 minutes to an hour on like a level 6.5 and just going as hard, any faster than I would be running. Right. So it's like, it's pretty high intensity. I'm doing like, it ends up being like 130 to 140 beats per minute, especially if I do it after training because your heart's already up, you know? Yeah. And my point now is I'm just kind of like, yeah, you know what? I used to always stick to the lower, you know, keep 120, 125 beats per minute, blah, blah, blah. And now I'm just like, I love it, man. Like for me, and it's not for bodybuilding as much as it is for health and endurance. And what you said, Dusty, slaying that dragging. I'll tell you what, man, when I'm done with that, like I am freaking soaked. Like the next thing I'm doing is taking a shower. There's no other opportunity to do anything. There's like, it's, and it's the greatest feeling in the world. I absolutely love it. That's why I bought that Echo bike. Yeah. I hate that. I know. I know. But man, I hate that thing. Cause I just do, um, 30 seconds all out. Okay. And then I do 60 seconds. Just let the pedals move. Yeah. Almost nothing. Yeah. And I'm telling you, you can get off. You don't have to be honest. When, when, when you crank that thing through, like the first few times that I put it in the garage in the summer when I got it, cause I was like, that was like an F you to me. Like I have space in my cardio room. I'm like, no, no, we're going to start out here. Okay. It's hotter. Do you mean it's hotter in the garage? It's hotter. It's brutal. Yeah. And I mean, for the first, I don't know, 10 times I used to have to come in and lay on my tile floor with a fan directly blowing on me and lay there for like 10 minutes afterwards. It's your legs are blown out. You're, you're breathing. Like you're still on the bike. You've been off for five minutes. Yeah. And yeah, I hate that thing. It's one of the best purchases I've ever made. That's cool. Yeah. I, another thing I have to say about cardio is, um, one of the things that I get out of it is, and the unfortunate thing is I have to finish the session to get the reward. But, but the, you know, like I, I've really sort of not embraced cause I didn't have like any terrible habits or anything, but, um, you know, the, the, the, the talk we have now from like Andrew Huberman and the stuff we're hearing from people about dopamine and how you want to avoid easy dopamine. Right. You know, people that have like, you know, certain terrible habits and that's how addictions form is they just easy dopamine and, um, reward for no work and stuff like that. And it kills motivation and all that stuff. So I've been on this thing where like, if I know I can get dopamine from something that's hard, I know I have to do it. Right. And it's like a motivator to make me do it because I, it just, there's just something I know that that rewarding feeling is there. And it's not just things like cardio. It's anything you don't feel like doing. Like on Friday, I was tired. I trained early that day. I had a ton of stuff on my laptop. I was busy and I just thought, man, I was going to ride today. I was going to get out of my bike, but I'm pretty tired. And I was watching the suns, you know, the sun move across is getting later. And I thought, man, I got two hours of daylight left. And I looked at my app and it said rain Saturday, rain Sunday. And I thought, fuck, if I don't get out today, I'm not going to get out all weekend. And next thing I know, it'll be Monday and I won't get out Monday because I'm busy. So I quickly threw my pads on, pounded some mind FK, grabbed my bike off the wall. And I went and had a fantastic session. As soon as I got out there and I got moving and stretched out and got moving, man, the music was awesome. I had my, had my music playing. I had a great session. And, and, uh, I remember driving home, like I felt high as a kite. Yeah, I know what you mean. I felt fantastic. Like, I'm like, I'm stopping at the store. Going to grab some groceries. I'm going to cook a nice dinner tonight. I stopped at the butcher, went in, grabbed some, some, some steak skewers and some stuff we don't normally eat. And I came home and I made a nice dinner. And Emily and I sat down and watched a movie. And I just, I just, that dopamine reward for something that you didn't feel like doing is, is something that I think people need to really focus on and use it as a motivator. If you're having a hard time with stuff and it can apply to so many things. I've been watching a lot of podcasts on that and they're saying the dopamine information is changing and that, that, what you just said plays a bigger role. So it has to be something harder, something you don't really want to do something with a surprise result. Yeah. Yeah. You know, cause of course, if you hate doing cardio, if you hate getting on the echo bike, well, you know, the part you're going to get, which is the shitty part. Um, but that's where the dopamine comes from. That's why it's wild, like mildly addicting to do something you hate doing. Yeah. And that's something I tell people, I tell clients in the gym, you know why you go grab the explode row instead of a barbell? Cause it's easier. Yeah. Yeah. It's just easier. Every part of it's easier. Putting the weight on, it's easier. Rowing, it's easier. What you're using. Yeah. You're both rowing, but I'm telling you the harder one works better. Put the bar on the ground. If you want to get really hard, don't even use the, the lift to put them on there. Slide that shit on. It's a pain in the ass. Best back workout you can have. Row, row a bar against gravity. Right. Can't be beaten. Oh, Hey, so the cardio thing, we, uh, I'm doing all this in the house. Right. And, uh, when I had gotten sick after that, uh, you know, five years ago now I was like, my, my, my cardio was so bad after that. And I couldn't breathe just like trying to breathe. Sitting at my desk sucked. And I had this realization where I was like, I don't know if I'll ever be able to go hiking again. With my wife, you know, like we, we loved, we weren't even married then. I don't know if we'll be able to go hiking again. So while we were in Vancouver, we went to Lynn Canyon and it's a nice little like rocky walk, you know, Ron, you've been there. It's just, of course not. It's a beautiful little walk. And there's this really cool little pool, uh, little river area. And you can jump into that and stuff. And people do like some cliff diving. That's really not safe. They actually have questionable. They have a map there of like where everybody has unalived themselves by jumping in. But at the end of that, then you can keep going to another bridge and there's two paths. There's one path. It's like a flat path. And there's one path that's a set of stairs that literally just go straight up until it turns and then goes up again and turns and goes up again. You can't even see the top. We took that thing straight up and I would not have been able to do that had I not gotten my cardio built up. And let me tell you, Dusty, you get up to the top of that mountain and it was incredible. The feeling I got just being able to do that. And it sucked. Like my breathing, it was hard. You know what I mean? But it felt so good. Hard but possible. Yeah. I was really proud of myself. It was, it was like a really big moment. So I was very happy with that. So here's one, Scott. I want your take on this because I know it takes a lot of heat now with, uh, with the science world. Tempo training. When is the best body part to use things like slow eccentric movements? How and when to add that into training? Slow eccentrics? Yeah. All of them? All of them? What she wrote there. Yeah. That was, yeah, that was the confusing thing. So, you know, there's a lot of pushback now on controlling your negatives. Really? That's not necessary. Really? It doesn't do anything. Huh. And I couldn't possibly disagree more. Like, to me, the most simple metaphor I ever heard, which I've used countless times since then, is comparing a rower to a gymnast that does like rings. Okay. If you're rowing a boat, you know, say you're, you see those people, they're not jacked. Yeah. Yeah. But all they do is row all day because there's only resistance when the, when they're pulling towards themselves. You know what I mean? True. There's no negative resistance. And I said, now look at, look at a ring. Somebody that's on the rings that has to slowly control how their body moves. Yeah. Explode up when they need to control the negative. And as soon as I heard that metaphor in my life, I was like, oh, feeling the negative makes sense to me. Yeah. And now there's science argument against it. And I'm like, huh? Yeah. I don't care. Yeah. No, that's not even a conversation, you know? Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I really, it's funny to me. Some of the things that come out with different studies, I'm always like, yeah, no. Yeah. It doesn't matter. You know what I mean? There are certain things that I think, even if they don't make sense, they make sense. You know, when like in the old days, some of these younger people won't know, but people really push on like switching to white fish at the end of a prep. Oh yeah. Yeah. And people are like, that doesn't do anything. Chicken is low fat. That's low fat. It's the same. And I'm like, I agree. It's different though. Yeah. Yeah. It does make a difference. I totally agree with what you're saying, but no. Just like that. We've talked about the fasted cardio. Yep. Yeah. Same, same thing. It's like, it doesn't matter what it does. Do an experiment, switch to all light fish and do fasted cardio every morning for 30 days. And like no other changes in your life. Just do those things. All meats are switched to light fish and you're doing all your cardio first thing in the morning. You're muted, Ron. Ron, you're muted. Yeah. And guaranteed you will be less happy. Yeah. Just like removing Diet Coke from a diet. Yeah. I love that meme about Diet Coke. It's like, I just concluded my 30 day Diet Coke study. I drank no Diet Coke. And the results are, I am less happy. I'm less agreeable. On and on and on. As he's drinking a Diet Coke. I am no healthier. Very valid. That's good. Do we got more or do you want me to keep firing some of these ones off I have? I like these. Yeah, these are good. I had a good one too, but you can. We could probably do a couple more. What was your good one? Well, it's kind of a philosophical one. I like philosophical. Let's do it. Okay. It's from, I'll just get his Instagram name, Rendell. Okay. Okay. If you could never receive external validation or any recognition, who would you be then? What part of you remains when all your roles, reputation, other people's opinions and all of that are stripped away? Well, this is horrible for me. My whole life is based on external. No, actually, what's funny is I think I'm going to guess that that's a younger person. And the reason I say that is because, at least for me, that stopped forever ago. Yeah. Like, the fact that there's external validation that comes in is just a byproduct of me doing what I was going to do anyways. Like, the only change is we have to post on social media. It's part of our job. I wouldn't do that as often because I don't care. Right. I wouldn't video in the gym because I don't care. I don't need to see it. I've done it 10,000 times. I think he's my age, but yeah. Oh, so maybe then he gets it. Like, because for me, you definitely realize that, I mean, it's the same when someone asked me just recently, like, oh, what do you, you know, do you worry about what someone would think of that? And I'm like, doesn't even cross my mind to care. Like, you do, I think you just reach a point in life where you're like, I just do what I do. And that's the end of it. Like, my training would be the same. Essentially, everything I do in my life would be identical if no one cared. Because, you do these things because you care. And if you're not doing it for those reasons, you should probably switch what you're doing. Because you're going to eventually reach a point where you're unhappy then. Because at some point, no one is going to give two shits about what I'm doing every day. Right. I'm shocked it hasn't already happened. So, it's important that it validates, that you validate what you're doing. You know, I mean. Yeah. I think that most people don't realize that the majority of our lives don't go up on social media. And the best parts of my life don't go on social media. So, I'm just putting up the stuff that we're just shy of required to. I know that I have to put things up to continue the business side of my life. Yeah. Because I know that we're in that weird spot where like, you know, a lot of the stuff that I post isn't actually generating income. But by keeping my social media flowing, it ties in with the things that generate income. Yep. Yep. So, it's like this weird all-encompassing thing where you just try to be, you know, you have to do a certain amount of putting you out there. Because you is the reason that, you know, we're sponsored. And we have businesses and that sort of thing. Right. So, it's all sort of this weird thing where everything meshes together. Yeah. But, you know, I really appreciate like certain guys. I look at their pages and their Instagram is literally one thing. Like, they're hunting. Oh, yeah. Yeah. And I don't see anything about, I don't know what they drive. I don't know what their wife looks like. I don't know what the kids do. I don't know anything about them. And I'm like, I like that. That's cool, you know. So, yeah. It's interesting though, you know. I do think that I'm a little, I'm old enough that I am happily past a lot of that stuff. Do you think when you look back, and I'm answering this simultaneously to me, I'm grateful that some of my earliest days and the most fun I had bodybuilding was before all of this. Oh, yeah. The majority of what I have is just memories. And the only people that have them are people that were there. Yeah. You know, like I would love just for myself to be able to visually hold them in my hand again. But it's like, you know, some of the, I mean, same with Ron and I. It's like when we started the show, Scott, you know this. We travel for a decade together. Scott's like, send me pictures of you and Ron together. And we had three combined for nearly a decade of travel. I'm like, we have a billion memories. He tried to pull one over on me, guys, where they, and I found out the story afterward. But it's like Dusty holding the camera with Ron in the background. He literally was like, we forgot to take a picture. Knocked on, went and knocked on his hotel room door. Ron opens the door. Dusty snaps a selfie. And he's like, here you go, Scott. We really worked on this. Here you go. Put a lot of work into that, buddy. Yeah, that was England one trip. I remember. I'm very happy. We spent the whole day together. And then I went to his room at like 12 o'clock. And I was like, I hope he still has clothes on. Got the selfie and mission accomplished. Yeah. We took pictures. I believe there was two. So we could say pictures. You guys are a lot better at it now, though. We do a good job. Maybe because I'm there half the time to corral you. Actually, Dusty, you remember. And did you guys ever put up that video, by the way, from Feebo? In the equipment hall? You know what? I just found it. I have it fully edited. Okay. Completely edited. We're halfway there. No. I just realized because I opened my iMovie again. And I was like, holy shit, I forgot about that video. And it's completely done. It's down to like, it's a 14-minute video. Oh, it's beautiful. I was going to add a little voiceover. Should I just send that to you? What should I do with it? Yeah. I'll talk to you about it afterward. I'll text you. Yeah. That's so great. It's like, I just got sidetracked by some stuff. But it was completely done. I had it all edited. Dusty was like, when I found it, I was like, oh my god, Dusty's going to think I'm an idiot. Yeah. Actually, at this point, I forgot it existed. No, no, no. Actually, I got it trimmed up pretty good. Dusty's in a little cameo. Let's try to post that before Feebo next year. Yeah. Yeah, I know. It'll only be, yeah, it's like two months late. It's all right. It's all right. People still enjoy it. Oh, god. Okay. Okay. Do we have more? Sure. I have a quick one that I thought would be good. Okay. A practical tip that you use to stay organized. I got married. Yeah. That's a good one. Worked for me too. My main thing with staying organized is I do things immediately. Like if I get a bill, I pay it immediately. Yep. If I get a notification for something, I put it in my calendar immediately. Mm-hmm. I think that procrastination is a massive reason why people get disorganized and behind. It's not necessarily their organizational skills. It's that they procrastinate. Yeah. You know, they have laundry sitting on the table and they have dishes in the sink and they have like that stuff. I just have no patience for that shit. I get stuff done. If I have a load of laundry that finishes, I don't pull it out and sit it on the table. Yeah. I pull it out, fold it, and put it away. Like I get things done immediately. I do. I complete tasks completely. Right. And then they're done. And I just do that with a lot of things, you know, like if something needs fixed, I fix it right now. I go get the tools, fix it right now. I don't say, oh, I'll do that this weekend. Because you've got other things to do this weekend. And there's going to be more things come up for this weekend. It makes so much sense. I wish I could do that way. I'm not. I just handle things as quickly as I possibly can. You know, like Emily, sometimes it drives her nuts because we'll be like doing something. And I'm like, oh, this came up. Stop. Fix it. She's like, you fix that tomorrow. I'm like, nope. Needs fixed right now. Boom. Boom. Boom. Fixed. There we go. What would you do if you were in the middle of a movie? I would finish the movie. That a boy. I just wanted to make sure you were going to break your own rules. No, I have boundaries. You must pay attention to the movie. Yeah. I'm horrible for that. If you're watching a movie with me, I expect you to watch the movie, every frame of it. Because I want to talk about that movie after. I don't want you to miss that stunt or turn your head or miss a line. Cough. Get up. Listen, if you're going to get up and go back, I'm pausing it. Don't think you can walk to the kitchen and back and I don't pause it. Oh. That's a requirement here too, but we do it in both directions. I also don't want to step away to go to the bathroom and miss a single word. No. It's important. Especially on Mobland. There's a lot going on. Watch. Put your eyes on the screen. You'll love this run. Last night, we were watching an episode and it finished. It was a little late and I told Nikki, I'm like, let's just get the first 10 minutes of this next episode because I kind of need to know what goes on. And around 11 minutes later, she's asleep. So I finished the next episode as well. Oh, see, I couldn't have done that. I was like, I got to keep going. She'll just have to watch this on her own later. I was in too deep. I was in too deep. I know. I know. All right. We need one more closer, which yeah, everyone, Ron put me on Mobland and I watched the entire thing in like three days and then caught up to the most recent. So yesterday, as soon as it came up, we finished training, we finished legs, we ate a meal and I'm like, now would be a perfect time to get that last episode in. Yeah. Mobland's been good. Check this out. Check this out. Melonhead. Now, I don't know what we were saying, but it must have been like one of the more motivational moments of the episode. He said, my boss walked in and asked for the link to this. I think he assumes it's motivational speaking. Better give him a different link. Give him a different link. Send him to like a Jordan Peterson video. Skip the first 30 minutes about trend. And everything after whatever portion he got to. He's going to come back and knock on his door and go, hey, can I get some of this trend stuff they're talking about? Yeah. What are these hexagons? I'm going to need some of those. What about this one then from Ethan, who's been with us the whole episode? All right. I don't know if this is like a big final finisher question, but he says. Ethan unemployed? He will be after this. He says, tattoos and bodybuilding, best and worst places for tattoos. Example, I got mine in my arm, but not the arm I show in my side shots. Dusty's a man for this. I have no tats. I have zero tattoos and Emily has zero tattoos. I think that tattoos, you don't want to cover. So once you go over the line between your tricep or your arm and your shoulder, it's bad. Like it never looks as tight as it used to. Like I'm actually, it's funny, but people will see me and they, they think I'm in okay shape. And then if they see me with my shirt off, they're like, Oh, you're like under 10% body fat. I'm like, Oh yeah. Cause they can't see that anymore. So that one's horrible. Anything on the abs. I mean, honestly, if you're bodybuilding now, just don't get any more tattoos. This was my retirement plan. This was going to, this made sure I never came back. I was like, once I go over this line, it's done. He did it on purpose. Yeah. Like this one. It's funny. I got the idea from Dennis James. That was his thing. He's like, if I throw these on, if I get tempted, I'll know I'll suck anyway. So don't worry about it. But yeah. So whatever you have, just don't get more. I mean, you don't want anything that detracts from looking at your physique. I think as a judge, like if I was a judge, I think I would tell people avoid your back and avoid your quads. Yeah. The quad is a rough one. Yeah. I've seen guys get like the whole mural on the back and then you can't see the detail anymore. The back double is tough. It's tough. Yeah. Yeah. But again, I mean, there's a lot of guys that did, that got into tattooing before they got into bodybuilding. It is what it is. Some of the coverups are great. Sometimes they work well. Sometimes they don't, but sometimes they work good enough. Yeah. It is what it is. So, you know. If you really love tattoos and it's that important to you and you're not like at a pro, like I think there's a misconception because of the very old school idea of, oh, you'll get marked down if you have a tattoo. Now, if you go to like a state level show, like you'll see so many tattoos, good ones, bad ones and everything in between. And it's like, if it's that important, you really want it. And you're a state level guy, then just keep bodybuilding and get the tattoo too. And it's, you know, not going to be the world. I think at that level, to be honest, the best guy is still the best guy. Yeah. Like I would still win any local show if I had gotten shape. It would have to be. They're not going to be like, ah, can't see his shoulders real well. I was like, well, you can see he's bigger than everyone else. Who cares? It would have to be like, I think in any scenario, right? That like you guys are equal in every, the only way that a tattoo could truly hold you back would be if you're equal in every single way. Like it's that close, but the other guy doesn't have the tattoo, you know? Yeah. So, but yeah, I mean, it is what it is. I do know that when I colored in under here, if I do like a normal bicep pose, my arm doesn't look as big anymore because it's dark. No kidding. Right. Dark. Visually see, it just looks smaller, but I just don't do that because I have no reason to do that anymore. I told that to Nikki today because we're doing a little five week cut for a trip. You can do my abs on social media. Well, that's why I did it because today was just the, today's day one. I'm starting to diet after actually tomorrow because I'm taking the kids out for one meal. Okay. But I wanted to see the start point. She goes, oh, are you going to the posing room? I'm like, I'm not a bodybuilder. No, I'm just going to lift my shirt up. I love how Dusty said, you know, today's day one. Well, I'm starting later. Actually, I'm starting tomorrow. Yeah. I forgot the girls. But he's already got abs too. I was like, shit, I got to hit one more. I got to hit one more day. I forgot. You got to love this too. You only tell kids like, hey, we'll take you guys anywhere to dinner because we're going to take a break and not go out for a while. Where do you want to go? They go Chili's. I'm like, okay. I mean, I love Chili's, but that's the place you want to go if you can go anywhere. Yeah. Okay. Good choice. Well, at least your kids aren't going to break you out of house and home. No. Yeah. Yeah. No worries on that. Yeah. We're good there. $30. We're done. Okay. $30. You must live in America. Yeah. Have you guys been hearing about this sugar only diet that Mark DeBell's put out? I just did a reaction on it today. Okay. Good. Because Dante asked me about it and my friend John threw that as a question. Thoughts on it. And I have no idea what it is. So break it down. Well, if you ask a couple of our commenters on the show, we don't know anything about anything. So there is that. Keep that. We never did. Yeah. No. Yeah. This is inspirational. Somebody commented that. I think they were like, if you're going to do a reaction, you should do some research. We just watched a video. Well, you can't do a reaction if you do research. It's not a reaction anymore. I know. I know. So it's basically a carb load. It's a carb load, but it's specifically with simple sugar. Does Skip know about this? I did the reaction with him. Oh, no. Yeah. Yeah. Perfect. So it's like, I don't remember if it actually is a thousand grams of carbs from sugar, but Mark Bell, you know, somebody who was in like a very low carb state. And I believe that he even had, you know, kind of preached that. Like, you know, kind of, you know, some people have like their, like the diet they're on as part of their platform. You know what I mean? That's just Lombo. And I feel, true. But I feel like Mark Bell has kind of been like, I'm a, you know, specific diet kind of guy. And talking about that diet has been kind of his social media platform. So now this is the new thing where instead of being real low carb, he's interjecting these super high carb, all simple sugar days. It's like once a week. I don't even know. We didn't see it. Like the video we watched, it didn't tell us how often he's doing it. But yeah, it's basically a carb load using simple sugars. My concern would be, and Skip mentioned this would be like, that's a lot of candy. Like it's stuff like Starburst and, you know, gummy bears and stuff like that. That would be a lot of sugar to consume. You know what I mean? I didn't even want to do that. Yeah. That always falls back into the why for me. Why? It's, you know, if you were to do it. Yeah. I was going to say, if you were to do it and make a big deal out of it, then you get a lot of, you know, clicks on it. Perfect. A little, what do they call that? Rage bait. Perfect. Yeah. I fall sucker to a little bit of rage bait on my Instagram and I start doom scrolling and it just keeps giving me more rage bait. I mostly see dogs doing fun and funny things. That's what I wish I would see. Do you guys need to click more dog things? Do you guys follow We Rate Dogs? No. Oh, you really should. Each week, too, they have like a... My dogs win. They have a thing where they like go back over the top five dogs, the top dogs of the week. They rate every dog. No dog is less than a 10. Some dogs are like 13 out of 10. It's a really good page. It'll make you feel good. Okay. I just followed. We rate dogs. It's a good one. Yeah. Was that it? I mean, dogs is a good place to end. I think we had no dogs. My dogs are sleeping or you'd see them, but I can hear them snoring. The littlest dog snores the loudest. Of course. Donna like saws logs. Like no one's... And I'm like, dude, you're this big. Like a boss. How does this happen? Yeah. And then when she snores, Nikki's always like, oh, it's so cute. I'm like, why is it not cute when I snore? Peyton started watching White Lotus. He wanted to throw that in there. Good choice. Yeah. And I started watching Studio. And I'm on episode four now. Okay. And it's good. It's a really good show. So did you watch number four? No, we were on that next. So you watched the Ron Howard one with three. Yeah, Ron Howard. It's a good show, man. It's a really good show. I gotta say that I think it's the best thing that Seth Rogen and his writing partner, Adam, have ever done. I laughed that last sequence after he has the talk with Ron. And then it goes into that. I started, I was laughing for the last five minutes from Ron, you know, him and him arguing on, like, it just was nonstop laughter. I had tears in my eyes. Every episode has a great cameo in it because everyone wants to be on the show. And it's a show about a movie studio. So they have access to, like, it's a thing of how many people they're friends with, right? Yeah. Like, you could get anybody on that show. And so every episode has, like, a brilliant cameo from somebody super famous playing, like, maybe an asshole version of themselves. Yeah. Or maybe, you know, a semi-realistic version of themselves. But it's great. The last two episodes are, like, a part one and two. Okay. And David Franco has this amazing cameo that he's sort of in both episodes. You just gotta wait for the last two episodes. They're complete chaos. But isn't it hectic? Yeah. Yeah. We had to get used to that. Like, the first episode, it gave me anxiety. And then after that, then I'm like, okay. You had to reframe your mindset before you started watching the show. Yeah. Because they're, like, 30-minute episodes, but there's no fat on them. No. No. It is just nonstop, like, and stressful because you're like, oh, my God. But they wanted to capture the stress of working in the movie industry. They do a good job at that. How, like, high pressure it is and how much, you know, like, we're going to greenlight this movie or not. We have to know by 10 o'clock tonight. Like, is he going to play the lead or not? Like, we need to know. Like, and just say the anxiety of all the crap going on and all the moving parts of making a movie. Yeah. And, yeah. The feeling, the sense of place they give you, the Hollywood that they create is, like, it's the world that I would expect Hollywood to be. Kind of the way in, what was it called? Once Upon a Time in Hollywood. Right. So much of that movie was about feeling like you were in the 1960s in Los Angeles. Right. And you get that same feeling, you know, of being there with them. The houses and the buildings that they're in. And it's so crazy. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. And Seth's driving that stupid car. He's got a, what, a 53 Corvette or whatever year it is. I love that car. Yeah. And, and the, the, the, apparently the most realistic episode is the one where they're casting the Kool-Aid movie. Because you know that Kool-Aid movie's coming. Kool-Aid. And there's an, there's an episode coming up where they have to cast the Kool-Aid movie. Oh, God. And apparently all the conversations are taken from real conversations that they've heard studio people have to have. Like, just the, the nonstop franticness of it. Like, well, if we cast a black guy for this role, what, what race does his wife have to be? And like, oh my God. And then what, but then there's too many white people. Oh, we got to fire that person. But are we firing them because they're white? Yeah. Like, and then, you know, like just a constant, like juggling of just all the nonsense they have to put up with to make a movie. And please every single person and not get called any, you know, anything bad. And just, it's chaos. So just wait for that episode because it's stressful. I'm excited. I'm excited. Okay. Awesome. Okay. Thanks, guys. Okay. Remember, like, share, subscribe, comment, and... Ring the bell. Yes. And remember, go to IAMMutant.com. IAMMutant.com. Get your ISO surge. Get your all in. And everyone should get on the gear. Dusty and Big Ron are the codes. Save money. Get it delivered to your door. You don't even have to put socks on. No. Come on. I know you're not leaving your house. Most of you are unemployed. Let's just be honest with ourselves. So, yes. Let's do that. Go to IAMutant. Get your stuff. Make us happy. Keep us relevant. We appreciate all of you. Remember, oh, yeah. Thanks for watching the live, by the way. Everyone that chimed in. Yes. Awesome. Thank you. Sorry we couldn't get to every comment, but you know how it is. We're kind of incapable of really handling the stuff that happens. We're doing our best. Okay. Remember, it's just bodybuilding. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back.