 I admit that I or employees under my direction forged certificates of analysis by editing the information and watermarks on other business certificates of analysis. I find that interesting. It doesn't surprise me, right? For people that aren't very keyed up on the effects of drugs or managing how they work. Yeah. Test and master one to one to one is generally a fairly safe approach in the sense of the sense of the effects of drugs. They don't need to be the evidence that they don't need to be the evidence that they don't need to have a lot of knowledge to use that and not get into any bother with it. Is it basically a blanket with a hole in it and a hood? Yeah, it's a poncho. I think it's a snuggie. What's a snuggie? Snuggie is made of ultra soft, thick, luxurious fleece with oversized sleeves. What you're wearing? No, it's a poncho. Just a wool one. Is it wool? Oh, shut it, you're just jealous. Guys, welcome back to the podcast. With Dave Crosland, I'm Scott McNally and all of our programming. It's brought to you by evalbloodanalysis.com. If you're in the UK, then especially if you're watching this show, you're probably on cycle. You need to get your labs done and you can do that with Dave at evalbloodanalysis.com. We're also brought to you by truenutrition.com. Use our code THINK for additional savings, 10% off on all your orders, basic supplements like protein, creatine, intra-workout, strong sports nutrition for those of you in the UK and the US. We've got great stacks at Strom for health. We're brought to you by supplementsource.ca for Canadians. Great deals to change week to week. And of course, Patreon. We've got a couple of Patreon questions today. We had an interesting topic we want to bring up about how anabolic is Masteron? Like how much muscle can you grow on mass compared to test? We've got all your list of questions. And guys, you're welcome to comment with questions for the next show. That's what drives our programming. If you're new here, we'd love to have you along for everything we do. We have several shows a week. Dave is an expert witness for the UK court system. He's done tons of education on PEDs for the military, the police force over there in the UK. And he was featured in the documentary Under Construction, where you were like freaking 400 pounds, 415 if we got to be specific. Before we got into anything, Dave, and by the way, I've been coaching for about the last decade full time and coaching for 15 years. So we're just here to share our education, our experience with you. Dave, before we got into everything, I wanted to do a little bit more digging. After our last show, we talked about indictments. And I kind of struggled to find anything. And then I found this plea agreement that happened, I think it was just at the end of December 2025, for a company called Paradigm Peptides. Matt Kaua, I guess that he got popped. And it wasn't for what we would think it was. We've been talking about all this stuff with, you know, GLPs. Guess what he got popped for? SARMs. Hmm. Not really a popular, I don't think they're a particularly popular compound these days, much, are they? Yeah, you wouldn't think so, man. I think they've got a niche. I think there's definitely a niche of people that quite like SARMs. Yeah. I think there's still some SARM-only dedicated sites and stuff like that. But I don't think they are anywhere near as popular as they used to be. Oh, God, dude. Do you remember, like, what was it, seven years ago when we started this show, there were people who were vehemently defending SARMs and talking about, like, you know, these are the future and you're foolish for using anabolics. And, you know, where did it all end up, you know? Yeah, you get this with a lot of things, don't you? You know, this is the new age, this is this, this is that. And then, like I always say, you know, give it six months and if it's still around, then it's got some value because it will survive the trial and tribulations of people actually using it. Right. And SARMs do have their place. I think what screwed SARMs was when they sat in that sort of legal loophole, they were a viable alternative for people for oral anabolics who were concerned about legalities and that sort of thing. But since a lot of them got reclassified and a lot of them became illegal, then it's sort of like, well, if I'm going to do an illegal drug, I might as well do anabolics rather than SARMs because I'm going to get more bang for my buck. Yeah. So I think that sort of destroyed SARMs a little bit was the fact when they started getting a bit tighter with them classification wise. I mean, they were, you know, for a long time, they were fine over here and then slowly but surely various SARMs have been criminalized and classed as controlled drugs. Oh, no kidding. I didn't realize that. Yeah, it's not everyone, but certain ones have. They keep making amendments to the Drugs Act. They don't make a big song and dance about it, so people don't really hear about it. But slowly but surely, several of the SARMs have been classified, particularly like the ones that are sort of trend emulates and stuff like that. But I mean, they got changed over in the U.S. as well, didn't they? But I remember when SARMs were a genuine viable alternative to oral steroids because you knew they were genuine. That's true. Yeah. You know, so you knew you would get. And then obviously legislation came in. They got banned from sale and they slowly but surely sort of got less and less popular. Well, they had like the art. You're thinking maybe, too, like there's a kind of a blending of, I think, some of these ideas like pro-hormones because the trend-based things. I think those are like, you know, there were a lot of like trend-based pro-hormones versus SARMs. We're talking like Osterene. YK. Well, yeah. Yeah. But then again, you use people to regard MK as a SARM and it's not. So I think the SARM title has got very broad-banded. Yeah. Yeah. I think to a degree it does probably for a lot of people now include pro-hormones. Well, check this out, man. I've got this. So this is the plea agreement that was entered. Looks like it was entered October 27, 2025. From what I understand, he already made a deal. But, okay, so he pled guilty on December 10, 2025, along with his sister who was working for him. And it says that sentencing isn't until March 24, 2026. And his sister Jennifer is scheduled for March 25, 2026. But from my understanding, they already made a deal. Anyway, there's some interesting stuff in this, man. So check this out. So this is the actual plea agreement that he had entered. Where do we see that part about how much he made? Oh, that was lower down. That was lower down. What did he claim? Oh, there we go. I think it was like right around here. Yeah, 3 million. 3 million over five years. I mean, I'm not aware of the company. I don't know how big they were. Yeah. But in anabolics, that doesn't seem particularly big numbers. Okay. Wow. Not over five years. I mean, what, you're talking 600,000 a year turnover. Yeah. Well, I don't know. Is that turnover? Yeah. So he said sold more than 3 million pounds, $3 million worth. So 600,000 a year, 50,000 a month. I mean, it's not small. But I know. Fuck it. I don't know UGLs that are doing that a week. 50,000. 50,000. I can only imagine, man. That's like, to me, that's like Walter White money. So, yeah. I mean, it's definitely viable, but. What would $3 million look like in a room? Like if you just had that in cash? It depends on size of bills, I suppose. Doesn't it? Well, let's say there are hundreds. You know? Would you need a pallet for that? Oh, yeah. If you're not fitting that in a duffel bag. No, that's a lot of volume. It is a lot of volume. Yeah. That's wild. So we were looking at, here's some of the interesting stuff. So they had some lab reports on some of the products he was selling. Look at this, man. BPC is BPC. But then the YK-11, it says, was actually testosterone. The Osterine was actually testosterone. The MK-677 was, guess what? Testosterone. I don't understand that. So, I, I mean, I haven't looked at the indictment. Was he charged with the supply of testosterone? Or did they charge him under the supply of non-regulated, unapproved drugs? I think it was with SARMs. I think it was controlled substances. I mean, that's a bit weird because if he's being supplied. Controlled substance allegations, federal investigators determined that the products that Paradigm Peptides marketed as SARMs actually contained testosterone, which is a Schedule III controlled substance. So they did actually do him on the controlled substance side of things, right? Okay. Okay. Yeah. And it, it, I also have information that, I mean, there were, what is it, FDA and FTC warning history. During the pandemic, he was marketing Thymus and Alpha to treat or prevent a particular. It was on the snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch snatch  thing that, that was a bug that was going around, um, um, Trisapatite investigation in May of 24. Um, they sent on another letter it sounds like, um, regarding the illegal importation and sale of products. Um, so, um, that contains, um, what you're saying is, they warned him several times, why in your neck, you know, we're gonna fucking kick you on, and he carried on going and just ignored it. Um, and he carried on going and just ignored it. Um, yeah, that's what it kind of says. Um, it sounds like. Oh, it sounds like. Oh, it sounds like. Oh, he's a big, isn't he? Well, I mean, I think that's what a lot of these companies are doing, you know what I'm saying? Where was this, uh, there was an interesting part where he was talking about, um, the testing, uh, where he was, uh, Oh, he forged, he forged the certificates, uh, yeah, more employees under his instruction, yeah. Okay, I admit that, yeah, the, uh, website, there were false statements about the products that induced customers to purchase products, including that the products were of the highest purity and that they were manufactured in the United States. In actuality, my business was not manufacturing the products United States. Instead, I was obtaining from China, India, and other countries. Of course, we all would have assumed that, right? Um, in addition, I was not testing the products for quality or purity. I admit that in emails to customers, I, or employees under my direction, falsely told customers that we were registered with the FDA. I admit that I, or employees under my direction, forged certificates of analysis associated with our products by editing the information and watermarks on other business certificates of analysis. I find that interesting. It doesn't surprise me, right? Who would have thought it? You can't trust your drug dealer. Yeah. Terrible. I mean, here's the thing. I feel like, so it's, it's a real popular, popular, popular marketing technique. Now I'm sure you've seen it where people, companies are saying like, here's our product. Here's a picture of our product. And here's our certificate of analysis, right? Yeah. Yeah. I mean, say the certificate only, only, only relates to the, the item that was tested. I, the actual item that was tested doesn't relate to the broads for its product. And I, it surprises me that people struggle with that concept. It's like, oh, well, it was tested. Yeah. Not the fucking one you're using. Or maybe it wasn't Dave. Maybe it's a false certificate. Oh yeah. Apparently we have, we also have some disagreement on whether it's one suitcase or three suitcases. Oh no, that's briefcases. Sorry. Oh, so apparently it's one suitcase for 3 million. How do you know? 3 million will fit in a large suitcase. How do you know the lolly? Yeah. That's what I want to know is. Versus Josh says it would take three briefcases. That doesn't seem a lot. Three briefcases. Who are the people that are watching our show, Dave? Like, what are they into? What do they have going on, man? I don't know. I don't think you want to know. If you've got briefcases and suitcases full of $3 million, then where's my pro charger? You cheap tight twat. All right. Well, listen, we do have a bunch of stuff. I just wanted to bring that up because I thought it was interesting. Dude, we got so many freaking listener questions from the last episode. And by the way, you guys are welcome to comment with questions. But we had one that I wanted to bring to you first about Masteron. Is anabolic or excuse me, is Masteron anabolic? No one seems to agree one way or the other. And he says, how would 500 tests compared to 250 tests and 250 masks in terms of anabolism? Thanks in advance. So let's talk about this, man. How anabolic is Masteron compared to testosterone? And how is that equal to gains? If you go on the numbers, and no, it's not equal to gains. And we've discussed this at length about how the androgenic androvallos were an attempt to have a comparison. And the original was a ratio comparing them to test. Yeah. And comparing the anabolic to androgenase. And then they decided to try and make it a scorable indication of, to some degree, the strength of the drug. It doesn't quite work. So it really wants to be looked at loosely. Now, Masteron has a range for its anabolic value of roughly 60, 65 to 130. But its androgenicity is, I think, around 45, 50. So on paper, from an anabolic point of view, it should be fairly equal to test. But it won't be as good from a strength perspective. And should be less impacting in certain areas. But the big thing that changes all this is estrogen. Masteron does not create estrogen. And estrogen plays a significant role in progress. So this is where the test sort of is a more rounded drug. Because it has this ratio of test to estrogen, which works very well in favor of muscular progress. Is MAST as good as test? Probably slightly less, but not significantly. I would say from a more of an experience-based point of view. It has useful properties. See, this is the thing as well. It also depends on the environment and the application you're using the drug for. You know, the CIRM-like action that MAST has can be very, very useful. So it gives it a sort of extra bonus in there from a point of view of managing estrogen in a cycle format. 500 tests against 250 MAST and 250 tests. I would say potentially estrogen being controlled, the 500 tests would probably yield slightly better results. Everything else being equal. But I don't think it would be dramatic. MAST, with all the DHTs, have some benefits around hand-eye coordination and technicality. So again... Yeah. So the DHTs lend themselves better to performance sports in the sense of track and field type stuff. Yeah. So there is some benefits there with how it helps with things like that. So like I say, it's a bit difficult because you're sort of trying to compare an apple to an orange. Both fruits. Both taste nice. Both useful. But they have subtle differences that aren't comparable. What about this? So take it a step further. I always hear that... And this is from Dalton in the stream. I always hear that MAST allows tests to work better. But I haven't heard anyone talk about the mechanism behind that. I disagree with that. I think MAST will make a test cycle easier to manage because you're not having to then add extra estrogen control. So... There's that. But what about SHBG and free test? Because you're going to raise your free test. And that's always been the thing. You know, back in the day, people used to talk about like taking Proviron so that they would increase their free test, get more out of their testosterone. Yeah, but I don't think you do at that point. So testosterone itself will lower SHBG. Right. MAST does lower it slightly more. But I don't think the difference there is significant to have any real change in progress. And the other thing is low SHBG, as in too low SHBG, could technically disrupt the dispersal of the drug. I've had issues with low SHBG. Yeah, it's a transport protein. So... So... But I've also seen like... I mean, I've seen DHTs just rocket free test up. Like, I'm talking, you know, multiple times the upper limit. Hmm? No, no, without doubt. And obviously a lot of that is based around album levels and SHBG levels. But I don't see... Like... Roughly, and this is roughly... Mm-hmm. Most AAS use, even TRT AAS use, is going to put SHBG sort of below 20. Okay. In a cycle format, it will probably push it down to the low teens. So, 10, 11, 12s. At a DHT, you'll see SHBG drop potentially under the 10. So, 8, 7. I don't feel that that level of drop is significant enough to have any real world impact on progress. Personally. I see. I see. Because you're saying it's already getting pushed down from anything you're doing anyway. Yeah. So, I just don't see that improvement in SHBG... Well, whether it's an improvement or not. That increase in the reduction of SHBG being... Don't get me wrong. If it was taking SHBG from 40 down to 15, yeah, you're really going to see a difference in response there. But when you're going from 10, 11, 12 down to 8, 9, I don't see it. I just don't see it. I might be wrong. And I'm freely open to that one because it's not something I've looked at to in any depth. But I just can't see it happening. Another funny comment here. An interesting comment I thought...  healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy healthy prefer mast over prima yeah um and i think mast definitely has a greater anabolic value than prima without doubt uh i don't think it's too far away from test from a point of view of light for light milligram for milligram results did scott look at clever scott not you not dumb scott clever scott did did clever scott look at uh mast as a compound and its um favorability on you know i can't remember if it was on the list to be completely honest with you um yeah i i can't remember offhand if it did it didn't stand out to me but i could go back in and look at this i mean if you want if you said to me how would you describe math i'd say an easy drug to use solid dependable reliable gains nothing outstanding but good steady progress and that'd be it whereas test i would say was a little bit more lively a little bit more dramatic in what it could achieve whereas primo was much less noticeable from a results point of view it's funny because some people love primo yeah you know some people love it they get great gains with it they say you know i'm i'm with you i if i had to pick one or the other i'd definitely say i'd be more of a masked fan if i were to try to sum masked up in one word it would be safe yes and by safe i don't mean that like oh it's completely safe you can take tons but more so like back in the day when we used to manage easy to use difficult to fuck yourself up with yes yeah it was a lot easier to mess yourself up with our old school test dbol cycles versus test and mast you know especially if you're doing say like intro cycle 300 and 300 man that's going to be a pretty like low side effect profile cycle yeah and easy to administer not a lot of explanation not a lot of knowledge needed around what your body doing you can know it's for people that aren't very keyed up on the effects of drugs or managing how they work yeah test and mast and a one-to-one is generally a fairly safe approach in the sense that they don't need to have a lot of knowledge to use that and not get into any bother with it and i think that that's one of the key reasons that it became so popular is because people were you know like oh i'm tired i don't want to risk the side effects and we started hearing new users say like oh i don't want to get all the bloat that you get from x compound um so instead of figuring out how to manage those things they just said hey why don't i just go to this compound because it's easy um and now fast forward to 2026 and uh the availability smacked us in the face yeah yeah it did uh but yeah i mean i i quite like master i think it's like you say it's a non-problematic drug in the most part yeah all right well listen we have a lot of listener questions i in fact i might say even more than normal that said it's freaking awesome we love you guys comment with questions for the show that helps to you know keep things moving all your comments your likes hit the hype button if the hype button is there we could definitely use it and if you're new here we'd love to have you along for everything we do we have several shows per week hit the subscribe button hit the bell dave um let's see if we can maybe even try to like move quickly i know it's difficult for us to move fast through some of these but if we can let's rapid fire some all right yes no maybe okay guys i was looking i was looking at the chat messages oh uh question for the next week's show i've been on TRT cream for a year i want to try a cycle for the summer then go back to the cream do you recommend test only test with gh or test with primo or mast i'm thinking test at 400 per week with three iu of gh daily i want lean gains is 16 weeks too long i'm 42 years old i have low SHBG i think to be honest all of them are viable really um the gh would definitely help with condition on a 16 week cycle there's no no denying that as long as you're not being a dick with your diet i mean it's not going to overcome living off cake and fucking cheeseburgers is it but um which is my diet if you haven't worked out but um it's um it's not all of them are relatively safe uh in the sense of not going to cause him too many problems and he should get reasonable progress uh does he say well he's on gel so i can't see his TRT dosing being particularly high right he's probably in range or something yeah uh the other thing would so even just form a test on his own is probably going to be quite a dramatic increase from where he is um the only thing i'd be wary of was whoever's providing him with his TRT just make sure you've not got any conflict in blood tests because they might get a bit arsy if you go and see them and you've got a test level of 2000 yeah and your hematocrit's jacked up and you know anything else you you do need to time it around your treatments uh if you are monitored but other than that i think all three options just to be honest i don't really have a preference on any of them yeah and in his comment too he said he's looking for lean gains that's all going to come down to your diet man i don't care what the cycle is yeah you could be on like a quote-unquote wet compound and still get it lean and get leaner gains than on a quote dry cycle if the nutrition is in order so diet's the number one factor guys it really is um one in the the stream here we did tackle this i think on another show recently why is EQ uh why do you rarely hear about it being used for prep purposes it purposes uh excellent estrogen suppression and it definitely has a nice endurance effect health performance late in the prep uh is it just the long aster no i don't think so i i don't i think it's just because they were easy i mean EQ and its anti-eestrogen properties is even though EQ's been around for as long as it has it's something we've only really recently jumped on uh why we haven't stumbled across it before i do not know um it seems quite crazy considering the amount of time EQ's been used yeah that its anti-eestrogen effects haven't been more widespread known sooner um but i think it's only more reason that one we've learned obviously about his anti-eestrogen effect and it being quite powerful in doing that and two we've had the shortage that has pushed people because there's there's been this big drive towards using antibiotics for each of your management and now mast and primo have got more difficult obviously then EQ has stepped in as a bit of a replacement so i think you could potentially see more people looking at EQ as a compound in prep um i don't see anything against using it personally i mean anything you should you should come in quite full on it as well i've used it tons of times with people in prep and then what we do is at about six weeks out we make the call if you look fantastic at that point um and and i don't feel that we need to make too many more manipulations to get you to the look we want on stage then i'm just going to leave it in uh that said if we do want to pull it out the main drawback is because it has such a long ester uh you need to pull it out earlier so with some compounds uh four weeks is enough time like standard long acting compounds if you get it out in four weeks out you're good but i'd give yourself a little bit more time with EQ more like six weeks out i would and a lot of times i do see it used in prep and if people don't want to write it all the way in they'll swap it out at six weeks you know maybe they add trend in at six weeks out well that's also then where they pull the EQ and make that even swap i think another factor is you can only run so many compounds into a show just because there's only so many milligrams that you're comfortable taking um so i you've got your testosterone you're most likely on a DHT possibly trend and then from there it's it's kind of like the equipoise is not necessary all right what else do we have here um we need more videos with dave also question please scott um when we get a new year catch up on running high test and deca also is five i use a reasonable amount daily for size what i am so confused by that don't look at me but he likes you he wants more videos with you i'm as dumb as a box of frogs so don't look at me why are you wearing a picture you  I now identify as a picnic. As a picnic. Yes. So people need to place sandwiches and cakes upon me. And ants. I will deal with the ants. I will deal with the ants if I've got sandwiches and cake. You know, you can't have it is ying and yang. You've got a balance, Scott. Can't be all good. So if there's an ant issue arisen by the cake and the picnic and the sandwiches, I will live with that. I'm happy. Is that a Snuggie? No, it's a poncho. Is it basically a blanket with a blanket with a hole in it and a hood? No, it's a poncho. Is it basically a blanket with a hole in it and a hood? Yeah, it's a poncho. I think it's a Snuggie. What's a Snuggie? Snuggie is made of ultra soft, thick, luxurious fleece with oversized sleeves so you can move your arms and use your hands and still be wrapped in warm, super large, one size. What you're wearing? No, it's a poncho. Just a wool one. Is it wool? Oh, shit. You're just jealous. That looks like something I bet the you guys wear when you're out herding animals and stuff. Herding or hurting? Herding. Oh, right. I thought you said hurting animals. Yeah, obviously I'd regularly go out and hurt animals. Scott is, you know, national fast time. All right, guys. So a bunch of you had asked for tank tops. So the day has finally come that we've got them. If you're interested in one of our tanks, check them out at the merch store. I'll have links below. Who knows? You might end up meeting somebody else that listens to the shows, too. I've had that happen more than once. Somebody's like, Hey, you listen to that podcast. I like those guys, too. And before you know it, there's a budding bromance just waiting to happen. So if you want to look frickin' jacked and support the podcast, you guys can do that all at the same time. Just check out the shirts. Bam! There we go. Get the good light. Question for the next episode. Starting a 16-week blast. At the moment, health phase. 250 test. Three IUs of GH, 12 weeks. What to use. Test, mass, NPP, and HGH. Four IUs for the next blast. Last blast was 1.3 grams of test. Excuse me. 1.3 grams of total gear weekly. Which ratio in starting point do you guys advise for this upcoming blast of test, mass, and NPP? He was at 1.3. He was at 1.3 last time. I would probably go 300 test, 300 mass, 100 NPP Monday, Wednesday, Friday. And then, personally, I would probably bring the NPP up to 150 and possibly bring the mast up another 100 milligrams through the duration of the cycle, and that would probably be it for me. Okay. I would probably go 600 test, 400 mast, and 300 NPP. But I think either of those cycles will work just fine, although you would still want to, you know, check everything out. I still think, too, you would want to check your estrogen on that cycle. Yeah. I would anyway, but for week five or week six, I'd always check estrogen. Yeah. As a former horse girl, trademark she puts, it is giving me saddle blanket vibes. See, I can't, you know, you're all, like, whatever it is. David. You're all, you're all, you're all, identity phobic, lots of you, abusing me because you don't accept my identity as a picnic. Um, talking about stacks for Christmas and New Year, Valentine's Day is approaching. Remember that, Dave? We got asked, like, best cycle for Halloween, best cycle for Christmas. So, Valentine's Day is approaching. What's a good stack to have you looking good plus performing like a stud that night? Thanks, lads. Trend P141. There you go. Well, everyone stop telling me I look like a saddle blanket. Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha. Not playing now. Our chat is awesome. Yeah, so here's my thought, too, man. You want to work on your cardio endurance, too. You know what I'm saying? Like, that's part of this. All right, so. P141. That's right. Trent, Carter, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying, trying trying, trying trying As a natty, I just love to watch the show for the comedy, guys. Thank you, LOL. We got natties watching the show, Dave. Never mind. I will bathe in testosterone post-show to cleanse myself of their vibe. Do you guys filter UGLGH? Never heard of anybody filtering UGLGH. That said, too, I do think that now, to a degree, there is a filtering system going from the muscle into your bloodstream as compared. Not really a, quote, filtering system, but it's not going directly in the bloodstream if you were to IV something. Yes, effectively, that's one of the reasons. So sub-Q would give you the most filtering. Yeah. And then IM would give you the second, and then IV, obviously, there's no filter whatsoever. It's straight in, but yeah. Yeah. All right. How about this one? Okay, boys, this is an advanced question. I'm currently running high dose of growth, 15 IUs with insulin. I'm hoping you can give me your thoughts on this protocol for a bulk. Five IUs of insulin pre-fasted cardio, 40 minutes. Five IUs of GH and 10 IUs of insulin pre-workout. And pre-workout meal, 10 IUs of GH pre-bed. Should I stick with this or go down to five IUs pre-bed and add five IUs to my pre-fasted cardio setup? Also running 1,000 tests, 750 DECA, 500 EQ, 4 milligrams of RETA, 2 milligrams of trisapatite for appetite control, and 1,500 calories weekly surplus. This is kind of blowing my mind, I assume. Yeah, he said bulk. Yeah, he's got 4 milligrams of RETA in there and 2 milligrams of trisapatite for appetite control. Doesn't make any sense to me. With a 1,500 calorie weekly surplus, too. Well, 1,500 calorie weekly service isn't that high. I mean, that's only 210, 15, 215 calories a day surplus, so that's quite low. Oh, weekly surplus. Yeah. I thought he meant daily. Yeah. Daily, that's astronomical. Just a whole seems to conflict. AM, GH with fasted cardio and stuff, I don't get. If you're in a bulk, I wouldn't bother. I'm not a big fan of GH pre-workout. PM, yeah, no issue with that. I think the dosing's a little bit on the high side with some stuff, and I don't understand the GLPs in there. I get the improved insulin sensitivity from, like, RETA. But it just seems a lot of conflict and a bit of a kitchen sink approach. I don't understand. I would be curious to see, so the pre-workout, or excuse me, pre-fasted cardio insulin at 5IUs, I would be curious to know, like, where is his blood sugar at? Is it really high because of the growth hormone to require that? Yeah. Say, most people, when I've seen people use slim pre-cardio to obviously drive BG down and force more fat metabolism. But 5IUs, like, you can do that fasted with a pretty small amount. 5IUs, I mean, it's not like 5IUs is a huge dose compared to old school dosing. But, like, I just wonder what is, because here's the thing, man. I would never tell somebody, like, yes, here's the protocol. Take 5IUs fasted. I'd want to know what your blood sugar was, you know, because some people are not going to finish that cardio session. They're going to be going hypo. Is that 15 IU and GH a day in total? 5, 5, and 5? Yeah. Is that right? Yeah. Seems a lot. Yeah. It doesn't add up to me. We'll be right back.  that he'd be running all this gear in a very small calorie surplus and also running a whole boatload of GLPs and I will tell you the one thing, one aspect I think of GLPs that people aren't looking at is I think that you will affect your ability to gain muscle to a degree. You know, we talked about that extensively a few years ago or several years ago or several years ago, about like metformin, like metformin, like metformin, like metformin, like people were using metformin, like people were using metformin, like people were using metformin to, you know, counteract fat gain while in an offseason, keeping insulin, blood sugar under control, like there's a, there's an element though of, you know, kind of spinning your wheels. I, I, I, I, and I, I'll tell you what, I, I found that people can tolerate, even with a tiny dose, like offseason dosing for reda, I'm finding like one milligram. Per week is a nice spot to be, but I, I, I, I don't even take people up to this high of GLPs regularly, uh, in a, in a cut phase. Like we don't need that much. It just seems to be a lot of contradiction. Um, yeah, it doesn't seem, it's almost like they've blended a cut approach and a bulk approach because they're trying to get a lean gain approach. Yeah. Now if this guy's like 270 shredded, all right, he obviously knows what he's doing. You know what I'm saying? Like if he's, if he's that level, um, if he's not, you know, I, I, I would rethink it. You know, if this is like your average guy who's, you know, 200 pounds lean, then I would say, yeah, this is, it's, it's, it doesn't make sense to me personally. That's not to knock him. Um, but it's, no, I think, I think we just lack in context in, in, in this. Yeah. I mean, I know plenty of people that use large amount of drugs that have very good and very big physiques, but that's not to say they couldn't have achieved those physiques with less of what they were doing. Um, you know, so it's, yeah, I, I, I'm just a little confused. I, I, I, I would like to know the logic, the reasoning why he's picked what he's picked and how he's timed it. And then I'd have a better understanding of what he's trying to do and where he is with it. Yeah. Oh, I got to make sure to get some Patreon questions in here. Cause we've got a couple of them. So this is from, I think he's one of our new, uh, Patreon subscribers. She says a question for the next show. Um, I have some old raws and some old orals. They have been stored, sealed in a lock box for various reasons that I couldn't access since 2019. 2018. He lost the key. I have bold probe test sip and probe and primo. Um, reason I had them. I wanted to brew my own, uh, then all the dodgy sources, uh, because of all the dodgy sources back then in 2018. Uh, there is also dbol, T ball, VAR orals, um, which I've heard you say before, um, may have lost some potency, but we'll be fine. Uh, I know the raws were still good at the time, but will they still be good now? 2019. That wasn't that long ago. You are the, you are the King of taking expired gear. Seven years. If it was stored in a cool, dry place. I think, you know, they, they did some studies with, uh, the U S military. And, uh, expired drugs. They, they, they were, they were finding that medications were pretty, a lot of meds. Now this isn't across the board, but a lot of meds were kind of good. And definitely that, yeah, you may lose a little bit of potency, but I bet you, man, that this stuff is still pretty spot on. It's not going to be too far off. Um, as long as it was stored properly. I just want to hear the story. Why was it in a lockbox that he couldn't access Dave? None of your business. So keep you snack out. What if it was like one of those time capsules, you know, like, are you buried in his garden? Yeah. Like, and he opened it for like new year's 2026. I don't know. Do you remember when they were all the rage? Everybody was doing time capsules and I think everyone's forgotten where the fuck they are now. We should do a time capsule. We should have, it's too late now. We're too close to the end. You know what I'm saying? Me and you both. All right. How about this one? Um, another Patreon question, question for Dave and Scott. I agree with you, Dave, that TRT should be, uh, should put you within the natural range. Uh, my sweet spot is 140 milligrams of test, which puts me right at the top end of range. Um, but we'll stay within range. Um, I want to add DECA at 60 milligrams a week to my TRT for joint issues. 54 years old. Should I stay on the 140 milligrams of test, uh, uh, but drop 60 milligrams of test so that I split it? Basically, he wants to know if he adds this 60 in, should he take away from his TRT dose to do that? No, I wouldn't. Why 60? It seems an odd number. No, no real significance to it. It just seems an odd number. Um, wasn't it? You would think like 50 or 150. Well, yeah. Cause I mean, even medically it's dosed in 50 milligram, a hundred milligrams. So, um, yeah. A lot of times I see it at two 50, you know, on the UGL market. So I could see like one 25 or 75. And yeah. But as I say, if you get the medical ampoules, the small ones that are 50 milligram ones. Hmm. Uh, anyway. But no, I don't see any reason to lower. You may have a slightly higher estrogen. So you may need to watch that, but I wouldn't have thought it would be problematic. But that would depend on your individual estrogen sensitivity. Yeah. Would you, would you check anything along the way with that? Or what would you do? Cause I got, here's the thing. I feel like, I mean, and how long are you going to run this for? Cause he's on TRT. This is just for joint support. I kind of feel like you could slip into maybe staying. Yeah. I could see, I don't know if it'd be a problem. Right. But I could see him staying on this longer term. I'm wanting to, you know what I mean? I know a few people that, um, older end that have run 50 milligrams of Decker long-term, like a couple of years now. Um, and apart from not so much, they don't really have estrogen issues with it unless they introduce something like alcohol. Um, so like over the Christmas periods have been some estrogen issues, but otherwise, generally speaking, they tolerate it well. And so far it doesn't seem to be any problems and they are doing regular full workups, including cardiovascular workups. Um, and everything seems to be well tolerated. So, um, I don't think there's any major concerns, but I would look to at least have it an echo done every 12 months. That's not a bad idea. Plus, if it changes, if he's probably monitoring his labs already, if he sounds like he's in tune with what his levels are and everything, see if it alters that stuff. Are you on this for four months and then does it change your cholesterol or anything? Bear in mind that the Decker will probably show his testosterone in blood. Will it? Yes, he can do. Okay. So he might find that his test level goes way above what he's expecting. You guys took some time off, didn't you, with eval for the holidays? Mm-hmm. Yeah? Did it pick back up right away? So we reopened officially on Saturday. Okay. And yeah, it was a decent weekend. I wouldn't say it was anything astronomical, but it was decent. Um, so this week will be the first full week of trading. Okay. So we'll see what this week brings. Uh, but yeah, it was decent. I don't know where we are currently. Um, see if I can log on the system. Somebody said, I second the ment episode idea. Inquiring minds want to know. So we have two people that want to hear a ment profile now. Is there anybody else? Do you guys want to hear about ment? Mental. That's how I felt when I ran it last time. Well, you felt mental. I will say this, man. I think that controlling your estrogen is key with ment. The first time I ran it, I ran the acetate version. This is, God, almost 20. It was 18 years ago now, Dave, that I ran ment for a contest. Not knowing that it wasn't great for a contest. And I ran 50 every other day. Was that when you competed in masters? I was like, my first, it was my first over 60 show 20 years ago. Um, but I, I didn't have the side effects that I did the second time I ran less of it, but the long acting version with high estrogen. I didn't have the estrogen control versus the first time I was, God, 18 years ago, we were crook.  Oh, yeah, yeah, we definitely did destroy it. Oh, here's just a great comment from one of our listeners, Steve, he said, my first, so we did get a lot of comments explaining to us how to pronounce Deanna ball, and he said, my first Deanna ball experience was 1971, getting ready for the Olympics as a lifter, it's called Deanna ball. What's that look? What's that look? John? Told you, you, you said he's Deanna ball. I said, no, it's Deanna ball. I said, no, it's Deanna ball. I said, Danna ball. You said Deanna ball. No, you said Deanna ball. You said Deanna ball. You said Deanna ball, Dave. You said Deanna ball. You said Deanna ball. You said Deanna ball. You said Deanna ball. You said Deanna ball. You said Deanna ball. You said Deanna ball. You said Deanna ball. You said Deanna ball. You said Deanna ball. You said Deanna ball. You said Deanna ball. You said Deanna ball. You said Deanna ball. You said De на ball. You said De на ball. You said De на ball. You said De на ball. You said De на ball. You said De на ball. You said De на ball. You said De на ball. You said De на ball. You said De на ball. You said De на ball. You said De на ball. You said De на ball. You said De на ball. You said De на ball. You said De на ball. You said De на ball. You said De на ball. You said De на на на на на на на на на на на на на на на на на на на на на на на на на на me snuffed the names can be changed to protect the innocent uh or the guilty to protect the guilty too i i would i would definitely like to get him on to about the olympic stuff that would be interesting well you know um dr mike militech was uh an olympic lifter in the he was in the olympics um and he has stories a good friend of mine uh he has stories of whoa whoa whoa scott you mean somebody you know no he is legit like real life friend you don't have friends brilliant guy too no that's you you don't have friends dave remember no sorry yeah no it's both of us we we have each other that's what that's what does it show the magic no we don't no i'd rather stay no friends i'm fine with that i'm quite happy to be no friends i will live in my picnic hamper uh and not saddle blanket he said he has stories about like lifting with the russians and like going to russia to train and meeting the russian olympic lifters and like back in the 80s man could you imagine that full-blown druggie time that yeah we definitely you need to reach out get these people on these would be good stories all right how about this one um hey guys love the channel watching it while making my meal prep and i have a question started my first cycle um after i've been on medical TRT 150 milligrams 155 milligrams per week since he was 17 he says i'm 22 right now 91.5 kg and he's 1.93 meters i'm gonna have to come back to that because none of that makes sense to me 1.93 meters how tall is that dave that's tall that's a lanky piece of yeah okay he says started with a hired six that's gotta be what six for six six for seven okay he said he started with 250 milligrams last year and he gained seven kilo food was upped to 5540 calories and now i started my first cycle 400 tests 200 bold gonna do bloods in eight and 16 weeks but i wanted to add NPP for the last eight weeks no what are your thoughts about this and and uh what blood markers uh should i get to be extra safe and is my dosing even high enough thanks guys no it's too fucking high stop being a dick bring it down you definitely don't need the NPP you you you whoa whoa just slow slow down um food you need food you're a big guy you're a tall guy it's gonna take an age to fill your frame i'm sorry that's just the reality of it it's gonna take more food than it would a shorter guy for sure and longer time longer yeah you're gonna have to carry a lot more muscle than say somebody who's five foot six to even look the same obviously you will be bigger because your overall mass is bigger but proportionally to look the same you're gonna need um i don't know 50 60 percent more muscle than they would carry to look the same proportionally uh once he has it once he has it like once you have you be a force but don't be i wouldn't up the dose i if you're not progressing i'd look at your training and diet there's plenty of drugs in play your 600 milligrams it's enough it really is um and and just take your time it's a long game particularly with that size of frame um so i mean you go up from here 600 800 700 you know 800 900 what are you gonna do next cycle start at gram he's at 22 now so where is he going to be by the time he's 25 exactly so don't rush the drugs the drugs are working just yeah the food and the training if anything man i i mean 400 test 200 bold i i don't know if he's gonna i would check my estrogen at about you know six seven eight weeks in that would be the one thing i would definitely look at um he said he's gonna check labs fbc i would do to be honest i'd do the standard fbc oh yeah is HbA1c lipid profile and estrogen and test because you still want to see if they're i mean the other thing is he's on 400 test of 200 EQ but you know without he checks his labs he'll know if that gear is legit or not because it could be a potential there is he is not right and that's why it's not getting the progress he thinks he needs or that's why he thinks he needs more drugs but it is it's very easy and very commonplace for someone starting out with steroids to to get giddy um you know and you start off and everything's going well and then you want more and you want more and you end up with high doses way too soon um there is plenty of time in this game and a 22 year old you've got a long way to go so don't rush it pay your juice you'll get there yep i couldn't agree more with absolutely all of that um a couple more here we'll try to just run through these oh just a comment uh i always happy to see dave on it's like when your parents are separated but they both love you very much and they both come to your christmas pageant at school or your cello recital but underneath they still hate each other yes i agree that's very much it happy new year's lads from sheffield you mean sheffield is that how you say it sheffield what did i say shet sheffield all right so well you know i mean that's where that comes from it is we've already the dianabol problem and now you're butchering sheffield sheffield i take dianabol in sheffield and you live in debt right don't you yes okay he says so here's the deal that last comment gear is cool crew cranes about i fucking love that really i don't get it that doesn't matter you two are you two go ahead and have your jokes all right so he's on he's getting ready to anyways i'm about to do a PCT clomid and tamoxifen i've done 5 000 units off i'm thinking means of HCG already going to start the tablets clo and tamoxifen in a few weeks after been on full blast test mask two years and a bit off NPP am currently 16 stone and uh feeling good i've done PCT before but am asking what you guys think will happen strength wise and uh size and how i feel i just had my test done it was 1200 testosterone before gear it was like 200 so yeah tell me what you think about PCT there was not a single sentence in that whole paragraph right so let me get this right he's done 5000 iu 80g which yeah personally i don't think is anywhere near enough but that's by the by but you wouldn't do it like this banging 5000 at once right you know because that's kind of what this sounds like to anybody who didn't know better uh and then you're about to start cloning to novadex standard sort of PCT structure yeah but am i right in saying that what he said was pre-cycle his test levels were 200 no pre-cycle his test levels were 1200 right yeah so where's your oh no no no sorry yeah sorry yeah you're right so before gear his test levels were like 200 so good luck going back to you know getting back to 200 yeah so if you had a r to shoot for you know if you have a test level of 200 ngdl uh prior to doing any cycles whatsoever your test was already tanked in the first place and i mean you'd be looking at TRT anyway so PCT does seem a bit pointless unless there was another factor involved which was causing those low test levels  I've, I've seen people do well running it through the course of the course of the cycle. I would, I would, I would, I would, I would So I would be 2,000 to 2,500 IU ACG every day for 14 days and then drop into the Glomid and NOLA. Okay. And I've seen people do okay with that, too. I think that's a great plan. But, yeah. Hi, Dave and Scott. Love the show. Honestly, look forward to each new episode. Wish I could find the old ones so you can still find the old ones. They are out there. They're floating around. And I'm reposting old ones over at the Think Big Live page. So be sure that you subscribe over there, too. Anyway, question for next week. Finished my second cycle. 300 tests. 150 NPP. Everything was going great until three weeks from the end when Dekka Dick showed up out of nowhere. I was waking up a handful of times a night, soaked from head to toe, and started to feel really down. So I knocked the NPP on the head and increased my test to 450 for the final stretch. Had no estrogen sides. The best of my knowledge. So, with this in mind, what would you suggest for my next cycle? I was thinking EQ. Seeing that Mast is like rocking horse shit at the moment. Does that mean anything to you? Rocking horse shit? Yeah, yeah. Very rare is rocking horse shit. Oh, I get it. I get it. Yeah. All right. Get your crayons out, Scott. So, yeah, just 450 tests. What do you suggest for his next cycle? Well, my first thought was, is it Dekka Dicka or is it just estrogen that's got high? But having stopped the Dekka and put testing at a higher dose with no estrogen support and the problem would appear from what he said to have resolved itself, it isn't. It is definitely a direct action from the Dekka. So, I think it's fairly safe to say that the Dekka is something he can tolerate for very long periods. He might get away with putting it in for the last sort of four, six weeks if he wanted to move him further down the line. But it doesn't look like it's something he can cope with long term. EQ's fine. Yeah, I don't see any issue with adding EQ in for a second cycle. And obviously his concerns are around the availability of Mast, which is understandable. So, yeah, I mean, a test and EQ cycle would be a perfectly fine move from where he's been without doubt. Yeah. All right. We've got one more and it's actually Uncle Dave's advice. Is it? Yeah. Hey, Scott. And this is from Patreon as well. He says, hey, Scott, I have a question for the next DNS with you and Dave. If you were to leave this world tomorrow, what message would you send to everyone? I would say like, share, subscribe, comment and ring the bell. I mean, it would probably help Victoria out if you did. You know, you helped to bring some, although there isn't new content coming out after that day. So I guess you're not going to see any, yeah, might not help. We'll do a GoFund page. Okay. Yeah. In honor of Scott. Thank you. I appreciate that. That's okay. I will pledge 72 pence. Yeah. All right. What can I get for 72 pence? Is that a lot of money? No. In England? No. No? No. Oh. Can I get a supercharger for it? No. And a quarter of a bottle of test. Quarter of a bottle of test. There you go. Quarter of a bottle of test. All right. Thank you. Yeah. Would you like dump a little test out in my honor? Maybe. Yeah. I'd make sure it was well out of date in your honor. I think that's what I'd have to do. Message to the world. I know what I'd like to be remembered for. I'm not sure what my message to the world would be. Hmm. And I imagine you would not want to be remembered for being the guy that was 415 pounds. You just want that. I would like. No. You know what I mean? No. Like, that's not the forefront of your mind. We're like, no, no. I want people to know I was big. I, I, well, maybe I'll put it in a slightly different terminology. I would like to leave this world having had a positive impact on people. Bingo. Yeah. Um, regards to last words or if I wanted to say, it would be something based around honesty. I think if we were all more honest with ourselves and each other and we learned to accept honesty without judgment, then the world would be a much nicer place to be because everybody would know where they stood. Everybody would know where they were going wrong or not, as the case may be. Uh, but I think the problem around honesty is that it makes too many people uncomfortable. Yeah. Because they're not honest with themselves. So when someone points something out to them that is honest, they get offended by it. And it's like, well, you, yeah, the person's not, they're not being a cooing. They're just telling you the truth because you refuse to see it for yourself. Yeah. Um, so yeah, I think, I think my, my words leaving this world would be, would be, you know, the whole world needs to be more honest. We all need to be more. And I think falseness, uh, smoke and mirrors and everything else is probably at an all time high now. Um, I mean, social media content, you, you just don't know if it's AI or not. It's got so bad. Oh yeah. Yeah. So I think honesty is, is something I would like to request of the world. Uh, and I would like to be remembered. I'm quite happy to be remembered for my mistakes. I'm quite happy to be remembered for the stuff I've done wrong. That doesn't bother me in the slightest, but I'd also like to leave this planet knowing that at least in some way I've helped somebody. Yeah. Yeah. I can really relate to that. I, I look at, um, the way I feel about John Meadows and the legacy that he left behind. Even before John was gone, I had always looked up to him and I had always kind of asked myself, like in trying circumstances, how, how would John deal with this? You know, I'd look at how, how did he handle things online? For instance, how would he handle trolls? You know, and I'd ask myself like, okay, how would John handle this circumstance? And then I looked at the way that John made me feel and the way he made everybody feel that came in contact with him. And I've, I've wanted to be able to be more like that. I feel like if I can be like that and help other people, which is exactly what you're saying, um, that, you know, the, the, the world is a, a, a better place. And I think that we do need more of that. And I think that if we all were focused on that, man, that, that we, we would be moving, our world would be moving forward. You know? Yeah. I mean, I, I, I don't have a problem with people being what would be deemed selfish. I don't think you can live your life for other people. I think you do have to satisfy your own desires, but that doesn't mean you can't do that by also helping other people at the same time. Yeah. Um, well, I mean, let's be realistic too. You can, you can give away everything, but then you can't pay your own electric bill. Yeah, exactly. So, you know, I do, I don't think there's anything wrong with ambition. I don't think there's anything wrong with, with, with wanting to succeed and be better in life. And I, and I definitely don't see an issue with financial gain, but maybe an issue with how it's gained. I, I'd like to think, uh, maybe I'm, uh, this is me being delusional and lying to myself. I don't think it is. I'd like to think that every penny or at least in the last 10, 15 years. Um, that I've not compromised my integrity for financial gain. I think in the early days I definitely would have done at certain points. Well, I have done at certain points, but I'd like to think that in the last 15 years or so, I've managed to maintain my integrity and never sell out my principles just for monetary gain or any sort of gain, to be honest. Does that mean that I'm probably not as wealthy as I could be? Yeah, probably. But I don't – go back 25 years, I was very financially motivated. I was also very success motivated. So it wasn't just finance. It was I wanted to succeed. Yeah. As I've aged – and I think this is an age thing. As I've aged, finances have become less of a priority. That also has helped by the fact that –  I am, I am relatively financially secure, you know, I am relatively financially secure, you know, I am not having to worry about paying my next, I can't be frivolous, I can't be frivolous, but at the same time, I'm not having to scrape the barrel and put pennies together to put electric in the meter, which I have been there, which I have been there, I have been absolutely broken, penniless and literally had to shoplift to get food, so I have been at that end of things. Wow. So, you know, I never shoplifted to get food, but I, yeah, I couldn't relate otherwise, like being that. You won't, you won't, you won't, you won't, you won't, you won't, you won't, you won't, you won't, you won't, you won't, this, this, this, I don't think this will mean anything to you, but Nettos was um, it boomed for a while and then went, did Nettos. Okay. And Nettos used to sell 7p cans of beans, so 7 cents cans of beans. Okay. Um, where I was staying at the time, and I was, I was, I wasn't quite sleeping rough, but I was sort of sleeping rough. Uh, they used to get their milk and egg delivery in the morning, like five o'clock, and they used to be left outside the back of the shop in a trolley. so every morning i'll go down at five o'clock and swipe a tray of eggs and swipe a card of milk and that would be the food wow yeah yeah no no but i do remember though a time and this isn't like stealing but i remember so in michigan we have a deposit on cans and bottles so if you have like energy drink it's a 10 cent deposit and i always i still take my cans back it's kind of a principle too because i'm putting that deposit in and it's like i don't want to frivolously waste money you know i so when i go back to the grocery store i take the cans with me but i remember my neighbor i lived in a cool little town that actually had like a really high property value and um i had an apartment so it was like a a building that was three units in a neighborhood of very nice homes so everybody around me had like a lot of money you know they're doing really well us in the apartment we're paying 450 a month you know a lot less but i remember my neighbor putting a grocery bag out at the street filled up with cans they're all returnables i took them you know and i made a habit of taking them too but i remember thinking like holy shit i can't remember i can't imagine somebody would be so wasteful that they could afford to like give up that buck 50 like you're just literally throwing a buck 50 out now i can kind of see it more where you're like at the buck 50 i don't want to go through the hassle i still out of principle always take my cans back for like and part of it's for that reason like i never want to be the guy that that doesn't do that kind of thing um but yeah i i remember having a different mindset on that where like it was unfathomable that somebody would waste that dollar yeah and i suppose you know with maturity and financial security you do get a different view on life because you're not having to grind to pay the bills you're still grinding but you're grinding for the luxuries in life rather than grinding for the necessities in life i'm grinding now because i want to eventually retire and not be poor and have to work at walmart you know what i mean that's where you know which that's literally being completely transparent that's why i work hard at what i do is like because i don't have a retirement plan no i don't uh and and yeah i mean one of the you know one of the things with the businesses is they are my retirement plan yeah um i did have a retirement plan in a sense of a plan of what i was doing but that went by the wayside uh and literally got torn up and started again um originally i was gonna retire to the barge just do a little bit of coaching work just enough to to pay the bills and stuff and split my time between the barge and the camper but um the barges go in because our last has just never really settled with it um and it doesn't matter what i want it's what we both what works for both of us so that's going and we're re-addressing it but i also realized i'm in no way near ready to stop working and though i might know i couldn't imagine you good i couldn't imagine you doing nothing for long no i don't i just don't i need to be productive now whether that's a good thing or a bad thing around the mental health i don't know but i just i feel and the thing is when i started i did a bit of reading into longevity and one of the things that kept coming up all the time was staying active stay being a productive member of society oh yeah you know not not just like staying active and going to play fucking golf but having a purpose having a reason a cause a purpose yeah and then go um and so i've sort of gone i need to keep that in yeah i need to keep that focus and i need to have that drive yep i can relate to that all right guys we appreciate you tuning in go to evalbloodanalysis.com get your lab has been done by dave they're back open again if you're in the uk that is and of course go to strom sports nutrition check out their great health stacks get those available in the uk and the us especially if you're on cycle supplement source.ca for canadians guys they have great deals that change week to week on short dated and label change products and of course truenutrition.com use our code think over there to get 10 off and if you buy in bulk like seven pounds or more you get an additional five percent off of that too so definitely it adds up and especially in our climate and how expensive everything gets take the discounts that you can get you know plus of course that helps to support the programming and of course thank you to patreon you guys are freaking awesome dave you doing coaching still i am you got any spots available right now yeah a couple yeah i've had a couple a couple step down so uh yes definitely yeah all right well there you go guys reach out to dave for coaching hit me up to mcdaily diets at gmail.com you can go uh what's what's your best way instagram probably instagram or facebook yeah i'm not very organized when it comes to contacting me so that's probably the best bit okay great guys for another episode of the podcast we'll see you soon thank you dave my pleasure all right cornelius parking you're with us you said uh when you used recreational drugs how did you justify their cost you seem really budget focused which is impressive dude i'll you know i'll hit the stop can i can i can i translate that to you seem to be a real tight twat i'll tell you what it was honestly cornelius i did not think about the future at all if i did i probably wouldn't have been putting the things in my body that i did but i had this almost miraculous ability to not think about the consequences of my actions like and that's the god honest truth man i think yeah but i think a lot of people do on on very different levels denial is a is a a technique that probably 95 of the population use in one way or another they deny their behaviors so they don't have to face them they deny you know yeah my life's not shit because i made bad choices my life shit because this person or that thing or this thing caused me problem and we do that all the time you know yeah i didn't crash the car because it was going too fast i crashed the car because of the snow well no you crash the car because you were driving too fast in the conditions but we denial and it's just scales it's just that's why i've got this thing about honesty because it's just it's just scales of deniability against the things that we do yeah yeah and i think too you know what my mindset at the time was not um my mindset at the time was very self-destructive like all that behavior like i you know i didn't use all my life but when i would use i it usually things were going good and then i would be maybe scared of that or i couldn't handle that or i was expecting it to fail so then i'd set myself up for failure and then i maybe i had money saved up for a while and it wasn't like oh i'm going out and partying and having fun it was like no i was self-destructing until i hit a rock bottom and then i would get myself together again yep and then it's like oh i gotta get my shit together because it's really bad now and then i have to start over you know start over new relationships start over a new job i i know somebody like that who's still like that to this day um but yeah and i think the other thing is you will always justify the money spent on what you want you will always find a way you really will you know so be it food be it drugs be alcohol be it be it training i mean i i know people that generally live in relative positive in every other aspect because they're paying for the coach they're paying for the gym they're paying for the drugs i gotta go i sorry i have a important call to take i'll see you man see ya it live i just don't want them they talk and say stuff and i have to answer questions and i remember that one said that you had a small willy i do very small but you know i've got a lot of weight banging at home yeah people like so much so see this is my analogy which would you prefer a nine inch nail and a toffee hammer or a panel pin and a sledge hammer i don't know what a toffee hammer is it's a hammer used for breaking toffee are you not cultured man are there are there literally hammers designed for that for breaking yes yeah there are yeah okay i gotta look this up real quick you  reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate reiterate our old buildings are from the 1960s, Dave. Exactly. Just like you. Just like you. You know, we had somebody mention, too. They were like, what did they say? Oh, bring up my questions here. Oh, you know what? I reached out to Tim Piatkowski to see if he wants to come back on the show soon. Our Australian friend. Mm-hmm. Well, my Australian friend. You don't have any friends. We know that. No, I don't have any friends. I'm quite happy with that scenario, to be honest. Yeah? Hmm. I invited some friends up on the 30th of December. You mentioned that. You said you were having a little get-together. Yeah, I enjoyed the evening on my own. No, you said you had a little get-together, though, for, was it New Year's? Or was it Christmas? No, not really either, just a bit. So that dick, Zach, turned up. Oh, did he really? Oh, for fuck's sake, yeah. I tried to stop him. Yeah. How's he doing, Zach Kahn? He's just Zach. Yeah? He seems to be very active. He's doing all right, mate. Yeah, he's not doing bad at all. He's very active at the moment on social. Is he? But we should get him back on here, man. Yeah, he's doing quite a bit of stuff. Gosh. We got Ty Bo with us. Ty had an absolutely terrible holiday season, man. There he is. He says, good morning. Crack on, gents. Get Scott to the UK and get Dave his supercharger. How about that? He's a nice guy. Yeah. I agree. Ty's a very nice guy, Scott. Buy me a supercharger. Dude, this house burnt down. He's not buying anybody anything. No, you could buy me a supercharger, not Ty. You. Ty's house burnt down, dude. Yeah, I know. That's horrible. But I wasn't asking Ty to buy me a supercharger. Did you know about that? No, I didn't. Well, you just said, yeah, I know. Like, you know everything. No. You don't have to know everything, Dave. It's okay. I know very little. As has been proven on recent podcasts. People were appreciative of that. They're like, hey, Dave, that's okay. We all make mistakes. That were a big one. You know, but versus those two ways you can handle stuff. And I think that our listeners handled that with grace. They did. They could be like, roast that guy. He doesn't know anything. He made one mistake on that. That means he doesn't know anything about anything. You don't really want to roast me. There's way too much fat. It would be a massive fire risk. Like, what would we go for then? Maybe more like a slow cook? Yeah, I think you'd be better in a slow cooker, you know, boiled in water very slowly. Because I think if you're open. Yeah, open plate. Well, one, I think I would be quite tough and sort of gnarly. But using real flame, there's probably a tendency of explosion. So I do think the slow cooker is the better way to cook me. I definitely do. Yeah. Me on an open flame, I think I'd just like burn up, you know. I imagine you as being like bacon. Bacon? Yeah, you go right crispy and crossly on the edge. Yeah. Yeah. You have to be careful, though, because you could lose all the flavor real easy. Mm. Yeah. Whereas I would baste in my own juices quite well. In fact, you could spare my juices to keep you moist. I wonder if you would get bigger off that, if there's like any anabolic qualities like stored in your fat cells still, you know, a little leftover DECA or something. Imagine somebody tuning in for the first time and we're discussing cooking each other. Right? All right. Let's see. I got to move you. I'm usually on this side. Let me move us over here. There we go. There we go. All right. Blunt force Tanya. What has she got against Toffee? There's nothing wrong with Toffee. What does she say? She's hating on Toffee. Toffee sucks. It's like chewing concrete. One. When did you last chew concrete, Tanya? Come on. Yeah. Come on. Let's be real. That's not a realistic analogy. No. You know? No. No. Because it's not believable. We don't think that you've been chewing concrete ever. Not even once. And sucking Toffee is probably part of it. The first time I rode my bike, I chewed some concrete, Dave. It was not fun. I've done that on a skateboard a couple of times. Oh, yeah. Yeah. You know, I'll tell you what, man. Now, this is like, I feel like I'm getting my center of gravity down better. But as I grew bigger, I feel like I lost my sense of, like, my weight went up. You know, my center of gravity went up. And I felt like my ability to do things like ride a skateboard or roller skate or ice skate, it went out the window. Because I just felt so, like, top heavy. I had good, like, decent legs. Or walk or, yeah. You know what I mean? It just shifted upward. I don't know. I, yeah. There did actually, in all seriousness, there did seem to be a sliding scale of the bigger I got, the less coordinated I became. Yeah. Yeah. Well, Dusty was just talking about that last, this past episode. He was saying, like, he went to go clean off the top of his pickup truck. So he hopped in the bed. And he's, like, cleaning the top of his truck. He's like, when I got out of the truck, I sat down on the tailgate. And then I eased myself down to the ground. I'm not jumping that three feet. He was like, I definitely, you know, 300 pounds. He's 280 or whatever. He ripped something. It's ridiculous, isn't it? All right. I'll bring us in. All right.