The way I I look at drugs is and it's how I teach it on the course as well is that each individual drug has a set of effects. Some of those effects we want, some of those effects we don't want. And that's our tool chest. Yeah. Now, we can use those tools to create growth and strength in any situation, but some are better suited for other things. In the same way I can hit a ham a nail into a wall with a heavy screwdriver using the handle. Yeah. But I'm going to be much more efficient by doing it with a hammer and it's probably going to require much less hits and I'm less likely to hit the wall. Yeah. So old tools will do the job of helping you get stronger and bigger, but some are better suited to certain tasks. What's up guys? Welcome back to the podcast with Dave Crosslin. I'm Scott McN and all of our programming is brought to you by evalbutanalysis.com. Get your lab work done by Dave. If you're in the UK, we are brought to you by Stum Sports Nutrition. Go to stumsports.com. If you're in the UK, you're going to need some great health supplements. If you're on cycle, go to Stum and get those. We're brought to you by Trenutrition.com in the US. Check out their cookie butter flavor. You can buy even like just a pound of protein at a time if you want to try different flavors out. Use our code think over there and supplementsource.ca for our Canadians guys that have great deals that change week to week. Dave, we've got a fun topic today. Oh, and Patreon, of course, Patreon because you guys are freaking dependable, unlike YouTube Revenue. Uh, we've got uh we've got a fun topic today. We also had a little bit of feedback from the last show. Whoa. Whoa. You missed the most important thing. your new app better you. No.com Dave procharger fund. Oh yes. So guys, I told Dave Dave got another super chat for So here's the thing. I am literally sitting here editing podcasts all day every day. I'm recording this stuff. I'm editing it and I get no super chats. Dave says, "I want a ProCharger." And now he's got like $26, I think, uh, tallied up altogether, which I have to pay taxes on cuz that goes to my account and US taxes. And we're going to figure it out. But one way or another, Dave's going to get his only another 8,000 to go. You can make this man's life complete by buying him a Procharger. Supercharger. Turbocharger. Pro. Okay. Thank you. So, we do have some fun stuff. Uh, we appreciate everybody who's watching. You guys are freaking awesome. We've been getting a lot of really great comments, a lot of feedback. We've kind of had a couple shows do really well, which has also brought in a whole new element of people that don't use gear and want to chastise us for it. That's a lot of fun. I always heart those comments. A lot of times I don't say anything, but I say, "Hey, here's a heart for you. Love you, buddy." Say, "I'm not going to use gear. You guys are dumb. Why would you guys do that? What would you do if you couldn't use gear? You're going to crawl into a hole and cry?" like why do you even care? But yeah. Yeah, we're going to do that which might happen. So, by the way, topic of the day, Dave, is um perfect pairs, you know, outside of testosterone. Boobies. We're going to talk about boobies. Boobies are perfect pairs. Perfect pairs of compounds to combine together. Um but before we do, I did want to mention to you there was some interesting feedback uh that was legit. I've heard a lot of people, so we did the show saying, "Hey, are tariffs going to affect the UGL market um and uh Latz from Professional Muscle, who has a lot of good inside information, did have uh something to say. What did he say here?" Because I here's the thing, man. I didn't want to title the show like like fear-mongering. I didn't want to scare people. Do you know what I mean? So I said, you know, will tariff China tariffs uh destroy the UGL market? And then I put not likely. And I did that to be careful to not scare people. Excuse me. Me mackerel's repeating. Um did right. There's a certain the fact that you have to be careful that you don't scare people by potentially suggesting that an illegal drug supply may be limited. You know, maybe they're right. Maybe our addicts. Well, here's the thing. I uh and I mentioned this uh to people last week, too, that I I don't want to come off like So, here's the thing. I I saw a source posting this. They were like, "We all know that Primo's unavailable and Masteron is next. The UGL market is in bad shape and we are heading into rough times, but thankfully we prepared for this and we have plenty of gear so you can stock up now while the supplies last." So, I do think that people are trying to make a bit of money off of it. That said, I can't seem to get a clear answer as to what's going on. It it's all over the place. You speak to one person, it's this. You speak to another person, it's that. Yeah. There doesn't seem to be any real sort of defined this is what we're doing. Yeah. And so Lat says um I will say that the large influx of fake raws coming out of China in the last couple of months, um I'd be waiting to see if this calms down. The price increases are legitimate. raw powders or raw powder producers for primo and mass is ridiculous and uh nothing more than price gouging nothing to do with the crackdown. So he does throw that out there. So there are there are changes right now as far as the powder goes, you know. Yeah. Well, you know what? They're industrious little [\h__\h] Don't you know I'm not surprised they're taking an opportunity to make more money where they can. [\h__\h] it. Why not? Yeah. Yeah. All right. So, perfect pairs. Where do you want to start with this? Well, I just want to say seeen as you can't buy Primo and Masteron anymore, you have spare money now, so you can contribute to a procharger fund and make a fat old Englishman very happy. Um, I've told you boobies. If we're talking about pairs, boobies. Yeah. Okay. So, beyond that, let's talk bodybuilding. Let's talk big boobies. Performance-enhancing boobies. And Do do pairs? I think I mean obviously your greatest pairing compound is going to be test. Yeah, let's go beyond test. How about that? Well, let's see. Yeah, but I'm just saying, you know, test test is going to be paired with pretty much every drug anyway. Yeah. Um there are occasions where you wouldn't. Um like just out of comp, you could potentially run DHTs only and something like that, but uh it's not that common. So, pairs. Are we going to do pairs or are we going to do groupings? It doesn't perfect groupings doesn't sound like a very good YouTube title, does it? It's not. No, but my point is, so if you're saying that we're going to say test is a given, yeah. Are we just pairing stuff to test or are we pairing the other compound? We're pairing two compounds together with test. Well, I'm just going to go old school test. But if you wanted to make a groupings, I'd go test. So we call then we would call uh oxyth oxythylone and nandrallone the perfect pair. That's that's where our logic is going to go with this. Right. That's what I was trying to clarify and you were making extremely difficult to get there. All right. Now that we understand, so like uh Clen and T3, there's a perfect pair. I like those two together. Those two. Those are good. Okay. Uh or Clenon T5. You know when you say that we are going to have 10 comments about how it's going to be overstimulate the heart. No, no, no, no, no. They're going to say, "What's T5?" Ephidine, caffeine, and aspirin. Okay. So, the ECA ECA stack. Yes. T5 with with what? Clen. With Clen. Both of those together. Well, all right. It's a bit hard sty. I get that. But using a thermogenic that's going to increase calorific burn and then using a compound that helps release and increase fat metabolism is a good pairing. Now whether you use clen and T5 or you use something like okcartine and T5 but anything that's going to make fat more bioavailable for the body to use and a thermogenic is going to be a good pairing because one thing's metabolizing fat the other thing's increasing calorie burn. Okay. So so for instance then something to burn fat like you said with Lcarnitine that could be a good one. Yeah. Yeah. So I think any compound that metabolizes fat or makes fat more bioavailable for the body to use. Yeah. And then any compound that increases calorific burn, usually a thermogenic, but not necessarily. I mean T3 is AI suppose really T3 is a bit of both, isn't it? But um but yeah. Yeah. So GH, yeah, GH is going to help with fat metabolism. Couple that with a thermogenic or anything that increases calorie burn and you've got a nice fat loss combination. Yeah, I like that. Or how I you know where I thought you were going to go different direction. GH and insulin on a diff for a different reason, I guess. Yeah. Offset your blood sugar with the insulin from your high GH use. I like that one. Going back to our start, uh the Anidrol and Deca, what would be your and I agree with you, you know, and that's going to be like uh those are like two real heavy hitters for water and for mass like that's a a mass stack there. Of course, we always assume test is in there too most likely um at some point at some level. Uh what would be in your opinion the benefits of combining those two? So for me personally, I mean I know we have two proesterine like compounds there, but that's not really shouldn't and isn't really an issue in most people. Deca is a very good anabolic. Um so it it's not so much on the heavy androgen side though it is used in strength gain. It is a very good mass building compound. One of its primary uses was for combating muscle wastes disease and orders like AIDS and stuff like that. Um, and Oxy is a very good strength increaser. Yes. So, you have this combination of a boost in the gym using poundages way above what you would normally use and then this heavy anabolism coming from the deca which is going to really help process recovery from that extra poundage that you're pushing. I go with that. Yeah. It's like if you if you put trend in the mix, I mean there's other issues to trend that that make it harsh in other areas, but again, we've got a big strength increasing compound. Yeah. So, you stick that with a good anabolic compound. Usually, it's just test, but you could go test a mast. Yeah. And then you've got good anabolism to support the recovery from the increased workload you're getting out of the trend boosting your strength. Man, I got really strong the first time I ran trend and it was kind of semioffseasonish. Like I was dieting, but I was still getting strong and I was able to keep the food high enough that I would it was great, man. And I it I I combined that with dbol. It was test trend and dbol. Oh my god, man. I I I still remember setting up to do some dumbbell rows. And you know that feeling where you just like you grab onto the dumbbell and you pull the first rep and you just like rip it. There's like no resistance to it. I was like, "Oh yeah, we're on to something here." You know, that strength along with eating enough you can grow some muscle. No question. I I remember my first exploit into oxies and and squatting and it was it was like like a plate a week was going on. You go dangerous levels. Insane strength increases out of it the first time I used it. Yeah. Um but yeah, so yeah, I you know, I I like the pairing of a what we would traditionally say was a high androgen. Mhm. So something that's very strength focused um with a good solid anabolic to back up recovery. If you have I don't like combining two androgens. So um for the simple reason that it's just a shitload of stress and not really the recovery aspect. I mean if you look at deca from a blood's value well we know that high long dose expos sorry high dose long exposure to deca is not particularly healthy for the heart shall we say but um from other factors it's actually quite minimally impacting on blood values and blood pressure and everything else it's not a particularly stressful drug in every other way. Yeah. Um when you look at trainer stuff like that it's a very stressful drug. So I don't like pairing two stress makers together. Yeah. Yeah. And the sides from friend like if you're getting if you're taking enough that you're getting insomnia like you know that's that's not going to help your gains either. No. Yeah. It's it's every it way I I look at drugs is and it's how I teach it on the course as well is that each individual drug has a set of effects. Some of those effects we want, some of those effects we don't want. And that's our tool chest. Yeah. Now, we can use those tools to create growth and strength in any situation, but some are better suited for other things. In the same way, I can hit a ham a nail into a wall with a heavy screwdriver using the handle. Yeah. But I'm going to be much more efficient by doing it with a hammer and it's probably going to require much less hits and I'm less likely to hit the wall. Yeah. So old tools will do the job of helping you get stronger and bigger, but some are better suited to certain tasks. I mean, you can diet into a show on test and deca, but the estrogen management and productive management is probably going to be a bit of a [\h__\h] Um, so again, it's about once you pick the right tools, then once you've got that list of tools, i.e. drugs for the purpose you're trying to achieve the goal you're trying to achieve. Then you factor in personal sensitivities which may remove certain drugs. Yeah. You then factor in blood work and health position which may remove certain drugs and then what you're left with is what you can play with. Yeah. Yeah. I really liked the combo of EQ and NPP. And I've talked about that before because I always felt that EQ showed me its results later in the cycle if I were running a longer like 16week cycle. But that NPP would be much faster. So that week we you know along with the test of course test and that NPP where you know week 2 3 4 I felt like I was already getting something good out of it you know and then maybe I even drop that out a little bit later and and end up just on the test in in EQ. But I I do find that to be a great combo. That was one of my favorites for growth. One of my favorites, and it's probably gonna really piss people off, was actually combining Deca and MPP together. You mentioned that before and I could kind of see it, man, cuz it's kind of like the sus, you know, it's almost like a sustenon of Nanderlow. You know what I mean? Cuz you're getting the fast acting, you're getting the long acting. I really liked it. Huh. Yeah. Especially I guess you'd have to would you I I mean for anybody at home who was thinking oh I want to try this I would at least consider my total dosing I wouldn't like you know what I mean I'd maybe use half of each or how would you compose that? Yeah. So, I would personally start with test and deca. Um, obviously slightly lower than where you're going to be with peak dosing. And then I would use I like to have incremental cycles. So, I like to go up at week usually week four and week seven, but it it varies depending on the person. Yeah. Uh, so I would I would start with test and deca. Um, and then I would probably bring MPP in about week six, week seven. Okay. Uh, and that's that. So, the last period would be, let's say I was wanting to do a cycle or I would normally do a cycle of say one gram total. I would probably start at 600 for half of the cycle, but push to,200 for the other half of the cycle. Okay? So, my peak's slightly higher, but my exposure to it is less. And I find that that's more beneficial than a longer exposure to a what on average would be a higher dose. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. I think we're digging into some good stuff here. I'm trying to think of one more finisher. Something that we I mean there's the classics, right? Like test DECA dbol. the DECA deep ball or test with trend and mast which I think you did kind of mention and and I think that that's test and trend and mast is kind of uh the the bread and butter of contest prep that I think if you go to most national level shows even show mass and primo now which I I I don't really understand personally well not anymore well no I just don't I don't see the point in it I'd either run one or the other apart from budget I can see the budget driven of it that you want to run complete old primo and you can't afford it. So mass is a you know a cheaper version a cheaper alternative should I say not version it is different but a cheaper alternative. I do feel like they're more similar than different though like there's some redundancy in there. I try to look at like well are we getting redundant you know versus and sometimes there is something to be said like uh adding windstrol on top of mast at the end of a prep there. You're going to get something different out of that. That's for sure. You know, um that's actually not a bad little combo for the last couple of weeks. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Mhm. Yeah. Like that. You know, you want to you want to or again, I mean, on the harsher side, but the trend and halo for for the last week or so is a quite a hardener. Yeah. Yeah. Not a long-term thing like you said last week or so, two weeks. Yeah. I wouldn't go any longer than that. Yeah. Yeah. All right. I I hope we gave people some ideas and I'd be curious to hear if they have their own perfect pairs that they can share with us. That would be fun to hear. What boies? Guys, I got to take a break to do the whole like, share, subscribe thing, but I also want to say thank you to you. The internet's kind of a weird place in case you didn't know. And I I'm glad that we've put the community together that we have. I'm grateful to read your comments. In fact, I I know a lot of YouTubers that don't read comments. I read all of them and I try to get back to everybody. So, if you comment, I will see it and I'll try to get back to you. Also, the like button is absolutely free of charge. You don't have to pay anything to hit it and it does help us out a ton. It's not going to like push us into your algorithm, but it will help other people to hopefully find the show. So, if you like our stuff, please try to help us out. Yeah, that's it. Um, you know what? Somebody made a really good point last week. You know how you said, "Have our expectations changed about cycles?" We had somebody who commented saying, "I think that people's goals have changed that we don't have as many people that are trying to become, you know, 300 pound monsters anymore." You know, people who are like, "Ah, Nick Walker, that's too much. I don't I don't want to look like that. That's not attractive." You know what I mean? The thing is, I think for for Nick, to be fair on Nick, I think the biggest off-putting about Nick's physique is actually his varicus veins. Yeah, it's that's yeah, that's a whole other conversation. But yeah, but I think his his physique wouldn't look as unappealing if he didn't have the vascularity that he has. Okay, let's say this. I don't want to be big Ramy or, you know, any any of these guys. Uh, Kriso, you know that that those looks are not what people want now. People want more the bombstead, you know, which is not that it's achievable, but that it looks more achievable to say to be fair, there isn't many people going to be achieving the look of Nick Walker or Big Ramy anyway. So, yeah. Yeah. I don't think people realize what level of either genetics or dedication that sort of size takes. Yeah, it is something else. But anyway, uh yeah, I think there's definitely something there. Uh, I think without trying to sound like it was better in my day [\h__\h] which is not at all my thought process, but I think the user spectrum has changed significantly. It was very niche, very cliche, very small underground fraternity 30 years ago. Yeah. you know, you were oddballs, whereas now gym culture and gym life and even anabolic usage is is is much more commonplace, you know, I mean, guys just didn't use gear unless they were seriously into competing or training at a very high level, whereas now gear is a accessory to get to go on holiday. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, I think there is an element to Yeah. just like it's a more accepted thing. And another guy said guys nowadays want to stay on year round and they can't run those high doses year round and stay as you know quote unquote healthy. So they want to see what can they get away with for longer. You know I think there might be some truth to that as well. I'm not I don't know where we are with the the the overall dosing sort of trend. There's definitely a lot of talk of running lower doses and being more responsible, but whether that's actually panning out into reality in people's usage. Not so sure. I it depends, I think, on the the group you're in. You know, if we're talking about our YouTube listeners, I think there's a vast or a lot of people at least who are TRT guys, but they're like, I want to do a little more than this and I want to stay. That's what I think has definitely happened is I think the TRT's come up and merged into what would have been a cycle. Yes. And the cycles may have come down and we now have this big messy muddy pool of is it TRT? Is it cycle? There's not really a clear cut for most people anymore. Yeah. All right. So, we got a bunch of listener questions. You guys are welcome to comment with your questions. Get them on the next show. Um, if we don't get to your question and please post it again. We try to get to everything. Uh, but of course, we can only do so many in one episode. One of the common questions we get asked by you guys is, "What would you do differently with your bodybuilding if you could go back in time?" Given all the experience and education I have today, there's a number of things that I would have done differently. One of them is that I would have started using collagen sooner. Collagen is one of the few supplements that will actually rebuild connective tissue. It took me tearing my Super Spinatus in 2021 to get with the program. I use True Nutritions Hydrayzeed Beef Collagen. I get the unflavored version. I pay for it myself just like you guys do. I use 20 grams a day. Mix it into my coffee. It's totally unflavored. You don't even taste it. Plus, I use 10 grams of their micronized creatin. Creatin has been shown to improve brain health, especially for the aging brain. I need that. And of course, you know, we've always known about the muscle building effects. So, this is my morning routine every day, and I'm encouraging you guys to do the same. Use our code think for savings. Plus, it's the only way for them to know that this advertising is being heard. Otherwise, they just think you're some random dude that clicked on an ad. Ain't nothing to it but do it. All right. Thoughts on 500 mg uh weekly test sip deca 400 weekly uh for 12 weeks, 8 to 12 weeks, and then add Tren at 200, bringing the DECA down to 200, testing at 500 for the next 6 to 8 weeks, and Windstrol for the last 3 to four. He's 225 at 10%. So that's what 18 weeks total. Six to eight weeks after 8 to 12. So possibly up to up to 20 tops like in in my opinion that's a bit long. Okay. Particularly to be adding trending at the end. Um I'd be wanting to reduce that. Yeah. 16 total. 14. Yeah. Okay. There he goes. Dave is a great guy and great banter. He was huge back in the day. And I like to think that he was the UK's Godzilla that the queen kept in a secret base to be released against the uh Empire's enemies as he walks across the English Channel, roaring from his cycle and popping some Halo. He made Rich Piana look small. Popping oxies, not Halo. Yeah, get it right. Yeah, come on now. Uh, let out me cage every now and again, eh? Um, that's a very long time ago. When you were locked in a cage and that's even longer time ago. Um, no, I meant when I was big. That that that was It actually feels like another lifetime almost. Does it really? M yeah. And what's it been? 4 13 years. Okay. 10 10 since it stopped, I think. Can't be far off that. When do we do the very first podcast? Like 2017. Not this as in our very first 16. 16 when you interviewed me about under construction. 16. No. So it's nine years anyway. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh my god. And you were you were taking a lot of gear. You're like, "Oh, yeah. I'm taking 20." At that interview, you're like, "Yep. I'm taking 24 or 25 pharmarmac growth a day." And it makes me really tired. That's the main thing I noticed. Jeez. There's people who are doing that again though now. You know, Chase Irons has run some pretty high GH doses. He's blowing up with it, too, you know. Yeah. It's It's not the blowing up. It's the fact that it doesn't stay when the when the GH codes go. Yeah. uh uh did uh bodybuilding prep bloods looked okay after and progress in motivation was great. So rather than TNT TRT uh I went down to 700 tests 300 mast added 75 deca for joints been doing great got about 6 weeks until holiday before I plan to de load and relax. question is when I come back I really want to blast my socks off for six weeks and for the fun of it just before a threemon health phase thoughts on a,50 test 600 EQ 400 mast 300 tren 50 anadrol 15 YK-11 so he's going to combine an YK-11 I don't know about all this uh what would you change or would you suggest a totally different cycle? Just interested in what you think. So he's he's kind of like I want to do something real extreme guys. I would suggest not doing a cycle at all and having some time off because I think your whole phase is overdue personally but each to their own. Um, I don't see that cycle being endured without problems, particularly off the back of already being on for what, 20 odd weeks. Yeah, he didn't say. I guess he's done a cycle, then he carried on into a So, he did a cycle, then dropped down to a gram, and it was a prep cycle. Yeah. then drop down to a gram and then he's going to go straight into a No, I not. Yeah. Take a break basically. That would be my Yeah. My opinion would be to take a break. I mean, look, at the end of the day, it's your life. You do what you want with it. Just just accept the consequences if things don't work out how you expect them to. But I would be starting to get concerned about the length of exposure to high doses. Yeah. Um, if you came in super fresh, yeah, you could potentially get away with with four to six months of taking a piss, but then you're going to need an extended period of time away. And the issue then is actually coping with that mentally because when you've been on a high dose for so long, it's a difficult adjustment mentally to come back down. Particularly when you have him to come back down into proper TRT or which I I don't off the bat of it and I may be doing him a miss justice here, but I I I wouldn't surprise him if his TRT is significantly above what would be classed as natural ranges. Yeah. Um, so I'm just a bit concerned about total exposure and overload and and overall stresses and toxin. I mean, he had some blood work post comp without knowing what those blood figures were. It's very difficult to give any further opinion as to whether I think the risk is worth the reward. But I do think we're starting to push into a risky situation with the planned blast. Yeah. Yeah. especially the dosing is basically a little over a gram a test. Then a gram combined of EQ and mast then uh 300 tren e 50 anadrol workout days and 15 YK-11 daily. I'm a bit confused on the yk. Um, I it's it it's a bit like ordering two Big Macs and two Super Shakes and then saying you're getting a Diet Coke cuz you're watching your sugar, you know? It I I don't see the point in putting the YK in. Yeah. Personally, yeah, I I I've seen the results I've seen with YK to me at least seem similar to that of Anadrol. Um I feel like kind of like ordering a Big Mac and a Big Mac. Yeah. I just I don't I don't see I don't see with that level of exposure. I mean, we're talking two and a half grand. I I I don't see YK being a drop in the ocean there. You know what I mean? I I don't think you're going to perceive any changes or difference with running a YK. Yeah. All right. Um let's see here. Another banger. Do you guys think there is too much information out there? uh not making uh do you think there's too much information out there making training over complicated uh push pull legs and lift big ars weights used to be all that we were told I don't know man I get it yeah I I do think there is yes but I do think there's benefits too you know what I mean it yeah it I'm with you on that I mean I I do think things are overthought um there's certain phrases that I have a very strong dislike to one has the initials of R I R. You don't like R, huh? No. And the other one has the initials PP L. You don't like push pull legs? You don't like push pull legs at all. Show me a muscle that pushes. I'm pushing with my chest. I'll push. Show me a muscle that pushes. I My chest. I'm going to push you across the Every muscle pulls. Every muscle pulls. The pec pulls the upper arm. I think it I think it the pec pulls. No, I'm pushing pushing away from me. I'm me, Dave. No muscle extends power by expanding. And you know that. So, stop being irritating twice. No, no, no. I'm for real. I'm trying to think. I think you're Here's the thing though. So, what do you call it then? Pull pull weight. Well, that's the point. That's why I don't like it. You know, when you bench press, yes, the action of pushing the bar off your chest, but from a muscular point of view, the pec is pulling the upper arm across. So, I don't like the this may sound a bit nerdy, but I don't like the fact of what saying pull does in the way of how it plants an image in your mind because I'm very much into thinking how the muscle moves and muscles don't pull. But they pull objects. Muscle sorry can't push. Sorry. I can push objects with my muscles. As Tanya says, the limb pushes Scott, but the muscle can't push. Thank you, Tanya. I'm sorry you have to endure this idiot, but it's all I've got. Um, but yeah, so where's she at? There. There she is. I think I think there is obviously more to training than ug, you know, lift heavy weight, grunt, grunt. Yeah. Smash smash. Uh, and I think training can be quite technical, but I think there's also this massive danger of disappearing up your own [\h__\h] with the technicality. Uh, and and though I am a massive advocate of correct engagement, proper form, once you've achieved that, I'm a massive advocate of push them [\h__\h] weight as well. Yeah, I think that maybe that gets a little lost in the technique. I feel like we talk about that kind of stuff like all all of the older guy the older guys talk about that. I just want to be careful to not um discredit or belittle the idea cuz there is so much and I have learned a lot you know what I mean by Oh no I mean looking at the new stuff. Yeah. No I'm I'm a big technicality fan. Yeah. But not at the expense of effort. And I think that's where it gets a bit I do not understand reps in reserve because how do you know how many reps you've got? Yeah. You you have to have a lot of experience to understand. Well, you you can have a rough idea. Yeah. But you know, you don't know because on any given day, your performance, particularly with a lesser weight, can can vary by a couple of reps. Absolutely. So, I'm I'm I'm not a big fan of this reps in rever. I'm not a big fan of of holding back, but I am a fan of listening to what your body's telling you. Push to the greatest of your capability in good form and control, ensuring that you're not removing the stimulus from the target muscle. So, you're not just moving weight, you're actually exercising the muscle you're trying to exercise. Yeah. And and if you know, and if recovery is compromised, then fine, take a day off. Yeah. Yeah, I don't like scheduled days off in the sense of, oh, I'm doing a de lo week. Why? Just for the sake of Yeah, it's on my plan. If you need it, yeah, but if you don't need it, [\h__\h] head down, crack on. Yeah. So, it's stuff like that that irritates me about the new the new school sort of approach. But yeah, I mean, you know, I mean, it's like Palowski. I think he had a lot of very good quality information when it came to his training techniques, but I think he just took it too far. and and lost the sort of you know at the end of the day we need to be making an effort and pushing as hard as we can to stimulate further adaption which is growth. Yeah. Yeah. And we have talked a lot about the um reps about like the reps and reserve technique. And I've come around to it uh a good deal, but my caveat is is that you really do have to spend years in the gym understanding what reps and reserve are. And it might not be perfect. Like but I I can get pretty close if I'm doing two reps in reserve. I know when I'm I've got like one or two reps left in me cuz it's a real That's the thing is that a lot of these people that are adopting it without having had a like a solid background in training haven't gone to failure for a decade straight. So they don't know. They have no idea. So yeah, they I I do think there is that's the unfortunate trap is there's a high potential for, you know, guys to do five reps in reserve, seven reps in reserve and not realize it. But if you had been say like uh Paul Barnett, he was a DC training guy earlier on and so he did a lot of DC. He knows what failure is and he might not be getting it perfect, but he's also now a guy who's older. He's able to train without destroying himself every time that he trains. Uh and he's then able to get back in and do it again. But when I see him train, man, his his training, because I've watched some of his stuff, it's very hard. like it could be con misconstrued as failure if it was somebody else's set. You know what I mean? Mhm. Um, no, I I get that. It's um Yeah, it it I mean deliberately obviously I'm being a bit of a awkward [\h__\h] over it, but but it it does does irritate me to some extent some of the crap that you see. Yeah. that and the people who they make reaction posts to Ron was telling me about one the other day where it was Jeff Nippard and Mike Israel were arguing o or debating over like whether he had more reps in reserve or something like that and whether he should have gone to failure and what failure is or something. And this person who was like had no muscle at all was like, you know, is it Mike right or is Jeff right or C? None of them. Neither of them are right. They both couldn't be more wrong. The truth is that blah blah blah blah blah and the science says this and da da da. Like it's somebody who's nobody. Like literally a nobody. Well, my whole argument is if if what you're saying is correct, then why hasn't it developed your physique? Yeah. And I know that's a bit Yeah, I get that. But you know, at the end of the day, the guys that have developed physiques all tend to say similar things. That's a good point. It's the guys that haven't developed the technique. They come out with all this [\h__\h] wooha technical bollocks and it's like sometimes you just need to lift a heavy weight, mate. Ask Kuba what it takes to He's grown a lot of muscle, dude. He has. He Kub's got very technical, but he he also um he he's he's put some good solid timber on and he's stays strong. He is very strong, you know. He moves some good timber, mate. He does. Um Oh, that's what you meant when you said some good timber. I thought you meant like he got bigger. Like his muscles got bigger. You That was a British term for he moves a lot of weight. I understand now. I literally didn't get that at first. I really didn't. Welcome to the party, Scott. Um, all right. Can we talk about boobies now? So, how about some info on how to say be on TRT and do a cycle with something else, but also how to properly cruise back just test to with just test to keep the gains. I feel like you would take what you're taking, your TRT, and then you would add something to that and then you would stop adding something to that and you keep training hard and keep eating and doing the things that you did. Am I right? Yeah. I I'm a bit Yeah, I'm a bit confused on the question cuz it's Yeah, I think it's AI think it it there's not really The only thing I would potentially add is that I would be tempted to possibly just when you stop the extra compound that you may stop the TRT for a couple of weeks, just let your levels come back down and then restart the TRT. That would be my only addition to that. But but other than that, it's it's not really any more complex than that. you know, you add your second compound in or increase your primary compound. Yeah, because you don't obviously have to add a second one and then and then lower your doses um to continue on. All right. Um been on TRT for 3 years. Uh seen some improvement in enjoy energy and lifestyle. Uh moved up the dose to 200 milligrams after 2 years. Then 250 milligrams. didn't notice much. Spoke to the doctor and ended up at 300 mg after all the upping of the dose. Uh why would it be that I don't see a healing effect in the muscle and sore often? I'm about 115 lbs scale of muscle. Wait, I'm about 115 pounds scale of muscle and 220 pounds. Um, I think it means he's Anyway, he's 220. Um, looking into your videos, what's the connection of testosterone to muscle mass in milligrams? I've only heard over the years that in the UK or Europe countries that it can be upwards to 1 milligram per pound. So he's saying the bigger you are, the more test you need. I Yeah, this is something that that Brick works on and I it's something that I don't see translating blood work. So for argument's sake, I'm still a large individual. Okay, it's a wrong type of large, but I'm still a large individual. And yet I need very minimal doses of testosterone to get cord blood levels. So my TRT is 50 m twice a week. Okay. Um you know it's low particularly in comparison to a lot of stuff state side. I I would want to know where his dosing's putting him on his testosterone levels because I I don't think the issues is drugs. Yeah. I think the issue is diet, food, because at the end of the day, if he was eating enough food and he was eating in excess, he would be gaining weight, but it would just be fat. So, if he's not gaining weight, the simple fact is he's not eating enough or he's not eating the right stuff. Uh because irrespective, if you were in a calorie excess to gain size, if you weren't building muscle for whatever reason, you'd still gain weight. you'd still gain, but it would just be fat you'd be gaining, not muscular tissue. Because any calorie exercise is going to increase your physical mass just with the correct training and the right selection of nutrition, our mass increase tends to be muscle mass rather than fat mass. So, the fact that he's gone up to 300 milligrams and he's still not getting anywhere suggests to me that the issue is food. Now, it might be that he's not absorbing it correctly and he's not getting good nutrient transit because of poor absorption, but there's something wrong with the food either in how much he's putting in his mouth, what he's putting in his mouth, or how well the body's utilizing that food. Yeah. The gear allows you to better utilize food, but there is also, you mentioned training. I wonder what his training is like if he's sort like like you can't Okay, I'll put it this way. Can you do 500 sets of bench press on cycle and recover from that in one week? You know, like 500 sets through the week. No, of course you can't. How about 400? No. How about 300 sets? There's So, the number is going to be somewhere lower than that. How many sets is he doing? Like, what's his volume look like? And is he getting enough intensity to to generate muscle growth? you know, I I would think yes, look at the nutrition, but also have a hard look at your training, too, cuz he he should be able to recover like naturally, right? You know what I mean? From like I don't care how big he is. If you should be able to recover from your workouts, Gear isn't going to magically just like make that happen. So, if you're doing too much, you know, it's not going to work for you. You're not going to grow. Yeah. I I I generally find it hard to do too much though not impossible and more a case of just not consuming enough. Yeah. I don't always I guess it depends on the individual too cuz what if he's like a guy like me I was 125 pounds when I started lifting seriously in my mid to late 20s you know um I was never that four years ago now it was it was actually let's see I was mid mid to late 20s so 1980 yeah that was like 199 Yeah 85 to be exactly yeah because you're 60 now Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You know what I mean though? Like there are guys out there that they struggle like you know they struggle to grow. So did you ever struggle to grow Dave? I didn't. But at the same time I didn't slack either. Um I lived and breathed training. Um I would literally go to bed on a night. I'd meditate and then I would rehearse the next day's workout. And I when I mean rehearse, I mean from the point of stepping into the gym, I would run through my head sitting down, getting a coffee, drinking the coffee, stepping up, walking into the gym, sitting on the bench, doing my warm-up set, then my next set, then my And I'd run through the whole workout in my head in bed the night before. Yeah. And it got to the point where I was starting to get pumps. You you'd get not massive ones, but I'd actually get a little bit of a pump in whatever muscle it was I was I was concentrating on. Yeah. So, I I heavily invested in in the sort of mental aspect of training and and pushing and going beyond what you thought you were capable of. And and I mean I had a very simple mantra was on those working sets if I got the rep and it didn't matter how hard that rep was, how long it took me to get, I did another or I attempted another. Even if I just lowered it or even if I lowered it and started to push and it didn't move, I'd stay there and carry on pushing for a few seconds. Yeah. But but I had this just inset deep mantra of, you know, always one more. Always one more. Yeah. This guy says, "Uh, thoughts on the doctor giving me 0.5 milliliters of test every 10 days." So, I'm guessing it's 100 every 10 days. And I said, "Well, what are your test levels?" And he responded by saying, "But I feel lousy." Yeah. But let's They didn't tell me. I'm not I'm not saying in this this scenario because if it's a single Ether, then Yeah. you're going to get quite a drop off after 10 days. Oh, yeah. So, it's definitely not the the most ideal protocol. So, I I fully agree that there there's possibly much more efficient ways of running it, but it might surprise people to know that when you feel crap and you have low test that sometimes increasing that test doesn't make you feel amazing because there are sometimes other issues like stress, [\h__\h] diet, [\h__\h] sleep. Yeah. Amazing. Drugs don't cure everything. It is pretty funky. 100. That's less than you're taking, right? Uh yeah, that's that it's not just the dosing, it's the the the time in between as well. I mean, that's quite if it was sourced, I could sort of see some logic in it. But if it's single esester, I don't see the sense. Yeah, because you are literally going to be let's say 100 NMO puts you sorry 100 meg puts you at let's say 24. Yeah, by all things being equal, you're going to be 10 12 by the time you go to your next injection. That's UK talk, guys. So, yeah, it is. Yeah, I speak English, not American. we'll say, you know, puts you at 600 7 600 and then it knocks you down by the time you take your next shot to three, you know. Yeah. So, yeah, he's not going to feel great on that. So, I don't I don't get that dosing protocol personally. Some doctors just aren't with it, man. I I My doctor initially wanted me to do 100 every two weeks. Sounds sensible. Yeah. You know, that's and it's just where she came from. Thankfully, we're not on that program, you know, though. We we we learned, we got educated. Um, what else do we have here, Dave? You got a couple more. Do you have some uh I bet you have some wisdom for the day for us, too. You say it in such a sarcastic way cuz, you know, I don't. And it's it's just like you're so [\h__\h] I'mma see you next Tuesday as far as somebody said, right? Yeah, that that that made me chuckle. That really did make me chuckle. There was no reason for it as well. I don't understand why. Uh I agreed. Obviously, if you could only add one compound to test, what would it be? And I asked him, I was like, "Well, what's your goal? Fat loss, muscle gain?" And he said, "Uh uh the goal would be to gain muscle." More test. more test. Yeah. Not octa. No, to be honest, if there was two compiles and it was math, I would go deca every day. I know it's get I know it gets a bit of hate now after the hard studies and I I understand that. Um and I I don't want to take it too lightly in that sense, but but yeah, it's if you're talking about the pharmacology, I would go decorative every day. But I also don't see any reason why you can't just run more test. Yeah, it's a boring answer though. You know what I mean? Like, but I agree. I agree 100%. I do. It's very nice. Dave removed his pop filter off his microphone, which he's been going like this with all day the whole time. He's like, "So, what I would suggest doing is take 500 milligrams and take some time off of your cycle. See you next Tuesday. That's where it came from. I probably did something like that. Probably. Yeah. All right. Um I don't think you're see you next Tuesday, Scott. Oh, I thank you, Dave. I really appreciate that. I think you're a pregnant fish. Pregnant fish. I don't know what that means. What? Oh, thank you. Um, all right. I'm uh wanting to compete in women's physique. Currently, I'm on my second cycle. 10 milligrams of Anavar per day uh for 10 10 milligrams a day for 10 weeks. I'm considering adding another compound to enhance my results. What would be the compound to stack with anavar for someone in my position? I said to her, you know, we can talk about this. Uh my thought would be that if you're on your second cycle ever at 10 milligrams of Anavar and you're already in it, like 10 milligrams anavar for 10 weeks is a pretty decent cycle for a second cycle. And if she's getting some like I would say this, focus on getting everything you can out of this cycle before cuz she's already started the plan. You know what I mean? I don't know how far, but we'll say she's halfway in. instead of adding something else, doing something else, like see what you can give this a fair shake first. Get everything you can out of it and then re-evaluate. You might not even need to go up. Yeah. I think I think people sometimes seem to be very opposed to running the same cycle again. You still grow, you know, if you're still growing off the same cycle. We we I don't know. It's it's probably a bit of the mentality that takes you into the sport, I suppose. But we we do tend to look to do more rather than, you know, we if we stay at the same dosing, then we almost view it as going backwards. When when actually if it's creating results, stay there. Get the most out of it for as long as you can because there is a point when you just can't go up anymore. Yeah. Uh, another great show. My question is, um, is there anything you would do before, during, or after a longhaul flight, blood pressure, um, lower doses, cut HGH, uh, just take baby aspirin? Would love to know your thoughts. Obviously, two concerns with flights are water retention and thrombosis or blood clots and getting caught with gear and depending where you go and getting caught with gear. Uh, and don't take your sharps on the plane. Put them in the hold luggage. They get rather funny if they find needles in your carryon. Dude, I did that on accident once. I had a 3cc barrel with a 19 gauge on it and I was like traveling around and I had it in my carry-on and I got to like a stop between and I'm like, "Oh, this has just been like in the front pocket. You could just reach in and grab it." Nobody said anything. Yeah. I I flew and got to where I was going and was searching for some in my carryon. I found needles. I found gear. Found the [\h__\h] [\h__\h] Um but yeah, so blood clotting and water retention. So I do think that potentially depending on the length of the flight that it might be worth dropping the GH for a few days prior just so you're not adding to that water retention issue. Uh aspirin 80 milligrams a day for a week starting prior. You tell people to do this before a flight? No, just only if somebody's particularly concerned. Oh, okay. Uh, no, not at all. Most people will fly perfectly normal, but if you have if you're worried or you have issues, these are the things you can do to safeguard against it. Okay. But yeah, I was going to say I've never told anybody to take anything. No, no, no, no. Generally speaking, I don't I don't It's not a problem. But if if somebody is It's like I get really bad water retention when I fly. That's because of the kidneys. But it is I mean I can put four inches on my waist from water. Okay. So I have to do a diuretic protocol if I'm flying really. Otherwise I'm I'm be quite uncomfortable with it to be fair. Um and I watch what I eat and everything else as well around that same reason. Um, so yeah, it all depends on if you're experiencing problems with it, but most most people will be fine unless you're a proper runner, heavy, you know, heavy cycle or you're carrying huge amounts of mouth. I mean, I would imagine like like when the world strong men travel that water retention can be a bit of a problem for those guys. Yeah, I've 200 kilo there's a potential for a lot of water. I've only ever worried with competitors competing and it's not at like an excessive or dangerous just like hey it could change your look but I've never had a situation with anybody where it's been detrimental you know we we're aware you know but we and we usually just manipulate water a little bit um some people can drink water all the way through some people it's better to keep it lower you know I think for 99% of people travel's not going to be a problem if you were doing a 15 hour flight or something ridiculously long like that, then I might be a little bit more right. Let's just do XY Z just to just to play it safe cuz it's such a long flight. Yeah. But for the most part, I wouldn't be concerned. But if if you were concerned, those were the things I'd be looking at. We did 15 hours to Korea and then 1 hour layover or hour and a half and then 10 hours to Australia. See, I'd love to go to Australia, but two things really put me off. One is that flight and two is the amount of things there that can [\h__\h] kill you. Yeah. Yeah. We made it. There's lots of There's lots of big bitey things. Even the platypus has uh poison. Cute. When the babies have you seen a baby one? Oh, they're so cool, man. What they called now? It's some daft. Um I can't The babies are called something. Huh. I know that platyp is not the That's not the plural. Yeah. Well, when you come here, you'll be able to see the Haggies and the Hagai. Yeah, they're beautiful. They're majestic creatures. I'm They are. They've been sending me like each week I get at least a couple of videos about different different species of haggus, different, you know, types. I hope we get to see at least a couple of those. There's a couple of them I really have my heart set on. The the snowball heed one is is quite cute. Yeah. Yeah. I want to The one with a white tuft on his head. Yeah. Yeah. Can you You can cook them too, right? Mhm. Yeah. Good. Good. Tender. Yeah. Bit spicy. Bit spicy. Yeah. More on like a peppery spice, not on a like a curry spice. You know, last week when we talked about your uh your arms in the Photoshop, I went back and I grabbed the actual picture off of your Facebook. So, I was stalking your Facebook page and I posted that on the show next to the thumbnail that we use just to say, "Hey, here's the original picture." Um, but doing that, I went all the way back in your history. Like, I went all the way back to your first pictures you ever posted. Some of your early pictures were of your monster truck. Don't know what you're talking about. You never told us. I I think you have told us about your your monster truck. You've told me about it. Guys, did you know that Dave used to have a monster truck and he took people for rides in it? I used to race it. You raced it, too. Did you race the same one? Because you had like a monster. Yeah. Yeah. So, the when the the mon there was a monster truck series that started in the UK. It wasn't associated with Monster Jam or anything like they they had high hopes it would be at some point, but it was very grassroots. Um, and obviously running a monster truck is incredibly expensive. So, I chose to, it was an old school truck, so it was an old leaf sprung truck. So, it was a very, very old one. Actually, it was a Canadian truck originally. Really? Yeah. And we put seats in the back and made it into a bit of a hybrid, you know, race ride truck. So that way we could get a revenue off the truck when we weren't racing it in order to sort of support racing it. Okay. Do you guys hear by the way? Do you hear the the lambs? I just There he was. There he was. It's amazing. So yeah, I uh it used to take people for rides in it. They would pay then. Would you drive over cars with it and stuff or what? Really? That seems Do they have to sign a waiver for that? I don't know. We never bothered. I feel like you need a good waiver for that nowadays. We uh to be fair, we we probably were a bit close to the vet. We we I've had grown men come off it crying. All right. Any advice of the week for us, Dave? I need a P. Okay. Okay. There's a B. Those lambs floating right in front of me. Is there? Those lambs are cracking me up, man. I have never podcasted with anybody where there's lambs banging in the background. It's really warm here at the moment, so it's lovely. Yeah. Um, advice, advice, advice. I don't actually really have much for this week. Um I will very basic simple just look after yourselves. And I know that sounds really sort of corny and obvious but in the sense of you know take some time out for yourself. Uh get a bit of quiet time. Get a bit of you time. look at yourself both not just physically but mentally and I think mentally is the one where the world struggles with the most these days. Uh I think generally as a populace our mental health is pretty crap. Yeah, it's good. Take it. And that sweatshirt's awful. AW Muscle Fitness. Shout out to uh Alex and Emily. Emily's nice. Alex is I'll see you next Tuesday. Is that what you're going to say? No, I don't use that. I actually don't like that word. It's funny cuz that's a very British word. Don't like it. I'm You've got to have pee me off for me to use it properly. I mean, you know, in a bit of banter maybe, but if you actually hear me say it with any sort of feeling, you've proper peed me off. Yeah. I've never heard you actually, now that you mention it, it's not in your repertoire. No, I don't like the word. Yeah. All right. Um, for some reason, I don't know why I just have an aversion to it. I just don't like it. Yeah. Yeah. Here, we can't say it. We're not allowed technically like we're not allowed to say it in the US. I would uh get in a lot of trouble. You on the other hand, you have the right like you're allowed to. It's part of your culture. Yeah. Strangely is part of the standard British vocabulary. Yeah. You know, and and and even used as a compliment. But uh um I um and if you want to hear the word used a lot, I think um gang Oh, no. What was it? Um I was telling you about the other day, Mob Land. I think I think it comes up a lot in that TV series. Oh, it does. Yeah. Yeah. We still have to We've got it that in the queue. We're going to watch that one next. I quite like it. All right. We appreciate you guys tuning in. Thanks for being here. Go to evalblood analysis.com. Get your labs done by Dave if you're in the UK as well as stroports. Go to strumsports uh.com and uh you can get some great health and performance supplements over there. Great health stacks supplement.ca for Canadians and of course truenutrition.com. Guys, next episode we're going to knock out a bunch of Patreon questions. So be sure to comment with questions for us. It's going to be a fun show. And uh of course uh betteru what online better youu letterwu.online to check out Dave's coaching app. How much is that per month? Basically it's a pound a day. Pound a day. So basically you could sign up for you know just this month even if you wanted to test it out see what you think and uh you know if you make some progress then hey stick with it. It's a lot cheaper than uh hiring one of us as a coach even then. And it's Stum's new open day on the 3rd of May, but obviously that will only really relate to people in the live because I don't think the episode will be out. It won't be will it won't be out in time. Uh it'll be close. But yeah, anybody in the live stream, go out if you're in the UK, head What do you mean it's their their open day, their So they've moved they've moved units. I don't think they've moved very far. I think they've only moved over the road. Okay. But they're having an open day. Uh Broadick's doing a free seminar. Cool. Uh, I think there's some like deadlifting workshops, some MMA workshops because Rick's right into his MMA. Um, so yeah, I think there's quite a few things going on. Are you going to be there? No. No. Okay. Unfortunately, I have other engagements that I had already committed to before he told me about. Fair enough, guys, for another episode of the podcast with Dave and me, Scott. We'll see you soon. Thank you, guys. Thanks, Dave. Yep. No problem.