What's up, guys? Welcome back to Blood, Sweat, and Gear with coaches Skipp Hill, Andrew Barry, myself, Scott McN, and all of our programming. It's brought to you by you, the people of Patreon. Thank you guys very much for your support, and thank you to everybody at home who is liking the shows and commenting and leaving us questions because you guys really do make this thing what it is. We're also brought to you by trueutrition.com. Use our code think over there for additional savings. And remember, you know, shopping with them using our code, it's voting for us and it's getting you some highquality supplements, too. So, it's a winwinwin. And, uh, we're brought to you by supplements.ca for Canadians, guys. They have great deals that change from week to week. Shortdated closeout products, stuff like that. Definitely check them out if you're in Canada. And, uh, we've got a bunch of stuff. We've got the hardcore set of the week, which you guys, or the insane set of the week, which you guys have been enjoying. We got a bunch of entries for that. We're going to start out though with a uh opposing critique, right, Andrew? Yeah. And I'm sorry I can't remember his name. Um I put in my text message. Hold on. All right. And I'm going to just get the pictures rolling here. This is This is Jordan Gilmore. And he uh posted in Yeah. in our Facebook group. And I think he looks great. He's he's doing I think if I remember correctly, his first show. I think he was natural until recently if I remember correctly from the post. Um, but anyway, he he put up like three or four shots. I'd love to see if he's listening a front double bicep, most muscular, a rear double, like your your staple poses that we need to see. Um, he looks like he could do either bodybuilding or classic. But, um, I'll just start left to right on my screen. The side chest is a beautiful shot. Great detail. U, good balance. I think if he just rotates a little bit more um at the waist so we see a little bit more back shoulder, it's going to add a little bit more symmetry and depth to that shot because whether it's a front-on shot or a side shot, it's all about wide to narrow, meaning widen the shoulders, narrow the waist. It's just that wacky look that we're going for. And I think if he just rotates a little bit more and maybe he needs to just push that right shoulder a little bit more and it'll make that back pec which already looks great um kind of pumped up even more. I think that will complete the shot. How about you skip? What do you think? Yeah, I completely agree. Bring that that half melon from the back around a little bit more. Yep. Yeah. Uh moving on to his side tricep. The only real thing I saw here was I think if he moves his left hand forward more onto his glute and closes that gap between his waist and the glute, it's going to look more like a wall of muscle. Um, and it's just going to add more to the symmetry. Uh, again, great physique. You know, I I He's got great dimensions. Uh, muscles are developed nice. His conditioning is excellent. And he's and he's still I think got four more weeks to go. Um, but yeah, what do you think, Skip, on that side try? Side try. It's I think it's always important and and it's it's I don't want to say it's hard to tell, but you just want to smash lean towards smashing that arm against your side versus actually posing it. It'll make that delt pop a little bit more. So, he could arguably, it depends on flexibility, too. But you got to be able to smash that arm. It's kind of like the front leg on from the side. You want to smash that hamstring to drop it versus it being, you know, being contracted. So, so there's there's drop contract the glute, contract the calf, let the hamstring hang. Yep. That's great. Um, all right. So, the re uh rear lat spread. Scott, can you center that a little bit more on that one? Cuz I put some notes on there. Yeah, there you go. Right there. Um, and okay, so this shot, you know, whenever I teach this one, I always look at the feet first. And looking at this one, I like to see the heel of one foot and the toes of the other foot on the same line of plane, at least as a starting point. Um, and I think if he brings his left foot forward about, was that 4 in or so, 3 in, and then puts it out like an inch or two. Um, and puts a little bit more weight over his left hip, it's going to balance out his lower body so it looks a little more symmetrical. And then looking at the upper body, I kind of go through these steps like hit your normal spread. After you got your feet set, hit your normal spread, do a slight crunch in the abs, and that's going to lower uh round out the lower back a little bit to make the back straps kind of hang a little more. Um, and then very slightly drive your shoulders up and out. Now, keep in mind, this isn't a shrug because a lot of times people misinterpret this and they kind of shrug up, which actually brings their shoulders in and it just makes their their traps kind of flex, right? It's really just a subtle I almost think of like um when you're spreading saran wrap around something that is you know uh like like a chicken breast or something like that. You're just kind of spreading it out a little bit more. Uh and then lean back and finally just look up and arch the chest a little bit. And I think he's going to get himself like another two or three inches out of this out of the width in this shot. Uh and really make this shot come to life even more. His conditioning is obviously excellent. Like glutes triations already in. Hamstrings are almost fully in. lower back looks nice and detailed. Um, and again, you know, or maybe not again, but initially I should say, the the the rear lat spread is not necessarily a detail shot. It's a width shot. Too many people try to contract and get every little detail muscle back there and and and it makes them it takes away from the overall look and the width that you could bring to that shot. Do you guys have anything to add to that? The I think the only thing I would add is there's one exception I think to that and that is um the glute and ham because there's not as much detail. The eyes of the judges if you're looking for detail there are going to go to that ham and the glute. You're not going to miss the glute. So then I have to wonder um and this is just a cue that I use with my clients and myself is that back foot should be and this is going to be hard to explain but the pull should be that if his back foot were to slip that left heel would come up and kick his right glute. He should be pulling across the back of his body to help contract. And I'm not saying that he's not. All I'm saying is I can't see it because it's a picture. I'm not sure. But that that cue is to pull the glute and the hamstring in to where if that back foot slipped that that left heel would come up and kick his own ass in the right glute. H I see. I got you. Okay. Yeah, that makes sense. I see that. I could see that. Yeah. I think Andrew on that that stance you mentioned uh you know bring that foot in. It's a little bit too far out. I think that's a mistake sometimes that less experienced guys make where like if Kai Green were to take a giant step back and be real dramatic or you know any really big dude it works for them but when you don't have quite as much size I think it ends up the further that your limbs get away from you then the smaller the more stretched out they appear you know what I mean? Well, and you know, the guys in the 80s and 90s used to really take a deep step step back. They sure did. Yeah. I remember earlier this week, I was scrolling Instagram and there was a video of Milo Sarv hitting a rear lat spread. Okay. And it was like, dude, he is almost like he he was like trying to like I don't know put like four feet in between his back heel, his front heel and his and his toes, right? It was it was a really exaggerated step back. Um, and I think, you know, with the development of posing coaches and really all of us really trying to focus on how to present your physique the best because so many good bodybuilders out there with great genetics and great physiques now, every little detail matters about how you present yourself. So, you know, if you're los if you can pose your legs or your upper body to make it so you look five pounds bigger or you can pose them to make yourself look 10 pounds lighter. And and I think that's what you're trying to say, Scott, is that when you take that step back, you can make your legs look a lot stringier than they really are. Absolutely. Absolutely. Well, I think that big step back originated because if you go 10 years prior to that and you go to the mid 80s, they weren't kicking that leg back much at all to the point where the glutes most times weren't even contracted. So, I think that someone at some point realized, oh man, if I get this foot back, so they went back essentially too far and then started pulling it back in to find a happy medium after that. You know, this brings up, this is a side topic, but the back in the, you know, the guys, the older guys today, um, that were good pros in like the 90s or, you know, late 80s are always talking about, oh, these guys aren't bringing the conditioning today. And I got to say, like looking at videos, I'm like, I didn't see a lot of striated glutes on the guys until Ronnie really started bringing striated glutes as a consistent thing. I You guys know what I'm talking about? Oh, yeah. Yeah, I agree. Absolutely. And maybe they weren't flexing them because it because obviously flexing wasn't as big of a thing with the glutes. It's kind and the suits were a little bit bigger. They covered more of the glutes usually, but it wasn't like a standard that you had to have these fish gills in your glutes uh when you turned around from the back like it is today. Yeah, Rich Kaspari was really I think the first and then but not everybody was doing it. Just because Rich was doing it doesn't mean everybody else was. All right, let's nail out this last guy. This last pose he's got here. What do you guys think of this one? I think he's just putting that front for foot way too far forward. I mean, is this even is this an ab and thigh? Uh are are you allowed to hit? This would be your side tricep, like your secondary side tricep. And I do want to point out that the guys the judges have said they want to see the re the traditional side tricep. I see. You can you can move into this one if you want to. You see a lot of classic guys will do this as more of a classic shot. And this guy's got a physique where he could do either bodybuilding or classic. For sure. But um but you know, don't make this your standard tricep shot. I I would say your other tricep shot is better if you follow the cues that we've already given you. And I would bring that left foot um back towards the other foot like a good four or five inches and see how that looks. Typically, this pose is essentially the second pose after the original side tricep, but he's kicking that leg. I agree. He's kicking the leg out too far, and what it's doing is it's thinning out the quad way too much. If he were to keep it more under him, that quad would look a lot thicker. Yep. All right. But great physique. Send us a front double, a rear double, and a most muscular. Love to see those. Hey guys, so I'm seeing that like 35% of you are not subscribed to the channel, which on one hand is great. That means that YouTube is getting us in front of new people. On the other hand, that means that we might not see each other again if you don't hit the subscribe button. We have several bodybuilding podcasts each week. We've got our reaction videos. We're doing YouTube shorts. So, let me encourage you right now to subscribe and hit the bell. And if you're enjoying this show, then please hit the like button and leave us a comment. So, it is official. After eating that super spicy food, my face is even redder than usual now. So, there's that. Take away from Andrew's uh black eye today. Um, all right. This is going to be a fun one for us. When's a good time to tell a girl that you're seeing that you take gear and that it's illegal? Illegal. Illegal. I'd like your answer on Facebook. What was What was that again? What did he say? While you're wrecking it. I don't care. I did see that. That's right. You're like, "This pump is brought to you by Trent." Yeah. I I my advice I don't know. First, I'm I'm going to I'm not I would never tell anybody, client or otherwise to lie, but I might not give up the information too soon. And the part about it being illegal, there is no reason to bring that up unless you're asked. Uh, you know, and some, you know, some of the comments on this topic were were right on, you know, they're dead on. You don't want to give ammunition to someone you don't trust. Uh just like guys can be train wrecks, women can be train wrecks. And you don't want to hand them essentially load the magazine for them so that they have more ammo if things go south. No. Um it's just a it it honestly it's a tough one. But I will say this, I'm fortunate because I've been married for 33 years and my wife is always supportive of anything that has ever come up in bodybuilding and she trusts my judgment. Not everybody is like that. Not every relationship is like that and I understand that. Now, I don't know that tomorrow, well, maybe not tomorrow cuz we don't have kids in the house anymore, but we'd have gone back 10 years, as great as my marriage has always been, if for some reason we ran into divorce proceedings that she would not use that in I don't know that she would use it in court or not to get the kids. There's just so many things that you're handing over. But if you're going to be in a relationship long term or you're going to be invested and you're going to be together, there has to there has to be that support and and understanding because you know I've had clients I think we all do that they keep their gear at their friend's house and everything and I've always said this and I do believe this if you're in a serious relation especially if you're married and you're keeping something like that that is just it's just a lie. It's a trust issue and and I just I would never advocate to anyone to that that's a good idea to keep something like that from your spouse. So it it's a tough one and it's going to be different for everybody. I don't know that there's in fact I don't I think there's not a black and white answer as to when you can give up that information. I wouldn't be giving it up too soon. Yeah. I think we're in this culture where like people are like, "Well, you need to be open and honest and you know that's not right, Skip. You should be open and accepting and you know, but I I'm with you." I've always said that that you just want to be careful and guarded and be careful with who has that information. Nags though, I think had the best response in the the Facebook group. He said, "Just get big enough so it's not even a question. She just freaking knows." That's funny. Now, you could always feel them out. You could always see a See, let's say you're out at dinner or something. You just find a guy who's kind of big and you go, "Man, I wonder I wonder if that guy uses gear." Oh, oh, what's gear? Well, I just, you know, like steroids. I wonder if he and and then that kind of opens it up and maybe she'll be like, "Oh, yeah, that's losers. Losers use steroids. They're cheaters." And then you're like, "Oh, [\h__\h] I got to get a new woman. This isn't going to work out." Or, "Well, maybe it's not that big a deal. I don't know. He look He looks good. What What What's gear? I don't know much about it. tell me about it. Then uh you know then you kind of have an opening there to kind of just feel them out. I would probably go that route to get an idea how they feel about it first. Yeah. I don't know. I'm I'm trying to remember for me I I think if you present if you present yourself as an intelligent, wellought, you know, serious person and you say this is part of my lifestyle. This is what I do. you know, I'm not just an idiot throwing anything into my body. Like, I know what I'm doing. Um, I think they I think that goes a long way, you know, unless it's just someone that wants control over you, which run for the hills. Get out of that. Just run for the hills. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, because it's not like you're like, "So, I've got this heroin habit and I've got it under control, you know? I only go to I only do fentanyl a few times a week." You know what I'm saying? Like, we're not talking about things that like completely alter your behavior. Like no one is robbing a bank and throwing their life on the line to go get a bottle of testosterone. You know what I mean? In fairness, some people don't know that and maybe they horror stories too. Okay. So that's where I'm getting at is about you know changing the image. I don't think we need to change the image today. It's 2025. But in 2000 because I think we all remember back then that there this was a more of a of a topic I guess on our minds when we were meeting people meeting girls right was or maybe not you skip maybe fast forward or you know rewind 10 more years before that when you were meeting your wife it was well I'm being serious here that um you had to you're like no like I'm AI'm a competent well intelligent well thoughtout person and and and I need to change their persona of what a typical steroid user looks like. They're not some low-life criminal who goes around beating people up and beating women and having quote unquote roid rage and all that kind of stuff. Like no, like I go to work, I pay my taxes, I, you know, I do this, I do that. And if you're already that person and you've demonstrated that to them. Yeah. Versus if you're already flying off the handle and Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. That's what I'm saying. Because I know a buddy of mine who he he got married right after high school and he had to hide it and this guy would leave it in his sneakers all the way inside of his gym bag inside of his car every day and would have to like you know somehow smuggle he's always asking me for syringes and I'd have to give bring him a few syringes so he could go into the gym at the the private uh bathroom at the gym to go inject himself twice a week and it was like a big to-do and then oh here here's the syringes can you get rid of these for me it's like what sure you know what I mean like so so yeah I I I think picking the right person is probably um key here. One other thing is though, it's 2025. All girls are using steroids now. It's It's like Yeah. Everybody's They're all taking it. She's already using it. She's on VA right now. She's on Anavar. Exactly. So, she's like, "Yeah, I know [\h__\h] Like, you want to inject me later?" Yeah. It depends. Like if you get involved with somebody from the gym and their fitness, you they're in the community, you are in the community, then there's a good chance they already have it figured out. Uh, currently taking an average of just over six IU every day, growth hormone, and my IGF levels checked. Got them checked and I'm just at 80. I don't think it's fake because the place is really highly reviewed. Um, I'm wondering if it's just because my ulcer ulcerative al excuse me, ulcerative colitis. Uh, I just ordered a serum GH test to see what it is. Anyone experiences and have any input? So, yeah, he's on an 80 scale of 52 to 328. What do you say, Andrew? Because we we I think didn't didn't we talk about one of your clients who was super super high uh in an offseason. Yeah, but that was from the GH and he was like 827 to where I went and called Scott Stevenson and I was like, "Hey, you ever seen an IGF this high off like 10 units of growth and and then because we both were thinking the same thing of, well, does he have a tumor? Like, does he have, you know, does he have cancer?" So, obviously the move was to pull the pull the GH, you know, and then a month later go get his IGF tested and it tested right back at 271. So, we knew immediately it's the GH. He's a great responder in terms of IGF-1. Um, he was also wellfed. Um, but but when I'm thinking of this client, I thought that he was dieting later in the year and it was lower. I must have made that. No, you're right. You're right. You're sorry. When we tested it again, like five months later when he was in a prep, um, it was like more like a 400, which is still a nice number, but it wasn't 827 like it was. So, but but the dieting, because you brought up dieting, um, I would ask this guy, are you dieting really, you know, really strictly? Because that will have an effect on your IGF-1 release. Um and in terms of the uh UC you know um any like something like ulcerative colitis you can disrupt your um you can increase your pro-inflammatory cytoines um like interlucan I think it's six or seven if I'm not mistaken and that can suppress IGF production in the liver um so you know he could be taking the GH but the GH just isn't having a response in his liver. I doubt that he's like severely malnourished um aside from maybe you know calories and dieting. Uh, I would also maybe wonder does he have like has he gotten his labs done? Does he have liver disease because that can affect it. Um, and has he taken any other medications beyond anabolic peeds, you know, um, because those can have an effect as well. Trying to think if I'm forgetting anything. I think that's about it. You got anything, Skip? Yeah, it just begs the question whether systemic IGF There's a lot we don't know. So I think a lot of times we're making assumptions that oh you have to have high systemic levels of IGF and if you do then you're in this you know great situation for growth when in reality it comes down to those IGF levels in specific places skeletal muscle that sort and I say we just in general the just not just the industry but just the science I don't know that we know enough to be able to say that, oh, his IGF levels aren't high, so he's not benefiting from it. That's just that that's my take. I think there's more to it than that because I've had a couple friends who have had problems with that that they don't seem to respond from an IGF level, but they tend they respond if you took the the IGF level out of that, they're convinced that they're responding. And I'm convinced from what I see that they're responding and the symptoms that come along with using growth hormone, they're all there. Yeah, I I've been that way. Like I've never gotten crazy high readings, but even even at like, you know, six, seven units, but I I've definitely felt the growth. I've gotten everything I would have expected to from it. And this is, you know, various brands, but the my readings have never been like as impressive as I would have liked to see them. You know what I mean? Cuz you want to see that real high number when you're spending the money. Sure. Or when you're using Serim or Farm grade and then the argument in the industry is well it didn't change my IGF levels. I'm looking at it going okay and we're not smart enough to go maybe there's more to it than just this very blanket black and white. Oh, it has to do it only with the the blood levels of IGF. No, there there has to be so much more. And that's where I come back to the science and say yes we know a lot but we know this much. So you know you say that about anything leptin grlin all those things we're learning more and more but we don't understand the intricate and complex interaction of of those hormones let alone IGF or anything else. It's the tip of the iceberg right now. Hey Andrew pulled some pictures for a shout out here for Brandon Weise. These are some really nice shots man. Yeah they are. See? There we go. Yeah. Great condition, man. We have two Brandon Wise, by the way, that listen to the show. There's two of them. I thought so. I thought so. This is the Sorry, other Brandon. This is the jacked Brandon Wise. Sorry, other Brandon. Looks incredible, man. You said he's uh coached by Chris Tuttle, eh? Yeah, coached by Tuttle. He won um the Vancouver um uh NPC show from last weekend and obviously rightfully so. And actually the the picture's cut off, but um looks like the guy that he beat I think in his class was also a pretty good bodybuilder. He was definitely better, but like like he didn't have like an easy walkthrough. It looked like the guy that he beat um at least on one of the sides of him um was a very complete bodybuilder as well. So that's always nice when no one wants to win a show when there's like nobody in the show, you know, like that's that's just not fun. So, it looks like he had some some decent competition and uh yeah, excellent condition. But this is honestly this is part for the course for Chris. Like he he brings people in like this all the time. Yeah. And I mean in fairness it it has to be some type of consolation too for the guy who took second because he's really good and you go damn like I I thought I thought that show was mine. Like I couldn't have been any better. And then to go well at least I got like I got beat by someone who's legit. Like that is some conditioning. I'd rather lose or take a second to that than, you know, than any other way. For sure. I mean, I I won a lot of super heavyweight classes, but didn't win the overall to like a really good like heavyweight usually. You know, I can remember uh like 2017, 2018, I lost to other guys that were going to nationals and end up getting their pro card, you know, that year. And people like, "Oh, how did you had him? You're bigger than him." And it's like, look, guys, like I I can be very very realistic and very objective and be like, "No, he's just a little bit more complete. He's a little bit more rounder. I'm taller and lankier." like he we both had great condition and I think that's that's part of being a good bodybuilder I think is being able to say like yeah like I I loved my look but that guy looked better like I would have voted for him too you know and not very many people are that honest and really they're they're not and and it's too bad u because I think that that's a very very you know humility goes a long way uh you know in this that's why I get along with my clients that have that same attitude like yep I see it like I'm seeing the pictures you are you when it's always great when you have a client where you know after prejudging you could be completely honest with them and be like you're going to get second or you're going to get third and they're like I accept that you know it's like when you think that they're on that level mentally and you're like so I got you in third right now um you know we're just a little flat or the other guy's legs and is complete whatever it is you know and they're like what do you mean you don't have me in first it's like well nobody has you in first that's why you were in the third or second spot you know what I mean like this isn't like there wasn't a six person split middle call out. Like there's a dead first and then you're on the other side of them. So it's like I'm not different than the judges. I'm seeing what why they're going the way they are and I'm trying to explain that to you. So you know we know maybe we want to work on something before the finals. Maybe we look for a fuller look or maybe we got to try to get a little bit drier just so we know going into the next show what we got to do differently. But like you said, Skip, some people they just they can't they can't see that. No, I've had to say to clients before, no one in this venue wants you to win more than I do. I'm your trainer. My name is on you. You think your mom wants you to win? [\h__\h] I want you to win more than your mom wants you to win, but you're not going to. It ain't looking like it right now. Agreed. All right. Um, I liked this one. It said, uh, that dude in the middle ain't no French Polynesian. He's straight up Aboriginal tribe elder. I might know that guy. I might know that guy. Okay. comment. Yeah, that's funny. Uh, what about gut issues in gird with we talked a little bit about melanitin too. Gut issues gird stomach acid with uh melanitin too. Two questions. One guy said gird, another guy said he tended to get stomach acid. Is that common? And there was I thought another one. Oh yeah. Yeah. Somebody asked skip about your history with melanitin 2. In the past you talked about high hematocrit from it. So, I figured I'd just kind of lump all three of those things into this one little mini topic here. Yeah, the high hematocrit is related. I haven't had the issues. Um, but it is related to the older demographic. Uh, much like typically the younger demographic doesn't have as much of an increase in hematocrit from say running a cycle or or even running TRT. It just tends the older you get, the more prone I think you are to running uh you know more viscous blood uh thicker thicker blood more viscous blood higher numbers. Um it's the same thing from what I've seen. The the handful of people who have reached out to me have all been part of the older demographic that have had those higher numbers. It's not common, but it's not uncommon. It It's there. It can happen. As far as gird or um you know heartburn, I I've used Melanitan arguably more than I don't know maybe anybody. I'm not sure 2006 and I've been on it you know pretty much straight through uh have cancer screenings have you know the dermatologist I think and and we've I've had long conversations with them cancer specialists that specialize in skin cancer and everything else and they have agreed that the melanotan is kind of a not a prevent not a protectant like it's going to save you but it does have those preventative measures because damage tends to happen to fair skin people dur when they burn and you're not as likely to burn. So, it's not as much exposure to the sun that's damaging. It's the overexposure or the burn. As far as the heartburn, though, I've never had it. I've never once had it and I don't know or I I can't think off the top of my head of any clients or friends who have said that they've had those issues. Not saying that they couldn't. They never brought that to me. I got it and I forgot about it because uh like I probably had a lot of factors going on but I um in the past when I had used it and probably wrote it off as something else but I remember using Melitin getting stomach acid issues and you know just wrote you know never thought about that but then when I used it again this past year before the Olympia I was using the nasal and I'd do one pump or two pumps a day very very small dose but once again I started occasionally getting like stomach acid and be like oh this is not like me. I don't get this anymore. And then I realized, oh yeah, I started melanitin again and then I kind of synced it up where I wouldn't take it for a few days, no stomach issues. Take it for a few days and all of a sudden I'm getting that stomach acid again. So I I don't know what that could be related to. I'm thinking it maybe it's kind of that like when you're not used to it, you know how you can get there is that like nausea type feeling? There's I don't know what's causing that, but I think it's it's tied to that in some way. There's some sort of gut thing happening. You know, I have patiently waited to comment uh to make this comment. So, you are a one or two pump kind of guy. I just I'm not telling you. And I heard myself saying it and I do one pump or two pumps a day. One pump or two pumps a one pump. I heard myself. I waited. I I just patiently waited, which I don't normally do, and just waited to get that in there. The other thing is this specific to any symptoms with melanotan usage. If you could take a low very low dose daily any symptoms from flushing to feeling nauseous and all that is going to be minimized greatly with daily doses versus even something as simple as every other day. A lot of people will say and sometimes it even happens to me. I don't feel daily doses, but if I go a week where I don't take it on vacation and then I come back the first dose it kind of like oh yeah I feel a little off for a few minutes not really notice it not flushing not feeling nauseous but you know that warm feeling and just off for a few minutes and then it goes back to normal. So I I would say that if you're having issues with the gird or any type of heartburn, are you taking a low dose daily or are you taking it, you know, like every third day or three times a week? If you are, take it daily and even take a little bit of benadryil with it. Now, that may not um help with the gird. It may, it may not, but being an antihistamine, it can help the nauseous feeling and it can help that that flush face sort of feeling that most people get too. So, it'll help to minimize sides at least for the first week or so when you start taking it. That sounds good. All right. Uh, question for the next blood, sweat, and gear. Okay. After 15week push phase, I want to do a mini cut and also a cruise to regain health markers before starting another push phase. Is it a bad idea to combine a mini cut and a cruise straight after my push push phase like risk of losing new muscle? Um, how would you guys plan this example? 15 weeks push, then uh cruise plus mini cut, then push phase, or rather push, mini cut while still blasting, then go into the cruise phase for 8 weeks to regain markers. Certainly depends on the situation and the athlete, but I think we've um we've all kind of said in the past that we probably don't want to pull drugs and a lot of food at the same time. um especially, you know, you just hopefully built some new tissue, you want to cement it in, right? You don't want to pull a the anabolic stimulus and b, you know, the the building blocks for that stimulus, right, at the same time. So, my my move typically, and not all the time, but typically would be like, let's solidify and maintain current caloric intake. Um, and then maybe four weeks later, start looking at pulling some calories back. You know, the variable I usually pull when we pull gear back is um training volume or training either volume or frequency. You know, if you're a five guy day, we'll probably go down to four days for three or four weeks just so your body can adjust to that lack of firepower that you um you were experiencing previously when you're on cycle. And then um and then we'll start working on, you know, the next phase of are we cleaning up a little bit before we start the next blast. Perfect. You know, go like that. Yep. If it's diet changes, if if diet changes need to be made, I want to make them as subtle as possible. I don't want any aggressive moves. I don't want any big drops, that sort of thing. Um, and I agree with you as far as recovery. The first thing that's going to go anytime that you lower calories or you come off gear or transition off cycle is going to be recovery. That does not mean I think sometimes people get confused. They say, "Oh, you know, I probably shouldn't train as hard. You know, I got to back off a little bit. you can still train your ass off. You just need a little extra recovery time. So, adding a day of rest, uh, it it doesn't sound like much, but over four weeks, that'S4 days. If you can cut back even, you know, a little bit on volume as well, start to taper it down a little bit, cool. The thing is is we tend to when it comes to volume, well, when it comes to anything, volume, intensity, or whatever, we tend to want to maintain that as much as we can and ride out of the cycle because a lot of times when you come out of the cycle, you transition to a TRT phase. Even if you don't, you just come off, there's still two, three, four weeks that you're going to continue to gain and you're not going to feel much different in the gym. So, you want to ride it a little bit, but at the same time, you want to be proactive and know that the recovery is it's not going to be as optimal if you don't make any changes proactively coming out of the cycle. But, for the first couple weeks, I'm probably going to ride it as far as a training uh the the training meu or the the training uh variables and then I'm going to start to be proactive at that point. How often do you guys get when you when you pull someone off the gear? they've been on an 18 or 20 week cycle and you keep the diet the same and you maybe recommend, okay, let's pull it back. If you're going five days a week, let's pull it back to four or maybe one day less out of two weeks in terms of training, something like that. And they're like, dude, I'm gaining even faster now. And they're like, I'm getting stronger. And it's and I've said this before, but I think it's from the you're pulling some of the toxicity out of your body. And I I think that's a major factor, the stress, the inflammation. Um, I think those are all factors because sometimes people are like like because this hit a hit a, you know, nerve in my head when you said skip how people are still improving like three, four weeks later after they drop back to TRT. And I think that's one of the factors is just reducing some of that toxicity on your body for a while. I do that. We've talked about it before on the show. I feel great during TRT and I'm like, "Wow, how can my recovery be this good?" Now, I'm making subtle proactive changes in there. not riding everything the same with the same variables when I make that transition. But a lot of times that recovery I'm I'm actually amazed by how good the recovery is. And arguably it could be as simple as this. Towards the end of the cycle, you're banging so much more frequently and so much harder with the intensity. Even just psychologically, you may not even notice it, but you're right on that edge of overtraining. And then when you do come off that inflammation, like you said, drops. The system arguably becomes a little bit more efficient. I'm trying not to cough, but I couldn't hold it. Sorry. Um, so then it starts to increase from there. And then as you make those proactive changes, then it just it's and there's nothing there's not a much better feeling than when you go into a TRT phase and you just feel that recovery. You just feel great. It it makes the TRT phase that much more enjoyable and tolerable and productive. Yeah, agree with that. All right. Um, does taking gear before you meet or before you or getting close to your max genetic potential of muscle tissue decrease your enhanced genetic potential? Say that one more time. Separating them. Go ahead, repeat that. Yeah. Does taking gear before meeting or getting close to your max genetic potential of muscle tissue decrease your enhanced genetic potential? No. And not only know, but I don't that's why I don't like to separate. There's just genetic potential. I don't I understand what he's saying. You know, maximize your genetic potential naturally first, your natural potential and then you have a different level of enhanced. It's just genetic potential be because at the end of the day, you're crossing over. If you were never to cross over, then your your genetic potential would be natural anyway. I I don't I don't like to look at it that it's okay that he's doing that. I understand the question, but I don't look at it that I think a lot of people don't look at it that way. All right. Is Is he coming at it from an angle of should I ride out my natural gains as long as hard as I should before I I would even say no to that? And and I know I think you probably differ, Scott, because I know I think you take maybe a little bit more of a um I'll say safer approach than maybe myself and even even Skip would, but in the sense of like I view my job as to get you to a place that you're eventually going to go as fast as possible as you know, safe still, but like faster than it would than you would without me, right? So in my mind, we know peeds work and and as Skiff is pointing out, your genetic potential is your genetic potential. It's not like there's a caveat because you use gear, you don't use gear. Your genetic potential is your potential. If we can get you to that genetic potential, the peak of it faster. I like I would start gear if I was 14 if I could. I'm not advocating for that. I'm just advocate for that. I would prefer that you had a foundation first like and that foundation is like learning how to train. So yeah, we would differ in that way then. But let me but let me caveat that with, you know, being in the gym when I was 10 years old and being around bodybuilders and by 12 years old I had a split. You know what I mean? Like chess, you know, you I had a full split. So my point is knowing myself, knowing that I had built the foundations, you know, I was eating five meals a day at 12 years old and you know, was it as perfect as as as it is today? No. But it was there was a protein component, a good carb, a piece of fruit. You know what I'm saying? Like I was already in that mindset at such a young age. I know that's not kids today, but I'm just saying I don't know what I'm I guess I'm saying like I I maybe we differ a little bit on when you should start gear, I guess. And I would ask you this, Andrew. Do you feel like your gen your end result genetically differed because you started gear earlier? No, neither do I. That's where I and I think we agree on it. You're not going to get further in the in my opinion, you're not going to get further. Your endgame is not going to be more advanced if you wait. And I would even argue and say and and I'm I'm a perfect case of this. I've been training for 41 years. I would have liked to have gotten to my max potential a lot earlier because training years are like dog years. So you you get to the point where you're training so much and you have so many years behind you that now you're dealing with injuries, you're dealing with joint issues, you're dealing with all these things where yeah, let's get to the I don't want to say get there as as fast as possible, but as optimal as possible and let's not waste a lot of time. At the same time, I am not advocating for someone to start training and get on gear. But I don't think it's going to change the end result. You're not going to go further. Yeah. And that's where that's why I look at that that genetic potential as a as a marker. No matter whether it's natural or it's enhanced, if you're going to cross that road, it's the same it's the same end result. Who's got the best genetics in our sport right now for bodybuilding, open bodybuilding? I'd say Keon just because I'm a big fan of that that look. But whether it's Keon or Samson or Derek or whoever, one of those top three four guys in the world, right? Do we think if they would have waited three more years to start gear, right, that their potential would have been better than it is today, it wouldn't matter. It wouldn't have mattered. You know what I mean? Yeah. I would say I would want somebody to be an adult, but that's a different topic. Uh, you know what I mean? Than than their genetic potential for sure. And I would say I'd want people to have two years. I'd say give yourself two years of consistent training because and that I guess also isn't about the genetic potential. So, it's like the are you actually going to do this and stay with it kind of thing. You know what I mean? Yeah, that that's a good point. It's a different topic to the lifestyle. Are you committed to the lifestyle? Yeah, I got it's not the actual potential has has nothing to do with the potential, I guess. You know, or just Sam Tulick and he gets his pro card at 21 and he decides at 24 that he's going to go and he's going to be a musician. I mean, you know, he's going to go back to diving. I don't know. You never know. You know, you know what I mean? It's like, damn. Yeah. Did you guys see that guy? Uh I don't remember. I don't even know his name. He was taking ch shot shots at Sam Sulick. Tim, I don't know. I didn't know Tim before Tim started taking shots at at Sam. Who are you? You're the guy. You're the extra guy that interviews people at the Olympia every other year. Like, who are you? You know what I mean? Like, it it was like it was obviously a an attempt to grab some type of publicity clout, I guess, like come follow me, which backfired big time, by the way. Yeah, it was pretty pathetic. Yeah. And as well as when Bob did it for him. You know what I mean? Yeah. Bob Bob at least got a pro card and competed as an IFBB pro and has still a bit he's still a big still. I'm going to go ahead and say that Bob is trying to, you know, claim iPod to somebody else's. Yeah. My point is that Bob's already a household name in our industry, right? Yeah. Oh, for sure. I thought it was classless what he did. Like why why are you saying that about Nick? you know, but regardless of that, at least Bob's I guess I would say Bob's more entitled to his opinion because he is a staple in the sport on some way, shape, or form. I don't think it's smart to be trashing Nick or the Arnold Classic or any of those things that he's doing, but he's entitled to his opinion. This guy Tim, like who are you? Like, you know, yeah, I'm surprised Mutant wants anything to do with Bob if he's behaving that way personally. I'm a little surprised. I'm not part of Mutant officially, so I can kind of say what I feel like. You know what I mean? But that's uh it's kind of it's kind of odd to me. I would personally I wouldn't want to put my brand behind that. I don't know. No. Yeah. Well, we just got inv uninvited to the mutant booth at the L for that one. Scott, appreciate you. Right. Um All right. So, we did have some other stuff. We do have the uh crazy crazy intense insane insane set of the week. We should probably get to that pretty soon. But we did have somebody ask about uh he said he gets he's getting irritable on proviron 25 milligrams a day. What substances do you find to be like least mood affecting in a negative way? I didn't think proviron was mood affecting personally. You know what I mean? So that I would like if you were to ask me like hey would provide be safe because I'm worried about my mood getting ir like irritable I I'd be like oh you'll be fine on proviron you know what I mean here's what I see is that the majority of time I think people are taking proviron usually at the end of a prep when they're also at their lowest calories trying to get the last bit of fat off and people are always excuse me blame AAS for their lack of mood their fatigue all those things and it's like no dude you're dieting on, you know, a thousand less calories than your body really wants every day. That is why you're a grouch. That's why you're having these mood issues. This is why you're having sleep issues. It's not Yeah, the PEDs play a very small role in some of those things. But, and me and Skip joke around about this all the time, peeds make us feel like the the happiest, most normal level of adults we could be. Like, I'm in a better mood when I'm running something decent. I know Skip, we've talked about this and and a lot better than than than cruising when I was on, you know, 40 milligrams of test every three days, which was, you know, close to almost. Wait, I got to make a note. We can't say that word in any context. Close to close to unliving. I joke, but I was close to unliving myself. Okay, I hate this world we got to dance around in. You can't use professional words. But anyway, I digress. My point being is that look at the look at everything you're doing. I don't think proviron is the cause of the negativity that you're experiencing. I could be wrong. Correlated correlated, not positive. I I completely agree with you and and I think that that gets into a lot of things from trend to there's just a there's a lot going on there because people run trend in the offseason. They don't seem to have as anywhere near the sleep issues and stuff. So, it's a it's kind of a perfect storm when you combine. Look, I'm going to I'm going to go to this. So, I'm going to say that the vast majority of issues with any compound when they affect your behavior or your mood or you think that they are, it's it's almost certainly the dieting. And then the the compound may exacerbate that a bit, but the real cause there is you're hangry. Dieting and feeling run down uh will change your mood uh or alter your mood far more than specific compounds. Even though there are there are some issues that people have, you know, whether it's, you know, they get I mean, you come off, you get depressive, there's no question there with low testosterone levels, but jealousy with, you know, certain compounds and stuff. I've said before, I have a hard time buying into the the compound being the main reason or the main driver as far as how someone acts. Unless you're just an [\h__\h] because I will say that hormones make they clearly make people more aggressive. There's no question. I mean, you they've done studies on uh what the uh more violent crime, assaultive behaviors, and people tend to have higher testosterone levels. There are studies there to back that up. Effect the majority of people in prison are male. Yep. That's all that's all you need. Like that's you know what I mean? So Yep. Yep. Guys, let's talk about intraworkout carbs and saving money. So, like the past 10-15 years, intra workouts become super popular. It's a great way to support pre-workout insulin use. It's great for recovery and it's great for endurance in those long workouts. Here's the thing, it's really expensive. It's not only expensive for us, it's expensive for supplement companies. They really don't make a lot of money off of it. That's where True Nutrition comes in. So, True Nutrition, they're not only a retailer, they're also a manufacturer. they're actually making a lot of the products that you guys are already buying from other companies. So, just think about it. You're going to cut out the middleman. The only thing you're going to miss out on is the fancy labels and and the branding. Outside of that, you're getting the exact same highquality products, but you're getting it directly from the source. If you're going to pay for the price of highly branch dextrin, ensure that you're getting 25 g per scoop, not of a mix of carbs, but just of highly branched dextrin. We can mix the other stuff in later, you know. Use our code think, get some savings. Plus, it's like voting for us. It lets them know that you support what we're doing. All right, let's get to our hardcore set of the week. Insane set of the week. Crazy set of the week. We have people who are hashtagging it a bunch of different stuff, too. So, anyway, let's see. Let's see what we've got here and see what everybody sent us. And I'm gonna head over to this. There we go. Boom. There we are. I'm gonna try to make this work this time. Let's see if I can blow this up a little bit. There we go. You guys like this leg press? I think it's good for some stuff. Yeah. Good sometimes. Depends how my back's feeling, man. Yeah. If I have to leg press, I would rather leg press with that. Yeah. Than I would with a regular Yeah. Because of the pivot in the platform. Yep. Now, I wish that the platform was lower. I would want my heels at the further down on the bottom, but that's only because of the pivot. That's personal preference. Oh, wow. All right. Come on. Come. Nice. Okay. That's a good set. That's a good set. I'll take it. And this was uh Bradley. Okay. Good job, Bradley on the leg press. The leg press. There's us. I'm going to keep rolling here. Yeah. Right. All right. Oh, this dude made some incredible progress there from that before and after to now. That is good work. Oh, yeah. Good job, James. Very nice. Let's see here. Okay, here's another one for us. Who is this? He's got the Iron He got the Iron Rebel Mountain Dog shirt on. You know, it's going to be good. All right. All right. Is this Chris Anderson? Come on, Chris. Is it Chris is on the hack squat? We should let the audio people know what's going on here. What's Chris's last name? Chris Anderson. Anderson. Okay. One, two, three. Can you guys see how many plates that is? One, two, three, four, five, six. From here though, I it might be six and a quarter and a dime. And he's I haven't Have you guys been counting reps? Because I wasn't counting. I'm just waiting for it to get hard here. It's getting hard now. Yeah. I just want to see the effort. He's below or he's above the the minimum requirement. He's doing constant reps. Okay. And he's done here. Get constant reps and then he got a couple more once he once he uh constant reps anymore. This a solid set. It's a very good set. Looks like a cool gym, too, doesn't it? Is this an extension of the set or did it does this No, it started over. It started over. Five plates, 25s, and 10. That's what it was for. You guys know how like there's like different uh bodybuilders that can like look in a set like this, you know, when things start to look hard, they can get like, you know, eek out like three or four more. They're just a little slower. And then there's other bodybuilders that like it might look like smooth butter and then they get to like that one rep and it's like their body just can't do it anymore. Yeah. I used to be the former, now I'm the latter. Where Same here. Yeah. Yeah. Like you just get And maybe it's because as an older trainer now, we all focus on the form so much more that like we're just channeling that energy to perfect reps every time. Agree. There's no there's no wasted reps. There's no um bouncy reps. There's no um body English reps. And so like when you're done, like it's just done. Like there's no eking out another rep. Yeah. There's not there's not another grinder in there. Yeah. Yeah, we've got Jennifer back. Same machine. Yep. Still want to see her slow down on that on that negative. Hold on. I gotta I gotta do something here. The sound is uh going to get us demonetized. Let's see here. I didn't hear any sound. Me neither. You can't hear it. All right. Nope. Uhuh. Nope. Good. We'll keep it that way then. Yeah. I can't hear a thing. All right. I actually wanted to hear the sound so I could like hear the grunts and be like give it a, you know. Yeah. scale on how hard the reps are getting. Nice. She did slow it down a little bit here now. You know, she was dropping them down real fast last time. I do feel like there is more control here than last time. She didn't. No. No. Okay. No. Point A, point B. Like she came from a small girl background. That's where she came from. That's a lot of reps for a fight and a quarter. How many I worked with her when she first started. She did not look anything like this. Yep. Yeah, she's still going. Oh man. Come on. This is where we guess how many are left. I The rate she's got four or five. Yeah, I think she's got a lot left in her here. Someone writes, "You got an easy 10 left on the bottom there." That was That's Peter. That Peter right now. Yeah, that's Peter talking. That's uh like the closed captions. Yeah, it's starting to get a little tougher, right? Yeah, there there's more there. Yeah, she's just going Oh, Jesus. Like, she looked like she was going to fail there, so she had to take a little break, but then she gets another one, right? And then another one. Oh, this is this it? Yeah, that's it. That was a good set. That was a hell of a set there. That was good. Very nice. That was good. That was up there. That was closing in on 20 reps, right? Jennifer Marie again. Yeah. All right. So, here is Dr. Marv. And Dr. Marv has a uh what do what do we call this type of uh of a um cable row? A Dante row. Dante row. Yeah. Yeah. I I would literally blow my back within the second rep. I can never lean that far forward. Yeah, I I have a very very limited in my older age. Uh SI. Look at him shaking on this. No way. Yeah. Well, that's I mean he's holding that for a full like three count. Yeah. Yeah. Looks like a cool gym, too. Yeah. Boom. At NASA, I know. I kind of wondered the same thing. It says snap. Yeah, I think it does. Yeah. Okay. But how they get away with that? Yeah. Well done. Maybe we should blur that out so that it doesn't hit the log. You know, NASA's corporate lawyers aren't looking around. I like the setup he has here. And you can see he has his feet on those blocks to give him a little bit more of a stretch. Yep. It's good. Skips imagining his vertebrae separating as we speak. Yeah. So, you can see he looks like he's strapped up here, too, so he doesn't have to overgrip quite as much. Oh, you you you cut you cut Jennifer off. She said she wasn't done. She did two more after that. It stopped. She wrecked it. She she unracked it and get two more. I I wondered if she if she may have unrackcked it again. Did you unrackck it? Tell us, Jennifer. Did you unrackck it and get a couple more? Oh my god. Is it She did. She did two more. She said I did two more after that. So, she must have unrackcked it when she was done there. Yeah. This is a good set here. Yeah. Like it doesn't look as sexy as like a leg, you know, a hack squat or but like the control to be able to keep pulling your arms into your stomach like that. Yeah. What 13 15 reps in like or like the squat from last week. That was real tough. Yep. Yeah. That's a fight right here, man. Reeling in a Marlin or something. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That was good. That was good. Yep. All right. Not bad for a young guy. Yeah. Yeah, she said uh I wasn't done. Peter told me to keep going. All right, so she had a couple more in there after that. What do we have here? So, this is Jeremy Holt. It's one of my clients. He has made ridiculous progress this offseason. So, he's on uh excuse me, uh Smith machine chest press incline. And these first four reps look like butter with what he got. This is a heavy bar too, I think. No, I think it's 315 is what he told me. Is it? Okay. Yeah, cuz like that's a heavier bar. Okay. We've got a heavier bar in one of our Smith. Someone took a regular bar and Oh, is it? He says 275 back offset to failure. Oh, okay. After top set was 315 for nine. Gotcha. That's right. That's right. It's good. It's a good set. Yeah, it's a good set. He He's gonna make some waves next year. You guys wait and see. Jacob Little. He's looking good. Yeah. Look at the waste on this guy, huh? Or the lack thereof. It's great waste. All right. Is that all we had? No, we got more. We've got more. This is on a uh who? How do you say this name, Skip? L A C H L A N. Lacklin. Latchel. L A C H. Len. Yeah. Lacklin. Yeah. Lacklin. He's on a machine chest press that's just loaded to the gills. And so far he's had about 12 reps. Yeah, he's just banging them. Yeah, I didn't think he was going to get this many. Dang, that's wild. Yeah, I got to watch this set again after he finishes here. I can tell he's almost done. All right, I got to see this one again. Yeah, he's making it look easy. Wow. 13 16 just fighting for that. That was good. You guys are lucky you couldn't hear the music on that. It was insane. What was it? I don't even know. No, I don't even know. It was some sort of some sort of techno. There's Brandon Weise at his show. See, we got a couple more here. Sam Graves. So, I don't double entry. Yeah. Who's got here? Hamstring curl to start. What if I go like this? Is that There we go. Like he's got the stack going there. Yeah. Oh, it is. Yeah. What hamstring is that? That light fitness. Yeah. Very nice. Was a good set. You got a deadlift, too? Looks like it. Now, is he going straight into the deadlift? Oh, no. No, he's not done. Wait, is he done? Oh, yeah. Oh, he's on a rest. Pause. He's on a rest. I think you're right. I think you're right. Cuz this video is only a third of the way over. How long is this rest? I don't have enough time to get up and write it down. You know what I mean? It's only 20 seconds. Yep. He's getting back in. Boom. Back at it. First reps look strong. Nice control in the negative. Yeah. Especially considering he only got two and a half reps. Like Yep. And if he's anything like me, my hamstrings take forever between sets to recover doing a leg curl. It doesn't matter if it's seated, doesn't matter if it's lying. It just I need I need two or three minutes. Otherwise, I go back in and I'm I'll those reps will get cut in half. Yeah. I mean, think about going again. Yeah. Pause. Think about doing bicep curls. Yeah. Could you do like 15 reps and then take 10 deep breaths and then do even half the reps you got in the first set with with same form? You know what I'm saying? Like so I think of the hamstring is just the leg bicep. You know, one and a half. Got one. He's getting the full rep. Good man. Good man. Two full reps at the end there. Very nice. All right. Now we're going over to dead. Hold on a minute. How many reps or how many plates is that? One, two, three, four, five plates. And a little change. More than I can do. He's got his mutant Arnold shirt on. Nice. Nice. Beautiful set. Intensity in that. That's an exercise I'll never do again. Yeah. Uh oh, we got uh IPB Pro pages with us here. Yep. What do we got here? Single leg leg press. Another another uh female entry. Both training legs. Is that a split platform? Yes. Yeah, it is. Yeah, I like it. Didn't throw or crap. We got a great one, but it was a great finisher for legs day. I love single leg leg presses. They're my favorite way to do them now. It's a cool machine. Back in the day. Yeah. Back in the day, I used to be like, "Wow, single leg exercises, those are pussy." But like, you know, that's just the young, you know, need to see plates on the bar kind of, you know, attitude, which now I'm like, I feel it so much better. I get such a deeper stretch. You know, my knees coming down all the way to my chest. Back doesn't hurt. Mhm. She's probably making her pro debut maybe this year or next. I don't know. Uh yeah, I think it's this year. I forget. She told me where she was going to be when she was at. I met her at the or saw her at the Arnold. Yep. Where do you know where she's from? Um up by like uh Minnesota area. No chance. It's Milwaukee area. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. She's from I know she's from around there. Yeah. Yeah. I think Okay. Yeah. I think she was at the show when you were up there, Skip. She didn't know you were there. That's Yeah. Okay, that's what I was thinking, but I wasn't sure. Mhm. All right, she's on the other leg now, guys. For our audio listeners, I know this is probably somewhat boring for our audio people, but we appreciate you hanging with us. And don't worry, Skip's going to say something really offensive later, so you're not going to want to miss that. I We don't know what it is yet, but he does every episode. So, that'd be pretty good. I think it looks I wonder if that's social candy. The um the gym gym. Yeah, I got uh you have to be It looks cool. What do I want to say? You have to be accepted as a member. It's kind of an exclusive, but they have a lot of old school. It's good. Yeah, exactly. I'm not sure, but it's um it's and they want to know your social media content and your social media stuff and everything else really. That's a little annoying, honestly. That's a little weird. Yeah. I didn't Yeah. And it's just so private. It's like And it's 24/7. That's why I reach out from my um like I wonder what they're looking for. My son-in-law married to my daughter. Yeah. She pushed that right to failure, too. Those I'm not sure. It's a good set. Yeah. Both sides. Yeah. Wonder what they're looking for out of it, you know, out of your uh out of your social media content. Yeah. I don't know. Not sure. But I know I got a 247 place to train now without having to And I like that because I don't like racing. We got Josh here. But I do love Animal Health. All right. That's a high incline. Are you moving up there, Skip? It's um It's possible. It's possible. Well, my wife has backed off on it um because of her career here and she knows that once we go up there, the advancements and everything else and the money is not going to be anywhere near the same. So, yeah, thankfully she's backed off. It ultimately comes down. We're going to drop set this guys. So, three plates for 10 12 reps and now we're down to two plates. Slower or negative. Well, no, not in slower now. He's just ripping them now. He's just getting every He's getting everything out. He kind of Yep. I love sets like this. Yeah, is on a mission. I think, you know, he's seen what he can do and um and you know, he he sees he's tasting, oh man, I could turn pro and and I think he's all in. Um yeah, and he's definitely thickened up. Nice. He's really I got to give him credit. He's learned how to hit his conditioning down to one plate now. And he's really controlling those negatives. Just pushing it up for one more each time. Nice. Come on. Come on. Still going. Still going. Oh, that was good. That was a good set, Josh. Oh, he's starting over again. He's going back to three plates just like that. No, I think No, that was the video. I'm messing with you. Okay. Okay. Is that it? Is that everything we got here? I think so. Think that might have been No. Wait, wait, wait. Ah, yes, we have more. And there's more. Justin Montgomery on the hack. A lot of good leg training today. This is funny cuz kids start screwing around in the background. They're rrestling. Oh, yeah. You saw this one? Yeah. Yeah. Oh, yeah. He's He's off to kill this. He got three reps, took a little pause, dropped it down hard for his fourth rep. Now pausing between reps. Oh, yeah. This is heavy for him. He's going hard. Knees are all wrapped up. You know, he slept well after this and he didn't walk good for like three days. I propose uh maybe each week or every maybe each month we have a theme like, you know, leg leg exercise 20 plus reps or something like that. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I like that idea. You know what I'm saying? Um Oh, yeah. I see the see him back there screwing around. Yeah, some Brazilian jiu-jitsu happening back there. Come on. Come on. Come on. That was a good set. Yeah, that's a nice set. That looks like the my hack squad actually. It look that might be my bodymaster hack. Actually, maybe a slightly newer version. I'm not a fan of that higher platform at all. I don't like it either, but um I think it is a body master. You can tell from the uh the the rack handles. The angle on it is so perfect. The angle on it is so beautiful. I I have I only have found a few hack squats that feel as good as this one does. All right, you guys got to try the Watson one that's like literally like if this is 90 degrees, it's like it's like you can set it up so it's like that. Oh, yeah. Yeah, you can adjust the the plate. Yeah. Yeah. It's hydra It's hydraulic. Uh wait, wait, wait. We got Josh Brown back again. Is this the same? Is this the same that? No, I liked this before. When did he put this one out? March 30th. So, no. This is new. You can't win again though, Josh. That's the only thing. Can't win for the same exercise again. One, two, three, four, five, six. Is that six plates and a bunch of change? 600 for seven. Geez. I watched some of his stuff on Instagram, too. These dude's crazy strong. Yeah. Yeah, he's certainly built. He's got a dump truck back there. Yeah. Y nice. Not afraid either. You know what I mean? Like not afraid to get that one more. Yeah. All right. Think that might be it, guys. I think that might be it. I think it is. Yeah, because then Oh, wait. Jennifer from Jennifer's got another entry. Oh, my back just I blew a vertebrae out watching her on this one with the dead. That's rough. She She really really had one. I don't love her form on some like she's clearly strong like she doesn't she doesn't hurt herself either, Andrew. Like she's she can do this. That's the thing, you know. Yeah. But I think she's going to get more growth out of cleaning it up just a little bit. And yeah, it's very scary though. Like that clearly strong, clearly fearless. Yeah, that's totally fearless, you know. I mean, I was too Her whole body shaking. Yeah, her whole body's shaking as she's bringing that first rep up. Yeah, if she does, she should compete in powerlifting if uh she doesn't. I mean, some of these one rep maxes she can probably do. Yeah. When she started working with Dusty, she really started honing in on getting freaking strong as hell. She always had it in her, but now she's really pushing it. Nice. All right. And as far as intensity Oh, there there's us. Yeah. Yeah. Right there. We just look like we we can lift some stuff now. Yeah. So, what do you guys say here? We had a we had a bunch of good ones. I'm going to bring it back to us here. Um I mean, I know what I'm going to go with. I'm gonna go with Jennifer. Honestly, I'm going to go with Jennifer on on the uh the pendulum. I I I She got so She got way more reps than any of us thought she was going to get. She just kept going and going and going. I I'm going to go with Jennifer on this one personally. That's my vote, but I'm just one of the three of us. So, you guys tell me. What do you got, Skip? I'm going to be honest with you. I'm I'm very impressed with Look, I'm a two You guys are going to laugh, but I'm a two plate pendulum guy. I get over that. And it'sing heavy. She's taken a plate and a half for damn near 20 reps. and then didn't even rack it but for like two seconds and went back into it again. Yeah. Like that's that's pretty impressive. However, and and that's right up there. I I think I'm more impressed with the the kids hack squad. And I say kid because I'm old. um with the kid uh kids rrestling in the background because that was closer to the limit like as far as he could take that set. It wasn't a ton of reps like like 20 reps or anything. Okay. But he is the one that stands out to me or even even and Andrew's going to be like I didn't like the form. I totally get it. But she that that girl at the end she wasn't going to get another rep either. That was that was that was Jennifer again. That was M same girl. Yeah, those are Yeah, same girl. Oh, okay. Well, then in that case then I'm going to take her with the dead over the pendum only because to me it was max effort. I don't like the round. I think there's a little bit of roundness in that lower back that could eventually end up being a vulnerability. Yeah, but the effort there, there was nothing left. And from an standpoint, I'd rather see that. She got 32 reps for her 32nd birthday on that on that pendulum. RIP. Yeah. In in that set right there, she got 32 sets. 32 reps. Oh, that's Oh, that's a lot of reps, man. Yeah, that's You know what? Either way, she's in both movements. So, yeah. What about you? What about you for um And I'm not saying the others weren't great. I I Well, I'll tell you. No, me either. That's why I'm Before you go, Andrew, I gotta say, so the guy the kid with the hack, I'll be honest, man. So, he did a couple reps and then he stopped and then and I I think I would like to see him come back and do that again with like honestly like half the weight. Honestly, I would like to see him and and control the reps, you know, like basically not get keep the reps constant because he got like two reps and then he just like he couldn't do anymore and then he did a series of singles, you know, is the way I saw it and I've done that and I get the intensity of that. But being able to control constant, keep pushing constant reps, I think is to me more intense ultimately personally. So that's why I said maybe we should start doing caveats of okay, this is a leg movement for 20 reps continuous without like a five second. You know what I'm saying? I read what you were why you were saying that. We're on the same Yeah, we're on the same wavelength there. Um, okay. I like Go ahead. I was gonna say the guy with the the uh the drop set too on the ch the shoulder press that high. I was going to go with Josh. I was gonna go with Josh on that like because that hits home with me. I remember doing that [\h__\h] and it's like uh and I know what kind of vibe he's in right now like like yeah, he he's ready to go to the next level. He's getting there. He he's he's you know, as we say, burning the ships, you know what I mean? And you guys know that reference. No, but I liked it instantly. I was like, "Yeah." Pelpeneisian war. Pelpeneisian war. Uh I can't remember the uh the um uh the warrior commander, but said, "No, no, no." Like, "We're going and we're invading uh this uh was it Carthage or one of the other countries and we're burning the ships when we get there because there is no going home. We're going to conquer." Oh, burning your own ships. It's burning your own ships. It's do or die. Like there's no way for us to get home. We're conquering these people, then we're going to take their ships to go home. That's that's I was gonna say you could always take their ships. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. So, so I like Josh said, but but I'm not like opposed to any of them. But yeah, that's kind of how I feel, too, though. Yeah. Yeah. I just like this the fact that we're seeing a lot of good um training and and and good intensity being, you know, posted on the on the page. I think we need more of that. So, y So, yeah. If we don't give it to Jennifer, she's just going to come back and do 33 reps next time. You guys realize that? So maybe we shouldn't. Maybe we shouldn't. Yeah. Just just to challenge her. Exactly. Here, Jennifer, you won my vote. Slow it down the negative just a little bit. And and that would be 1,000% the winning set in my book today. So, all right. Just a little bit more control in the negative. No dropping um on both exercises just because I don't want to see anyone get hurt while we're doing the stuff. Yeah. Yeah. So, does that what does that mean? What does this mean for our our She wins. She wins. Okay. She wins. She wins. Okay. That doesn't mean that you can't come back still and although you can't win again on the same exercise. I don't know. We'll have to come up with rules. But I think you're right, Andrew. What should we How should we put this forward for the future? Let's say um well, we come up by committee. So, you know, let's just We've seen a lot of good leg stuff lately. Let's say a back exercise. Okay. Um of minimum, let's say 15 reps. Marvs was great, too. We didn't mention, you know, I was just thinking the same thing. Yeah, his was really killer. And I feel like an idiot because I'm going on about control during sets. Marv had the best control. He really did. Isolating that muscle, putting it right where he wants it. No jerking, no no body English. So, and his whole body was like shaking by the end of that set. And the guy on the machine chest press, oh my god, that was great, too. Got like 20 reps with without stopping, you know, constant reps. These are I can't count. I can't I can't vote, guys. I can't vote. You all win. Yeah. Yeah. But how about this? What if you started a poll? Okay. Or listen to start, you know, put it in the That's kind of bad. What if I What if So everybody on YouTube is going to see this. How about we let them vote? You know what I mean? You guys freaking comment and let us know who wins. We can That can I think we can. I think we can. We'll figure that out. If not though, just comment because the comments also help to boost us up. But you guys comment with who you want to win. And yes, you can get your friends to come on our page and comment too, which means we'll get even more comments. I like See, we're going with this guy, guys. You got to be a subscriber to vote, though. Got to be a subscriber to vote. There you go. I like that. I like that. All right. And uh we appreciate everybody tuning in. Leave us questions while you're at it. While you're commenting, comment with questions as well. Make that a separate comment. More comments the better. and go to bodybry.com to reach out to Andrew and hit up teamskip.com to reach out to Skip. Um, word of the day. Had you thought anything or yet or no? Uh, yeah, I had it. I did have it. Um, and I've used it before. Um, but it just happened. It was one of the first ones I pulled up because I was admittedly not prepared. I was stuck in traffic getting there. So, I apologize. But, uh, missenthrop. It's uh, or being misanthropic. And essentially, it's just a person who dislikes mankind. You just literally can't stand people and you're to the point where you just want to avoid people cuz you cannot stand them. All right. Pleasant. Very pleasant. Missing throat. And you can reach out to me mcnal@gmail.com. Go to truenutrition.com. Use our code thinkover supplements.ca for Canadians. And of course, thank you to everybody from Patreon. Guys, I need to create a new thread over at Patreon. I've answered just about everything over there. But definitely keep loading us up with questions on the current thread. And for another episode of Blood, Sweat, and Gear, guys, we will see you soon. Thank you for tuning in. Had a great yawn while we were signing off. I got I got to I'm crashing