 Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian Brian muscle, you got a winner. And then you got to be able to progressively overload that. What's up, guys? Welcome back to Muscle Minds with Scott Stevenson. I'm Scott McNally, and all of our programming is brought to you by you, the people of Patreon. Thank you guys very much for your support. We are brought to you by Scott's book, Be Your Own Bodybuilding Coach. Check out byobbcoach.com to get the ebook, or you can get the hardcover at Amazon, or we'll have links below for that. We're also brought to you by truenutrition.com. Use our code THINKOVERTHERE to get 10% off all your basic bodybuilding supplements, protein powder, creatine, intra-workout, all that stuff. And of course, supplementsource.ca for Canadians. They have great deals that change week to week on short, dated, and label change products. Scott, we've got some training talk. We've got some more training talk. And we've got a question for somebody who might be having some sort of issue at the end. We're going to make sure we get to that one. That was a Patreon question. I wanted to throw this out there too, guys. If you have questions that you want to ask, feel free to comment on the show, plus comments, likes, all that stuff. It helps to boost our programming. And if you are not subscribed, we'd love to have you along. Like, share, subscribe, comment, ring the bell, all that stuff. So Scott, this first question was, and this was on our last episode, for a given exercise, what are your thoughts and opinions on pyramiding the weight up versus doing straight same weight working sets? Thanks for all you do. Podcast helps me to stay locked in and enthusiastic about bodybuilding. So yeah, it's, um, the first of all, there's nothing wrong with doing, doing both and going back and forth to add some variety to your training. Um, it's been, it's kind of funny because people talk about doing a heavy set in the back offset. And that's, and you mentioned before, when we were chatting, this is what Jordan Peters really is one of the people who mainly brought that in, um, DC training, the way it was originally written, for instance, for quads, for instance, you're going to do squats, you would do two sets. Um, and then, and then a, um, a widow maker. And then some people who can really go for it would only need the one heavy set in the widow maker. And a lot of people just started doing one heavy set in a widow maker, but the choice was yours to go heavy first and then light. And then pyramiding up has in a different, different effect. So to take a step back, if progressive overload and getting just ridiculously strong is the thing that you think your ticket is to getting massive, or that's where you really know that you need to work on, um, in order to become bigger is that relatively you're not that strong. Let's say you're someone who's, you know, wants to be really big. You're a few years in and you just realized that all the guys who are bigger than you and speaking very gently here are much stronger than you. Then it would make just in a very gentle way, it makes sense to say, I need to just get stronger and you're going to get, you're going to be able to get stronger and get those neurological adaptations by working your way up, warming up to a heavy set, which would be a heavier weight because you've literally done your warmups to make your, to make sure you're as strong as possible. And then having a backup back offset. Yeah. So if strength and progressive overload with massive weights is, is your primary focus, then the heavy set back offset makes, makes total sense. Um, there's also the possibility, there's a couple of things that can happen when you do that too, um, that are to your advantage. One, there's, um, something called post activation potentiation. It probably only lasts for 10, 20, 30 seconds. So probably doesn't play a role. Um, people, you, you can look that up and people would do like heavy triples and then they would go to it. They drop back down to like a lighter set. That's potentially like phosphorylation of myosin light chain, all this kind of, this crazy stuff that potentially would mean that for a given amount of calcium released or a given activation of a motor unit and muscle cells, you get more force. So you, you, you get a post activation potentiation. So you activate the muscle once, don't create a bunch of fatigue. And then afterwards you would potentiate the, um, the force that could reduce thereafter. If you're doing a set, you know, eight reps, six to eight reps, you're probably inducing too much fatigue and you're going to have to rest too long to get anything from that. But I figured I'd throw that out cause it's kind of a cool little thing. I wrote a paper, a paper, uh, um, an article on it, I think for elite FTS. Okay. Um, but the thing that I am certain does happen and power lifters use this shit all the time, um, is there's a nervous system effect that comes into play? So let's say you're going to do three 15 and two 75. Um, uh, if you did that set of three 15 first, let's say you don't take it to just for the sake of explaining this, this potential, this potential phenomenon. Yeah. You just pick up that heavier weight and then you go down to the two 75. It doesn't feel as heavy. Right. Nervous system just is, has been aroused. It's ready for that. So power lifters would do, they do shit like, you know, just they're going to squat 600 pounds. They would go and put seven 50 on the bar and just on rack that shit and hold it and just hold it. Yeah. Yeah. And just, you're like, Oh fuck, that's heavy. It's fine. They put it back. And then when they go down to the six 50 or the six, it's like, this is a piece of cake. So doing a heavy set first and doing the back offset seems to make that back offset feel lighter. There's, there's probably, um, something going on with the nervous system. Even it's interesting. Even if you've been doing an exercise for decades, there's, there's still an acute neurological warmup fact, I think that that comes into play. Yeah. Um, yeah. Where you just get some good reps, practice, visualize, and be ready for the set. And you think, well, this is a skill that you've learned. It's like, well, you know, maybe it's the same with shooting. You know, you, you tell me like you've been shooting for years, right? It takes a couple of rounds to try to get into, to get into your groove. Even if you go shoot five times a week. Yeah. Unless you're just, um, uh, what was his, Will Smith played, uh, um, the role of the guy in, uh, um, what was the movie? Oh, I don't know. Uh, Deadshot, I think his name was. Okay. He never missed. Anyway, some people don't know what I'm talking about, but he was, you know, like this, um, just, he was basically like a mutant in terms of, he could never not get a bulls. I always hit his target. Yeah. I got to mean, there's like that element of warming up though. If you're in shooting a lot, you're usually a lot better at that, like starting cold than if you don't have any experience, you know, I I've got a, just a thought question, I guess, um, to you. So listening to you talk on this program, I've understood that what, what grows muscle, the majority of what is going to grow muscle is a novel stimulus doing something that we haven't done before. Um, I, I feel like that it should be in all of our best interest to be as strong as possible. The more weight that, and this is the, just kind of the, the way I'm in doctrine is the more weight that you can lift for reps, the bigger, the stronger your muscle is going to be in the stronger, your muscle is going to be, the bigger your muscle is going to be. So, you know, learning how to lift, I would always pyramid up. I think just like everybody else. In fact, I'm curious, everybody who's watching, let us know, um, do you pyramid up still, or do you work up to that first heaviest set? I'm curious to kind of get a poll from our listeners. Um, but yeah, I used to pyramid up Scott. So if say a hundred pounds was the heaviest I could lift on an exercise for eight, 10 reps, my first set would be say 85 pounds for 10 reps and then 95 pounds for 10 reps. And then finally, I'm going to get that heaviest weight, a hundred pounds for 10 reps. But like I already did those other two sets and though those would be, I guess, kind of beneficial. It's not the heaviest thing I could do. Wouldn't I grow more muscle if I could start with the hundreds? And so here's the thing. There's, there's, there's kind of bringing the three approaches. One, you do a, you do a warmup, like what I covered before you warm up and you go right to that heavy set and you want to get as many reps as possible and warm up, but not fatigue yourself. Yeah. Ready yourself neurologically. Then there's doing kind of what John would do. Sometimes you do sets that pyramid up, so to speak to that heaviest set. Yeah. And there are stimulatory reps, stimulating reps in those sets, but you leave a little bit in the tank and you definitely don't hit failure. Yeah. Um, and then you can do pyramids and these can be done in different ways. They're pyramid charts. I did these a lot when I was a kid, we had them just for the sake of convenience in high school, for instance, where you would, you would, you, you'll say you're on the 200 pyramid and you're going to do sets of six, eight, and 10. And it would tell you what weight you're going to use. And you would do 140 for 140 for, uh, let's say 10 and then 160 for eight and 180 for six, something like that. And you would just do that and you would follow that and you would eventually move from one row of the pyramid down to the next. And you would, you would, you would, if you could get all three of those sets with the weights in those pyramids, um, then you would move down a row. And eventually you're on the 200 pound pyramid and the 210 pound pyramid, et cetera, et cetera, whether you reach failure or not, that's one way to do a pyramid. And the other way to do a pyramid would be to say, I'm going to do sets of 12, 10, and eight, let's say, or 10, eight, and six. And I'm going to pick a weight that I can get roughly 10 reps with, and I'm going to go to failure. If I get 12, I get 12, right? And then I'm going to go up in weight. And because that first set could possibly impact the next set, probably absolutely will. You stop two reps shy of failure. The next set's going to look different than if you take that first set, absolutely the failure. Sure. And then by the time, if you do failure sets, by the time you get to your heaviest weight, your weight's not going to be anywhere. What it would have been had you intentionally warmed up to the heaviest at first. Yeah. And if you do a pyramid system where some of those sets would be to failure or close, or let's say your pyramid system is the system state, you don't go beyond 10 reps. You get your 10, you stop. 10 could be zero reps in reserve, or it could be three reps in reserve. Um, that's a, it's a really fun way to train that way, because you get to move down the rows. The, I did these for years and years thereafter, I've been training for 40, 40 plus years. Oh, I like, you know, 20 years of training, you know, before I was even, I started training when I was 11. So, um, you know, I maybe did those for 10 years, right. Before, before I even graduated from college. Um, so back to kind of the, the theme I was trying to, to paint here, the picture of the portrait trying to paint is that if you're relatively weak and you know, that getting stronger, it's gotta be the main thing you focus on then lifting those heavy ass weights and training your nervous system to do that. I stimulate stimulation. Um, I'm getting a notification here. I think we're good. We're good. It says you. Yeah. Um, I, I blanked out for a second. Yeah. Yeah. I saw that. Yeah. Um, so then for someone like that, yeah. Get brutally strong. Yeah. And here's the other important point. If you're like Luke Sando rest in rest in peace, he was someone who was brutally strong. And Jordan used to talk about this and he would train with relatively high volume. And this is the one thing that, that is part it's built into John's programs to some degree is you get someone who can do eight plate hack squats. Who's just for sets of 10 or 12, you got plenty of tension and you have, you have to realize that the rest of your system, I said this a million times, you're still dealing with bone and connective tissue and tendons and sinews and ligaments that are made of the same material that every other human is made of. Maybe some genetic differences, but you it's better in that case. Probably you don't need to get to 10 pound hack squats, right? It's just too much. And you're written in the, in the, the risk to reward ratio is just goes out the door. So in that case, you do six plate hack squats for 20 reps to failure close to it. And then you go to seven and then you get eight instead of getting 12 or with eight, which is just ridiculous. You would get eight or nine. Yeah. It's still a heavy set. You still get that there. And I, I, there's like a, um, I'm actually going to put together a presentation. I think it's going to be in German, maybe the first time, but I'll probably do it in English too. This idea of Mount St. hypertrophy. Yeah. Um, I think I may have talked about it. You mentioned that before. Yeah. So if you look across the, like one of the, um, uh, dimensions from left to right, whichever way you want to look at it would be the reps or the load or the reps that you would get for a certain set. So you could do lighter weight. You could do heavier weight. Lighter weight means more reps potentially. And the hypertrophy that you would produce, um, is a function of how close to failure you come from each set, relatively speaking. So you've got this landscape where you look across the bottom of the mountain and at the baseline, if you're eight reps in reserve, you're not getting any hypertrophy and you can travel up that mountain going towards, you're using fewer reps in reserve. And then eventually when you're doing 15 rep sets or 20 rep sets, those are stimulating for hypertrophy as our sets of eight reps too. And everyone, I think this is, there's a, um, just study with postmenopausal women suggesting that this is the case. We've talked about it here, but some people probably grow in general or specific muscles better with higher reps than with lower reps and vice versa. So that Mount St. Hypertrophy is a function of the shape of it, where your best growth would occur depends on how close to failure you come for a given amount of sets. And then volume plays its own role as well. But for you, you, it may not matter so much whether you're operating in the 13 to 15 rep range or the six to eight rep range. And if you're using those super heavy weights and only getting eight reps instead of 12, because you're so strong and you're doing what John would have people do is do you do effective sets on your way up to a heavy weight and don't beat up your joints and your tendons and everything as much. You can probably get, potentially get more stimulation because you're still using heavy ass weights. You're still training hard, but you're, you're not into that point where you're in superhuman loads. Yeah. You're not getting inflammation and things that can happen when you're up at that absolute maximum performance of the heaviest loads possible. That only happens. I think the people who've been training for five, 10 years have gotten brutally strong. Um, and, uh, and it can, it can be variable. I've talked to people cause I was Dante's official DC trainer for a while. And there were people who would start DC training and they noticed they would get strong really quick, but their joints would hurt quite a bit as well. Okay. Um, so that's something that that's just one piece of information to suggest that that heavy, heavy, heavy ass training does take its way. It wears on you. Yeah. And you can still train heavy and with those, with that sort of a pyramiding regime and just intentionally have fatigue. So you have to keep the weight lower, um, in order to be in the eight to 10 rep range, but you're still using as much weight as you can handle, um, for that rep range with the fatigue being a component that you're actually looking for. And then last thing on this and I'll, and I'll stop the ramble, but so if you, if you train with that sort of in, um, that intentional fatigue built into however you pyramid your, your weight. So if John, if one of John's programs said, you know, we're going to do three sets to get to our heavy set and leave her one or two reps in the tank and you do 200, 250, 300, 350 pounds. Um, and then you move your way over time through the programs, or maybe you come back to one of John's programs, instead of doing 250, 300, blah, blah, blah, you're doing 265, 315, et cetera. And those loads are heavier, even though your loads aren't maximal because you have those fatiguing sets beforehand, you've still progressed and you've still gotten stronger under those fatiguing conditions where you still got plenty of, plenty of tension to produce muscle hypertrophy. You still have the scenario that I think is the, one of the main things is that formal follow function. If you've gotten to be a more of a bad-ass under those brutal lifting conditions where you're moving heavy weights and training as hard as you can, or enough to get stimulating reps in your sets, then lifting heavier weights, given the same rep scheme or more reps with the same weights either way around, it's still progression and it's still progressing with the hyper hypertrophying stimulus. And that's where the rubber meets the road. So anyway, it makes sense. It makes sense. I think it's something that, um, we all should be thinking about. I think though, sometimes that's like kind of the, a lot of times, like if you just, if you love bodybuilding and you're doing it and you're not paying close, close, you know, people are paying more attention now with the log books than I think they were a decade ago, but it's still, it's something, man, that I feel like you can just get in the habit of. I always do the nineties on this exercise and you just get stuck there. Yeah. You don't figure out a way to continue getting stronger. Yeah. You know, it occurred to me too, um, for the loading sets and fortitude training, I have, um, and these could be, you could do this wherever you want to. You don't have to use the numbers that I came up with. I, but I have one and a half minutes or two minutes for, for legs between those heavy sets, not for calves, but for thighs. So, yeah. And I won't go through all the details, but that's one thing that's important too, is that rest interval plays a role. If you're resting 90 seconds between your sets, it's different than resting three and a half minutes. Sure. So like, like DC training, you rest as long as you need to, you know, and you learn how much, you know, 15 minutes is too much. Now you're not warmed up. That's, that's an issue. But what the principle I had in fortitude training is you keep those, you literally time them with the watch or look on the wall at the clock. Yeah. And you, and you keep that constant because the log book will progress just because you're resting more between sets. So there's, there's some discipline to be had there. Um, and that helps, you know, if you're actually, your performance is improving because that's a, that's a super important part of looking at how the weights and the reps progress. You can, and I I've done this like, um, and not that this is all bad. Like if someone hasn't learned, um, to literally empty themselves in a set, um, or what it's, or at least have that available, not that you have to do that every set or what have you, but there's still early on in their training career. And there are still some, um, uh, that ability still is completely learned. It's, it's not the worst thing to spend some period of time training with the dog crap style training system where rest interval isn't controlled. And you just try to move the biggest, most massive weights you possibly can with a, you know, a meat, a moderate rep range, or even a lower rep range to just get as brutally strong as you can. Um, that's total, there's nothing wrong with that at all. So, but until you get so strong that you're just risking injury every time you do that, then you got to be smart like Jordan, you know, and know, and know how to regulate, auto-regulate the way that, the way that he does, which is a very, very hard thing to do. You ever notice how every influencer suddenly has their own supplement company? One day they're doing cable crossovers. The next they revolutionized sports nutrition. It's interesting timing. And somehow every formula has like 47 different ingredients, but only three grams total per serving. Amazing. That's why I like true nutrition. They don't sell hype. They sell ingredients. You want creatine? Buy creatine. Take a full dose. Take five grams. Done. You want citrulline? Buy citrulline. No pump matrix needed. No proprietary blends. No underdosed fairy dust. No paying for someone's social media budget. They manufacture in-house, sell pure single form ingredients, and they let you build your own stack like an adult because bodybuilding isn't complicated. Lift heavy, eat right, know exactly what you're taking. True nutrition.com. Use our code think to get 10% off and support the podcast. Less influencer magic, more actual supplements. When it comes to back training, obviously there's a difference in a row and a pull down and the target muscles biased in the movement. However, when you look at the number of sets you're doing, would you differentiate exercises for lat width and lat thickness? I realized I was only doing seven total sets for lat width and six lat thickness. However, I have noticed tremendous growth in my teres and my rhomboids. So what's he, what's he kind of saying here? He's saying, um, so he, I guess, yeah, first, do you do differentiate exercises? Like this is a width exercise. This is a thickness exercise or, or how would you, what would be your philosophy and breaking down the back? That's a, that's the very simple, basic way that's been done for, for decades. That's what Dante did in DC training. I have that also in fortitude training. Basically it's just pull down types of movements. Um, and then rowing types of movements. Now, of course you can do, you know, there's hammer strength, high rows that are kind of like pull downs and you could, there's all sorts of movements that are hybrids between those two things. Yeah. So, um, but that's a very basic way to break things down and people could argue, you know, like with this, this, this movement, this rowing movement can be good for width, or it's not good for width, but yeah, that's a simple way to kind of configure your training. So you can break up the exercise selection. Absolutely. Okay. Okay. The interesting thing is, is that, um, like I'm thinking of some bodybuilders now, like in Germany, I've, I've seen like there, there are some people who don't have very good shoulder mobility and they really can't even do a pull down like to the front. It's just, everything just comes like here. Cause everything's kind of like a lot of chest work has happened and your whole shoulder girl is rolled anteriorly. Yeah. And so they don't get lower lat activation. They just can't really do it. They need to learn how to, they need to do some flexibility work and learn how to actually execute pull down movements or lat width movements in order to get the lower lat activation and get the lat width. Um, and in the same vein, you can see people who, who just tend to retract really, really strongly. They can do pull downs behind the neck without a problem without their neck getting all screwed up from doing so. And they get a lot of, um, middle and lower trap activation as part of it. So they just have different activation patterns, even though you're thinking, well, you know, your middle trap, that's what you're going to get doing a row. That's not really going to come so much from a lat pull down, but they do because of shoulder mobility issues and just the, the natural pull downs are, and rowing rowing is more of a natural thing, but a pull down is a very, very odd movement. Really. When you think about, um, how we do it with bodybuilding. Sure. If you're rock climbing, that sort of thing would happen, but people would typically use their arms more so. So back training is one of the hardest things to learn because you can't see the muscle and you have to develop this mind muscle connection. And then if you really can't even see yourself from behind, unless you're, you know, you got a nice mirror set up or from the side to know what your shoulder girl is doing when you're trying to trying to do the different exercises. So anyway, I think his question was, first of all, whether lat width and lat thickness makes sense. Absolutely. Whether you're ensured to have a balanced amount of lat width and lat fit thickness, if you choose three exercises in each category every time, absolutely not. It could be, it could be all over the place. You could have great lat thickness, um, or back thickness, especially for someone who does, um, like stiff legged deadlifts. If the way you squat means you bend over a good bit, you've got a lot of hip hinging going on or a lot of hip hinge movements. You could have great back thickness because it's coming from some of those other exercises too. Yeah. So yeah, you have to look at the grand scheme of the programming you're put together. So this is, this is one thing that is do it in fortitude training, do it in DC training. Um, for instance, if you're going to do rack deads, great back thickness exercise, um, you wouldn't do rack that was just DC trains. Nice. Cause it's very simple. It's very basic. The two way split, it's basically upper lower. You do biceps on the days you train legs, but essentially it's an upper lower. Um, you, so in your training, like Monday, Wednesday, Friday, you wouldn't typically do rack deads. And then when you come back two days later and do hamstrings, do stiff legged deadlifts, right. And do squats that same day. You're just asking for an issue, right? So you have to realize that those are things are training back thickness in a major way. Um, so you'd have to strategize how you rotate your exercises. When you do rack deads, the next time you come around and train quads or your thighs, you're going to do probably a leg press or something where you don't have a lot of hip hinging going on, where you're not, you're not going to end up in a scenario where, okay, I did, I did rack deads and then I did stiff legged deadlifts and squats on the next day. And now I want to do heavy bent over rows and your low back is wrecked. Right. So you have to work around those things. So depending on someone's just their biomechanics and their natural, um, activation inclinations, the way they squat, the way the other exercises they choose, they could have great back thickness and have, even though they are hardly doing any back thickness exercises with their official back training, the other exercises are contributing to having a great thick back. Let's say maybe they were, they were a power lifter. It did a shitload of deadlifting and squatting in the past and their traps that look like Johnny Jackson's traps. Yeah. Right. I don't know if he ever did, but I don't think Johnny Jackson probably needed to do any shrugs. Probably not. Yeah. They were doing all sorts of deads and everything else. It's funny. Cause those are isometric, um, activation when you're doing deads, you're not, you can do them that way, but it's activation, heavy, heavy weight in the stretch position and entice isometrics. Yeah. I found Scott doing deads unintentionally grew my traps and my biceps more than anything else. Absolutely. Absolutely. That was the convention that used to be made. And I, and I think there's something to it. You could take someone power lifters do this and take them from a 400 pound deadlift to a 600 pound deadlift and eat appropriately to get bigger along the way and do absolutely no arm training at all and probably put an arm on an inch on their upper arm. Yeah. Right. Without any curls, it would just come for the, come along for the ride, assuming that the nutrition, everything else there and the weight goes up. So, so anyway, yeah, evening that out is a place to start in terms of thickness and width. Um, but you got to figure out how you're doing those exercises, whether you're hitting the lower lats, whether you're, whether you are getting back thickness is going to be your lumbar, your, your back, your extensors as well. So all of that comes in for hip hinging types of movements, balancing that out across your training, however you're setting up your training. Um, so yeah, that's one, one way to look at it, running through that filter, how many lap width, how many lap thickness do I have? And then look at the other things that contribute, um, to thickness, potentially other exercises, and then figure out if you're even training your back when you're doing your back training or you're just training your biceps. Yeah. There's that. Yeah. Um, there's all sorts of, you know, tricks, tricks to the trade things you can do. Like, like as an example, um, if you do, uh, um, a supported barbell row, um, you can, you can like on a bench, um, like a hyper extension bench, you can do those. Those are really tough. You can't use shit for weight. Um, the trick is making sure the barbell doesn't run into the underside of the bench. So you got to get something set up so you can get a full range of motion, go to failure and then do shrugs in that position. Huh? If you want to hit your traps. Oh, wow. Yeah. That's a nice, nice, nice way. Or you can, you can do that with bent over rows too, just to double, double up. So you do your bent over rows to failure and then just stand up and do shrugs with the same barbell, assuming you can hold it onto the bar straps help, of course. So you can couple exercises. Let's say you're not getting enough thickness work and you'll also, you'll always, and you want to get more traps. Um, you can do basically supersets kind of mechanical drop sets like that to do shrug variations as a superset or a secondary set on top of a rolling movement. Um, and so how, how does that fit into the thickness versus width equation? Right. You're getting two for one when you do a set like that. Yeah. Well, that's training efficiency. So there's all sorts of finer nuances that you can, you can add into the program design, but he's on the right track, I think. And I think too, what I kind of look at is how, what is your development end up looking like? You know, if you, if you're doing this recipe for X amount of time and then you look at your back and you say to yourself like, eh, my back's getting thicker, but it like, but it's not getting as wide as I feel like it should be. Then that's where I might say, I mean, that you might end up coming up with something completely different. The ratio doesn't necessarily need to be like 50, 50. I think it comes down to the individual. Yeah. I mean, like you can't make a, if you, all you have is shit, then you'll just end up making a shit sandwich. No matter what you put on there, like you could put pickles and ketchup, but it's still a shit sandwich. So you got to find the exercises that work for you. And back is probably as much as any exercise. I think back is, this probably applies there because you got to find the exercises that work for you. So like one thing that someone asked me this a few months ago, um, I really like to get on a cross cable and you can, sometimes you have to kneel or put a, yeah, and do a wide out and basically drive your elbows, your pockets. Right. I love that exercise. I feel that all the way up and down my lats when I do that. Huh? I haven't done that in a long time. You know what people are really into nowadays is the single arm pull down. That's become super popular and I get it. You can get that good stretch and you can kind of get the individual squeeze. Do you think there's any, uh, benefit to, to that in general for, for people versus dual arm? Cause I feel like people tell me overall, they're like, yeah, I'm doing single arm pull downs. I get so much better contraction. Yeah, I think there is. Like I had this, I was telling someone about this and I don't think he's listening, but if you are, Hey, Hey Ben, I, so Ben Pekulski, um, he, uh, I doubt he's listening, but this is a conversation we had. We may even talked about this on his podcast a long time ago. Anyway. Um, so Ben was one of the first people, um, to bring to the world, this idea of activation, finding like you're doing a pull down that way, the activation and, and form that that's the first step, right? Making sure you can execute the exercises properly. Um, and Qasem used to work. There's a whole, they had a whole issue. You can probably find that online, but he, he Qasem used to work at Ben's gym, Qasem Hanson. Um, and that, this is one of the main things that he does and teaches. Oh yeah. And, um, and this is nothing not to get into that hole. There's, there's all sorts of, they've, they've been bantering back and people bantering back and forth about all this. But my point is a very, very simple one in talking to Ben could be talked about this. And Ben was like, yeah, the idea is that step one is to find the exercises. Maybe I don't want to misquote Ben, but to learn how to execute the exercises properly. So you're hitting the target muscle simple and then progressively overload. Yeah. Right. And that second, the second part kind of gets missed, right? So yeah, if you're, if you don't know how to hit your back, um, you don't know how to activate your lats and you feel an exercise like that. And it makes bio, a biomechanical sense and you're getting soreness there. You're getting a pump there. You know, all the signs are pointing to you, activating the muscle that when you look in the mirror is a weak muscle, you got a winner, right? And then you got to be able to progressively overload that. Right. And, and performance that, and that that's the part that I can't remember as my consultations, my conversations and my podcasts all, all blend together, but it's not so, um, uh, it's not so fancy and glitzy to post your log book and say, look, you know, I was doing whatever, 57 and a half pounds for 10 reps on this unilateral pull down. And, you know, and I, and I, and I have been, you know, micro loading my way up and now I'm up to 79 pounds or something like that using one pound, you know, magnetic plates or what have you be like, okay, whatever. Like that, that just kind of totally goes away when you see all the, the AI generated super freaks and all the filter pictures and the DNA and everything else. Like that's not sexy at all. Right. Yeah. But that's where the rubber hits the road. This is, this is, unless you, unless you look like Jordan and train like Jordan, right. Um, people don't care about that. You post your log book to me, that's impressive as hell. Yeah. There was a guy long ago. I probably try to dig this post up. It's, I'm sure it's still there's on intense muscle and he had been doing DC trading and he had a log book, a log, uh, in the log section there. And he posted like an exercise that he'd been banging away on for like, like two years. Okay. And you know, with breaks in there when he'd rotate the exercise out and come back to it. And literally, I mean, it was like several pages, several screens worth of just going up, up, up progressively. And then he had pictures to show what his work created. Okay. I'm like, that's, that's fucking bad-ass. That's impressive. Cause he just would not take no as an answer. And he just kept on kicking gravity's ass week after week for years on end. And he made himself into a monster. Right. Yeah. That's sexy as hell to me. Like, you know, I, I don't go that way, but that's the guy like take out, you know, I was like, Hey, let's go have a drink. What do you think, man? That was cool. That was really, really awesome. I thought that's where it's at. So, but if you, if you're doing exercises that are, you know, you only can make a shit sandwich out of, then you're not going to go anywhere with them because you're not the right exercise. Or as you're saying here, if you're, if you're doing exercises that maybe are the right thing, but you're not actually loading it and building the weight up, you're also happens. Yeah. That's that's yeah. And I could see that too, cause you can kind of get caught up in the squeeze and the squeeze feels good. And so I, and you know, Scott, I feel like I could use the same weight on a single arm pull down for the next year. And I could get a great pump in my lats every single time without increasing the weight. I could probably get sore every time too, without increasing the weight. Yeah. You would probably, I would imagine if you, if you quantified like how long your sets were or how many reps you were doing, you would use probably need to get more, you would be able to get more reps over that period of time. There would be some adaptation. Sure. Sure. But I could, I could like not go out of my way to try and it would still feel good. You know what I'm saying? It would still feel good every time I could, you know, leave a lot, a lot on the table. And I say that cause I know there was a time that I feel like I really was focusing on that, but Hey man, how long does it take for you to, to figure out how to connect to an exercise in the big scheme of things? Let's say you take an entire year and you're not really focusing on progressing. Uh, you're not focusing on loading. You're just focusing on better technique. It, it might pay off in the long run. I don't know, you know, like, like if the big picture, like one year, isn't that long. So the thing, um, I feel like a shill when I just keep on coming to fortitude training, but it's, it's the answer. That's what you know best. And it's your plan. Yeah. It's my solution. So, yeah, that's why I have the pump sets there. Okay. It is. So people, one reason for them is to work on X on to work on execution. Oh, okay. You're not necessarily, you could, but you're not necessarily trying to progressively overload those. Yeah. You can make note of what weight you did. So you, you know, don't forget and you come back to it. And what if you did a, you know, reverse 21s or fives into the hole or what you did. Yeah. But the idea is like, you're, you're not intentionally trying to improve performance on those per se. You're trying to create a stimulus in like kind of an old school, let's just go in and get the pump. Yeah. We can talk about the, the, the pump in and of itself is not meant to, I'm not in any way trying to say that having a pump per se in isolation as a phenomenon of intracellular swelling. That's very, very short lived and increased blood flow that lasts 15, 20 minutes at most, that that per se is what creates the stimulus for muscle growth from doing a high rep set that I would call a pump set. But that's a topic we'd love to talk. Maybe actually I've thought about doing a whole, whole presentation on that. But when you do sets like that, let's say, you know, you're, you're doing your back training and you, you set up your pump sets to you unilateral pull downs on a, on a cable at a certain angle. And you're really trying to, with laser like focus, just pump the shit out of your lap. Right. And execute. You're doing pauses at the bottom, all of that stuff. Right. Yeah. And then you come back to your heavy sets that you're going to try to progressively overload on and you pick them reasonably. You don't just use rack deads because that's what the big guys say you should use. Maybe it's a, a, a row machine in particular, a cable or what have you. This is the thing that people tell me time and time again. And that I myself noticed, um, in doing this when I was like more than a decade ago, coming up with 42 training, you now have that as a learned phenomenon and as a background sense of what it really means to hit the target muscle. Yeah. So no, you, now you come back to a bent over row, let's say, or some pull down. That's a bilateral movement. That's the one you're going to try to progressively overload on, you know, because not too many days previous that you just did a pump set where all you wanted to do was pump up that muscle and target that muscle and, and activate that muscle as effectively as you possibly can. Now you're going to just do that because when you do the heavy loading and for the aggressive overload, you're going to know you have a better mind muscle connection. There's absolutely no doubt about it. And those two things happen with, um, function sort of in a reciprocal fashion, um, to help with progressive over. And this is the thing that I think is missed. We touched on this, I think the last podcast too, is if, if you do higher rep training like that, let's say, and, and you develop some muscle endurance, um, you've got two things, you got a better mind muscle connection. You have this background sense of what it means to target a muscle, maybe more than two things, three things. And now you have some more endurance that muscle because you've trained it. You didn't train it doing 200 reps sets. You trained it doing 15, 20, 25 reps sets, something that still would be hypertrophy producing as long as you recover appropriately. Now you have the ability because you've gained this endurance. You wouldn't ever otherwise have, and this is just theoretical. I haven't, I haven't, this hasn't been, I love to see this study, but I haven't seen this documented instead of doing 10 reps with that heavy load. Now you get an extra rep or two over the course of time, you've got better muscle endurance. Well, those are stimulating reps. So now the heavier sets become more stimulating because you're, you have better. And psychologically you've got on the, like the selectorized leg press, right? You know, with the stack and you, and you did some crazy set of partials while on a leg press for your pump sets, for your legs, absolutely brutal. You know, you're dizzy when you get off of there and thinking you might throw up in your heart rates, you know, 192, et cetera. Then you go and do a set of eight with a standing squat. Like you get done, like that was a piece of cake. It was, I took, I, it was everything I could get. The last set was the failure, blah, blah, blah, but it's a breeze in comparison to what you did previously. Yeah, it would be. You psychologically, you know this, and that helps with getting those extra couple of reps. So anyway, the, yeah, the back to your, your point. Yeah. You've got to know how to do the exercises. Absolutely. And then once you know how to do them, you got to progress with them too. That's only the first step. Yeah. All right. We had, we had that other question, um, and it's been floating around here for a while over at Patreon from Phil. And he said, um, I have a training question for you and Scott. Uh, when I do quads, regular, uh, back bar squats or hack squats, I get so lightheaded after doing a couple of reps. It's not, uh, as bad on the hacks, um, but on the back squat and the more weight I load, the worse it gets. And I have to bail out before I can finish a good set because my vision starts to go and I feel like I'm going to pass out. My blood pressure is typically 125 over 75, but I haven't checked it post set in the gym. Uh, what do you think could be wrong? And what do you think could, I could do to help these issues, um, using lighter weights or just abandoning squats altogether? So to regular back bar squats or a backs or hack squat. So this is my guess, right? There could be a bunch of things going on. Your blood pressure can go pretty high up if you're doing a Valsalva holding his breath. Um, but it's happening like just a couple of reps in. Yeah. My first question for Phil would be if he has had, uh, some damage to his neck in the past. Oh, oh, okay. Yeah. So my neck is screwed to high heaven from wrestling and playing football. Um, like I have degenerative disc disease. I have calcification bone spurs. I have some, some bulging, like it's a, it's a wreck from top to bottom. And I also have, um, it's called the T bro basillary insufficiency or cerebrovascular insufficiency. So there are, there are, there are vessels that feed the base of the brain, um, arteries that can become occluded. And I think in my case, it's cause I have so much, so much calcification there. And, um, you can actually, a doctor could, could test this. Um, there's a, it's called bow hunters syndrome and there's a way, and I'm not going to try to demonstrate here, but you know, bow hunter would go like this. They're going to, they're going to shoot a bow and being in that outstretched position and turn to one side. Like if I do that, I'm not going to do it now, but if I do that and turn my head back, I start to get, um, nystagmus in my eyes. My eyes start to flutter and I will start to pass out pretty quickly. Oh man. Yeah. I mean, it's, it does, it's like, you know, this happens during the day. It's never a problem for me really, but I, but I just know my neck is, is pretty bad and my neck hasn't gotten any worse. I had a problem years ago that was really bad. It's a whole other story. Um, but that is the case with me. And I know, like I use, um, a Dave Draper top squat. People seen it in the videos I've posted over the years and I can squat with a barbell or I can put it on a Smith machine and it's, it's probably about that big around. It's probably, oh man, it's, um, probably three inches in diameter. So it increases the diameter of a bar by, um, 250, 200%. It's pretty big. And I can squat with that. I can put as much weight as I want on, never had a problem with that because it distributes the force over my traps. Yeah. Okay. Position. Now, if I put a barbell, um, for, I can't get my arms back, um, too well on a regular barbell cause shoulder issues, but I, what I have in the past, I've tried this. I can wrap my arms up over the bar and in a Smith machine and squat that way. And when I do that, I start to have the same thing happens to me as what, what, uh, what he was saying that bar will, it digs in. Um, it starts to push down and it creates so much tension. My traps, your traps run all the way up to your occiput, to your base of your, your skull. And it's compresses things so much that I think pretty, I start to feel like I'm going to, well, I am going to pass out. Um, so he, he may have some for, you know, all the medical terms aside, he may have some bad blood flow base of his brain, um, that's causing this. And you can, you know, good ortho orthopod can test that there's, um, there's neural, the neurological exam that I talked about where you can do that. And I mean, I just did it at home years ago. I'm like, well, shit, it was like, it's like, well, that was like a not so cool magic trick when I turned my head and all of a sudden my eyes started rolling around in my head. Yeah. Not, not cool at all. Start short circuiting you. Yeah. It was just really sort of bizarre. So that would be my guess is that he's got some neck issues, maybe completely, you know, people get into car wrecks all the time and they get whiplash and they just blow it off, you know? And in the meantime, they have neck damage that they're unaware of. Okay. And so, but yeah, like that's the other question and ask if he, if he gets occipital headaches to like headaches at the base of his, of his skull, um, that could possibly, an exertional occipital headaches, like after he, after he, like if he does a leg, a leg press where he's got to really hold himself down kind of thing can happen to some people that, cause they tend to do this with their neck. Oh yeah. Well, you know, compress, potentially compress blood flow in that area. So anyway, that's my, that's my non medical, uh, thought on some things that he could look into. Yeah. Medically speaking, when he speaks to a practitioner about it. Hey, one thing I just was thinking about, and I think you're probably right. It's probably not from like a Valsalva type maneuver if it's, if it's happening. Yeah. Within the first rep or two. Um, but I, I've been trying to retrain myself and I used to really push out and a lot of times that would be kind of bracing against a belt. Um, and I could see myself doing that in squats and, um, any type of bent over back movement, any type of, uh, like even leg press. I would notice doing that a lot. Um, this year I've been trying to, and, and a little bit before this year, I've been trying to retrain my TVA. I found that, um, with my breathing issues that I was dealing with, I would just leave my stomach hanging loose and then breathing in and out through the belly. And that was, you know, I, I was really struggling with squats. I'd get winded. And a big part of it was, is because of my, my, my, it wasn't like a lung issue as much as it was like me holding my breath kind of thing. Um, since doing a lot of training for my TVA and working on planks, um, I've been able to hold my core in while I'm doing squats instead. So not related to this question as much, but, um, more so just, it made me think of it. Um, what do you think about instead of bracing, pushing out bracing, holding in during exercises? Like not wearing, wearing a belt versus not wearing a belt. Well, I'm thinking, um, instead of, instead of pushing out the way, like traditionally a power lifter would do holding the abs in, can you still, are you still bracing like as well while doing that? The way I understand it is that like the pushing out would happen if you can only happen if you have a belt, unless you just completely push out into the unknown. And like, so you, which I, yeah, I can do that. Like I'm, I'm doing it now. Like I'm just pushing out and everything like locks up, you know what I mean? Yeah. Um, and, and I think that that's what I had always done to kind of try to brace everything to protect my lower back. Yeah. That, that, and I think from what you're saying, that is, was probably your best adaptive strategy to creating stability in your, in your lower spine. Exactly. Because you didn't have the strength, the muscle strength there that you now have. Okay. Right. I think, cause you've been, you think you've been doing a lot, you've been doing, um, a lot of work. Yeah. And now that I've been doing like a lot of planks, I can get a bracing effect, but holding it in. And honestly, I, I kind of feel like, you know, a lot of times we see really strong guys that have the real thick torso. And part of it is probably that they just have really thick abs, but I, I think there's something to the blowing out that's related to distension, you know? Oh yeah. That's, that's kind of what I'm getting at is like, is it, you know, what are the benefits I guess? I mean, cause it feels like I'm able to, to hold just as well, brace myself just as well holding in. So yeah, you think that there's, there's like long-term it's, it, it's, it's going to be counterproductive for the look of our physique, you know? Like, cause when I did a lot of deads, man, it was the same thing. I was pushing out like my, I told you my traps and biceps grew, my stomach grew too. Yeah. I mean, you were, you were eventually you had the, the connected tissue, you had tension that was creating the bracing and the stability because you were, you were reaching the end of the, of the length of the muscle fibers and the connective tissue. Yeah. The elastic components were basically at their end. I guess it was. Yeah. As opposed to having a muscular strength to create the same bracing and stability by holding your midsection in place. Yeah. And I think you said your breathing was difficult. Breathing has to happen. You know, the ventilation occurs because of the diaphragm going up and down and everything's all totally blown out, then, and you can't bring it back in cause you're too weak. Then you can't create the, the abdominal changes of abdominal pressures that coincide with the diaphragm and going back and forth. Yeah. You were probably weren't exchanging gases very well when you're in that situation, but now you have the muscular control to allow for that. So, and I'm back to squatting as a result too. Like I can do it. No problem, man. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, that's, that's the, like a belt allows you to push out against that belt. And then, I mean, that's, then that, that puts, because you're, if you push forward on the belt that pulls the backside of the belt anteriorly as well, which will help keep your lumbar spine and it's in the, in its normal resting curvature, which is what you want to keep your backs. But, but basically what's going on there is you're not using the muscular tension to hold your midsection in. You're letting everything push out and you're relying upon the belt to keep your lumbar spine in place, as opposed to your own volitional muscle contractions, stabilizing everything front and back at the same time. So yeah, that's why, I mean, there's a couple thoughts there. That's why a lot of people would only use the belt for their very heaviest weights. Right. You know, cause they want to get as much, the same thing could be said for straps to, you know, do as many sets as you can without using the, the accessory because, because that's there for safety and to make sure you can execute the weight and you don't have a weak link. So you don't want to, if you're trying to train your legs, right. Or if you're just trying to move as much weight, powerlifters have different goals and bodybuilders, of course, very, very different. But if you're trying to train your legs, you don't want your low back being a weak point, but you don't want to completely have an untrained low back because you're always wearing a belt, potentially. Yeah. The other thing that of course people talk about in this context is having that belt on. And some people wear screams all the time. Yeah. Same thing as keeping everything short and tight the entire time because you, the resting length of a muscle is a function of the length that it is at during the course of your day-to-day life. Right. So I always use the example, if you cast someone's arm with the, with the elbow flexed, then the resting length of the muscle, the, the, the, literally the sarcomeres of the muscle fibers, the other connected tissue will change the resting length of that muscle because it's, that's now it's resting length. It never gets lengthened. Right. So it never experiences that link. So everything will accommodate that. So if you're someone who's training with your, um, when you're doing your heavy lifts and your abdominal wall is always expanded outwardly and you're don't keep it in during the day, cause you, you don't have the, you're not attentive to that throughout the day, or you just don't have the strength and muscle endurance to do so that becomes the new resting length of all that musculature. This is what happens to women when they get pregnant. Ah, okay. It's only nine months, but imagine only nine months, right? Yeah. And it's the, mainly the last few months when they're really stretched out, getting that back in requires a good amount of effort for many women. Um, especially if they haven't been training, they don't know how to train their abs. They've never done that before. So the muscle just, that's becomes this new length. There's no reason for it to readjust its length because it just stays there. There's no stiff training stimulus or other stimulus where it, where it would need to be shorter. That's just fine like that. So a bodybuilder has been trading for, you know, letting their abs hang out and, and always has a, a food baby. I was thinking that too. So all of that contributes to it. That's, I mean, that's the, like the steroid gut, you know, or GH gut, or is it the combination of both or IGF one? Yeah. One of the things I think like, not to get into that whole discussion, but one, one part of that equation potentially is if you are someone who is getting that massive, got all those anabolic, um, pharmaceuticals in play, and you've also got growth hormone, which helps keep you leaner. So you can eat more with getting too fat. Then you need all that food to keep making progress. Yeah. Oh, there's, that's kind of the catch 22 is all the food needs to be coming in. And sometimes people will do whatever they can eating junk food and their microbiome goes to shit, what have you. And they just end up constantly having a food baby. And that if there, if none of those other pharmaceuticals and nothing was going on with a visceral fat or organ enlargement, or the other things that could be involved with the roid gut, just having all that food and having very minimal time when your, your waist is small could, would mean you have a bigger, bigger belly. Yeah. Yeah. I think that makes total sense. And, and I think we, you see it in some guys, you know, who's a great example of somebody who's working on that is Nick, Nick Walker. Um, I don't know if you've noticed or heard, but people have been talking about like Nick's really focusing on his core training and just from what I've seen in the pictures, it looks like he's bringing it in too. Yeah. He has a wide pelvic structure. He's just a big dude, right? Yeah. He's, he's, you know, he doesn't have this waspy waist, not Brian Buchanan or whatever. So he has to, he has to put in extra work. He probably does the vacuums and all that kind of stuff because his pelvis is simply wide. So if you get a wide pelvis and then you have the gut hanging, that's just, that's just, you know, that's going to knock you down five places. Yeah. At least now, you know, like 10, 15 years ago, it wouldn't have been nearly the issue. Like people didn't pay attention to that. It wasn't, it was just kind of like par for the course. You're going to get big, then you're going to have a stomach too. But the, our expectations of a 300 pound bodybuilder have changed, you know, over the past 10 years. I think, I mean, part of that is the muscle mass, the guys in the nineties were not as big, better conditioned, but sure. You know, we had Ronnie, of course, but in general, you didn't have all the mass monsters, Dorian ushered them in and Ronnie followed up. So then it's like, it was still super impressive 10, 15 years ago to have all that muscle mass. Yeah. So it's like, okay, like the guy's gigantic. Like, yeah. So he might not be a flex wheeler waist, but God, he's twice his size. Look how big he is. Right. Yeah. But now you got guys that do have some smaller waist or are able to like Andrew Jack, someone like that. Right. It's like, okay. Quentin. Yeah. Yep. Quentin. Yeah. Right. Crazy. So that resets the standards like, okay, you know, sorry, you don't get a, get out of jail card for having a big gut with all this size because there are guys with your size that don't have the gut. So now that's just a psychological thing. It makes sense. Yeah. Well, Hey, listen guys, if you are interested in having questions on the show, then definitely comment below plus comments, likes all that stuff. It helps to boost our programming. And if you're not subscribed, we'd love to have you along for everything we do and follow everything Scott's doing over at Instagram. I'll put a link down below for that and check out his book, be your own bodybuilding coach. And if you go to that link, you can also get the fortitude training ebook. It's cheap. Definitely check that out. And of course, supplementsource.ca for Canadians. They have great deals that change week to week and truenutrition.com use our code. Think over there to get all your basic bodybuilding supplements and thank you to everybody from Patreon. Scott's over on Patreon too, guys. So if you have questions for the show and you're part of Patreon, then definitely comment on Patreon with your questions for Muscle Minds and all the other programs. I have a link there that I'm running and, uh, or excuse me, um, a thread there that I run to take your questions specifically. And, uh, yeah, Scott, for another episode of Muscle Minds, we'll see you soon. Thanks man. Yep. You got it.