 tretsretsrets, læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ læ Try it. 20 weeks out. Try it. It will help you lose fat, Dave. It's been showing. You'll get lean on. It will also help send you bonkers. Yeah. It's been showing. What's up, guys? Welcome back to the podcast with Dave Crosland. I'm Scott McDaniel. And all of our programming is brought to you by you, the people of Patreon. Thank you guys very much for your support. We are brought to you by truenutrition.com. Use our code THINK to get 10% off all your basic bodybuilding supplements like protein and intra-workout and creatine and everything else you need. No. None of that. None of that. And we are brought to you by supplementsource.ca for Canadians, guys. They have great deals on short-dated and label change products. You might find a tub of pre-workout for like $15. Definitely check them out if you're in Canada. And, of course, evalbloodanalysis.com. Get your labs done by Dave. If you were at the Arnold Classic, I'm sure you got to hang out with Dave over the weekend. We're going to talk about that today. We've got your listener questions. And, by the way, Dave is an expert witness for the U.K. court system. We've been running this podcast for a decade now. Dave does cases related to anabolics. And he's done education to the police and military. We both worked in coaching now for quite a long time. We're happy to share our education with you. Dave was like 400 pounds at one time. And if you ever saw the under-construction movies, definitely if you haven't checked them out, you should. And, yeah, I've been coaching for the last 10 years now full-time, last 15 years altogether. And we're just here to freely share our education with you. Dave, questions today? We've got a bunch of them. You guys are welcome to leave questions. And if you're new here, we'd love to have you along for everything we do. So hit the subscribe button. Hit the bell, all that stuff. Hit the hype button. And we've got a main topic today. Ranking every steroid for cutting. I've just realized something. What'd you realize? If I'd have unalived you, I would have been out of prison by now. Like when we first met, you mean? Yeah, yeah. You would have done your time by now and you would have been back out on the streets? I would have done my time by now, yeah. Maybe even sooner if they gave you good behavior, you know? Don't do that. I mean, you're a nice guy. You're very personable and stuff. I feel like they'd, you know, you'd make it at your parole hearing, you know? You'd do all right. I'd regard it as a public service. I was up with you. Right. So, yeah, how do we run this thing, man? Ranking every steroid for cutting. Are we ranking the cutting steroids? Or are we ranking every steroid as to how they are for cutting? I don't know. Your idea. Don't be asking me with the details of it when you came up with it. All right. Well, I say. Can I just say something to start? Well, I suppose. You know, it's half your show. Anabolic compounds are cutting agents. That's true. Now, they can increase lean muscle mass, which can potentially put you into a calorie deficit if input has stayed the same. You know, more muscle, more calories required. Therefore, your baseline increases. But they're not actually cutting agents. So, no steroids are for cutting effectively. Yeah. But some lend themselves to diets because they're easier to manage in that environment. Yeah. What do you mean by that, first of all? Well, if a drug doesn't aromatize, then you don't have to worry about estrogen. If you're not having to worry about estrogen, you're not worrying about water. Water sits in fat cells. And high estrogen will promote fat storage as well. So, it could be counterproductive to fat loss. Yeah. And definitely counterproductive to the visual appearance of fat loss. Yeah. But technically, you could actually lose weight on any compound if you managed it correctly, though some would make it a bit more awkward to try and do. Yeah. You could take, like, a bunch of D-ball and just cut, cut, cut, and then at the very end you pull all the D-ball out and you drop all that water and you look freaking peel. You could really, you could diet on D-ball, but it would give you, like, a film. You'd have a harder time achieving that cosmetic hard dry look. Oh, no, without a doubt. Without a doubt, yeah. I mean, if you, oh, cutting compounds. Number one would be testosterone, in my opinion. I would have said Anivar. You would, so you would run Anivar without test? Depends on sex. Oh, that's a good point, yeah. And it depends on duration. If we're talking six to eight weeks, then yes. If you have a lot of sex, then you should probably run some, oh, you meant gender. Type of sex, yes. As in whether you are male, female, or furry. Yeah. Oh. Yeah. I, yeah, I mean, if you're talking anything that leans into, all right, let's let, if you're talking about other anabolic compounds that support fat loss, I would say Anivar over testosterone, yes. Okay. I would say testosterone as my foundation, number one. Not disputing the hormonal balance side of things, but if you're talking about pure fat loss support, I would say Anivar. It wasn't, there is some, isn't there some research suggesting that Anivar may actually increase T4 to T3 conversion as well? I think there is some info out there about Anivar specifically helping with some degree of fat loss. Are you really going to see a difference though? Like I, I would never say like, Hey, let's take Anivar to lose fat. You know what I mean? Like if you get a little bit of extra fat loss. Yeah. And if you get a little extra fat loss from it for, or from any compound, then I'd say, Hey, more power to us. But I would say I'm starting with testosterone as my foundation. The number one thing is this is that it, you know, and this is generally guys are on TRT or cruising anyways now, but as you diet down, naturally your test levels, you natural guys, natural competitors will see this, your test levels start to go down with time. Your thyroid levels can go down too. I've known natural guys who competed, you know, naturally for years and then ended up, you know, ironically on TRT because they ended up crashing themselves from competing naturally for so many. And I've seen plenty of bloods from 90s close to show date that have low test. Yeah. Yeah. Very common, low fat, low fat intake, all detrimental to hormone production in both male and female. Female is not sensitive to it, but also male and female. But okay. Second compound. Second compound. I would put Anivar in there then. I'd be good with that. So Anivar or since you mentioned Anivar, I'll, I'll talk about the compounds that are starting to come back around a little bit, but we've had problems getting. Master Run would probably be my number one beyond testosterone to support muscle mass and support that cosmetic look while we're dieting. Mastover Primo. Yep. Mastover Primo for me, at least. I like it better. I know you do too. Yeah, I do. I'm just curious. I've just always found the, the look of it. I found I can't, it just, there's something cosmetic about the look of Master Run that I've seen with people that to me, it just, I've had better success with it. It's kind of, to me, it's kind of a personal thing, you know? And part of it too is, at least historically, it was easier to get, because I'm going back 15 years, 20 years now. I didn't always trust that the Primo was real. The Primo would come in 100 milligrams. People don't talk about this a lot, but I found Primo to be an extremely painful shot. I mean, I know it's not all painful, but I've had some pretty painful Primo versus, you know, that's at 100 milligrams. Mast and F8 was at 200 milligrams. And I just felt like Mast, in the past, historically, it was a lot less likely to be faked in my personal experience. So I had had my earlier experience with Mast over Primo, and I guess, in part because of that, I found that it's been a great addition. I'll also throw this at you, Dave. A lot of the guys nowadays, they're not pushing a lot of tests. So how much Primo can you actually run if you're only running, say, 200 milligrams of tests on a cut? It depends on where you're going with your cut. If your cut is a tidy up to look good for the beach, then I'd be more concerned about correct estrogen management. If your cut is to get on stage, then I'd be less concerned about estrogen management because, actually, for those last couple of weeks, low estrogen is not going to do you any real harm. Yeah. It's going to help keep you tight and dry. I would agree with that. It would depend on whether this was a lifestyle cut, which is more health-driven, or a pre-stage cut, which, don't get me wrong, health is still a factor, but the ultimate deciding factor is condition. You know, when we do a lot of risky stuff in order to achieve that level of condition. So if that's the case, then it changes the requirement around estrogen. Yeah. Um, but, other than that, I would have said, yeah, I mean, I'm sort of one of our, I get tests as a base compound and the requirement for needing it. I thought we were just talking about just compounds who singularly add to the situation. Okay. How about? Last of a Primo, possibly Primo, possibly Winstrell. Dread. No. No. I don't, actually. No. Don't get me wrong. Trent. Trent Baloney can have a lovely cosmetic effect and hardening effect in the last few weeks, but I don't think it's a compound that you should lean into earlier. And I don't think it's a compound you can foundation your diet around either. 12 weeks out. Trent. 20 weeks out. Trent. It will help you lose fat, Dave. It's been showing. You'll get lean around, Trent, too. It will also help send you bonkers. Yeah. It's been showing. No, I'm with you, man. But Trent. But you said Winstrell. We'll get back to the Trent. Winstrell. Yeah, Winstrell's a great. So here's the thing with my thought on Orals. We can only run them for so long. So I usually just use that at the end for that additional, like, oh, my God, look. You know? Yeah, but I mean, I'm the same with Trent. I would only use Trent. I'd be hard pushed to run Trent for more than six weeks. I would normally only run it for four. And what kind of doses are we talking at that time frame? Oh, three gram. Trent Ace a day. Oh, God. No, probably. It depends. But I would probably be balancing somewhere between 200 and 400 milligram, depending on the individual. If it's more of a strength application, I might be leaning to the ace a little bit more. But, yeah, I'm very – it's not so much in the dieting element, but when it starts – when you're talking about Trent as a strength performance, it soon becomes negative with the toxicity of the drug and the stress it can cause. So you do have to be a little bit – but I don't – it's not I don't like Trent. And I think that's a misconception of my thoughts on it. I think people are far too blasé about its capabilities. I think it's overused. And I think the problem is by the time they realize what it can actually do, it's too fucking late. The problems are there. Yeah. Yeah, I could see that. You know, we had somebody comment on the live stream or excuse me, on the last episode. I don't remember what we said about Trent, but we talked about 100 milligrams of Trent, and I think we said something about, like, that's not too strong of a dose. And he said, well – it was kind of like a, I don't know, negative comment. He was like, well, you saying that it's not that strong of a dose is just your personal opinion based off of your personal experience. Which it is. Which it is, yeah. It is and it isn't. It is and it isn't. Because I'm also going – and I don't remember saying that specifically, but I would say that part of – if I were to say that 100 milligrams of something was a mild dose, I'm not just talking about the side effects. I'm also talking about the results. And if you want to talk about the results I've seen, well, let's talk about the fact that I have literally coached full-time for the last decade. So me saying that isn't the same as a guy who's had just his own personal experience, I've honestly seen, and you have too, you know, especially with eval, hundreds if not thousands of people using these compounds at various doses, and that's why we're doing a podcast about it. I'm not just sharing my own personal experience. You know what I mean? So that's my response to him. Yeah, that's a fair comment. He has a point, but it is a fair comment. But, I mean, Jesus Christ, some people get mental breakdowns on EQ. You know what I mean? They're definitely not a candidate for Trent, are they? God, no. God, no. Dude, I used to get bad anxiety, too, and EQ never bothered me for anxiety, ever. Not once. But we talk to people. We have people in the comments that are like, yeah, man, I took a small dose, and it drove me crazy. So what about EQ? Let's go to EQ next as a cutting compound. We kind of skipped over Winstroll, so I feel like we have to go back to that. But what about EQ in a cut? Possibly low dose. But I would more look at EQ as a viable anabolic that's going to give me a good anti-oestrogen effect rather than the anabolic action of the compound itself. So it would be more its secondary actions I'd look at. I wouldn't particularly lean into it as a compound that I would consider it more. But I do think that if hemoglobin gets too high, and obviously EQ has a tendency to push it more than the others, that can start to have a negative impact on the cosmetic look of somebody. Sure. Sure. So I would say as an estrogen management compound, if you want more anabolic and you want that secondary action, low dosing, fine. As a main compound to base the diet on, not that it can't be used because it definitely can be, but it's not one I would lean into. Yeah. Yeah. I don't mind it so much. And in fact, so I think kind of the older school approach, which I've often followed in a contest prep is that if somebody wanted to start out a prep with test, a lot of times I'll do guys with test only, maybe we'll do test and EQ. And then we kind of see, well, how do they look on the EQ? And if we wanted to pull it out, getting closer to the show, you know, maybe five, six weeks out would be a good time to get rid of it. Maybe that's when I swap it out for trend. For instance, I have had scenarios where I'd keep it in all the way. Like we just, we don't see any kind of negatives from it. And if anything, you're, you might get a little bit more fullness, having more anabolic in there, um, you know, if I wanted fullness, I'd go either super draw or oxy. Yeah. But you, that's going to be for the, for a show scenario. That's not going to be for a constantly, like I'm going to look great through the summer scenario. Right. But I look great anyway. So. Yeah. We got that point. You got that point. And I'm with you on the, the estrogen control. I think that if we kind of get to our, like whatever, whatever level of anabolics we want to use, if we factor equipoise versus just more tasks, maybe we bring that test down and we have a test EQ balance in there. Maybe we can manage estrogen all the way in that way. I could see that being beneficial. And I don't, I just don't see it as taking away from the cut unless like you said, you were start to have that negative side effects. I don't see, but I mean, as we've already discussed, you could technically cut on any compound on the planet if you wanted to. So. Yeah. But I think if you're talking about the average user who wants an idiot proof step-by-step guide as to what drugs to use in a court, the ones we've mentioned so far are the sort of hard definites. EQ, I sort of put a little bit more. You potentially need a little bit more experience. So it's sort of middle range. And then obviously stuff like D-Ball and Decker are, you know, far out the other way. Still viable, but not compounds I would naturally lean in towards. I've used EQ and a cut more this year than I ever have in my life, I think, because of the unavailability of high quality mast. So because we haven't had that. And then Primo is kind of scarce or very expensive. I'm not talking about myself, Dave. All right. Okay. So. Yeah, of course. I'm a hundred percent natty. Always have been. I know. It shows. All right. Back to Winstrel. We kind of, we glossed over the Winstrel because I mentioned trend. Yeah. I'd put any of the orals toward the tail end. I wouldn't see him as being like a really good, like meat and potatoes going to run this all the way through my cut, you know. Okay. Let me put it this way. You're allowed one compound, six to eight week cut. What are you picking? One compound, six to eight week cut. So assuming we have test in there. No. I would say. You're allowed one compound. You're allowed one compound. Okay. Then test off the room. We'll be test. You wouldn't go oral? No. No. I'd want to. Hmm. Hmm. It's a good question. You think of it, innit? We're talking anabolics, right? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. No T3 or Glenn or anything like that. If you had one compound, short cut, six to eight weeks, just holiday prep. Let's call it a holiday prep. Yeah, I'd still go with test because I don't want to feel like garbage, man. How about you? I'd consider test or I would consider Anavaro or Winstrom. I'd never consider any other injectables outside of test though. Okay. I think any of the other injectables I would probably want to pair with test. Yeah. I'd probably just. And mainly probably because the dosing is much lower with the oral. So it's, I get there is liver stress and everything else that comes with it. I get that we're going to create a low estrogen environment. But for a short six weeks, simple, you know, guys not done a lot, just want to look good on the beach sort of thing. I think they're very viable compounds. All right. Anything else we should mention here? Because we're not getting into like the actual cutting compounds like. Well, no, because we're not talking about it. We're talking about the anabolics. We're just talking about anabolics today. You did mention super drawl. And I mean, there's super drawl and halo and anadrol could be used. But they're very short window drugs. Yeah. They're two week, ten day sort of things. Three are a big portion. You know what I mean? They're not drugs you're going to lean into for a cut. They're drugs you're going to lean into for a cosmetic appearance at the back end of your cut rather than actually supporting the fat loss process. So let's say this, Dave. Let's say that. Okay. So we have a lot of guys that can that compete that listen. But then we also have, I think, even more guys who don't compete, which is probably representative of the masses. You know what I mean? Like as far as people in the gym go, there's a lot of people that are just there because they want to look their best. They're not getting on stage. Let's say that you are. You all right? What are you looking for? That's where Kiffner's cabbage is. And I was just wondering where he was. Okay. Let's say that. So you're not getting ready for a show. You're getting ready for your 10-year high school reunion. And you want to look your absolute best for it. You've been cutting on tests and masks. You listen to Dave and Scott all the way through. You've been monitoring your labs before the cycle. You know what your estrogen looks like now. You're looking freaking good. And you've got two weeks left. Actually, no. Excuse me. Let me just say this. So when would you add in an oral like Superdrawal or Halo or Anadrol to peak for that? We're going to add it in. But I'm saying when would you add it in? In my opinion, it's completely pointless because you're in close. No, we're going to say it's a pool party. Oh, I've got a pool party. I would actually not get the Anadrol or the Halo. I would spend the money on hiring a Rolls-Royce and then no one would give a shit what you look like. That's a good point. Yeah. You could rent a Ferrari, you know? Yeah. Then no one gives a shit out of it. Yeah. Yeah. Just rent a Ferrari. Just pull up in there. All right. When would you add that in, though? Would you – like, let's say that this is – you know, I'm your client. That's what I'm doing. We've got, you know, 10 weeks. And I'm telling you, listen, I'm running mast and test and I've got some Anadrol. How lean are we? Oh, we're getting – we're taking out all the stops, man. I'm leaner than I've ever been in my life. Right. If we have proper peel to the bone, I'll drop in on it all probably 10 days, maybe two weeks max out from. Okay. What kind of dose would we do? I'd probably start with 50, see how you react. Probably won't need any more. Could push it higher depending on how big your physique is. Oh, okay. But if you're sub 220, I don't think you'd need more than 50. Superdroll, probably 30. Halo, I probably wouldn't bother with. No? No. I think Halo's more a proper stage competition compound, whereas Superdroll and Oxy are going to give you that nice, big, round, full bellies. Halo's going to be more of a hardening density sort of appearance, which isn't probably going to be as noticeable to the untrained eye. Or as attractive either to your former high school classmate females that you're trying to get interested in. They don't care how many veins are in your neck. The whole reason for going for a school reunion is to stand there and go, I did better than you, isn't it? That's the whole premise about it. It's fuck all about reunion. It's all about seeing who actually succeeded in life. I mean, I know it's not that the core of it is supposed to be about meeting up with old friends, but what it actually becomes is a fucking show-off fest of who's made the most frigging money. Did you go to your high school reunion? No. Not meeting you. No. I don't think I was invited either. I can't think of anything more tedious. Yeah, right? I figured you were going to say, besides this podcast. I've not spoke to these people for 35 years. Yeah. Why the hell do I want to go stand in an old school hall with them and chat bollocks? Yeah. Pulling up my phone. I used to look like this. It's just like, no, I'm not. You don't get me wrong. If there was people I'd stayed in contact with, then yes, I probably would go, but I don't. Yeah. And it's nothing more cryptic than that. Just life's moved on. You know what I mean? I don't have those sort of relationships with the people I went to school with. I've got no issue with them. I haven't fallen out with them. It's just life's moved on. Yeah. Do you ever hear of Crono Ball? Yes. Crono Ball 5s. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Cornelius Perkins with us. He says, Anivar Solo all day, every day. Monkey nuts. Yes. I remember the Crono Ball. Loved them. Also, T-Man is with us and he says, Tell Dave. Tell Dave I love him. You got an admirer. All right. We've got a bunch of listener questions. And guys, if you want to take part in the next show, we'd love to have you post your questions up and we will tackle them then. Plus, of course, all your comments and all that stuff. It helps to boost our programming and the algorithm. And we appreciate the heck out of you guys. You guys have been freaking awesome on leaving us comments. We appreciate it. We have a bunch of questions from the previous episode, Dave. And I also, before we go to, I want to hear about the Arnold Classic. Here's a conversation I never thought we'd be having. Guys, let's talk about whey concentrate. I always avoided whey concentrate. I just assumed it's going to mess up my gut. It's going to give me bloating. All the stuff that people complain about. So I stuck with isolate and I paid a lot more. But I tried True Nutrition's whey protein concentrate. And look, I had zero issues. No bloating. No digestion problems. Nothing. So the reason I did this was mainly because of cost. But then diving deeper, it turns out using concentrate is more beneficial than just saving money. Concentrate isn't as stripped down as whey isolate. Keeping more of the naturally occurring fractions. Things like immunoglobulins and lactoferrin that support immune health. Nothing crazy, but it is a benefit that I totally wasn't aware of. At the end of the day, it mixes well. It tastes good. And it's doing the job just fine for me. And the big thing. I'm literally paying like $13 a pound. Which is a lot better than I was paying for isolate. All I did was use their subscription discount and stack that with our discount code THINK to get another 10% off. And boom. About $13. Go check it out at True Nutrition. Use our code THINK. Save 10%. Pick up some whey concentrate. It worked for me. It might work for you. And hey, if you want to go in light at first, just buy a pound. See what you think. Immunoglobulins. Immunoglobulins. Immunoglobulins. Man, that's a hard word to say. He asked about SEO and insulin. He said, is there any benefit to maybe a smaller guy using either and or SEO and insulin? Or is that something that's mainly going to be reserved for bigger dudes? SEO is a dirty word in our industry. And yet it's probably, at least on a pro circuit, used more than people realize. Yeah. I don't think that it's used in the way that people think, though. It's not used in a way to develop large muscular frames. It's used to help with detail and balance in certain muscle groups when somebody's struggling with a muscle that might not be quite as balanced. You know, rib, del cap, things like that. My experience of SEO is one shot in each of my cars which stopped me from walking from a week. That's it. So beyond that, I know very little or have any real world experience about it. I don't have an issue with SEO. If someone wants to use it, that's their thing. And I think, yes, it could potentially be beneficial to somebody irrespective of their muscular build. I think it lends itself more to smaller muscle groups, to sort of less complex muscle groups, just because of the issues around dispersal and everything else. But, yeah, I mean, it's each to their own. The only issue I have with SEO is when you lie about it. You know, if you're going to use it, that's fine. But just be honest about it. Don't fucking bullshit. Yeah. I think SEO has got a bad rap because of the people that have abused it and developed very disproportionate looking physiques and muscles. And they're not particularly doing anything hard in the gym where you've got people. I mean, LeVron used quite a lot. But, you know, there's no denying he did the work in the gym. He did the diet and everything else. And he used it to polish off his physique. So I think used in the right way, it can be a useful tool. The only danger is the more you use it, you tend to get this loss of crisp detail, irrespective of how lean you are. It seems to have this effect on detailing. With insulin, I don't look at insulin as a particularly big mass builder. I look at insulin more as a supportive drug when you're trying to push the off-season food-wise. Because I know a few people that have used it in dieting phases and actually done quite well with it because it forced BD levels low, which have forced obviously better fat loss. But I think that's a little bit more tricky to manage if you're not experienced. But I'm not a fan of slow-acting insulin. I like fast. I like it pulls throughout the day, particularly with key meals, if not with all meals. Yeah. Just to drive nutrition in. But it's funny, actually. It's a client messaging me this morning about, you know, could I use insulin to spot increase the muscle? And it's like, no, it doesn't work like that. Yeah. But yeah, I don't see an issue with it. If you're at the point with experience. Look, at the end of the day, with a small frame, you've got to limit to how much muscle you're going to build for your frame. As a big frame, it takes you longer, but you've got more potential for muscular growth. Right. So, you know, if you're at where you are and these compounds are going to help you make that next step forward, then there's all means. They're not exclusive to competitors. They're not exclusive. Just make sure that you are informed and you use them to the best of your ability. Don't enter it silly, silly. I would say leave the SEO for the more advanced guys. And the reason I'm saying that is because you, you, it's almost like this. I also wouldn't tell a brand new guy to focus on bringing up his biceps. I would suggest you focus on the big foundational muscle groups, your chest, your back, and your, your legs. If you can grow, you can do a good squat pattern movement, be it squats or hacks or pendulum. If you can grow the crap out of your, your quads in general, your hamstrings are generally going to grow to a degree with that. If you can grow your, and your calves are too. If you can grow your chest, then your shoulders and your triceps are going to grow. If you can grow your back, your biceps are going to grow. Traps are going to grow. So, so build that foundation first, and then we can worry about the details later. And I would say SEO, I would put in that same category. On the other hand, insulin, I, I could see, dude, especially if somebody was, let's say Dave, somebody's like, let's take an, uh, the example of a guy who has like a fast metabolism. He's walking a ton. He's doing 22,000 steps every day at work. I've got him on two cups. We've got him on like a hundred grams of carbs every meal, six times a day. He still has his abs and we're doing 50 grams of carbs intro workout in a bagel after he trains with his shake. Like that guy, even if he's not huge, I bet he could get a little further with some pre-workout insulin, you know? And I, I'd be okay with, even if he's not that advanced with using it on the other hand, you know, let's take a guy who's 250 pounds. He's, he's lean now, but we had to like destroy him to get him this lean. We, I might be a little less hesitant or a little more hesitant to use it with him when I know he's had this propensity to get fat easily. Fat going. Yeah. Fat going. All right. What else do we have here? Oh, and there were some comments about the Arnold people who were there. So I can't wait to get to that stuff. Um, what about this one? Oh, this guy emailed me guys. Don't email me questions, please. Cause I generally can't get to them, but he just emailed me right before we recorded. Um, put them here on YouTube or on Patreon. Those are the two places that we check every time before we record. Hey, Scott, wondering if I could get this question on drugs and stuff with Dave. I took my first cycle last year for 12 weeks. I was doing two injections per week of 250 milligrams per shot. My next cycle is going to be 600 tests, 300 mast, 300 NPP per week, but injecting every other day on my first cycle. I had pretty serious back spots to the point that I couldn't wear thick shirts. And I'm hoping my moving to injections every other day rather than two times a week will be better. Um, if you have any more advice, um, as this is a serious issue for me and took months to go away, even after the cycle was over. So you're going from a 500 milligram cycle where you failed to manage estrogen particularly well and ended up with a load of acne to a 12, 1.2 gram cycle as your second cycle. With multiple classes of compounds. Whoa, pull back, boyo. Pull back. Way too much. Not needed. Yeah. Just, I, I would, I would look at something. I think something on the lines of 300 tests, 300 mast or, or something in that sort of ilk would be more than adequate for you. Oh yeah. That, that, that's definitely, um, jumping in the deep end very, very quickly. Um, don't be rushed to bring the doses up. You don't need to. Don't get me wrong. You will grow off that. Sorry. I didn't realize word phone was still switched on. He will get more side effects too. There is no question in my mind. He is going to get acne. Like he didn't know how to control it before, man. Yeah. It's, I didn't, I, I appreciate it. What he's probably thinking is that adding in the, the, the other drugs is going to help him from a point of view of estrogen management. And yes, there is, there is an element of that. It possibly will. But also if the DHT has been driving sebaceous oil production, then you, you're adding to the problem in another way. So I would, um, pull it back. Right. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That was 500 test alone. This is 600 test plus 300 mast and 300 NPP. Like I honestly, man, I, I would agree with you 110%. I mean, gosh, I mean, if he went to 300, even let's call it, let's call it. If he just goes to 400 tests in 300 mast, that's a substantial jump. That's 200 milligrams more than he had used before. And he's going to be able to, yeah, he's going to be able to manage that more easily. Maybe that every other day shots will help, but listen, brother, you're prone to acne. And just because you're going to switch it to every other day, it is not going to be the, like in most cases, it's not going to necessarily be the cure for somebody who's prone to it. Nope. It's going to take, and I guess, I guess my point too, is that with what you're saying, which I agree with not increasing as much, that's going to make it easier to potentially manage. Right. And what is he going to need to do to manage besides going to these every other day shots? Oh, I would definitely look at checking. I personally, I would, I would probably run. Novedex for the first five weeks, just as a gyno preventive measure. I'd be a little bit wary of running estrogen management any stronger than that, because we don't know where it's going to put you. And then at five weeks, I would check. But you also need to understand that if you are using mast, it potentially isn't going to lower the estrogen. It's more going to block it. So you would also have to use a little bit of, am I getting water retention? Am I seeing problems? And then there's other things as well. And this isn't, I don't mean this in any way as a nasty sense, but, you know, when you train, are you showering straight afterwards? Or are you driving home in a sweaty T-shirt, you know, sitting in a car and things like that? Because if you're prone to acne, all these little things all add up. So, you know, make sure when you finish training, you get cleaned as quick as possible into dry, clean clothes, because that's going to definitely stop trapped and poor blockages and stuff like that, which are only going to exasperate and add to the acne problems. Yeah. And you've talked before about head and shoulders, shampoo on the acne. It's surprisingly effective. I mean, it's not going to deal with proper major outbreaks, but it's surprisingly effective. Nozoral shampoo, 2%, can be beneficial if it's DHT related, potentially. And then, yeah, I mean, my thought would be just try to manage it. And listen, if he starts breaking, here's one thing I would do a little bit differently. I hear the tow truck drivers here, I think. Victoria's handling it. We're getting our car towed, Dave. Let me see here. Yep. We got a tow truck driver out in front of the house right now. Mm-hmm. Because he broke your car. Yeah. I think Victoria's dealing with it. All right. Oops. There we go. I would probably start with an AI. That'd be the one thing I'd do different. Okay. But a low dose. You know, if he's on 450 tests, I might do, I don't know, because he's had acne issues, I might go as high as 0.5 milligrams of arimidex two times a week. Or if he's doing every other day shots, 0.25 milligrams of arimidex, I'd say three times a week. Would be where I'd probably go with it. I think the other potential here is also what was he doing in his previous, was he running an AI? Yeah. Before. Because that will shed some light on whether one is required in the second run. If he wasn't running anything at all, then there may be less need for it in the sense of the mass being in play. But if he was running one and was still having problems, then he's probably going to need a more aggressive estrogen cell. Yeah. All right. Up next. Oh, one for you, Dave. Got a question for Dave on drugs and stuff. I think this is from Patreon, actually. There is quite a lot of talk on social media about the carnivore diet and low-carb diets. Is a carnivore-type diet a recipe for bad blood work when combined with PEDs? Has Dave seen any carnivore blood work? Thanks. Keep up the great work. Yes. Cholesterol is absolutely horrendous, but that is not really a... It's keto or carnivore. Your lipid profile is probably going to be absolutely horrendous. That doesn't necessarily mean it's bad. Okay. So things like coconut oil will screw out. The problem with the carnivore diet and keto with both these approaches is that a lot of people don't actually approach the diet correctly. So a lot of... I know loads of people that have done keto and it's sausage, bacon, cheese and eggs. And it's like, no, you know what I mean? Come on, guys. It's got to be, you know, animal fats have a mix of fats in them, saturated and unsaturated. So you do have to be sensible about your intake. Yeah. Now, Scott, you actually might remember this or maybe better help me with this because I can't remember the details of this. But there was a study published quite recently, last 6, 12 months. Three guys from at least active within the industry, carnivore diet, and they actually didn't report it correctly. They effectively lied. Oh, you're kidding me. No. And they were saying that the carnivore diet... They basically were using it to support carnivore diet as a positive thing. And what they actually didn't state... Now, granted, it is a study. It is not law. It is just an experiment that's being recorded. But I believe there was a significant rise in plaque in everybody who are talking about the carnivore diet. Okay. Now, how well adhered to the carnivore diet was, I don't know. Lots of people have spoken to me saying how they feel so much better on it. They feel much healthier on it. They don't seem to have the problems. But generally speaking, what I do see is quite adulterated lipids. Okay. Like I said, that isn't always necessarily a reflection of the fact that things are wrong. So, it's a difficult one for me to be certain about as it currently stands. But I am a great believer when it comes to diet, despite not taking my own advice, that variety is the key. And any diet that restricts you down to low sources or limits the number of sources that you can use is never going to be particularly healthy in the long term. Okay. Yeah. I would say 100%, Dave, that when I'm putting a diet together, I want to try to keep in all the macros if possible. And anytime you remove any one of those macros, you then, I think, are at more risk for skewing your blood work, skewing your lipids. But, you know, the way I look at it is that if it's a means to an end that if we're using, say, a modified keto, and I call it modified keto, I think is the term because it's like bodybuilder keto where it's still high protein, moderate fat, not high fat, and then low carb. It's a means to an end. We're not planning to do this for the rest of your life. No. We're using this to get you into good shape, and then the plan is ultimately to get you to that point where your body can then handle more carbohydrates and be sensitive to them and, you know, not explode in the process. Yeah. No, I agree. So there is a difference between a diet phase that is a particular style to a diet that is a lifestyle choice. Like I say, I know someone who's been keto for decades, but even then, he's like, he says he's keto, but I know he has carb refeeds on occasion and stuff like that. So it's difficult to be certain with these things because I just don't know enough or have seen enough data to be comprehensive with it. But from a point of view of the actual question, does it affect blood work? Yes. Yeah. How quickly should you swap out short esters like NPP to trend and how good test, how about, I think he means, test probe to susten on? I'm a bit confused. So if he's, say he's on NPP and he wants to switch to trend, does, is there going to be any overlap in there where like, you got to stop the NPP for, you know, X amount of days before you start the trend or you just switch to the trend? You don't have to stop it. There will be an overlap if you don't. People seem to think that things like NPP and trend ace are out of the system within two, three days and they're not. The half-life is two, three days. So they're probably going to take a week to 10 days before they're actually clear. So, but unless you're using large amounts, I wouldn't have suspected there to be any problem about the fact that the compounds will overlap for a week or so. So, I mean, if you want to be a bit more careful, you know, stop your previous, leave it five days and then start your secondary. Yeah, I'm with you on that, man. But I feel like, especially if guys are using like, say, 300 NPP, it's not that high of a dose and he's going to switch to, say, 200 trend. I'd just stop the NPP one day, start the trend the next. Now, I mean, a few days at most, but yeah, I wouldn't be too concerned. Yeah, you're going to have a week of higher levels than you have had, but it's not going to be there for long. And I feel like the NPP is going out as the trend is going up. So there's kind of. There is still the accumulation effect. Yeah, even with a short act in Esther. Yes, definitely. And then what about going from fast acting test to slow acting, long acting test? I usually go the other way around. Like if I were to, you know what I mean? I'd usually start with the, I don't know, but I hardly use Pro. I think you need to taper unless the doses are significant. If the doses are significant, then yes, you'd probably need to do a little bit of a taper on the slow acting. But other than that, I wouldn't bother. But yeah, I mean, I have seen, in fact, I've just done a cycle for somebody where they've got a very short window. So we've done a little bit of a, as it happens, a little bit of a frontload with prop. Okay. So that we've got peak levels quicker. And then we've tailored the prop as the end has come up. Okay. And then we're doing the reverse at the other end. So that we can keep this quite high anabolic value for the fact, because we've only got six weeks in which to do the cycle. So, okay. So, yeah, depending on doses. But yeah, even then, the taper would only have to be a week or two at the most. Question to trigger Dave for the next episode. Ask Dave what he thinks about TRT. Test, Reda, and Trend. It's just TRT, Dave. That's it, bro. I'm only on TRT. People have to play with my emotional state. Why did I screen cap this one? Oh, yeah. Just a question for you. So the comment was this. This was on a couple episodes ago when we were talking about the underdose test and all of that. He said, guess I'm lucky with my connections. My test, 250, was overdosed. Jano tested it at 265. And the next guy, Dean, Dean Winchester, says, sorry, you can't go off of that. They can pay Jano to get a good, to give out a good score. Only two ways to really know. Take the product and get your blood work done or send yourself to Jano yourself and get a legit number. And somebody else commented, but it's Jano verified, LOL. I wanted to ask you. So, yeah, if it comes directly from Jano, I personally believe it. Do you think, Dave, now that we've had him on the show, we've looked at a lot of his reports. Do you think, do you believe in your heart that he would take, say, get like a payout to give somebody a good number? It would seem foolish to me. Yeah. The size of his business now, the level at which he's trading, the level of licensing of which he currently holds, it would seem foolish to me. It would seem someone chasing pennies when they're making pounds. Yeah. You know, it just, no. Don't get me wrong. I mean, I don't know 100%. He seems legit. He's consistent. And what I know from the early days as in actual lived experience of him and what he was doing in the early days was exactly what he told us in the interview. There was no bits where I was like, well, that's not what was happening at the time or that's different than what I, you know what I mean? It all fit exactly with what he was saying. Yeah. Stories about his friend doing the testing initially for him were correct, which is what I had originally heard. And like he says, he's got, you know, a large workforce now. It would seem stupid. And also, I think the stories would be much more widespread if that was genuinely going on. And I mean, I know labs that have had shitty results and they've published those shitty results. Now, why would they be doing that if they could buy a good result? Yeah, that's true, too. So, no, I don't. I do think he's legit. I do, too. I think people just like to bitch. All right. We've got a couple more here. Longtime listener of the show, and I really appreciate the work you do. I wanted to ask if you could discuss compounds or PEDs that might support bone growth or bone anabolism, including improved bone recovery and bone mineral density. I'm particularly interested in the context of combat sports, such as MMA, boxing, and kickboxing, where athletes aim to make structures like the tibia, hands, and knuckles stronger and more resistant to repeated impact. I am wondering whether there are any substances that could promote greater bone mineralization and calcification, potentially improving long-term durability of these areas. Thank you for the great work that you do. Good punctuation through all of that. It was easy to read. Thank you. So, I actually thought he was originally talking about bone length increasing, which, no, not happening, not after total bone closure. Yeah. I actually think, yes, DECA has shown to have some positive impacts on bone density, but I actually think that the impact, the micro breaks that you get from training are going to be the most effective way to increase your bone density. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Bone loading. They say exercise, resistance training is like the number one thing for women that have osteoporosis. Mm. And I do think that, and DECA is prescribed for women for osteoporosis as well, but I do think- I think all anabolics. Not so much now. Yeah, it's not so much now. I mean, it's probably- I think all anabolics will improve bone density. I'm pretty confident. I would have said that, actually, you're probably better going down the strike route, you know, the hand strike route or the elbow strike, you know, just impacting those areas and building up that bone density. It's painful and it takes time, but you're probably going to get better results that way than trying to go down a compound route. I think he's already doing that stuff, and so he's wondering, like, how do I do it faster? What can I add to it? So I would say gear, absolutely, anabolics. And growth hormone is freaking astounding for bone density growth. Okay. I did a little bit of reading on it. You got a study on it? What's that? You got a study on that? Yeah, I actually have my own study. So I had a tooth implant a few years back, and when they do a tooth implant, first they pull the tooth, the old tooth out, right? And then from there- Well, generally, yes, they can't implant a new tooth when the old one's still there. Exactly. They explain that to me, right? And then they inject that area with PRP to enhance bone recovery. They want the jawbone to get super dense, super recovered, super strong, so that when they then drill into that jawbone, they can plant threads in there, so they can put a post in there and then put the tooth on the post. So I go in to get this done, and they put PRP in the jaw and all that. And they say to me, and I say to the doctor, I was like, hey, I'm using growth hormone right now. Would there be any contradictions or should this help? And he said, well, you know what? I'll get back to you on that. I'll give you a call later. So he calls me up, and he's like, you know what? I'm not seeing any contraindications. In fact, it says it may even be beneficial, okay? That's the end of the story, right? Like, we don't talk about it. I make it to the appointment, then three months later, the jaw is all healed up. He's there to drill the hole in my freaking jawbone. And when we're done with it, he said, Scott, I have never drilled into a jawbone that was that dense in my life. He said, I have to think, you know, you told me you were using growth hormone. I have to think that because of the growth hormone, he said, I almost couldn't drill into your jaw. Like, I was using everything I had. I even had to change the bit that he was using. He was like, I nearly broke the bit on your jaw. It was so dense. Yes. It's like, so I think the growth hormone was maybe almost too much, in his opinion. I was like, oh, okay. So there you go. Also, vitamin D will increase calcium storage. So vitamin D is used in bone density. But you also, you have to be careful because you don't want too much calcium storage that's going to lead to plaque. So there's a balance in there, you know? All right, one more. Scott, question for you and Dave. The golden rule of thumb before cycling is to be under 15% body fat. And it is often said that there is no benefit to cycle above that body fat. However, I see incredible transformations to show the contrary. What is your take on this? Thanks and love the show. The higher body fat, the less effective your anabolic cycle is going to be. But that doesn't mean it's not going to be effective. Diet plays a significant role. Probably the most important factor, in my opinion, is going to be the training. So I don't think the leaner you are, yes, you'll probably get more out of the anabolics. But ultimately, it's going to be driven by your training. So I don't think looking at people without knowing every aspect of what they're doing, you can make any fair judgment on it at all. So I think, well, I know once I've been below 15% body fat, but for the bulk of my growth period, I was definitely above that. And I had no problem growing. But then again, there is the genetic element of the individual as well here. So it does tend to be more individual than that. But yes, you can grow a higher percent of body fat. But a couple of factors. So androgens will get tied up in fat. It doesn't mean that you're going to completely waste them, but you will get some loss in fat. Two, generally speaking, in a bulk phase, we're going to be in a calorie excess. If you're already fat, there is a tendency to get even fatter. Yeah. Not necessarily. You can recomp if you're tight on your diet and everything else is on point. So a lot of it does depend on how you're approaching it. But they're the two main things that you want to be wary of. If you're starting fat and you're increasing calories, there's a strong chance you're going to get fatter. If you are fat, there's a strong chance that your insulin sensitivity is not that great in the first place, which is only going to help promote fat storage. And then obviously you're putting a calorie excess on that. Typically when you're trying to grow. But you can recomp. You can gain muscle in a deficit to some extent. You're not going to gain muscle when you're very low percentage body fat. But up to a decent, well, definitely above 10%, you can still gain muscle and lose fat with no real issues. So there's a few factors to consider. It's not as clear cut as that. But like a lot of things, it gets simplified. So it's easy for people to just grasp it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Because like one of the, I do think I'll say this, Dave, that I do think there are some people that their body just wants to sit at a higher body fat percentage. Which, you know, and if you, if you have to like really squeeze a guy down to get them to 12%, like he has to work for that. It's going to, yeah, it might not be ideal for one guy. Whereas another guy, he might be sitting there perfectly. And then as far as growing in a deficit goes, I think it has to do with how much food you're able to eat, you know, because I've had situations like one guy who we dieted him down and he's at a point where we're building the diet back up to keep him full and he's just burning through it. So he's eating like, you know, 500 grams of carbs and just burning through it nonstop. It's like, well, I think you're probably growing now, you know, and he's super lean. Like at the time, the guy was stage lean, but yeah, it took a lot to get to that. So I think it's individual. There is definitely an individual element. Definitely. Dave, do you think you could have reached your goals if you were leaner with less test? Would you have been like on maybe a TRT plus cycle? I don't think I would have been on a TRT cycle, but the whole idea of the experiment was to push drugs really high to see what they did. So it would have been, it wouldn't have been what the experiment was if I had a used low doses. What about we did like under construction three, the TRT plus edition? What about if you go and jump off a short cliff? Dave is going to run just a replacement dose of trend with a little bit of red, a little bit of test, and he's going to recomp his way back to four 15. I would die. That is the reality of that. If I tried to get back up to four 15, I would die. Let's not do that then. Oh, Arnold classic. We had somebody, uh, George UK was with us and he said, what did he say there? He was like, I saw Dave. He said, uh, Samson is a guest posing in Pittsburgh. What did he say here? Uh, I can't find it, but he was like, I saw here it is. Arnold classic. I was there. I passed the evil booth and saw Dave sitting there having a chat. He didn't stop and talk to you. Uh, mutant booth looked to be buzzing. And then he says, Andrew was awesome. Martin wasn't Patrick and Brandon were great. Martin looked natty. I honestly, I was really busy over the weekend. I didn't look at all the pictures. Um, but I did hear that, uh, Brandon Curry did like, look absolutely incredible. Shout out to Andrew Jack for that. And tell me about your experience. What was it? What was the booth? Like what's, what's on your hand there? There's a red spot on your hand. Were you, did you get a fight? No, I said, what'd you do? I caught it. Uh, I was working on truck. I'm just caught it on someone's tooth. Yeah, definitely. Yeah. The lead up to Arnold's was incredibly challenging. Um, in lots of different ways. There was problem after problem. Um, some unnecessary problems, some just life throwing shit. Um, we took the van down Wednesday morning because we were told we had to be there early. And we were late because of traffic. And I was dreading there being like, oh, you can't get in now. You've missed your build slot and all this. And you know what? From the moment they arrived, they were brand new. Um, straight in floor manager located us up. They gave us an extra meter and a half of floor space across nine meters because there was nobody behind us. Um, set up was a breeze. Um, and we did the best trade we've ever done. Um, it was just, it was, I can't tell you much about the actual show because I didn't really fucking see any of it. Um, now Friday is normally a slow day. We, we, it opened at nine o'clock. It was full by half past nine. Um, and we were just constant. It just bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, pretty much all day long. Saturday was the same, but even busier. Really? And Sunday, which is notoriously shit. Yeah. Uh, was actually decent. Um, and though it did quiet enough a bit and it was noticeably quieter than the Friday and Saturday, it still wasn't bad. Now they moved the finish time to four o'clock on Sunday, which worked really well. The van was out and on the road by quarter to five. Okay. It was just, it was just, it went brilliantly. Um, you didn't have a setup. You didn't have like a real setup cause you just pulled the van in, right? Yeah. We had some chairs outside it and stuff like that, but we just mainly pulled the van in. It worked really, really well. Most of the feedback we got was positive about the van that we do need to get some fans in there cause it got a bit hot. Yeah. Um, but yeah, no, stop doing these. All these little, thank you. Thank you. Um, but you know, I mean, from a business point of view, it was fantastic. Um, I spoke to a few stands that I did get a quick chat with and they were all saying the same thing. They were selling out. They couldn't get stock. Really? Yeah. Um, they changed it. Quite a bit from the previous one. So the previous one was sort of over two floors. It was a higher area and a lower area. And a lot of the big American bands were concentrated in the upper area. Okay. And as a result, everybody seemed to stay up there. And then the bottom area where we were in the previous one was a bit crap to be fair. Okay. I had raised concerns about this and so had others. And I'd been told that they'd address this by changing the format, changing the layout. And it was like a long strip now. Uh, and what they'd done is interspersed the big brands with the other brands. Okay. Yeah. It worked really well from a business point of view. It was brilliant. Um, worked really, really well. We were directly opposite the bodybuilding stage. Oh, okay. Um, which was really good. We had, we had a fantastic slot. Like I said, I couldn't, and Pete, who's the salesman, just sort of the slot for us. I didn't actually pick it. I just left it to him. Yeah. Um, because it kept changing. So I was like, well, I don't know where the fuck we're going to be anyway. Um, but no, it was, it was, it was brilliant, mate. It really was. I'm not sure how well it was from a consumer visitor point of view. Yeah. But it flowed so much better. And, and they even, they made sure on the Sunday that they kept some athletes back to keep trying. So like Sam talked on the Sunday. Oh yeah. Yeah. So that, that obviously kept people in. And that kept people coming because people wanted to hear Sam Sula. Um, I mean, he didn't, he was, unfortunately it wasn't his best showing on stage far from it, but the guy seems fairly chilled out and fairly level headed to be fair. Credit to him. Um, I didn't see the bodybuilding bodybuilding. Uh, but you know, we, we caught with a few. It wasn't as dense. I don't think on stars as it has been. Okay. Um, but, uh, and obviously, it was definitely light on the strong man cause there was no strong pro strong man show. Okay. Yeah. And that was, that was a financial problem. Um, but, uh, I think it's gone away, giving them confidence, both the Arnold's. And I also think businesses that it's a worthwhile investment. So we, we definitely want to go back next year, particularly if they don't, particularly if they don't change it too much and they keep it on a similar format, but just get more stands in there. Yeah. Yeah. That's fantastic, man. I'm glad to hear that. It went well. Did you meet listeners to the show? Did people come up and say, Hey, I like the podcast. I met, I, yes. In fact, I met a very important listener. Okay. In fact, the best listener we've got. Wait, why is that? Who's that? And he's a shining example to everybody else who listens to the show. Okay. Because he gave me five pounds towards the supercharger fund. He gave you five pounds to the supercharger fund. Okay. Oh, unfortunately I, I do not remember his name and I had to apologize. Oh, you're kidding me. I've spoke to frigging hundreds of people over the hundreds of people give you $5. No, it wasn't five pounds. It was five pounds. So there speak English. Five pounds. Five pounds. Yes. Yes. I met quite a few, uh, watchers of the podcast. They all had very similar things to say. Scott's shit. Dave's great. Get rid of him. But other than that, it was, um, no, it was, it was good. I didn't get as much time with people as I normally would because I was literally in the van working. Um, okay. So, um, but yeah, I mean, otherwise we, we had a, we had a brilliant, brilliant show. Um, no complaints whatsoever. So that's all a bit tired. Uh, as you know, you know, what post-show jet lag is like when you've done an expo. Oh God. Yeah. Yeah. It's a lot of talking, a lot on your feet, a lot of thinking, a lot of, yeah. Yeah. But it's cool though, man. I'm glad to hear you had a good time. I'm glad to hear that even though it was a, sounds like a nightmare trying to get it set up and deal with all the paperwork and all that. I'm glad that it worked out as well as it did. That sounds like, well, I'm glad to hear it was worthwhile. The Saturday before the show, they canceled our hotel rooms. Um, we managed to get that sorted. Yeah. And then, uh, we turned up in the rooms that they're supposed to have sorted. They hadn't sorted. So we had more problems again, but we, we got there in the end. Uh, but yeah, there were a few, uh, pulling hair. What little I have moments. Uh, yeah. And then there was a comic con two holes down, which was visually interesting. Okay. Did you get any crossover? See those guys walking around at all? No, not really. I mean, you saw them outside in the foyer areas like, but, uh, yeah, there's, yes, some costumes are not suited to some body types. That's all I'll say. What, uh, and do you have any uncle Dave's wisdom for us today? Do you have any, uh, I know you probably, I know you'd been busy, but I'm sure you probably were putting time aside, you know, meditating and journaling coming up with ideas. Yeah. I've probably said this before, uh, cause it starts to get a bit like, you know, just keep swimming. Um, but, um, I, I, I think it's important. We pursue things. We pursue goals with the perception that the goal is going to reward us or do something for us. If the journey to that goal is not fruitful, is not enjoyable, then I would seriously question whether the goal is a worthwhile one. Yeah. I think the journey is probably more important than the result. Uh, we chase money, we chase financial success, we chase physique success, and rarely does the achievement actually quantify the effort or give us the reward. We perceived it would do. It does sometimes. So it's important that you make the journey rewarded. Yeah. Didn't you say that when you stepped out, like your goal was to hit 400 pounds. I remember you saying this in that, like when you stepped on the scale and you had made the weight, you were like, it was, it was kind of a letdown. Oh, majorly. Majorly. Yeah. Majorly. Probably the most anticlimactic moment of my life. Yeah. Yeah. Cause you had put, and I get it. You put all that time and energy. That's kind of the way my first contest prep was, was all that time and energy that went into the contest prep. And then the show happened so fast. Like it was, you know, five minutes, man, they put us through our quarter turns and then we're done. And I was like, wow, that was it. It's over. Like, I mean, obviously there's the night show still it's not over, but yeah, I kind of was taken back by all the work I put in and all the dieting I did and all the posing practice. And then it's over that quick. And I was like, that was it. The, the, I suppose the saving grace for me on that project was the fact that I love training. I love training hard. I enjoy training. So. And I loved the experience of the contest prep, man. Like I was sold. Yeah. I've never enjoyed that side of things. I've never enjoyed. I've, I've never found stepping on stage a rewarding procedure. Yeah. Yeah. To me, it's not the stepping on stage. It's the work it takes to get the physique to do that. Yeah. Which is the training element for me. Yeah. I could see that. Yeah. So yeah. It's, it's, I think sometimes we, we pursue goals for the sake of them. And actually, if we're being real about things, they're not going to provide us with what we think they are. Don't get me wrong. I would rather be rich and miserable than poor and miserable. Yeah. There's that. Well, fucking easier being fucking miserable when you're rich without a doubt. But, you know, just enjoy the dinner. Yeah. I like that. That's a good one guys. We appreciate you tuning in. Thanks for watching and leave us questions for the next episode. Of course, comment on the show. And if you're new here and you haven't subscribed, we'd love to have you along for everything we do. This show comes out every Monday and yeah, Monday. And of course, check out eval blood analysis.com. Get your labs done by Dave. If you're in the UK and supplement source. Dot C a for Canadians. I forgot to mention strong sports nutrition guys. Go to strong sports with strong at the, uh, at the Arnold. They were, I believe they were, they do like bronze, silver and sponsors. Don't I believe they would have silver sponsor. I know they sponsored the armature stronger man. Why weren't they gold? Or platinum? I don't know. Um, that's good company. They should, they should be gold. Broderick was there. Okay. He was there because his wife was competing in the, uh, masters deadlift. Okay. Which he won. Oh, American Arnold's. Okay. And then came second at the UK. Okay. Hey, I've got a Broderick cup here. Did you know that? Have you? What an evil genius. I got a Broderick cup here. I'll get that. Where'd you get that from? I got it from the guys at strong. Um, when they, they, they sent me out a couple of supplements. I wanted to try thrombo max and support max. And, uh, they're like, here, we threw this in. We thought you, you'd like this. It's a great coffee cup actually, man. And now that I'm doing like the fancy coffees, you know, like the high end espresso drinks. Oh dude, this, cause it keeps your, it, it, it's like, uh, I don't know how to put it, man, but it's, it's, uh, it's very well insulated. It's nice. Anyway. Um, yeah, I guess that's a plug for, buy a, buy an evil genius coffee cup guys. Use code big Dave. Try. Who knows? It might work, man. Get 10% off. Guys go for another episode of the podcast. We appreciate you being here and we will see you soon. Thanks Dave. My pleasure. We should be able to get that in 10 minutes. That shouldn't be. I should give you 19. There you go. 19. Okay. Yeah. All right. That gives us a minute per question plus nine minutes for the main topic. How's that sound? You said there was 20 questions. Well, just somebody's going to miss out today, Dave. Somebody's going to miss out today, Dave, because you're busy. You're too busy. All right. Oh yeah. Well, it is. Got help with fame. Can I? Yes. All right. Let me see if we got, do we have people here with us yet, Dave? No. I forgot to hit buttons. I always hit buttons in the background and I'm busy here. Just jabber jawing. Jabber join. You like that? When were you born? 1917. Yeah. Jabber join. Get out. I'm glad you caught that. I'm glad you caught that. All right. Here's my buttons to press. You press your button, Scott. Hey, people. We got people here? We got people. Automatic. Boom. All right. And done. Let's see who's with us here. Who's with us here? We got a. The Lolly. Bill Lolly checked in today, I believe. We'll get back to you today, man. And of course, big friendly Tanya is with us. Yay. I am Iron Man. Are you? It's actually Iron Man. No. Because it's three N's. And Ty Boe. Kicking butt on his diet, aren't you, Ty? Get back on track. All right. And Necrophil. Necrophil. That's concerning. Yeah. That's. It is. I don't know if we. We need to maybe just block Necrophil. I don't think we need people around here with names like that. Do we? No. All right. No. Block him. Nearly. Nearly as bad as that. Scott bloke. Oh, God. All right. Well, bring us in.