And then the SLP and the five amino and and the rea even these are more metabolic optimizers that like I I explain it to clients like this things like SLU they're they're it's like you bring your car into the shop and you're going on a road trip, right? And you tell the guy, "Hey, I'm going on a 2,000 milei road trip." And he's like, "Okay, I'm going to give it the works." And he does an oil change. He rotates the tires. He um adds all the fluids and all that stuff. Make sure the brakes work, etc. Okay? He's basically making sure your vehicle is ready for the job that you're doing, in this case, fat loss. And by using things like SLU5 amino, you're improving your mitochondria, getting them into place so that they can optimally use energy substrates. And if you're giving it more stimulus via via um thermogenics like clamuterol and cardiovascular and diet restriction and all that stuff, you're going to get more out of it. So, I think when people think of like fat loss, they just take anything that anything in a category, anything any of these compounds and just lump them into that category. And I think it's important to understand what these things actually do. What's up, guys? Welcome back to Blood, Sweat, and Gear with coaches Skipp Hill, Andrew Barry, and myself, Scott McN. All of our programming is brought to you by true nutrition.com. Use our code think over there for high quality supplements. You can get all the basics that you need to grow all your muscle, retain your muscle, get in the best shape you can. Everything from the team skip blend to weight isolate to protein isolate if you don't tolerate animal products. Uh creatin intra workouts and everything else with all the flavors you can think of. Like I said, use our code think. Also, supplements.ca for Canadians. They have great deals that change week to week. You might get a workout, a pre-workout for like $15. So definitely check them out if you're in Canada. And of course, thank you to everybody from Patreon. Uh we do have some Patreon questions today. Keep loading us up over there, guys. You guys are freaking awesome at Patreon and you're awesome here on the stream and you guys are awesome on YouTube. Just everybody's awesome. Everybody's awesome. We uh No, for real. We appreciate you guys. You guys loaded us up with a bunch of questions on the last episode. And if you want questions answered on the next show, then comment below. Plus all your comments, likes, all that stuff. It really does help to boost us up in the algorithm. We need all the help we can get. your likes and all that stuff. Just keep it coming, guys. We really do appreciate it. We got a topic from PM here in the stream. We're just gonna start with it. We're gonna talk a little bit about kickstarting. So, I know you guys both know like kickstarting was it was almost like mandatory 20 years ago that you kickstarted your cycle. Now, people will turn their nose up at the idea. You know, there's all sorts of thoughts of, yes, sure, the antibodies are in your system from the minute you take them. Um, but they don't build up for, you know, right away in some cases. What about kickstarting? And what PM said was, um, the idea of kickstarting with orals seems dated. However, nothing ramps up my strength and weight gain like NPP. What do you guys think about kickstarting with a 3 to four week NPP over orals? Or we could also throw in any other, you know, fast acting compound, right? Mhm. So, I I don't know if I would necessarily just stop at 3 to four weeks of NP. Like, I would make that the base of my cycle, but I do think it being a a a um you know, faster Esther than say Deca, I I do think that's more appropriate. But getting back to like you know what Scott was saying the the original I I guess antiquated idea of kickstarting a cycle. I think we've all in our earlier years was were doing a test plus deca and then for the first like four weeks you had to kill it with devolve right and and you started out with whether it was 50 milligrams a day or 100 milligrams a day and then at some point you had to pull it and I remember the magical number was four weeks. You did four weeks of dbol and then you had to pull it out because and there was never any like more. Don't your kidneys fail at 30 days? Yeah. You know, 28 day. You got a couple day leeway there, but you got to get that out of there before them kidneys start bailing. Ex. Exactly. And I think what he maybe, you know, PM is talking about is maybe seeing people that start cycles now and they titrate up. So for instance, someone might start a cycle with like 300 milligs of testosterone and 200 millig of another anabolic for 2 weeks and then the next two weeks they might jump to like 450 test and a little bit more anabolic and then they might go to 600 test and etc etc etc and keep layering up until they reach a peak level. Um, I I would actually say that the old school antiquated way would probably more favorable in my opinion because we have tons and tons of experience with it working, you know. Um, yes, you're you're adding your your whatever esther of testosterone, which does, as Scott mentioned, take several days to weeks to start layering up so the blood levels are at a certain level. So, it would make sense to kickstart something if you wanted to say, "I'm on cycle day one to give yourself something like dbol or some other oral to build those drug levels up of androgens so you're getting results on day one." Do you guys agree or disagree? Yeah, I'm going to say yeah, because a little bit of both. I don't I don't know that I necessarily disagree, but I'll kind of piggyback off what you're saying. If I come into an offseason cycle and I'm on TRT, might kickstart it, jump the levels up. If I come into a an offseason cycle and I've already been on a cycle and I'm literally just changing compounds, it happens. Sometimes I do, sometimes I don't. It depends on what my plans are that year, then I probably wouldn't frontload or kickstart uh whichever term you want to use. Coming into a prep uh like a cut phase or a prep cycle, I do tend to I don't care to kickstart mo most. It doesn't really matter to me. And titrating up is something that I have done for a long time and I believe in because I want those drug levels to increase over time as calories come down and recovery becomes an issue, that sort of thing. And and we did a great show on that not too long ago, few months, handful of months ago where we had uh I think all three of us had slightly different opinions on, you know, whether to take that gear up deeper into a cut phase or whether you could cut back on, you know, the dosing things like that. So for any of the viewers who, you know, don't know about that show, that that's a great show to go back to uh if you missed it. But as far as front loing I and the NPP, the NPP to me, there's a couple things that stand out. Number one, it's not terribly fast. It's faster than Deca, but that's because Deca is like a sloth crossing a road or a group of turtles down here in South Florida where it backs up traffic for 4 hours while they crawl across floor. It's it's still relatively slow. So, it's in my brain, it's not something that's going to kick real fast. Number two is, are you just starting and frontloading with the NPP? Because if there is no testosterone base in there, I I just have not had great luck with Nanderlone without enough tests to cover it. In fact, to put numbers on it, I don't think I would ever recommend going anything less than like A-50/50 on a test to to Nanderlone type ratio when and even then it's sometimes still an issue for sex drive, libido, that sort of thing. So, I don't know that I like it a lot. I don't think it's necessarily wrong um or bad per se, but but I wouldn't do it. I personally wouldn't do it for those reasons. I'm going to throw something in, guys, as far as the kickstarting thing goes. And so, for a long time, my approach had always been based off of how I handle somebody who is 100% compliant, 100% tuned in. And in that time I I I might and I'll use I'm going to go a little bit off here to to to bring it back. I'm going to use an example of clen. Okay. So you guys know when I start clen I start really low like 20 micrograms and then I work it up over a longer period of time. Now I may in the past or I still will. I'd prefer to wait longer. you know, get everything we can, get the diet moving, get the fat loss going, and then from there, turn it up just a little bit. But I've noticed one way that I've changed as a coach has been maybe recognizing that some of my people maybe aren't quite as motivated. And if they were to get that little 20 20 mics of Clint in there and they start feeling like, "Oh, now I got something in me." Like when you when you get on cycle, and that's where I'm getting back to. When you get on cycle, you get more motivated and you get more plugged in. And if I put somebody on, let's just say, you know, 300 test, 300 mast, and they're the kind of person who's like not really feeling it right away, you might have a few weeks there where they're still not like really excited, they're not really on track, really on board. But if you could somehow kickstart that cycle so that like week one they've they've they're getting an effect in the gym, I almost feel like that turns their compliance up a lot faster. Does that make it right? Does that mean I'm not going to judge people morally whether you know where they're at with their bodybuilding? But I have found that though people maybe who are like, you know, I'm talking more lifestyle people, people who maybe have struggled to get plugged in that if in instead of like making them wait longer for to to get the carrot, you know, why not just give it to them a little sooner if it's also going to be a motivational factor to get them doing all the things we need to do to make the progress. I don't know. What do you guys think of that? Well, I I think what you're saying is you're actually coaching. You're actually coaching them. Yeah, exactly. Like you're know you're knowing you're knowing your athlete or you're knowing your client. Yeah. Yeah. Like instead of having a one way, my way or highway, you know, I I do it this way for or just because it is best, you know what I mean? Maybe it is best if we could wait, but it's like is it really not great if we do it this way? You know, yeah, they need to see some returns by by the end of week one if I can help them do that. And that's and that's going to it's an actionable step that gives them returns. Scott that um that you know is going to carry on to week two, week three, week four. So I I would just call that good coaching, you know. Yeah. But you get that ball rolling. So I guess you know, let's even look at the real old school. Everybody rolls their eyes at adding an oral in as a kickstart. But let's say we added in a fast acting oral to kickstart the cycle. Is it really that bad? you know, is is it going to be that uh you know, that harmful on their health to, you know, run a lowd dose oral for four weeks? If it is going to get them plugged in and get them, you know, doing all the things we need to do, training hard, following the diet 110%. You know, and and being plugged in, I mean, I could see advantages to it. So, I I wouldn't say that kickstarts should totally be written off. I could definitely see benefits from like a psychological perspective for some people, you know, especially. Can I speak as a resident dinosaur for just a minute? Yeah, I want to I do want to point this out and and some people will disagree with me and that and that's fine, but the old heads got a lot more right than they got wrong. And we didn't have all these studies and all these things to back up pretty much anything of what we were kind of our bro science if you will. Yeah. We got a lot of right. And the front loing, you know, Andrew, we were talking about this, you know, prior to pushing the button. Mhm. Sometimes there are good things that are just they may seem antiquated, but you know what? They're actually good and they're solid. So, I don't think there's anything wrong with with frontloading. I think it's situational. You make a good point, Scott, about the motivational component of it, too, but I don't think it's right or wrong. I think it's just a different method. Yep. Yeah. Well, let me give another example. Instead of using an oral, a lot of times in contest prep, someone's 20 or 18 weeks out, I'll start them off with a low dose of trence right from the start for about four weeks. I've heard you I remember you mentioning that. Yeah. Yeah. So, and again, actionable, noticeable results right from the start. And we're talking like 20 to 40 milligrams a day. We're not talking six 700 milligrams a week. We're talking a low dose to go with their other anabolics. And I mean, there's several reasons. A, I want to try to get them as insulin sensitive as possible right from the gate. Hopefully, they already are, but it's just going to help with that. It's going to help with nitrogen uh um uh retention, excuse me. And you know, when people are on trend, they feel like they're on drugs. They feel like all the the prep is real now, you know? Oh, yeah. Yeah. So, it's like, okay, and and I don't do this with everybody, you know, but for some people, like it's how I start the cycle for three or four weeks and then we pull it and we won't reintroduce it until maybe six weeks out. So, yeah. And it's Scott, you gave your frontload. Andrew, you gave yours. I didn't even know that I really had one. I didn't consider a frontload, but remember, I'm I'm the guy who likes to split or have that combination of cipinate and proponate. Yeah. Yep. I like to have it doesn't necessarily need to be 5050, but you know 6040 7030 maybe. So you're going to hit that prop right away. It's going to hit a lot quicker than that sip is going to hit. So there is a bit I guess the term frontload being relative. It's going to hit quicker than if it were all you know if you had a th00and milligram arbitrary number. I'm not telling anybody go out and do a gramma test but which isn't necessarily bad. But my point being is if it's 1,000 milligrams of sip or it's 50/50 prop sip, obviously having that prop in there, it's going to kick sooner. I like that. We could title this like bringing back frontloading, you know, something like that because really it really is kind of like the thing that like, oh, nobody does that anymore. But yeah. Yeah. And Skip, I thought of your top or your your uh your test blend, you know, the SIP probe. I that was one of the honestly first things I thought of as this topic came up because Absolutely, man. You're going to get that kicking a whole lot faster. Mhm. Um I don't know if you guys have anything else you want to add to that. I know we had a bunch of stuff. These guys left us like a freaking ton of questions. We're getting a lot of good questions in the comments, too. So, I think we just raced through a bunch of good questions, honestly. All right. All right. Yeah. And I've got we So, we've got a bunch from YouTube. We're getting a bunch here. As these questions are coming up in the the comments, I'm snagging each one of them with this uh our old software here. We can uh we can do that. I want to ask you guys real quick. Um so what should when should you So with progression when you're training, when should you up the weight versus when should you just get more reps? How do you decide? I had this question today because like uh one of my guys had emailed me. he's a new client and it was like I have him doing like one of his sets in like an 8 to 10 rep range and then usually a back off set of some sort and and he was like, "Well, how do I know when to add weight?" And so I responded with, "Well, what reps are you getting?" And he said, "8 to 10." I'm like, "No, no, no. Are you are you getting rep eight and you're failing or are you getting rep 10 or you failing?" Right? Because I think there's a big difference there because when we're talking about rep ranges, you don't want to be adding weight necessarily on the low when you're just barely getting the lowest end of the rep range. You want to be adding repetitions when you're hitting the top end of the rep range. Would you guys agree with that for primarily? Absolutely. So, and then it came Yeah. And then it came to down to some individual situations. He's like, "Well, if I'm stuck at rep 10 for like two weeks in a row and I can't get 11, it's like, do I add weight or is there something else I can do?" And I'm like, "You could certainly add weight." And in my opinion, the two and a halfs are like your best friends in these situations, right? Because you know back in the day you used to go to the gym and see guys that put a plate on let's say a bench press plate and a quarter 225 and then 275 and then never ever get above 275 on the bench press. And then mean and then you know guys that work with say Dante doing like you know a very very progressive overload with micro progressions. You'd see those guys add the two and a halfs every week week after week after week and 20 weeks later they're doing 295 for sets of 10. So anyway, that's kind of a side story, but my one of the tactics I gave him was, okay, if you're stuck on eight, nine, or even 10, and you don't feel comfortable increasing the weight, do your set to failure and have a spotter there. Sit up, take five deep breaths, and then get under the bar and do like one, maybe two more reps to failure, whatever that is. And then if you got another one in you, sit up again, five more deep breaths, and then bang out another one or two reps. And over time, that's going to lead to strength to where those sets of 10, you're cruising right past those. So that that's just one strategy or tactic you can use to fit more reps in. And and and what I do is I tell them like mark it on your sheet or your your log book if you're keeping one as like 10 plus like plus+ plus meaning you got your 10 on your first set and then you got like two extras and then you kind of keep a running log of I'm progressing that way and eventually you're going to get like 11 and then a plus plus and then now you're changing your working weights. you're back down to nine or 10 and you can keep using that method to get a little bit stronger over time. It's funny you went there because that's exactly where I was going to go as well. It's a great because here's here's the point. Sometimes you can try to increase the reps, but you're just literally can find yourself stuck and almost especially if you if the exercises are coming later in the muscle group in the sequence of the exercises you're doing. There have been times where I've been stuck on nine or 10 and I'm thinking, man, I've been here like for a few weeks and then just one day I go, you know what? I'm going to put it on. I'm going to put extra 10 pounds on arbitrary number again uh for tricep extensions and I get 10 again. So, you sometimes you have to play around and you have to get a little bit outside of the box. Uh you make a good point about the eight to 10 repetitions. If you're, you know, if you're failing at eight, yeah, it's probably not a fatigue issue or a fat, how do I explain this? Uh it's sometimes you can fatigue at the I don't know if you guys ever noticed this or not with your own training, but sometimes I can go I'll go I'll go a little bit lighter on this and then I get the same amount of reps. Yeah. And I'm like wait a minute. So then I go back on the next set and I add the weight back and I get the same amount of reps again. So sometimes you have to play around. It's almost like and I've asked myself, is this a mental block? Is it do I expect that I'm only going to get 10 or nine or something because that's what I got on the last exercise? I think there's a there's a psychological impact there, but there may also just be a general fatigue factor. Here's another example. Side delts, biceps, and triceps is one of my workouts because my arms are not a terribly lagging body part, but my side delts are a priority. They tend to come that workout comes right before my leg day. My leg day is my high carb day. So, I'm typically very depleted now that I'm into a not very, but I'm depleted on that shoulder arm day. By the time I get to triceps, I need to make sure that when I'm halfway through that I'm not falling off the cliff from a from a fatigue standpoint. The contractile force isn't as strong. So, I want to make sure that I'm keeping my weights up because sometimes I'll lighten up on a on a dumbbell uh tricep extension and I'm getting the same amount of of reps. So, challenge yourself if you're stuck at that weight or you're stuck at a certain amount of reps to maybe you know what, I'm getting out of the box. I'm going to add another, you know, 10% and see if you can't still get the same reps. If you fail, you fail. Keep the mechanics tight. Make sure that you don't injure yourself and go, you know, crazy, do something stupid. But if you fail, then you know, but if you sit there on those same reps for a long time, you could be sitting there and not needing to sit there. The rest pause though idea is a great one. I like that. I uh I'll throw one thing in. It was the first thing that came to mind on this topic. I remembered in my own uh bodybuilding years back hitting the 90s uh 90 lb dumbbells on it was either the flat or the incline dumbbell press and at the time I had recently gotten to know John Simmons who was like the only pro from my area at the time like oh my god John did you see John's in the gym right now you know like that's the way we felt because it was like he was that's how few pro bodybuilders there were and I remember talking to him uh after for one of my workouts and and say, "Oh, yeah. Hey, John." And you know, I got the 90s on the dumbbell press today, so I'm going to, you know, move up. I'm going to get to those hundreds in no time. And I, you know, I got them for eight or 10 or whatever. And he said, "Well, you know, if you got them for 10, why don't you work on getting those 90s for 20?" He probably saw my form first of all, you know, but he said, he said, "You know, if you can get those 90 pound dumbbells for 20 reps, I guarantee you you're gonna have a bigger muscle." And I thought, huh? And I like, oh my god, I never even thought of that. You know what I mean? And we always think like, oh, I'm working 8 to 10. I'm working 10 to 12. And I I I respect that. I appreciate that. And that's mainly what I've done, too. But man, if you can just get if you can get 20 reps with the 90s, you're going to have a bigger muscle, too. So, don't be afraid to continue getting more reps. And I sometimes I think that we get sucked into just trying to push that weight, push that weight, and we don't we don't even realize that our form is starting to get sacrificed in the process, you know, and then we're more at risk to get hurt. So, just a thought, consider getting more reps with good quality or just not train the muscle effectively like using like in in the case of like you're talking about like an incline or a flat dumbbell bench press, you know, you can allow your shoulders and triceps to do a lot of that, which I probably was at that time, too. I think you've even said like you you really learned how to do an incline dumbbell press, I think like five years ago. You're like, I I've finally really locked into it and I know my upper chest is going to grow now because of it. Uh yeah, it just brings back Yeah. Yeah. There's something else I was going to say, but I totally forgot, but it'll come back to me. Then I'll piggy back off and I'll say before, if you have not trained for a long time, focus on the mechanics before you focus on progression because a lot of times, and again, I'm piggybacking off what you're saying, Andrew, you can ek out another three reps by changing your mechanics so subtly that Yeah. Yeah, may not be an obvious visual cue where when the lower reps, when you're using lower reps, 8 to 10, 10 to 12, I still consider below 12 really not to be terribly high reps. You can if you change those mechanics, sometimes that isn't going to help a whole lot. So stay with the lower rep ranges, I think, until you can build and make sure that you've got the mechanics. Then you can look at the overload keeping the mechanics because the mechanics come long before whether you can get another rep or not. Not just for injury prevention, but for targeting the muscle. This is a game of hypertrophy. It's a bodybuilding game. It's a visual. It's a size game. It's not a powerlifting move where as long as you're greenlighted, all you had to do is move that weight from point A to point B and it doesn't matter what it looked like a whole lot. Yeah. We all know the difference between like a good lift or good rep versus like just taking it for a ride. And sometimes both are necessary, you know. I I do think whether it's maybe a confidence thing of like I'm just going to sling these things. You know, it's kind of like the story Tom Brady in the in his first Super Bowl and Bill Bich telling him, "Hey, protect the ball there." You know, in the fourth quarter, 40 seconds left and it's his Super Bowl winning drive, his first one. And Bill Bichc's like, "You protect that ball." And Drew Bledo pulls him side. He goes, "F that." He's like just slang that thing. Get up and throw and that's what he did. He won the Super Bowl. But so so my point is, you know, there's a time and place for everything, you know, cuz no one remembers that perfect rep set where you got 8 to 12 reps with 90 pound dumbbells. Everyone remembers a time you tossed around the 140s for 15 and looked like you couldn't stop because you were a machine, right? And they're telling stories about that to the their buddies at the gym for the rest of the rest of the year. But which one built more muscle? I don't know. It's hard to say. probably the better the the better forms. So, right. Good point. Good point. How about this one? Um, how do and this is from the stream. How do emerging fat loss agents like uh mirappp332 five amino compared to traditional thermogenics like uh clamuterol, T3, T4? Is old still good or is old still gold is the way you worded it? Before we answer that, can I just say this? This is just my perspective. I think that Rea is for all intents and purposes is essentially being left on the shoulder. It's like the car pulls up on the shoulder and then they throw Retta out on the side of the curb and everybody's talking about SLU and all these new comp and it blows my mind that Retta is not in the and I understand it's not known as a thermogenic. I I understand that. So if that's you know the point that they're making, I get it. But Retta is it almost seems like it's being passed over and it blows my mind because it is so incredibly effective. I haven't even moved on to SOOU myself. People, my clients ask me, "Have you used SOU?" I'm like, "Nope." I am milking this Reddit right now and especially through this prep because I have never in my life used something more effective than this compound. I'm not trying to take the take the discussion in the direction of Reetta, but I just I put it in the I put it in the category. I think he was just mentioning a few things. I put it in that category. Absolutely. Well, the thing is is only one of the things on there is an actual thermogenic, the Clinterol. Right. I was thinking that too. Yeah, the T3 and T4 are metabolism, right? And people get those confused sometimes between like your basil metabolism versus actual thermogenetics that are, you know, via beta 2 stimulation increase in actual lipolysis. And then the SLP and the five amino and and the reta even these are more metabolic optimizers than like I I explain it to clients like this. things like SLU, they're they're it's like you bring your car into the shop and you're going on a road trip, right? And you tell the guy, "Hey, I'm going on a 2,000 milei road trip and he's like, "Okay, I'm going to give it the works." And he does an oil change. He rotates the tires. He um adds all the fluids and all that stuff, make sure the brakes work, etc. Okay? He's basically making sure your vehicle is ready for the job that you're doing, in this case, fat loss. And by using things like SLU5 amino, you're improving your mitochondria, getting them into a place so that they can optimally use energy substrates. And if you're giving it more stimulus via via um thermogenics like clamuterol and cardiovascular and diet restriction and all that stuff, you're going to get more out of it. So I think when people think of like fat loss, they just take anything that anything in a category, anything any of these compounds and just lump them into that category. And I think it's important to understand what these things actually do. For instance, like if you had a client that has always used clenbuterol, T3, T4, like their traditionals, but they never got peeled and they worked their ass off. A lot of we we now know that that's probably because they had some kind of metabolic deficiency, some type of dysfunctionally. Okay. And I think that's where the stuff is coming in. Those hard cases, those hard clients where we know they're not cheating, we know they're doing their two hours of cardio, they're busting ass. And we're sitting there scratching ourselves. And I remember seeing a question in the feed here. Have you guys ever had a client that just couldn't get in shape? We've all had as coaches, every client has had those those cases. I don't care. There's no coach out there that hasn't had a client that could not get in the kind of shape they wanted to get in. And and regardless of the client cheating or not. Um, so it's just important to remember what these things are. They're in different categories. And I I do think they're all here to stay as part of the fat loss program. For sure. Yeah. I'm glad you agree. I kind of see it as going back to your analogy, the thermogenics are like nitrous. Are you going to run nitrous through an engine that you have not, you know, optimized and, you know, oh, I forgot to change the oil. No big deal. You know, the the rear differential's all messed up or what you're going to make sure all those things are in order first. So, that's why I'm saying I'm surprised and not just this, you know, this one person asked about it. Just seems in general that it's almost like since I saw you, it's kind of being pushed to the side. And I just think it is I don't want it to get lost because the significance and the impact that this compound has gets everything right at the base or the foundation first and then you can build so effectively on that with the other compounds and the thermogenics after that. So you make a great point. I'm glad that you agree. I just I wondered if you guys felt the same way or not. Skip, I'll tell you what, man. um what SLU does and given your age, I would tell you what that you would get a synergy out of using it with your Reddit true tide. It's not a one or the other thing. they're doing completely different things and I'm what I'm seeing in myself is in what I'm seeing with clients too is that if we start with a foundation of if if they needed it then sure like write a true tie but I'm going to use SLU uh specifically that if we start there how does that you know compare to the like the more traditional fat loss compounds I don't say it compares it works with and and by that I mean that like we might not need to add the clen in till a little bit later. And when we do, we might not need quite as much. We might not need to rely as much on thyroid. You know, we might we might get more out of a little bit less. That's that's what I'm seeing out of SLU is that it really does. That's a great analogy, Andrew, of getting the car like just primed up. It's a great way like and I'm I'm finding like so you know adding it to a lot of clients programs that you know they hear me talk about they want to try it. They're reading stuff. The places I found it most successful is when we can get it in after their last cycle is over. We get on the SLU they feel freaking fantastic. They're like I I don't even care that I'm off cycle now. A lot of times they're like how many more weeks we can go back on. They don't even care they're off cycle now. And we're getting to a position then where like by the time that they're ready to go back on, they're so freaking primed. Everything's working really well already. You know, it's it's it really is it really is cool. So, I wouldn't say how does it compare one or the other. It's more so how do these things work together? And you know what? Some of the things we've had concerns with in the past, like years ago, there was a lot and there probably still is, I'm sure, a lot of abuse of T3. We've heard of women that are running like, you know, crazy 150 micrograms year round kind of stuff. Uh clen super high dose. Maybe we can get away from some of the, you know, the would the word be deletarious effects of clen skip. That'd be a good use. Delarious. Yeah. All right. All right. Good. Good. I was trying to throw some vocab in there for you. Delarious effects of clen. And you know, maybe it doesn't have to be as harsh of a compound anymore. That'd be my thought. Yeah. So then the question becomes ask understood. understand I'm like 15 weeks right now. So, I'm a little hesitant to bring in new compounds as I was coming in as I'm coming in closer, but SLU is on my radar. Make no mistake. It's not like I have, you know, pulled over to the side of the road and kicked it out yet. Uh, but then the question becomes, and I don't want to go down a rabbit hole here, but then it becomes, okay, SLU or methylene blue or what about troponins ATP? You know, things like that. No, sure. But then there becomes almost my brain starts to go to the pylon um pile on not pylon uh orange cone pylon. Anyway, I don't want to just start throwing the kitchen sink at it especially right now. So yeah, I I'm not there's a lot still for me to like some decisions to make as far as how I want to move or whether it be the SLU or whether it be the and I don't like to add a bunch of different or bunch of different variables at one time because then I have a hard time assessing. My clients know this too. Hard time assessing okay great it's working and what is working? Yeah. You know which one is working more than the than the other. I I think also you might be looking at it straight from a fat loss bodybuilding prep standpoint. The the other thing and in the rea also, you know, the rea slu, um, BAM, like all these different peptides that we're learning about and compounds that we're learning about right now. Um, you know, I look at it as more like an anti-aging compound that Yeah. restores restores your cellular physiology to its peak or its best. You know what I mean? like the way it's like so that you can then make the best progress from there with anything you do. You know, be it be it, you know, dieting, be it growing muscle, be it, you know, just having better energy to do a podcast, you know, to edit eight podcasts a week. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Exactly. I better go over to YouTube. Oh, and I do want to tell Ty Let's Let's get your guys' opinions on this. I I want to throw this up here. I also want to let him know though, we just did a podcast on this with Scott Stevenson. He says, "Uh, I've got a question. Um, uh, maybe I should ask Dusty on this just bodybuilding. I've seen a video of Dusty make from four years ago about building quads. How beneficial is stretching under a load for training quads?" So, we just did a podcast with Scott Stevenson titled Extreme Stretching, Lengthened Positioned Training, and Sarurogenesis Deep Dive. So, definitely check that one out. Um, but I want to hear your guys' thoughts because I know all three of us have experience with this topic. We're talking about extreme stretching and beneficial for muscle growth. Yes, sir. Yeah. Um, absolutely. I mean, I'm sure we've all done it or we we continue to do it. I I I'll be the first to admit that it's kind of like abs and and calves. It's like one of those things. It's like, "Oh, shoot. I got five minutes. I'm going to I'm going to do this today, but some days I just don't have the five minutes to do it." But um yeah, when I was doing it religiously, man, I definitely I know it helped me big time in terms of stretching out the fascia. U I definitely felt a flush of blood come in after doing it. Um and you know, and I guess how to do it. If you just type in like DC extreme stretches in Google, a bunch of Dusty's videos will come up. A bunch of PDFs will come up of guys from the old intense muscle days doing it. Um, someone put put together a whole collection into a PDF with pictures and stuff which is pretty cool. But you know the basis is you want to hold the stretch for minimum 45 seconds and if you can go as long as 90 seconds more power to you with a weighted load that you can handle for that time period and you treat it like a progression just like an exercise. So if you can get let's just say a chest stretch with 30 pound dumbbells and you can only get 45 seconds you're not going to go up to 40 pounds until you can get I would say at least a minute or even longer. Um, you guys, you guys know what I'm talking about? Do you guys agree with that in terms of set it up? Yeah, there's a series of stretches for everything. And I think it's a great way to bring up a weak body part in particular. Like if you got weak biceps, because I had really weak biceps and I and I reintroduced them after not doing them for like three or four years. And they definitely started growing again after that. Just And the thing is, it's probably more painful than most your exercises. Like when you're really holding that quad stretch for 90 seconds, you're you are counting down. You're waiting for that. I I would wear my headphones and and I'd set my alarm on my phone and I would just wait for that bell, that ding ding ding, and I'd be like, "Oh my god, thank you. I made it another one." So, I definitely encourage people to try it if you haven't introduced it into your training. Just don't go too heavy. I want to throw that in there real quick. You know what I mean? Especially when you're learning how to do it. I feel like I overloaded it too much the first times I tried it and it was not a good experience, you know? Yeah. I'll just go back and say because the only thing I have to add is mechanics over the progression. Again, when it comes to these stretches, hugely important because if you're not feeling that stretch. Yeah. You know, it's funny. I've never heard of anyone getting hurt doing the weighted stretches either. So, I feel like the majority of people have done a good job with not pushing the load too hard too fast because I mean there was a time what from 2005 to 2010 every other bodybuilder in the gym was doing some type of weighted stretch because they'd been on one of the message forums where Dante or somebody was talking about it and um yeah I don't know anyone that tore muscle. So kudos to everybody for you know really really like getting the form down and working the progression on that. Mhm. And two, besides just the DC extreme stretches like mountain dog, right? He had all sorts of stretch component to his training. It might have looked different and sometimes it might have been like an actual stretch or it may have been an exercise that, you know, brought a stretch into the exercise bringing that into the end of the workout. I think there's a lot of value in that too, you know, as well. I agree. I agree. Guys, let's talk about intraworkout carbs and saving money. So, like the past 10-15 years, intra workouts become super popular. It's a great way to support pre-workout insulin use. It's great for recovery and it's great for endurance and those long workouts. Here's the thing, it's really expensive. It's not only expensive for us, it's expensive for supplement companies. They really don't make a lot of money off of it. That's where True Nutrition comes in. So, True Nutrition, they're not only a retailer, they're also a manufacturer. They're actually making a lot of the products that you guys are already buying from other companies. So, just think about it. You're going to cut out the middleman. The only thing you're going to miss out on is the fancy labels and and the branding. Outside of that, you're getting the exact same highquality products, but you're getting it directly from the source. If you're going to pay for the price of highly branched cyclic dextrin, ensure that you're getting 25 g per scoop, not of a mix of carbs, but just of highly branched dextrin. We can mix the other stuff in later. You know, use our code think, get some savings. Plus, it's like voting for us. It lets them know that you support what we're doing. All right. I didn't actually go and look at the questions that I had set up here. Oh, I did have an important one. Skip. Is Skip your real name? Well, yeah. Oh, okay. Well, I mean, not legally and not on my driver's license, and my wife refuses to call me Skip. Uh, so yeah, it's it's not it it's Kenneth Hill. So, not going to give not going to give away my middle name, but Okay. Well, that's what I was going to ask. What is the gravestone going to say in a 100 years? Are we Is it going to say skip? Is it going to say Ken? I don't know. I feel like those decisions will be made by my wife. So, if she can save money on the life insurance and and it's a few less letters, I'm sure Skip will definitely not be be on the headstone. And and in all fairness, you know, because I am older, I've already given thought to that. And I did tell her there is no headstone. There is no anything. I'm cremated and I my ashes are either on your shelf to remind your next 22-year-old boyfriend that you're going to vacation with the Bora Bora that I'm I'm there watching. Oh god. Not in a creepy old guy cuck, you know, type of effect. I'm just there watching. That's literally where my head went. I'm like, just imagine skipping in that urn [\h__\h] What's going on in there? What are you do? What are you doing? Yo, did you see the ear just move? Oh, uh, Andrew, also too, did you hear Kenneth say he was 15 weeks or was that just me? I did. So, he actually mentioned that, didn't he? I believe so. All right. He said it. I want this to be coming in more. Normally at this phase, because I start a lot earlier. I'm starting to get leaner. Things are pulling in and everything's going great. Make no mistake. But it I'm a 2022 week guy and I'm like, "Yeah, you I'm wanting to say Justin, let's get but it's it's his gig." So, I just responded like three three freaking words. I'm like, I'm good to go. I'll get it done. You know, that sort of thing. Hey, shout out to Justin. Uh, he threw us a super chat last week for five bucks. I appreciate you, man. And he said, uh, Scott, you taught me a lat workout. I didn't watch. I just listened and I took it to the gym just by listening. My lats today are so effed up. The best lat workout that I've ever had. Uh, I did the workout yesterday and I felt like crying this morning. So, he said, "Or he might just be a wussy." When you started reading that, I thought you were talking about Justin Harris and then it took me about halfway through. I'm like, "Oh, different Justin." Different Justin. Different Justin. Uh, question for the next episode. Uh, what's each of your favorite way to train abs? Weighted crunches, hanging leg raises. What about the ab wheel rollouts? Nice. Heavy leg and back stuff. I'm not kidding. I used to be that I used to be that guy until the lower back issues. I did go back to it. And uh there's a lot there for me, but I will tell you one of the things that has helped me tremendously since I've been injury-free in my lower back for nine years. I will there is one caveat and Scott knows this because he saw me hunched over at Swiss about three years ago. Uh when I had that legal when I had that legal problem, I uh went into a mild took me a minute to figure it out, but a mild depression. And I bought put on a bunch of weight, lived on my couch for 2 months, and I think $3,200 is what it was. $3,200 to Uber Eats while I sat my fat water retaining ass on the couch watching Netflix, throwing a pity party before my wife walked in one day and literally thankfully told me, "When is this pity party going to end?" Oh, she knows you so well. And I was like, "Oh, [\h__\h] no you didn't." But I didn't actually I didn't say that. I just That's what was going on in my brain. But it was kind of like a oh okay. So I go to Swiss and and and the reason that my back was tight at that time was I I was just holding a ton of water, not training and I had put on I don't know 40 pounds. It was just absolutely pathetic. Anyway, the point is I've been nine years now with without a lower back injury. And part of that reason is I went back to not only focusing more on ab training, but the majority of my ab training is not crunch work. I open with a crunch, kind of get blood in there. And I do old school stuff. I do partial decline uh sit-ups. I do plank crunches. And the bulk of my work is lying leg lifts, stiff leg uh leg lifts. And what that does is it's a the abs are more of a stabilizer than a prime mover, but it strengthens all of those I call them the old guy muscles through the through the waist and through the midsection that you tend to lose strength over time and it adds two things. It creates a vulnerability in the lower back and it also helps to provide that older guy distension. Yes. Where you may be lean but you have that, you know, like your TVA isn't as strong. You know, we all know that. And of course, vacuums are huge. Every time I go to the tanner, I do vacuums and I have a specific schedule that takes the 12 minutes while I'm in there and I know what I'm done. I only got about 30 seconds, you know, left in the in the time. And those have been huge uh as well. So, I think ab as you get older, if you want to I think it should be looked at more as a preventative thing than an actual ab development. The vast majority of us have the ab development if we're lean enough. Some people don't. And if you have a thin abdominal wall, train them and and train them hard. But that's the exception to the rule. The majority of people have the ab wall musculature. From there, it becomes are you weak? Are you supporting your lower back through the heavy movements like you're talking about, Andrew, where bent over rows, squatting, deads, things like that? Because the abs are getting worked a lot in those compound type movements. They just you don't think so because you're not doing crunches. But the abs are getting worked big time in those exercises. I only mentioned the thing I did because uh I can't really train abs anymore. I I think I told you guys I've had three hernia surgeries and the nerves are all messed up. So like when some and sometimes I can train them, but if I were to do like a weighted crunch or or the absolute worst is a decline leg raise. Like I start the movement and all of a sudden they cramp up so horribly like like the like a clen cramp, right? like a hamstring and it stays locked up sometimes for like 12 or 13 minutes and you kind of got to stand against the wall like stretching out and you look really awkward and weird. Um, and and those guys that have had cuz I've met a few other people in the gym that have had hernia surgeries too and they're like, "Oh, dude, I can't train my abs anymore." And they know exactly what I'm talking about. So, if you've had an abdominal surgery, you know, you probably know what I'm speaking about here. But when I can do them, it's very light weighted rope crunches. And sometimes I'll start like, you know, I'll get to like rep five or six on my first set and I can start to feel them cramp up and I'm like, "Oh, not today." And I just can't do them today. So, yeah, I got more into planks now. And and I'm finding too I've got a couple guys that have the old man distension like you're talking about, Skip. I almost called you Ken. I was like like just because we said your name before. Uh yeah, that was weird. I always say Skip. Um, but I I'm finding so like one guy we were practicing vacuums, practicing vacuums and and we didn't really see any change and then we switched him to planks and boom, all of a sudden we started seeing improvement. Now that improvement did stop like like now I'm starting to see like it's it's not improving as rapidly as when he first started. Like the first month was the best or the first six weeks were the best. So, I might go to what you're talking about, see if he wants to try that, skip, because I feel like that's a next step up. But for me, planks are a big one uh for my abs. And I I'm I'm not I I think I'm going to try to get into what they call a reverse plank next. So, where you're actually like on a foam roller facing up, you know, and and holding that way. And then you can play with that one. So, I think that'll be my next step. Personally, I was one of those guys. My first show, Skip, I had very shallow abs because I have a long torso. So, I just used the um life fitness machine that the ab crunch chair where your legs come up and your chest, you know, you crunch as your upper body crunches down. And I'd put like three plates on it. The first time I did it, I was like, "All right, whatever it takes to get to 60 reps." Took me four minutes, right? And then my abs wanted to spasm and then I left. And the next day, I came back and I was like, "I'll keep doing that." After two weeks, I was like, "All right, whatever it takes to get to 100 reps." And then I went up to like 120 reps. And every time I trained, I'd do those 120 reps on how many sets it took. And then that was it. And then when I came to the show, my abs were great. Like that's all I needed, you know? So I don't think you have to do anything like to get the show abs. I don't think you really have to do a lot. You know what I mean? Right. All right. They recover very, very quickly, too. That's why you can train them frequently. Yeah. Uh hg dose. And I maybe we need to dig into this one more cuz Justin, same guy with the back training. He said, uh, what's a the high or average HCG dose per week? I'm de loing off of one gram of test, 800 DECA, 800 mast. Uh, he says, uh, I'm 48 years old, 240 pounds. And I asked him what his purpose was, and he said he's going to try to recover his natural testosterone now. And now he's going to start HCG. I'm gonna leave that for you guys. I am not I and I say this all the time. HCG I don't see as PCT but that's okay. So I mean a weekly uh average I guess 40 400 units to about 7500 units somewhere in there. Um you probably want to add HMG in as well like 75 uh milligrams three times a week. So, yeah, we'll say 15 to 2,000 units of HCG, 75 migs of HMG three days a week. Uh, how old is he? Did he say he's 48? 48. I thought was, man, like would you Let me ask you this, Andrew. I would have Yeah, that but if you if that was your goal, would you do that now as you're coming off all this stuff or would you have been running HCG like earlier? cuz I I personally the I've seen HCG as being like something you do during the cycle after you come off and then stopping it and then going into your PCT if that's what your route was, you know. Well, yeah. No, I agree with that, Scott 100%. I just don't know, you know. Yeah. I don't think he's going to get what he wants out of this. Uh yeah, being being 48 years old, let's just say the average 48-year-old who's never touched peeds, what's their testosterone level? Somewhere around 300, 270 maybe. I if he's been on TRT or even TRT plus, let's just say he's been on TRT. Uh let's say an average of 150 to 200 milligrams of testosterone a week, which probably puts him 800 maybe 900 nanogs per deciliter. I think his quality of life is a lot better at that level than it's going to be coming off the testosterone and going back to his natural levels of 200, maybe let's say as high as 450. I I I don't think he's going to be Is he just sick of the shots? Is he just sick of um having to go and get a prescription if that's what he's doing? I I I just don't think he's going to at the end of this I think he's going to probably get some kind of depression because I think he's hopeful that it's going to work and he's going to have some level of testosterone that gives him energy and he go to the gym and keep an appetite up and mental acuity and all that. But I just think from being here for a while coming back down to here where his body naturally would be or even probably subnaturally where it would be, I don't think he's going to going to like it. You know what I mean? Like I I say that as someone who's fully committed to knowing that I'm going to be using testosterone for the rest of my life. And I think all of us here have have made that decision that that's probably what it's going to be, you know, on some level, you know, even if it's just 100 milligrams a week to maintain a a nice baseline level for for mental acuity and, you know, just all the normal stuff that you want in life. So, yeah, I don't know, man. I I don't like this idea. I can't disagree. I I If you were on TRT before the cycle, go back to your TRT. You never I mean at 48 if you're if you were ever on TRT, you were there for a reason. So there are some 48-y olds I mean I have a friend in in Atlanta who is my age 55 and uh he had a natural testosterone level at 40 or at 53 that was 870. Don't go on TRT, bro. Don't even mess with it. ride this till the wheels fall off. Because once you commit to that, you're almost certainly or far more likely to come back with a lower level of testosterone because this is your latter years and you're you're older. It's just you're not going to be as likely to recover from that. Yeah. Yeah. Clomid. I'm I'm just going to throw it out there. Clomid, you know, even uh Andrew commented, Andrew Nolan in in the comment section, maybe the HCG is for bigger loads. Uh, you know, he's just kidding. No, you're not. You're absolutely not kidding. If if that's your issue, Clomid is your your go-to. It's it's not it's not going to be HCG. And I Scott, I'm with you. You're going to run HCG. I'm not against HCG. Run it during your cycle. I don't see it as and I never will as post cycle therapy. I know a lot of people use it. I know a Mr. Olympia used it. And I always used to scratch my head and go, "God, that I just don't think that's very good information." But I understand that it is used and to each their own. And I do have clients and I'll tell them if you want to use HCG I will advise for PCT but I am recommending that you don't do that. I'm recommending that and a lot of times you don't even need it. If he would have just said I'm coming off a bigger uh cycle of you know tests and I don't know master test and you know primo or no but he did mention DECA. He did you know so if it's a longer esther and it's going to sit there and drag out those longer esters tend to bring you back online without PCT. Anyway, there's a patients component here that sometimes we have to just go, you know what, let's let's ride it first. Let's find out if we're the person who needs PCT to begin with versus taking a drug because, oh, I have to take it to counter this other drug, not knowing if you need it or not. I think in most cases though, there's going to be some level of shutdown. I used the drug. This is this is where you and I differ. I used the drugs to get here. I'm going to use the drugs to get back to where I want to be, too. You know, that's Yeah. What about um Okay, we're almost out of time on this episode. Of course, for everybody in the live stream, we record two episodes a time. You guys in YouTube didn't know that, though. Um I got to throw this in real report. He said, "Last time when I said I went from 84 kilograms to 117 on 300 Trenton 500 test, you guys had that. That might not be true face." I promise you. I went up 33 kilograms in four or five weeks. It looked very hard. Do I have good genetics? I think we need to see pictures honestly. Um I mean I could well Skip just told us about how he put 40 pounds off when he he just he was on the seafood diet and pity party and you don't want to see those pictures. Trust me. But but I I think you know I think it would be nice to see pictures and we could definitely tell you if you have good genetics if um we had pictures knowing that information because what that 117 so what is that 30? So it's like 60 lb is it 65 33 33 kg. So that'd be 70 that would be we Okay, wait a minute. We absolutely need to see this transformation. We got to see the pictures. Email me mc mc mc mc mc mc mc mc mc mc mcnal diets@gmail.com I want to see your pictures real report we got to see the before and the after or if you just have the after that's cool too we want to see you jacked but I'd love to see the transition you know and if you don't want us to show your face that's okay we can you know I make sure your face isn't showing but and especially because I remember you lived in a country that probably isn't too friendly to guys gaining 33 kg but there's that um I know we have Skip's word of the day we have to get to and I had to remember uh are you familiar do you remember A guy, Skip, you've worked with, his name is Mike, the fit executive. Oh, yeah. Absolutely. I met him at the Arnold Classic and he brought me a gift. These are fireball craft. Uhhuh. I'm wearing them right now. Mike had an idea for Buffalo Trace. I get little gifts from him for my wife all the time. Exclusive uh bottles. It's nice. He told me he said, "Yeah, Skip's wife loves our products." Yes. Yes, she does. I've got AI've got to answer the real report here. He asked if I'd been in a fight. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Well, so yeah, you might notice one of my eyes has a nice shiner going on because uh you know, everyone knows I prepped my wife and I had to pull her car her carbs and upper cardio and she wasn't too happy with it. So, she gave me a good one. So, this is the effect of that. But, no, in reality, I was You want to talk about it? We can talk about it after. There's a hotline I can call. Yeah. Yeah. There's a uh no there's a the Watson hack squat at our gym. My training partner is like 4 foot whatever. She's she's short and I and we constantly have to change the height of the machine for me to do it because I just can't get down that low to start with the weights that I'm you know when I get to my heavier sets. So, you know, I'm I'm change I'm lifting it and I'm pulling in on the handle and I whack myself in the face really really hard. Instantly knew I was going to have a shiner. On top of that, about right before the show, I was outside with my dog for a while and there's stuff growing out in the back that was just making my eyes super puffy. So, no, I wasn't in the fight with nature. Skip, you got a word for the day of us for us? I I'm literally looking right now. I'm I'm scrambling. I'm sorry. I was so not prepared. We haven't done one a few time. I apologize. What did I say? Delarious. Is that a good do that one? We're going to have to use that one uh for the show. I I'm I'm sorry. Typically, I have them ready to go. We just thought you had them like just, you know, you're a wordssmith. You know, you just Well, I mean, I'm sure I could come up with one, I suppose. Um, but being put on the spot, I'm not I'm not terribly mind. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. All right. Delarius, that's our word for the day. That's our word for the day. And guys, of course, go to trenutrition.com. Use our code thinkover there. Supplements.ca for our Canadians. Thank you to everybody from Patreon. We got some Patreon stuff done on this episode. We're going to get the rest on the next one. Uh if you are new to our content, then definitely hit the subscribe button and hit the bell because that's the only way YouTube will show you show you our stuff again. And uh leave us comments, let us have question, you know, let us have questions, leave us questions for the next show. Uh likes, all that stuff. It really does help a lot. And go to bodybry.com to reach out to Andrew teamskip.com to reach out to skip. You can hit me up mcnaldiets@gmail.com. And for another episode of Blood, Sweat, and Gear, we'll see you soon.