 What's up, what's up guys, welcome back to blood, sweat, just kind of, just kind of catching you on the spot here, Andrew, Andrew, because I don't know where you're at with peptides, but I wanted to throw something at you and just get your feedback on it and just get your feedback on it and hear where you're at too. So, you know, I got huge into SLU, right? I started the SLU, right? I started the SLU last year. I made tremendous progress with it. And after I discovered that, I kind of pushed other things to the wayside. I had bought a bunch of MOTC. I had bought a bunch of MOTC. I've definitely stopped that to experiment with other things like SS31. But basically, though, I found so much progress with SLU. I just said, I'm going to lean into this thing that I find working really well for me. So since then, I tapered off, stopped the SLU a while back. And recently, I decided to give a second try to MOTC, which I'd used it before, but I didn't really give it that fair shake because I was kind of real hot on SLU. I'll tell you what, man, a lot of the same stuff that I was getting from SLU, like improved, improved cognitive function, improved energy. You know, my personal issues with breathing have definitely, I can tell a difference with it. I'm liking it, man. Cost-wise, it's more expensive. I'm running it at a milligram and a half per day. I wanted to ask you what your experience was with MOTC and any other insights you might have currently about what you're doing with peptides. Currently, the only peptide I use is GH and BP. Okay. Because, you know what, I'm in that phase right now where I'm just maximizing diet, hard training, and I'm like, I'm just sick of sticking myself like, oh, if I forget this, I'm not going to cause stress. I'm just not going to take anything. So, and part of that is also me being like, you know what, I got in great shape whenever I wanted to using diet, cardio, steps, training hard, maybe some clean. Like, don't get me wrong, I think the peptides are good. They serve a purpose. I don't, I'm kind of getting annoyed when I see people coming to me, like new clients, and they're taking six different peptides. Right. Sure. And you're asking them to like, hey, can we get some labs done? And they're like, well, money's a little tight right now. You know, can we wait till next month? And I'm like, well, let's cut the $400 of peptides you're adding in. Okay. And then you can afford the labs because I think this is more important. So I'm not going to say they're worthless because they're absolutely not. They serve a purpose. I think they're being over abused by everyone. And I think a lot of that. I would agree. Yeah. I think a lot of that is to blame by people making influential posts about them and kind of convincing you that you're the idiot for not taking them and not being on. You know what I mean? Like, I just see, you know, if you're scrolling, you see something every day. And usually they're newer coaches that are trying to get some eyeballs on them, you know, some people to pay attention to them. And they're kind of, it looks like they typed, you know, asked in GPT, hey, can you make a mock-up for me to read on an Instagram reel or something like that and make me sound intelligent? And maybe they know the science, maybe they don't. Okay. Besides that, we just don't know the long-term effects of using some of this stuff, especially at the doses that some people are using right now. I've thought that all along, man. Absolutely. Yeah. And my thing is like, and I think what you did was great, Scott, you pulled the SLU to try out MOTC because you're like, okay, how am I going to know if this is actually doing something for me? If I'm already getting a benefit, I know I'm getting a benefit out of the slew. Is it going to cover up the benefits or am I doing too much? Like all the other variables involved with that, right? But right now I do a lot with, can I share on this screen? Yeah, you should be able to. Just be careful with what you share. That's right. That's a very good point. Closed browsers. Yeah. So I have a little protocol that like, I use this with people oftentimes after. Oh, we talked about this. Yeah. After contest preps. Like I don't use a lot of this stuff with people during a show or during a contest phase. I use it afterwards as like kind of cleanup to regenerate mitochondria, to clean up and cause some mitophagy and get them ready during their health phase. For like the next growth phase, you know? And if you see like, you know, it's broken down into phase one or like in the blue, restore and regenerate SS 21, test of morelin. And usually I'm going to pull someone's GH during this phase. But if there's someone that's like, no, I need my GH in, then okay, we'll leave the GH in. But we're just going to make sure we're not stacking it at the same time as the test of morelin because we want the test of morelin to cause a natural GH release. Right? Sure. So we'll use a high dose of methylene blue and then GHK copper and a supplement called Renewal, which has CoQ10, urolithin A. And these are in there to promote autophagy and mitophagy, which is the turnover of cells. Basically, think of it as like excavator coming in and getting rid of all like the breakdown products of the house you just tore down. Okay. Think of doing that with the mitochondria in particular. And then the next phase, we move into receptor optimization and continuing the cleanup of the mitochondria in the cells. So we'll utilize more MOTC. I might throw in a little bit of retitrutide during this time period. BPC, TB, which honestly, you could be running those during any phase of this plan. It's just I would particularly throw them in if you're not using them during this phase. And then high dose slew. You know, I put 10 milligrams daily on there. I've used as high as 50 milligrams daily with people. Again, it's dosing in body weight. You know, like if I've got a 270-pound guy versus 110-pound girl, the doses are going to be a little different. Okay. And then what we're doing is we're just setting you up for the next growth phase. You know, your receptors are optimized. Your mitochondria are optimized. I'm going to pull the majority of those peptides out. We're going to run the PED cycle. We might keep the retitrutide in if it's something we want to do for insulin sensitivity and to control body fat. I'm going to pull the renewal, and I'm going to add in PQQ and ubiquinol. And then we'll probably keep the slew in at a moderate dose per day. And that's typically, I think, a lot of my clients will see some variation of this at some point during their post-show. Or maybe we just did. Maybe they had a really long off-season, and I want to get them ready for a contest prep. This would be probably something I'm going to do to get them ready for the contest prep. So call it a pre-pep prep or a pre-off-season phase typically. I like that. I like the idea behind that. I think that type of protocol as a setup to a coming productive phase is a really, really good idea. In fact, I like that so much more than just scattering it and just throwing in. I've become less of a fan of the mitochondrial. Well, you never really were into them, were you? I wasn't, but I started to get into it more, and I see the value in it now. Okay. But I don't. But, again, it comes back to what you guys said, and I was glad to hear that you guys agreed. I just think they're overused, and when they start getting piled on, one on top of the other, I just think it's overkill. And I don't know how you can tell what is working when you have more than one. And I want to point out that these phases, they're four-week phases, right? So there's a finite timeline for how we're running them at these doses. And it's basically we're hitting you hard and quick. We're not staying on these permadoses years at a time. And I think that's the important thing to point out to people. Yeah. If you're enjoying our show, let me ask you to please hit the like button. It doesn't cost you anything, and it definitely helps us out. Leave us a comment. We'd love to hear what you think. And if you're new here, let me encourage you to subscribe and hit the bell. We have lots of bodybuilding, education, and entertainment coming out each week. The bell will let you know when new stuff comes out. What did you personally experience from MOTC? I remember you talking about using it. And I have traditionally seen it run the way you mentioned, where it's being used less frequently at a higher dose. I'm sticking with just a daily dose at 1.5 milligrams is what I'm finding. I didn't think that for me one was quite enough to get the effect that I wanted. But what did you notice from that specifically? Because I'm curious for my own insight. So in terms of, say, conditioning effects or? Or just anything, period. Like when you took MOTC, what did you see? I would say my BP went really low. Like I was waking up at 103, like 103 over like 68 or something like that. Which for me, like I usually year-round, whether I'm big or not, I run somewhere between 124 and 128 on the systolic. And right around 78 on diastolic. So unless I'm like 280 or something plus where I'm running closer to 140 over 90. You know, which I haven't been like that in years. What's that? You saw it go down, though. That's interesting. My BP went down. But here's the crazy thing. My heart rate was through the roof, which makes sense. You know? Yeah. I have less blood pressure, so my heart's trying to compensate by pumping oxygen, pumping blood, so my body gets the oxygen. And I was finding when I was training, even just warming up with like some side lateral rays, I'd be like, wow. Like I need to catch my breath for a minute. And I know it sounds weird. Yeah.  because it's kind of doing the opposite of what, you know, you know, I think it should be doing, you know, in terms of helping your mitochondria, you know, in terms of helping your mitochondria, I felt like it almost delayed my mitochondria or kind of hit a pause on them in some sense. Now it could be, and I fully admit this, the dosing mechanism that I set up might just be way too high, you know. Okay. And so I worked this program in conjunction with, I talked to several people, I put a lot of thought into this, I worked with Jason Theobold, and then I also worked with Jason Theobold, Keith from Parabolic, and, and I worked with Keith from Parabolic, and, and, Keith is so smart with all this stuff too. This is Keith's life, you know, he's very brilliant with this stuff. We're smart guys about this stuff. He's genius level. Oh, yeah. He really is. And honestly, I've sent clients that, that are like, well, they've asked me a good question about it. I'm like, you know what? I'm going to give you Keith's email, and I think he'll explain it to you in a paragraph much better than I can. And, and he does, you know, like, he's very happy to, to, I'm not saying everyone should start emailing him, but. Yeah, yeah, yeah. He's like, screw you, Barry. In fact, he did say recently to me, he was like, I had to let people know I can't just freely just share. But he does do consultations, too. So if somebody wanted to do more of a deep dive, I advocate for him. Andrew does as well. Yes. I got a question for you, Andrew, real quick. Going back to that side lateral thing where you felt like you couldn't catch your breath. Yeah. Give me some idea. Was it along the lines of like when AMP hits you or no? Oh, that's actually good. Yeah, that's kind of a good. Okay, yeah, that's a good way to put it. But it was because my heart rate was going so rapid. But my BP was kind of low, you know? Well, that's why I'm thinking of BP being low because that's what the AMP does, too. Yeah. It's quick. You are 100% actually right about that when you mention it. Like I would do a leg press set and I would have to take a little bit of time before I stood up because I would immediately start to see the vision start to go like this. And if I wasn't holding on to something, I might go down, you know? So, yeah. And, of course, I'm testing my BP and I'm testing my heart rate. So I'm not just making it, you know, I'm not just assuming. I'm testing this stuff while I'm doing it. And the other thing was like I'd be laying in bed at night completely relaxed, well, should be relaxed, and my heart rate would be like going, you know what I mean? Yeah. I've been doing nothing physical for five hours up to that point, you know? And, again, it could just be the dose, you know? It could be maybe I went a little too high with my dosing mechanism. I haven't had any clients complain of the same side effects that I have. How much higher was your heart rate? Okay. So I would be at rest or I would be resting and it would be like 98 to like 106. Yeah, man. It was like it almost made me cut the little experiment short, actually, that I'm like. Yeah, I could see that. Yeah. I was a little concerned. And then I test my blood pressure and it would be so low. And I'm like, okay. I mean, like if both were elevated, I'd be like, okay, you know, I'm not doing this anymore. But the fact that my BP was good and I could rationalize my head, okay, I have low blood volume being pushed. So my body's trying to make up for it by contracting the heart at a much faster rate to help get that oxygen to my brain and whatnot. So, yeah, I mean, in terms of like the ergogenesis, I'll tell you what. When I stopped doing it, I did feel like a million bucks. So, and training was great. Cardio felt easy. But while I was doing it, this protocol, it wasn't that great. So I do a thing. I got the lasting effects from doing it. Just not during, you know. In terms of like how would I use this stuff with clients like intermittently, I might add MOTC in like three days a week. If we've tried every other, you know, we're exhausting all the variables that we can play. And for some reason, I don't want to throw clint in. I don't want to throw other fat burners in. Or I want to try to maybe go the mitochondrial route. I might try like MOTC at a milligram three days a week, something like that, you know. And I did have success with it. I mean, I could think of some, well. I'm loving it, man. You're loving it? Yeah. Yeah, I really am. I feel like after stopping the, because my thought was like with some of the issues I've had, I was like, you know, will I continue to feel good after I stopped the SLU? And I tapered down on the SLU, came off the SLU, been off of it for a good chunk of time. And I almost, I felt like I was better than I had, much better than I had been before the year I'd run it. But then going back on now with MOTC, I feel like the lights turned back on. Yeah. Like maybe some of the lights were like off. Maybe a couple of them were dimmed in the house. And now all the lights are back on. I don't know. But, you know, obviously I wouldn't say that my situation is going to be comparable to everybody's out there. We're all unique, you know. All right. I want to jump into the listener questions too. So we've got a bunch of them. Out of all these novel compounds between peptides and SLU, in my opinion, SLU is the most beneficial with the least to no amount of side effects in my experience. I think it's something that almost anyone can take. And granted, I haven't played with 100 to 400 milligram doses like Ryan from, you know, Gorilla Chemist. I don't know what that looks like. But, you know, I have some people where I administered or I told them to take as little as 300 micrograms. And they started losing weight like 0.3 here. Like every day, like a 0.3 to 0.5 change for like three weeks straight with just 300 micrograms as a dose. I've been all about the low dosing. I haven't delved into anything past a milligram, honestly. And I've found there are people that respond really well to that. You know, 250 is, I think, a great dose, you know. Yeah. All right. So listen, like I said, listener questions. We have a bunch of them that I wanted to try to make sure we covered. We had one from Patreon. Jordan said, hey, guys, what would you say is the best time to do blood tests post-injection? So he's basically looking to try to figure out what his test level is, I'm assuming for TRT. I guess it depends on his injection frequency regularly, right? So many people are doing it every day nowadays. But let's say he's doing it Monday and Thursday. Monday and Thursday. So and what testosterone ester is it? Do we know? Let's just say I'm not sure. You know, he doesn't say. But we can just, we'll just assume it's test sip or test e, one of the two. I guess I would say if he took an injection on Saturday at some point, then I would probably try to get my labs done Tuesday or Wednesday. Well, prior to the next injection, right? Yeah. Basically. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I guess Wednesday morning would probably be the most. Yeah. Wednesday morning. Yeah. Yeah. I'd say before the next shot personally, too. If you're doing daily injections, it doesn't matter. Yeah. In the stream, we had somebody who was asking about different esters of compounds are going to take up room in the weight of the milligram. So, you know, the ester weight is going to be subtracted from how many milligrams you get. So, if you're using Cestanon, you're getting like 176 milligrams of test out of the 250. Do we ever factor that in when we're dosing compounds? Nope. No. No. I can't say that. Historically, nobody has in bodybuilding, have they? No. It's kind of like the GH and IU versus milligram thing. It's, okay, I think everyone knows that when you take 250 milligrams of test sip, you're not getting 100% 250 milligrams of test sip. You're getting 173 to 183 milligrams of testosterone in that dose, and the rest is the ester weight. So, I think everyone understands. I don't know if everyone has like the amounts memorized, but it's like everyone knows you're not getting 100% testosterone, you know. And here's a little, and I know people will get this, so I'm not giving away a profundity here, but the enanthate is what? Usually 250. Siponate is usually 200, and the probe is 100. Okay. Different esters. Scott's looking at me like, what are you talking about? Yeah, what's the big? Well, I'm just, the lower. Oh, when you say I took a shot at test. Okay, I get what you're saying. Yeah, it's just the different ester taking up. I understand. I think, I mean, maybe I'm just completely wrong. The logic would tell me that the shorter ester has the lower dose. Oh, I see what you're saying. And the bigger ester has the bigger dose per CC. I see, so, you know, between the three, the milligram, the total milligrams of what's, without the ester is closer together than. I think the milligrams have to do more with what they can suspend to, like, the probe, you can only put so much into it. If you have a three-carbon chain, propionate, right, and the testosterone is attached to all three of those, right, versus an eight-carbon chain. But here's the thing. I think the best way to do it is take 100 milligrams of each and look at the, what is the actual testosterone milligram? Exactly. I'm not explaining it very well. Yeah. Okay. Yeah, yeah. Thank you for explaining it. Yeah, the ratio of testosterone ester in a propionate is going to be much higher in the prop than it is in the cipionate or the undecanoate or the whatever other ester we're talking about. Yeah. Yeah, next time I'm just going to, like, text it to you and be like, explain this. Use good words. More complaisely than I am. Yeah. Thank you. Make it sound good. After 20 years of bodybuilding experience plus coaching countless athletes, I have tried all sorts of protein shakes from thin to thick to gritty to drywall paste. Considered.  Yeah, right. Yeah, it's right. of Qdoba minus the chance of getting food poisoning. Oh my God, my insides are on fire. Plus they're also a manufacturer creating a lot of the supplements that you guys are using from other companies. You can cut out the middleman and go straight to the source. No proprietary blend nonsense. They're third-party tested and in-house tested as well. There's no guessing games. It's literally just gains in a bag. If you want protein you can trust, go to truenutrition.com and use our code THINK. After 20 years of bodybuilding, coaching, and mixing some absolute nightmares of protein shakes. Believe me when I say this is the good stuff. All right, let me see what else we had here because we did have some more stuff. What about this one? It says, looking for some advice for my fat loss phase. I had planned on cutting for 16 weeks from the middle of February to the beginning of June. However, I may be spending April to June living out of a rucksack. I had been planning on running 400 tests and 200 EQ for 16 weeks, but this, quote, camping trip is having me second thinking this. Would you recommend doing a short cycle of just the test and returning to my original cycle when everything returns to normal? Or would you recommend just hitting the cut hard for eight weeks with the original cycle and see where I end up? I have to have a physical for work, which will include blood work on February 8th, so I can't start my cycle before then. He's 36 years old, currently at 200 tests on his cruise. After bulking for 20 weeks with 400 tests, he's 230 pounds, approximately 12% body fat, 6'3", and he's been cruising for seven weeks now at 3,000 calories. Go ahead, Andrew. I just ignored the whole question. That camping trip thing. Are you going to jail? Are you going to jail? There's so much there. Are you going to jail? Or are you going to the gym? I want to know if you're going to jail or is he part of the National Guard that they're doing a training expedition, or he has an obligation of service that he signed up for. Okay. That would make more sense. Either that or he's going to jail. Like, I don't know. Yeah. He's going to jail for eight weeks. I don't know. You know? We can't run his gear. He can run a watch sack. Yeah. I mean, you can get gear in jail. Just saying. You can get anything in jail, right? And you can, no. I guess, yeah, I would do what he said. I would cut hard for eight weeks now, go into camp in great shape, and then maybe, you know, depending on how strict camp is, you bring some of your bulking agents, and knowing that your diet can't be 100%, you now kind of ride a little bit of rebound with it. That's probably what I would do. 100%. Yeah. I'd want to know more details, too, but, I mean, for what we know. I think there was a lot of them. I mean, more details on what this means, this camp. Like, what are the logistics of that? Like, is he going to be able to eat food? Yeah. Is he going to be able to cook? Yeah. I mean, I've got a guy who's in the guards, and for, like, two weeks at a time, he's in the field. Like, they're doing, like, outdoor training missions. Yeah. So, he loses a lot of progress, because they're giving those MREs, and they're giving three a day, and it's not like you can pick the high-protein ones like there are any. There's, like, 12% protein, 70% carbs, and the rest fat, you know? So, it's like, we're giving three of those a day, and they're super high-calorie. Each one is, like, 3,000 calories. Yeah. So, we just accept that, like, dude, hopefully you're moving more than you're eating, and you can maintain as much as you can during this two-week process, and then we'll clean you up when you get home, and we'll start the process over again, you know? But thank you to everyone who does do service anyway. If that is what you're doing, then thank you for your service. I know you're not being, you know, shipped off overseas, but, you know, guys that are committing to the training, they have, at any time, they could be. So, you know, they're protecting us. Yeah. Have you guys ever worked with people that were, like, on a foreign base? Because I've worked with a few people that were in Iraq, and they could more easily get things like real GH and proponate versus, like, getting... One guy, I remember, was telling me, like, protein powder, you go to buy it in town, and they actually would try to scam the troops by selling them maltodextrin and stuff, you know? It was fake protein, basically, but you would get all the real pharma gear you wanted. Yeah. I used to do A-50% discount on military for people who were stationed, because I thought, you know what? These cats are over there. I'm sitting over here typing away, going out later in the day, spending my money, you know, living my life. Thanks to them, right? Making a ton of money. They're not going to be able to afford me. I got a bunch of people who were stationed overseas. That's how I worked with several people that way, was by doing that skip. But it was tough, man, to stick to it when you're living off a cafeteria food and you're trying to figure out how to make it work. I'll say this, though. The bases today are a lot different than they used to be. And this is coming from guys in the military, like, dude, we've got, like, the best of equipment. Like, we ask for prime equipment, we get prime equipment. Yeah. Yeah. And they're like, if we ask for tuna, chicken, like, we're getting real chicken and tuna now. That's cool. It's a little different than it was, like, maybe during Desert Storm or Operation Iraqi Freedom or some of those other ones that maybe, maybe, Skip, you had some of those guys during that time frame. Yeah, for quite a while. But they're still, you know, they're somewhere where they don't want to be. So thank you to them for that. Yeah. The only reason I stopped it, I'll be honest, I had people reach out to me and they were actually upset because I wouldn't honor if they were, like, past military. Yeah. I was like, oh, shit. Like, okay, I didn't think about that. Like, you're not in right now. That's why I'm trying, like... Yeah. So then it becomes, okay, you've been out for two years. You've been out for 10 years. Yeah. I mean, yeah, and then it was like EMTs and everything. I'm like, look, it's not that I don't respect what you do. Yeah. Completely, but it's like, I don't know. I got to stop somewhere. You're still, you know, I mean, it's 50%. You got to make a living at the end of the day, too. like, what the hell? I'm running a business. Like, I'm... So it just become a lost cause. I just stopped doing it and I just couldn't deal with it. Well, I will say that if you're stationed right now, you're overseas and you're listening to this podcast, thank you guys for your service, as Andrew said before. We appreciate you guys. Let's see what else we have here. All right. So this guy had been on TRT for five months, 200 milligrams every 10 days. I've been considering graduating from, to TRT plus by adding 15 milligrams of Anivar twice a day for six weeks and upping the test to 450 a week. After that, I was considering Masteron after listening to one of the latest episodes. Would this be a good slash safe route to start building? Thanks. Yeah. Yeah, I don't see why not. Yeah. 450 Masteron? No, right now, he's at 200 tests every 10 days. If he goes to, listen, I'd tell him even this. Like, I mean, sure, he could add that test. That would be a legit cycle. 450 tests, 30, is he saying? 15 Anivar twice a week, so 30 Anivar. Like, that would be a killer cycle. That would be a great cycle for growth, especially if he's never done anything before. Okay, what was the Masteron? What did I miss? Later down the road, adding Masteron in. Oh, okay. All right. Like, he's talking about, like, after that, the next plan would be. Gotcha. Why not all at the same time? I like it. Yeah, I like the plan. Yeah. Bump into four, 450 tests, right? And then later, adding Masteron, but he's taking Anivar with, yeah, that's, yeah. Yeah. Estrogen control on 450 tests? Hmm. Maybe, maybe not. I mean, it might be something, but how sensitive is he? Does he have estrogen symptoms? You know, that type of thing. I wonder if he needs anything on 200. Yeah, I wouldn't jump to a milligram of, like, a Remadex a day, put it that way. Yeah, on the side of, like, start out with maybe half a milligram, two to three days a week, you know, see how you feel. If you really want to get down to the science, get tested, get your E2 checked and see, do you need a little bit more? But go by how you feel more than anything, you know? Yeah. I'd agree with that. But, you know what, too, I usually have people get labs done after four or so weeks after they've been on cycle, just because it's, like, freaking 20 bucks to see, you know, especially guys that are in the U.S. so it's like, why not just get it checked and we might run a little bit, but I try to undershoot it. So, for me personally, 450 tests, I might have them take maybe even, like, 6.25 milligrams of aromasin three times a week, something like that, split it into two or three shots a test. Nothing wrong with it. I'm going to add something that it's kind of odd that I've been asked this a few times in the last month and I haven't been asked this in a while. So I'm surprised that so many people don't understand that if estrogen is low, you can almost bet that your HDL is going to be low.  And I've been surprised by that. So maybe it's just me assuming that people know that. But yeah, if you're having problems with your HDL being low, you probably need to see where your estrogen is too. It's not the only thing that can knock it down, but it's a major contributor. Okay. For sure. All right. Let's see what else we had here. Oh, I think it's got one for me. I have a question for you, Scott. I have a question for you, Scott. I, like you, like you, I'm a huge fan of D-Ball. I'm a huge fan of D-Ball. I mean, I'm not huge. Well, I'm pretty big actually. Anyway, my question, um, when is the best time to take it all at once in the day? Is it going to have an effect if I'm just going to stop reading the rest and say, if you're going to take it one time a day, I would take it pre-workout. That would be my thought. I'm going to take it one day, one time a day? Oh, for a second. No, I'm kidding. I'm going to take it right before I work out. Maybe I take it right before I have sex and then work out. I don't know. Anyway. Did you guys ever do like, um, 20 milligrams with every meal? I split it up into like three or four doses. Yeah. I mean, when I first used D-Ball, I was doing like a hundred milligrams a day and I would do like, I want to say 30 with breakfast, 30 with pre-workout and then like 20 with two or three other meals, basically. Okay. Yeah. That was the protocol then though. You just, you didn't get it once. You just, you tried to split it because the half-life was so short. Yeah, exactly. Yep. Yep. I remember there was a episode on, uh, it was a training video, um, with Branch Warren's training partner. And I forget his name for the life of me, but he was a national level bodybuilder and he was a big dude. And they did this video with him training in the gym. And I think he was even training with Branch. And overdubbed, they talked about his cycle and what he ran and he was running a hundred D-Ball per day. And that's, that gave me the idea. Cause I think I'd only run it at 50 before that. But then for one cycle, I did try it at a hundred. Oh my gosh. Yeah. Yeah. I, I probably didn't check my blood pressure as much back then as I should have, but that was a, that was a powerful compound at a hundred milligrams, man. How long did you run that for at a hundred? If you remember Andrew? I think six weeks. It was like gaining a pound a day. Like, Oh yeah. Not all clean, but like, yeah, not pretty. Yeah. I'll tell you what though. Like I wouldn't have been embarrassed. I wouldn't be embarrassed to share my pictures if we had, if we took pictures back then. This is back in 2000 and 2000 or 2001. Maybe. Okay. No one had cell phones. No one had, if you, if, if a guy had a Polaroid camera, maybe like, you know, in the dorm room, we would, I think there's one picture somewhere. Oh, there's like four of us juice heads that were, you know, on the football team. We were all, you know, running test trend and dbol, you know, like it was our first cycle and we just went for it. The, the, the injectables were low. I mean, we could only afford a little bit of test and we, I could only mate, or I made a decent amount of trend, but we didn't know the dosing. So I think we were doing like 180 milligrams of trend a week, if I remember correctly. Okay. Wow. And dbol was a hundred weeks a day. We ran like a six or eight week cycle of all that. Cause we had thousands of pink tie dbol tabs. Anyone who's old, British dragon, pink tie, the little ones. Oh yeah. Uh, you just throw them in your mouth like Pez, you know? And so yeah, we'd always have our own little baggies. Oh, dude, I forgot mine at home. Can, can I borrow a few? Yeah. You better get me back later. You know? Yeah. But yeah, there's a lot of things, but my gear is not one of them. Right. Yeah. We share women, but we don't share steroids. I mean, here's another, I was telling someone this the other day, a girl who was asking me at the gym, she uses 31 gauge needles to take her TRT testosterone. I'm like 31 gauge. How long are you sitting there with that plunger? Like that must take, and of course it's a tiny amount, but I'm like, right. I'm like, she's like, what do you use? And I'm like 23, 25. If I got them, you know? And I'm like, when you first started, it was 19. Oh yeah. And they were so few and far in between that we had to take them and soak them in a rubbing alcohol. Oh, Oh, I never did that. I never did that either. Holy crap. That's up there. Yeah. So win, Andrew. You win. You win. Yeah. There's a will there in the way, man. I wanted to take some gear, you know? And it wasn't like, I still, I lived in a dorm and I half lived at home. So it's not like I could just have this stuff being sent. You know, I had to go get a PO box to get this stuff delivered. You know? Did you ever use the pin that came on the preload sustenance? No, no, no. That's when I did stoop to twice and I, cause I just didn't have a pin, but no. So they were real big, right? Like a 19 gauge or something. No, I think they were honestly, I think they were, they were probably like, I'd be surprised if it was an 18. It was, it was, it was, it was literally like putting a pipe in your, in your leg and then pouring it in like a funnel. Like, and there would always be blood. You, they're all, so like, you look like you got shot with a 22, Scott. Yep. Like, oh God. Oh yeah. I mean, I, I done, I think like 22 was the lowest I had done. Really? Okay. Yeah. Yeah. I don't think, I don't know if I, I may have done a 20 once there, but. So you're not a size queen? You used Polaroids. I've been around so long that I, when I did my check-ins with my coach, when I was super young, all I did was drew a picture of myself. Yeah. And sent it to him. He's like, oh, you look like you're in. A little vein here today. I chipped it, yeah, etched it. And sent it to him. And he's like, yeah, you look like you're getting leaner. I was like, sure. I'm not sure. Yep. Oh man. I, okay. We've got a guy here with a bad umbilical hernia and I've been terrified of surgery. So I've been pushing it back three or four years lately. It's been getting stuck more often. And for longer periods of time, I'm honestly really scared of surgery complications and also doing, uh, also of doing too much afterwards, uh, because I'm terrified of not being able to train. Yeah. Yeah, that's not, I'll tell you this, this is a good topic. Yeah. Brandon. Because hernias, they put you under and you're like, can paralyze for a, for a hernia operation. I just found this out because my daughter who graduates with her DNP in May and my other daughter graduates. Don't scare Brandon. All right. You're not going to scare Brandon. No, here's the thing. She went to do it. And even her experience with in the, you know, in the medical field. And she's like, I couldn't do it. I backed out at the last minute. And she told me what, I'm like, what, what would they have to, why do they have to do that? I had no idea they did that. I'm like, girl, you, you have such a minor hernia. Like they didn't, they found it when they were looking for something else. Like, oh yeah, we can fix this. She's like, oh yeah. Okay. No, my position on this. I don't know if you guys agree. My position is if you have a hernia that's not bothering you and it's not progressing, I say, just leave it alone. If you've got things that are poking out that you've got to push back in, that's a different story. Skip, they always progress. If you're a weightlifter and you're training with any kind of load on your abdomen, they are going to, they're going to get, they're going to tear. It's like a piece of paper that's already got a tear in it and you keep messing with it. You just go like this. Yeah, I don't agree. The only thing that's going to happen is it's going to keep tearing. How about myself? I've had one for. On the inguinal? Well, not necessarily on the, there's inguinal and everything else. I don't know. That might be. Okay, that might be. Okay. So, and, and I'm not, I'm not going to sit here and pretend to be a hernia expert because I don't, I didn't know, but I know I've had one. I got it when I was coughing when I had COVID. I was like, oh, that didn't feel very good. I'm probably, so every now and then, like maybe twice a year, I'll be like, oh, okay. Yeah, I kind of feel it. Like maybe I'm doing pullovers. I kind of feel it. And then it goes away just as, just as soon as it came. So I probably, I've had that for what, four or five years maybe? Hasn't gotten any, any worse. How old is this guy? How old is Brandon? He doesn't say, but you know what? He's, he's, he doesn't want to do it because he's afraid of, he's scared of surgery, surgery complications. But he's saying that it's getting stuck out and he can't get it back in for longer periods of time. You're going to have complications from that, number one. You're going to strangulate the tissue, okay? Exactly. And then it's going to be not just a cosmetic or a repair. Then it'll be a big problem. We're trying to save your life's type surgery. Yeah, yeah. Okay. So as someone that I've had three of them repaired, okay? Easiest surgery. I closed my eyes. I opened up a second later, done. And then the recovery was a piece of cake. Did they have to put you under with the same medication? 100%. I was out. No, I don't mean just out. Do you have a mesh? Your, your, it's like literally paralyzes you. So maybe it's different for different hernias. Well, no, I was completely unconscious. No, I understand. But I don't want to be paralyzed if I'm unconscious. I don't want to be paralyzed no matter what. No, I didn't. Well, I don't, I don't remember being paralyzed. I get the idea of like, oh my God, I'm going to wake up and I'm going to be like, feel like a lot. I think they paralyzed that, the, the, the, the, that, that region. I don't know. I don't know. It wasn't like I couldn't move my arms when I woke up. I was completely normal when I woke up. No, I know. But, but, but, but, okay. Could you move your arms when you were out? Come on. My point is you don't. I mean, I'm, I'm, I'm asking you. I'm making a joke. Can you move your arms when you're out? General anesthetic. Skip. Do me a favor when you're sleeping. I want you to move your, move your feet. Make sure you can wiggle your toes. All right. Let me know tomorrow. Okay. They used a localized, but they used a general anesthetic and a local paralytic. Okay. Okay. Then if that's. They don't want the stomach to contract while they're like, you know, getting in there. But, but it's like, when I hear paralyzed, I don't think of just the stomach. So maybe that's my mistake. Yeah. I don't think.  I think they used a systemic systemic paralytic agent. That's what I'm like, if you're paralyzed like. Because my point is, I woke up in my, I could move my arms and legs completely fine. Well, yeah, I figured you would when you wake up. I just assumed that if there was that happening while you were under, then I'd be like, I don't know, man, I wouldn't want that anesthesia to wear off and then I couldn't move and I'd feel like I'm locked in or some shit. I don't know. Yeah, no, I've never heard of anyone having umbilical surgery and becoming permanently paralyzed. Okay. While they're under. Yeah. And I've had. Even if you are when you're under. Like, you know what I mean? I tell you, that's this guy. I wish this guy was listening because he might go. That's exactly what they do. Well, I think that Skip has not helped this case at all. Brandon is not going to. Brandon, get the surgery done. He's like, I'm out. I'm not doing it. You don't even remember you had it eight weeks after you got it done, okay? Here's how – when you get out of surgery, you're going to be very sore for three days. But here's how sore I was. I was still able to go to a Patriots playoff football game three days later and stand in the stadium for four hours and walk around the city. This is what he needs to hear. You know what I'm saying? It wasn't that debilitating out of my life. The first two days, going to the bathroom, getting up off the couch, yeah, man, that was hard. Rachel had to grab my arm and pull me up. You wouldn't want to be super constipated at that point. Well, you are because you're on opiates too, so there's that. So your diet has to be a little different than bodybuilding style, okay? Okay. So within one week, I was back doing treadmill walking. Within two weeks, I was back doing some arm curls, some light shoulder raises, but I made sure to not use my stomach to brace. I was doing the opposite of what you should do when you train, right? I was just making sure I put it all on my – just some light stuff. By four weeks, I was doing leg extensions, leg curls, lunges. I was doing lat pull-downs. And then within eight weeks, I was back to squatting 400 pounds. So it's not – like, get it done, dude. Like, you do not want to risk strangulating your intestines and then having to remove and resect some of your intestines where they're going to have to cut open your stomach wall and then repair it anyway. Yeah, that's not minor. True. I feel like with bodybuilding, we do this where we're like, oh, I'm afraid I'm not going to be able to train. And we put these things off when, in the actual scheme of things, when I've actually faced that kind of thing. It's so much smaller than I thought. And, yeah, it really does suck in the moment. But, like, Andrew, that four weeks that you were really screwed there, I mean, it was a blip, right? It's like the way I tell people to is, like, it's a speed bump when you look back at it six months later. And guess what? My size was back within 10 weeks. Like, yeah, you're a little flat when you get out. You're not eating for a little while. You're not training. You're fine within 10 weeks. And the other thing is this. Bodybuilders and people that are young and healthy, or just healthy in general, they heal twice as fast. So the doctor says, he told me no weights for eight weeks. And I'm like, okay, sure. And this was before we had BPC. I wasn't running growth or anything like that. This was just all natural recovery. No testosterone, I don't think. And, like I said, I just got back in the gym. I listened to my body. And I made sure I did not use my core to brace for anything, but I didn't do any exercises that would require that. And I was back to normal within 10 weeks. 18 weeks after that, I didn't even know what happened. I got one for you, Skip. Don't listen to me on this one. Yeah, don't listen to Skip. I'm not doing it unless it's major. I'm just telling you. I've got one for you, Skip. So this was actually for drugs and stuff, but it related to you. And I think that was a misunderstanding. And so I wanted you to be able to clarify. He said, what is your and Dave's opinion on rotating orals the way Skip talked about? Basically, he was saying, like, you take one oral for four weeks, and then you take another oral for the next four weeks, and then another oral for the next four weeks. Yeah, I don't know if it's necessary. I mean, they can rotate, but I just, I've always been, and I came to this after years of playing around with the combination. But four weeks on, four weeks off is something that I came to years ago because longer than four weeks, like if it was six weeks on, four weeks off, or eight weeks on, four weeks off, that length on orals would start to impact. You would start to see the negative impact on your bloods. But when it got down to four weeks on, four weeks off, you'd get the benefit of it for the four weeks, but it wouldn't hit your blood panel or your blood work very hard, if at all. So, rotating the orals, though, I mean, you can do that, but it's not like something I, like, promote. Yeah, I think that's what he understood. Like, you just keep switching every four weeks to a different one, but you're 16 weeks, you've been on orals the whole time. And I think what you're saying is you're on for four weeks, you're off for four weeks. Yeah, I've never been, I've never promoted being, like, you're saying four weeks on, say, Anabar, then you change to four weeks. Or Anadrol. Yeah, Anavar for four weeks and Anadrol, then D-Ball, then Methyl Trent. I've never promoted that. I've never advocated for that. All right. I wanted to make sure we cleared that line up. I struggle with high hematocrit. It's been as high as 54 in my last blood work. Is there anything I can take to reduce this or prevent it other than bloodletting? My concern is that I'm currently running EQ for the first time due to the Masteron shortage. And I am afraid that this is going to increase my hematocrit. Just wait for the Masteron, and then when you use that, you won't have high hematocrit at all. I'm kidding. I don't know where you're going with this. Wait, what? I'm just like... Wait, I'm going to pull that out as a clip. That'll be our next reel. Exactly. Well, it's just like... Andrew gets to the center stage. Other PEDs are going to raise your hematocrit, too. Not just EQ. Right. So if you're already worried about it now, and Skip pointed out, maybe it's not as important of a marker as we used to believe it is, as it was. But, I mean, what can you do about it? I mean, stay hydrated, for one thing. Don't overly do cardiovascular work. That's another thing. You can take supplements like... Thank you for saying that. I've said that for so long, and I've gotten poo-pooed by that. Really? Why? Yes. And I don't... I literally be like, what the... Like, why did you... And then I just... I let it go, because I'm like, I'm not even sure that I want to get into this debate. But, man, is this not... Hold on. Let's look at the case study of Olympic athletes, runners, bike cyclists. They have some of the highest hematocrites of any athletes in the Olympic field. Thank you. God, I just... It's not just because they take EPO. Man. Yeah, exactly. It's not just because they take EPO. So, no, no, cardio... Think about it. Logic is... It just says that if you're that... If your body is so conditioned, you can't... As an athlete, you can't possibly not have a high level... I just... It just has always blown my mind. I gotta go contrary... I think you'd be surprised how many people think that... I'll go contrary to you guys on this one. Okay. I really will. Their long-distance runners tend to have low hematocrit. Dante had suggested to me, when I was at a 57, it was like 57.8, my... I was scheduled to do phlebotomy at the time. I'd been out of phlebotomy. I'd been doing phlebotomy. And it's all because I didn't want to bring my test lower than 300. So, I'm on the phlebotomy train. Got off of it for a little while. Now, I'm back up. I'm at 57. And it's climbing. And I'm getting blood pressure. And there are symptoms. So, I'm not just high. I'm pretty high. Anyway, I talked to Dante. And he said, hey, man, there's three things I would suggest you do. Remove red meat from your diet. And he was like, you can eat it a little bit. But, like, just don't eat a bunch of red meat all the time. So, now we don't have as much iron from that, right? He said, remove vitamin C for now. Because that's going to help transport and store iron. Or help to store iron better. And then he said, do as much cardio as you can. And I followed his instructions. And so, I'm scheduled to do phlebotomy, right? Because of insurance, they can't get me in for four weeks. I follow his instructions. I came in to do the phlebotomy. And they tested my labs first. And it was 50.1 four weeks later. Yeah, I don't know how to explain that. I can't either. I can't either. I can't. And I'm not denying. I'm not saying that. Yeah, I'm not denying. I'm not denying. I'm not denying. I'm not denying. But it's like, cardiovascular aerobic exercise increases EPO levels. Period. Okay. EPO increases red blood cell formation. And thus, hematocrit, hemoglobin, all those values are going to be high. So, I mean, maybe it's... Aerobic exercise itself. The fact that your condition means that your body is using oxygen more efficiently. It just seems so... It's just counterintuitive. I'm not saying... Your situation... So, I'm wondering. Here's my thought. Yeah. I'd be curious to know a little bit deeper. Scott Stevenson and I looked at it a little bit. And I'll share with you one of his thoughts on this. Here's one of my thoughts is that... So, if you're at elevation, you're not getting as much oxygen, right? So, you're... And just like... So, you know who else you see with high hematocrit besides gear users? People who have sleep apnea who are also not getting as much oxygen. If I'm doing cardio, I've got a huge oxygen exchange. That's why I'm thinking that maybe you don't need... I don't know. There's science too. I'm not a scientist. I'm a diet coach. You know what I mean? I know a lot of diet coaches want to pretend to be scientists. Both ends of the spectrum can be true to produce the same value. I wonder. Sure. So, but okay. So, let me ask you. What cardio were you doing and how much of it at that time? I went from doing zero cardio to just...  toler tolerant CLE и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и toler и и We'd love to have him. We've got about a million things to unpack with him, so I hope he's got about eight hours. We could do a whole, like, bonanza day with him. Do you think it would burn bridges if we told him we weren't recording? Like, we're just going to hang out. We're going to have our headphones on and microphones, but we're just going to hang out. We just want to make sure you can hear us well. I'm going to do an intro. I think the evidence or research is conflicting there, but, I mean, I think if you're doing a lot of cardio, I think you want to bring it back to a moderate level. I would say 30 minutes a day is more of a moderate level than, you know, because you were doing none before, right? Yeah, I was doing none before, and obviously sleep apnea, although I do have a CPAP, although I don't think that was, you know, I still see people, like, getting elevated hematocrit even with a CPAP, you know, in those situations. The other thing is, you know, by adding all that cardio in, you were developing more mitochondria, too, so you're making your oxygen, you're more efficient at metabolizing energy using oxygen as the fuel substrate, basically, so there's that to take into account as well. That was my argument. Yeah, that's what I see. I don't know. Yeah. We're just some idiots. I'm going to dig. I'm curious. Let me know, but I'm probably not going to, and I'll just wait for you to do it, Skip. All right. We'll revisit this. There may be new information, too, since the last time that I looked into it. Yeah, sure. All right. The vitamin C is big, though. He is right about the vitamin C. I agree. Avoiding beef. If you're going to do anything with iron as a high iron food, drink coffee with it or caffeine. IP6 can help to some extent. I found IP6 will lower it in general. 3,000 milligrams will lower it two to three points. Yeah. Yeah. That's a good way to put it. Yeah. And then natokinase as well, I think is really good for anybody who has thick blood just to help to avoid clots. Yeah. Yep. True. What does Blunt Force Tanya say here? She's smart. She says, they're burning off their red blood cells. Hence, cardio helps thin your blood, guys, because they're burning off the RBCs. Well, you know what? I used to think she was smart. Not now. Not now. I'm curious, though. Like, I don't know the science behind it. And like I said, I talked to Scott about it. We also thought that maybe blood plasma levels increased, which would then dilute the same level of hematocrit. Highly possible. It's taking a step further. You know what I'm saying? Highly possible. I mean, yeah, highly possible. You know, it's hard with long-distance runners, too, because there's so much weird shit going on in that body. Like, that is probably the most destroyed. I think it's part of the reason, because they have a lot of heart attacks in that, long-distance runners, too. I had a cardiologist come and give a talk back when I used to personal train to my clients and to the rest of the group. And he's a long-distance slash, but he also, he's like, you've got to do some weight training. You need to have resistance training in your program. So he's a very smart, he's one of the healthiest cardiologists. You know, most cardiologists, they seem fat or out of shape. Yeah, yeah. This guy was like the epitome of health at 50. You know, he had like nice veins in his arms, like lean condition. He did. Why do you keep saying had? I haven't seen him in like 10 years. Oh, okay. He's still here now. That's a great point. But no, one of the biggest things he wanted people to walk away from, because people were obsessed with cardio for heart health. And he's like, well, the research kind of shows that you're actually at more risk for a heart attack with cardio-based only exercise. Interesting. What are the red flags when considering AAS, training age, body composition, et cetera? So maybe we're talking to somebody here who hasn't used gear, and he's saying, hey, I want to use gear, but I don't want to end up in trouble. Get some labs done initially. If you're, let's say, older than 35, get a calcium score, get an echocardiogram. I would start there, you know? Condition. He just pointed out the condition and age, those being obvious factors. Any predisposition to any type of genetic predisposition for anything from heart disease, like if it just runs rampant in your family, things like that should stand out. I always say if you have a history of cancer, I don't think GH or anything that's going to elevate your IGF levels is a good idea. If there has been something recently that has been able to pull away from the connection of IGF and estrogen levels, let me know, because I haven't heard of it. Cancer and IGF, high IGF levels and high estrogen with a predisposition for cancer is just not a good idea. Yeah. I'll go with mental health, too. If you were somebody who maybe had a history of stuff like that, I'd watch it, especially not just the cycling. And, I mean, obviously, compound choice. Maybe if you have a history of major depressive episodes or something else even, trying might not be the best idea. But also, the cycle isn't just the going up part. It's the coming off part. And how are you going to handle that? Especially if it's somebody who's maybe not even using TRT right now. They're planning to run this for 10 weeks and then come off. I'll tell you what. I was talking to somebody yesterday who his goal is to get his significant other pregnant. He wants to stay on a small amount of tests, which may work for him. And they're consulting a doctor and everything with this. But his biggest fear isn't losing muscle. His biggest fear is that he has had a history with mental stuff and depression and has had bad experiences in the past when he did come off, you know, like trying to do PCT back in the day. The coming off can be sometimes rougher, I think, than the cycles. I guess if you know that's the case, then... I think awareness is a big deal. Have a system and place to check yourself. And I don't know. It took me years to figure out that I get very anxious. I don't have any anxieties, but I get very anxious on Clem. It took me years to figure out, like, oh, man, okay. Like, I just feel like I'm just very anxious to do something. Do I have everything covered? Am I doing everything I'm supposed to? You know, that type of thing. It's very... I probably dealt with you when you've been there before. Maybe. Maybe. Maybe. Do you have a word of the day for us, by chance? I do. Thank you for asking. I was like, man, if he doesn't ask me. Here, I'm going to be quick about it, but I want to point out the difference between being obsequious and sycophantic. You've done this one before. You've done this one before. I know, but I'm getting to the one that I haven't known before. Oh, okay. I have to set it up. Okay? So, just for those who don't know, obsequious is the behavior of a sycophant. It's excessive flattery. It's essentially ass-kissing to gain advantage. Okay? So, obsequious behavior of a sycophant. But what is a group of sycophants called? A clack. C-L-A. A clack? Didn't let me finish. C-L-A. Sorry. Q-U-E. It was, I come across the word because I was, came across the word calc. And then I happened to just stumble upon this word. But it's a clack. A clack of sycophants. Group of sycophants. You and your clack. I know. What's a calc? I'm going to break that down on this little piece of paper here. I'm going to fold it. And I'm going to put it somewhere very important. Just thinking. If you ever end up in a group. You can use it someday. Yes. In a group. You're like, oh my gosh. I'm surrounded by a group of sycophants. You can be like, this is a clack of sycophants. It's not just a group. It's a clack. Right. It's a clack. You can use that as a grab, Scott. As a what? Yeah. Oh, yeah. As a hook. As a hook. You know, for the show. No, all hooks are going to be for Andrew for the next three weeks. Skip is not providing any sound bites for at least the next month. I've got another one. It was a funny one. Another reel, Skip. And I, but Guy Skip was like, yeah, I need a break after that last one. But we've got a, we've got a funny reel where I can't remember what it was now. But I, I think it was the, oh, it was the gym story. It's a good one, man. It's the gym story. So it'll be safe except for the one guy that told you don't be a pussy and train harder. If he hears it. He doesn't go to that gym anymore, though. But I'm saying if he sees the reel. My gym story. I was like, what are you talking about? He's going to a different gym now. Are you going to? I still go to that one. Now I just have a third one. Okay. Are you going, you told us on the show that you were going to go to. I know. I have not been to raw yet. Raw. That's what it was. I've had a few things come up. My daughter came into town as a surprise and brought my, our three-year-old grandson. I came out. I just woke up and I see.  lov Head over to BodyBerry.com to reach out to Andrew and Team Skip. TeamSkip.com to reach out to Skip. Hit me up, McNallyDiets at gmail.com. Thank you to everybody from Patreon. Check out SupplementSource.ca. TrueNutrition.com, guys, for another episode of Blood Sweat and Gear. We'll see you soon. Thanks, guys. All right. Thank you, guys, everybody, in the live stream. You're freaking awesome. What does EPO literally fight?