 I was taking two IUs of growth every hour and a half to two hours. He told me this was 15 years ago. He told me he took two IUs of growth with every meal. Remember, he says two to three grams a test that would probably all be glass amps. Oh, right? Legit pharma. Yeah. So you're talking 99. That's yeah, 99. So you're looking at, at, at, at, at, you know, I mean, you're looking at, you know, eight to 12 amps. You're looking at, you know, eight to 12 amps of Sustin on a week. He's got some freaking mass here. He had some wheels on him too. See, and his arms are good. He's got good arms. See, like this is before the arms, before he went nuts with the arms, right? So, the one thing I know that everybody said is we want to see more reactions, number one. And we've had people say, man, I love the rich piano stuff. And it's cool because like anybody could do a rich piano reaction, but you have a personal connection. You knew rich. Yeah. I knew rich really well. I knew rich really well. Yeah. Yeah. You know, so I love doing these with you because every time rich comes up, there's little bits that I hadn't heard before. Like I probably heard of most, all the stories now and stuff. I forget that I've all of a sudden remember. I'm like, Oh, I don't think I've ever told that story. There's so many of them. Post Arnold classic sitting around the table, eating a burger with you and dusty and somebody who used to work for mutant. I even heard some stories that we can't repeat on the air. Oh yeah. Half of them. Well, Hey, I have to like do the forward check when I start telling a story. Yeah. I have to like scan forward. Yeah. Yeah. I can do that. I can do this one. This is safe. This is right. You know, like when you start telling a story in front of people and you get halfway through and you're like, Oh shit. I forgot how this story ends. I forgot what gets said to the cop. Yeah. Yeah. Stuff like that. So, uh, sometimes that happens with the rich stories. I have to, I sort of trail off. It's like when your grandpa just stops talking in the middle of a sentence, you're like, yeah. So there's one day I'm rich and I, you just, you know, just minding our own business. Ron's getting old. He's just forgotten. Yeah. Yeah. So if I do that, I do that. It's cause I've realized what I'm about to say. So now you guys, okay. And, and I haven't seen Scott prepared both these clips. Um, you know, when we do a reaction, sometimes we over overspend time looking for the perfect clip, but there's no perfect clip to react to. It's about the reaction. It's not, it's not really about the clip. Yeah. You know, it's about whatever. He's going to talk about competing against Dave Palumbo. And then we're going to see the 1999, uh, super heavies, uh, at the MPC USA is early, early two thousands, late nine. Okay. Okay. I'm looking forward to it. Let's fire up the first one. Then Scott, let's get this going. Let's see here. So this is the minute I went to bed without winning that contest. Obviously I'm going to talk about the craziest, uh, regimen I've ever done in my life. Basically between the time I won the California overall to the time I was competing in the USAs and I placed seventh, um, in a year I put on approximately 48 pounds of muscle. Uh, I weighed two 31 on stage at the California. And I think I weighed, it was, uh, I believe it was two, two 87 at the USAs on stage and I placed seven. So, you know, I couldn't have been in that bad of shape. Um, but it was an incredible amount of size that I had put on and I did everything I could that year. Um, as far as winning that show, everything I did from the minute I woke up to the minute I went to bed was about winning that contest. Obviously I didn't win. I got seventh and that was kind of what my fire burned out after that show because I put so much into it and get everything I could, but it's cut to the chase here. Basically I was eating 12 solid meals a day. I was eating every hour and a half to two hours. Um, typical meal was two chicken breasts, eight egg whites, and, uh, uh, two to three cups of rice per meal, eating that 12 times a day. I was training twice a day. I was doing cardio twice a day. And when I wasn't training or doing cardio, I was taking a nap. I would sleep four to five times a day. Um, you know, one, three hours each time. That's, that's what I did. Cause I felt that was the best possible scenario to put on the most amount of muscle humanly possible was to break up my sleep so I could eat more, train more, do more cardio drug wise. I was taking two. I use a growth every hour and a half to two hours. He told me this was 15 years ago. He told me he took two. I use a growth with every meal years ago. And this is how I had a time. I was taking growth every hour and a half throughout the day, you know, and, uh, tried to take it on any stomachs kind of hard when you 12 times a day. Uh, but I was taking, you know, approximately 20. I use a growth a day as far as my steroid cycle, you know, back then, um, I was taking two grams of tests, probably six to 800 milligrams of trend, probably 600 milligrams of probably ecopoise. Um, I was taking 300 milligrams of injectable anadrol a week and, uh, and the 20 I use a growth. And for me, that's, that's probably the craziest I've gotten. And, uh, then Ron, people have said that was an insane cycle. Uh, the amount of muscle I put on my body was insane. And that was a time where I noticed I had a little bit of stomach growth going on. When I looked at the pictures from the Cal to the USA, you know, my, my belly of button had became herniated and I noticed my stomach kept protruding a little bit in one year. And, uh, that's when I kind of told myself, like, what am I doing? You know, what am I doing? I'm just, you know, doing, just doing crazy shit to try to win this contest. And I didn't even win. I got seventh place. I didn't even get a trophy, you know, and I probably spent, honestly, I probably spent about 15 grand, you know, on that contest. And I got, I had nothing to show for it. Probably spent 15 grand just on growth. So that was kind of the eye opener for me that, you know, maybe this might have been a big cycle, you know, what it's, uh, you know, cut out to be, you know, I started to open my eyes. But anyway, a lot of people ask me what my craziest cycle was. And that was my craziest year of just doing whatever it took to win that show. And, you know, 20 IUs of growth, Hey, 15 years ago, it's pretty crazy shit. Remember to the, uh, turn that down a bit for me if you can. Yeah. Yeah. Remember to, he says two to three grams a test that would probably all be glass amps. Oh, right. Legit. Farmer. Yeah. So you're talking 99. That's yeah. 99. So, so you're looking at, at, at, you know, I mean, you're looking at, you know, eight to 12 amps of sustenance a week. Right. Yeah. Wow. So that's a lot of tests. And, you know, back in the day, I mean, I'm sure, you know, California is probably, I'm just thinking of how much that used to cost back in the nineties. They were like, you know, 15 bucks a pop or, you know, and you know, so it adds up. Right. And, um, and then the, the EQ would have been veterinary and EQ would have been a 30 mil bottle with a horse on it. Probably Equivet would have been Equivet, Equipoise. It would have been, and it would have been 50 milligram EQ. Okay. Yeah. Right. It would have been a 300 milligram EQ. Like everybody's getting nowadays. Now, now the underground scene in 99, I remember this, that there was a, a sudden shift to underground stuff arriving. And it was right around 2000, at least up here in Canada. I remember it. So, you know, down in California, I don't know exactly the timeline, but he could have been using, you know, 300 milligram EQ. I doubt it in 99, he was probably using 50 milligram veterinary and EQ. That's what everyone in the nineties used. Those 300 mil bottles were like gold. Um, they were worth like 400 bucks a pop, 300 bucks a pop or I was anyways. And then, um, you know, the, the injectable anadrol there was, that was all from overseas. Like that wasn't underground injectable anadrol that was coming from like probably Mexico or something like that. Then the Mexican gear was also big in the late nineties, too. There was like the Tokyo stuff and, and all the Mexican gear that was coming up. That was, I guess the underground stuff, right? Even though it was like that, yeah, quality vet and like that sort of shit. So it was a weird time for gear. Um, his growth would have been all pharma. It would have been all Cerro stem probably wouldn't have been getting no, no, there's no blue tops happening. That's not happening. There's no Chinese GH coming in. That's all, uh, from what I've heard, that's most of the stuff around Venice at that time was coming from AIDS patients. Okay. It was a lot of the GH was being sold by them. They were able to get it and then they would sell it. Um, and, uh, so yeah, I'm just, you know, obviously I don't know for sure, but I'm just trying to help everyone understand the timeline here. That's wild. 48 pounds, man, a stage weight. Yeah. Yeah. So 48 pounds of stage weight. What I think people who haven't competed don't understand is that's not just like I gained 48 pounds on the scale. No, you know what I mean? Like, yeah, yeah. Yeah. That's more like 60, 70 pounds of walking around hydrated weight. Yeah. And, and let's even say, let's even say that, you know how a lot of bodybuilders say like, Oh, I put on a lot of size. Let's even say that he did sacrifice some condition. Yeah. Okay. Okay.  So let's even say, you know, maybe 8 pounds, not as conditioned as the 230 when he won the cow, you're still looking at 40 pounds. Yeah. And then, okay, some stomach distension that he's talking about there. You know, let's take another 8 pounds off. It's still 32 pounds. Yeah. Right. So I have to wonder too. So he said he got burnt out after that and I get it, man. Yeah. But you know what, imagine if he would have done that and then spent the next few years like backing off from that. refining. I mean, refining. Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence Intelligence. Intelligence. Intelligence Intelligence. Intelligence Intelligence. Intelligence Intelligence. Intelligence Intelligence. Intelligence Intelligence Intelligence. Intelligence Intelligence Intelligence Intelligence. Intelligence Intelligence Intelligence Intelligence Intelligence Intelligence. Intelligence Intelligence Intelligence Intelligence Intelligence Intelligence Intelligence Intelligence Intelligence Intelligence Intelligence Intelligence Intelligence Intelligence Intelligence Intelligence Intelligence Intelligence Intelligence Intelligence Intelligence Intelligence Intelligence Intelligence Intelligence Intelligence Intelligence Intelligence Intelligence Intelligence Intelligence Intelligence Intelligence Intelligence Intelligence Intelligence Intelligence Intelligence Intelligence Intelligence Intelligence Intelligence Intelligence Intelligence Intelligence Intelligence Intelligence Intelligence Intelligence Intelligence Intelligence Intelligence Intelligence Intelligence isn't quite yeah yeah yeah but like the the size like he's got huge calves yeah thick through the delts thick legs i mean he's got big big quads and hams his back's good yeah he had a great physique you know there's a lot of refining there posing could be better and you know conditioning in the glutes isn't quite where he needs to be especially the late 90s but i mean like he's huge yeah you know you're 280 pounds find that in 2000 2001 man i mean look at the quads you get though yeah like if he got just let's say 10 pounds more conditioned those quads would be bonkers see there's palumbo you know what a lineup so i was looking at this lineup for the super heavies and uh melvin anthony ended up winning this one yeah see there's meadows oh yeah john meadows what a crazy show hold on i gotta see taylor quincy taylor rich yeah yeah you miss there again you miss a mountain dog can't miss mountain dog and there's a couple more guys i recognize here i just don't want to get their names wrong i'm pretty good with some of these old faces but is that dexter no no no keep being for that i look at it it's 99 it can't be dexter but the face i was like he had that there's melvin there's meadows that's john right yeah it's gotta be is that not meadows is that it sure looked like him yeah we'll figure out there's quincy taylor in the pink yep we gotta see did meadows do the 99 he was in the heavies ah so maybe it's not man i look like him in the face hey it's crazy the timeline works that's why i like that's why i thought it was him yeah he was there plus he looks pretty short that guy looks pretty short i think is this the call out for supers first of all look at how many supers there are here man melvin looks amazing hey just look at that physique he really does what's 79 no no no no sliced and diced dang oh who's that guy who's that guy the name's on the tip of my tongue the big guy they just added he was he was good yeah that's eric from there's eric from right there and then stokely palmer jeremy freeman joe de angelis that's stokely palmer joe de angelis i think that's him in the blue and jeremy freeman is on the end that's jeremy freeman the tall blonde guy yeah i'm pretty sure the guy with the guy with the own neck yeah so you know i mean rich rich didn't get outsized by anybody conditioning just is a little better in these top guys yeah eric melvin yeah crazy stokely palmer yeah joe de angelis and what was the other guy's name freeman uh yeah jeremy jeremy freeman yeah big dude man what a flashback i haven't seen some of these faces for a while these guys all look really good too yeah and eric from was eric from was really good i what happened to him did he ever turn pro i'll look it up i'll find out unfortunately he's not with us anymore oh he did pass away yeah glutes are shredded the answer said he was not a steroid user and had uh nothing to do with gear so i don't know it's a shame joe de angelis is ripped with the glutes on him yeah he looks really good like that's hardcore conditioning he just is gonna lack the shape to be to melvin yeah yeah same with the glutes on eric there eric's got the glutes and hams just shredded in yeah you know how i am gotta have those ripped oh see melvin getting a cramp out of his peck is that what that was yeah he had a bit of a cramp in his peck oh i gotta reach up oh i get that cramp out of his night is diuretic protocol yeah probably hasn't drank a lot it's working for him though bang and relax the funny thing is i had no idea melvin was a super at any point no kidding is someone gonna come on and get mad at us for getting something wrong here we'll take it we'll take your critique guys we got air horns in the audience back then oh yeah so what shows this this is the 99 what usa's 99 usa's yep and melvin anthony is gonna end up winning it i believe he ends up getting the overall here yep melvin anthony takes the overall from the super and then robert habib is third i don't see him in this lineup which guy's robert habib i'm not sure honestly some of these names are guys that i'm not familiar with yeah because i think stokely palmer's on the left there that's him in the red i think is stokely palmer unless it's robert habib but yeah either way crazy lineup oh he's the guy i think he's the guy in the left there with the glutes ah okay yep yep that's him yeah that's habib what do you think i mean i think they all look good i want to see uh rich come back out for the second call out we know he's going to be there for a second call out and i think yeah i think he beat palumbo i believe yeah so i think i think i had joe deangelis and uh robert habib confused and that was habib there with the rip glutes yeah yeah yeah exactly so yeah piano ends up at seventh then quincy taylor gets eighth and then palumbo gets ninth and then brandon jensen at ten yeah joe deangelis is a different dude i did have them mixed up joe's joe's in this call out joe's in this call out i think there's quincy quincy wound up didn't quincy do an olympia yeah sure did palumbo thick look how thick dave is just covered in veins too yeah yeah yeah yeah is he the most healed guy on stage stage or anything like this is not doing him justice yeah i mean he's the kind of freakiest freakiest brad holobow remember brad holobow with the jimmied up arms which one was he he's in the blue there just panned over him but it goes back to him you'll see his arms are he kind of was early on there brad holobow really jimmied his arms up big time tell you what rich looks really good and those side shots are he's pulling that stomach in really nicely there's joe deangelis on the end there that's joe yeah the big dude that's joe there we go they're all big they're all big dudes yeah yeah slightly taller slightly bigger looking yeah yeah you know the big dude and the super heavies at the usa's i feel like dave's getting harder as he poses too yeah there's no shortage of hardness there see look at rich's back i mean rich's back is great and joe  Oh, yeah, yeah, see the arms on that guy? Yeah, guy in the blue there, his arms are really blown up. When he does the front double, you can see. Yeah, just not quite, especially standing next to Dave, he doesn't look quite hard on. But the physique itself, like, so just think like, if this was like, you know, nowadays, and you know, that physique, was on stage, was on stage, was on stage. Yeah. Somebody would be like, hey, I can help you win this. Yeah. Like, I'm not seeing anything on Rich here, if you just want to think about it this way. I don't see any reason why he couldn't come back the following year and win this class. That's what I'm saying, man. You know what I mean? He's got all the pieces right there. Yeah, yeah. He looks complete. He looks pretty damn balanced. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That was wild, man. But that was the thing about Rich was Rich legitimately, you know, like, it was interesting, because, you know, I often say that like, Rich was the first bodybuilding influencer. Yeah. Yeah. And obviously, I don't have any proof that he was a first, but I'm just thinking back to what happened with Instagram. And I've told this story before many times, if you've heard it, forgive me. But I remember in 2012, it was very early, I think it was at the Arnold, or we were doing a shoot with mutant or something. It was at the Arnold. It was at the Arnold. Yeah. He pulled me aside. And he said, Hey, give me your phone. And he put Instagram on my phone. And he said, This is going to be the entire industry. If you're not on this app, you won't matter. Wow. This this is this was 2012, really early in 2012. I believe it was at the Arnold. Yeah. And he's and he downloaded Instagram onto my phone, and he made me make an account. Okay. And then I remember my first post, because I had this stupid, but I'd grown my first beard. Now, I'd, I'd gone unshaven for a month at a time a million times, but I never called it a beard. Because to me, being unshaven is just, I just I'm a rough and tumble offseason bodybuilder. Right? Yeah. You know, but when you actually shave, and like, shave, and yeah, clean it up. Clean it up. Now it's a beard. Yeah, right? Yeah. And I'd grown goatees before, but I'd never done a beard. So. So I remember I had my first beard, and I took a picture of it. And that was my first Instagram post. You know what I mean? Yeah. So I remember Rich was like, you posted. Like, it was always like, doesn't matter what you do, just post, you know? Right, right. To the fucking taking the train right off the tracks. Yeah. And so it's like, you know, you kind of got to give him a bit of credit for that. He wasn't spewing, not saying he wasn't spewing bullshit, because, you know, people say stuff they don't have proof for. Right? Right. Right. But, but he was talking what he was talking like, from a place of like, I was fucking there, and I did this, and this. Yeah. You know what I mean? So it was real in that sense. And I think that's why early on, he was so impactful on social media was because everyone was like, Oh, this guy actually did all this. Like, yeah. You know, he did win the California. And the California in the 90s was a brutal show to win. Like, if you won the California, you were going to do very well at nationals, right? Yeah. Like, it wasn't like you won the, you know, no offense to people from North Dakota, but it's not the North Dakota overall champion from population and statistical point of view isn't often the biggest threat at the nationals. I'll tell you what, California is still good. And it's been a few years now, but yeah, so it was like seven years ago, I went out to compete in California, just because I wanted to do like a trip. And I was like, you know what, I'm going to stay at it. And this is back when the holds was still good. And Venice beach was awesome. I was like, I'm going to go stay in Venice beach, get an Airbnb. And I'll do my, my depletion workouts, my last workouts at golds, and get to meet people and stuff. And then I'll compete at this show. It was the Titan classic. And let me tell you, man, like the guy who won that show ended up turning pro at the next nationals. The, every lineup was just jam packed. There were a ton of guys, ton of guys in bodybuilding. Of course, there were a lot of guys in classic too, but like it was compared to now Michigan. We have a decent NPC, but not compared to California, Southern California still has great bodybuilders. Yeah. Local level. I remember rich said something to me once, like, and like, I didn't take offense to it at all. I just laughed, but I, I said something like, yeah, you know, like, you know, you know, I really want to win this year. So I was having a conversation about competing and I was getting ready for nationals, I think. And he just said, he said, well, you know, like, you know, I hope you do like, it'd be great to see you get your card, you know? But then he just casually said, but you know, you don't take nearly enough gear to be competitive with these guys. And I remember he said it and I was like, he might be right, but I'm not going to let it bother me. And I'm not going to triple my dose. Yeah. I'm just going to keep doing my thing, but thanks for your wisdom, rich. Yeah. But this is what he said. Like, you're not taking nearly enough shit to be competitive with these guys. Well, there comes a point, like, would it have really mattered? You were a big guy. Right. Would it have made that much of a difference for you to be? Well, I guess you could, if you were like 20 pounds heavier, that would have been crazy. That's for sure. It would have been a huge impact. 20 pounds would have been a lot on because, you know, I was already, I mean, I was already 265, you know, with strided glutes. So, you know, you go to 285 and a small waist and a small waist. You might've lost that actually, you know? Yeah. Yeah. And then I remember also, I was interesting, rich talking about his belly button and noticing his, his distension and not being happy with his ab shot. And I remember him telling me that he, since that point in time, when he made that decision, like, oh, I can't do this to my waist. Yeah. That's when he became, I don't know if you remember, a lot of people watching will be, will remember rich was obsessed with having a tight waist. Okay. Right. He was talking about doing vacuums way before anybody else was. He was talking about holding your gut in while you're riding the bike and doing your cardio, holding it in for the, like pulling your belly button to your spine and holding it in for the whole 30 minutes on the bike or whatever you're doing. God. And just constantly obsessed with waist. And, you know, we got the tattoos down the side to help accentuate the, the taper and everything was about a small waist. And he became very, very fixated on having a tight, small waist and making it look crazy. Right. You know, with the capping out, maxing out the shoulders and the giant arms. And, and, uh, it was, it was that show where he was like, oh, my waist is getting bigger. Fuck this. And it was like, that was the end of the road for him. Which is crazy because I hear him say that in this video, but then when we watched the video, like he still was pulling it in and from his side shots, he still was pulling it in. I don't think even like everybody is so much more hyper aware of waist control today as fans of bodybuilding that I, I, I don't think anybody would have looked at him and been like, dude, he's blowing out. He didn't look blowing out to me. He was the first person I ever heard talk about like, you know, being like constantly being on it, like thinking about it all the time. Like, cause I kind of took it for granted. I had a small waist and a great ab shot. Yeah. You know, I did a million sit-ups in Taekwondo when I was a kid. Right. I had like, we used to do a hundred sit-ups every class. So like, you know, I had, and I played lots of sports and shit. I just had good abs. Yeah. It's just crazy. You could still hold that in considering the amount of food you ate. Like that is kind of an anomaly situation, man. Well, it's just structurally genetic, you know, a lot of it, but, but, you know, um, so when he talked about it so obsessively, I was like, oh yeah, like it didn't really, you didn't really get through to me that that was like how obsessed he was about it. But now in hindsight, I'm like, oh yeah, like a lot of people, they think about their waist a lot, you know, and a lot of bodybuilders, it's a huge concern. And he was like the first guy that I heard say like, oh, I ruined my physique. And I was like, oh, you know, so yeah, interesting times, but yeah, he did, he did what he said he did, you know.