 So if this is something you've ever done switching rotating compounds, what have you rotated and how did it work for you? I want to throw that out there to our listeners. What's up guys welcome back to the podcast with Dave Crosland, I'm Scott McDaily and all of our programming is brought to you by you, the people of Patreon. Thank you very much for your support. We have some Patreon questions today. We are brought to you by Strom Sports Nutrition. For those of you in the U.K.K. U.K. U.K. U.K. U.K. U.K. U.K. U.K. U.K. U.K. U.K. U.K. U.K. U.K. U.K. U.K. U.K. U.K. U.K. U.K. U.K. U.K. U.K. U.K. U.K. U.K. U.K. U.K. U.K. U.K. U.K. U.K. U.K. U.K. U.K. U.K. U.K. U.K. U.K. U.K. U.K. U.K. U.K. U.K. U.K. U.K. U.K. U.K. U.K. U.K. U.K. U.K. U.K. U.K. U. U awesome deals that change week to week on short dated and label change products check them out if you're in Canada Dave what's going on we got a fun topic today we got a bunch of listener questions how you doing man I'm okay yeah okay okay yeah yeah okay fed up with the wet miserable fucking weather but we got to move out of England because it rains there 364 and a half days a year from but it feels like it at the moment to be fair it's been a lot it's not much better in the Midwest we've had double the rainfall we'd normally have for this time of year and they still got a hosepipe band around here well take your vitamin D no I don't want to count back then all right listen so we have some comments from the last show that we want to address there's some interesting discussion that that our podcast on meant brought up trust alone so we'll get to that stuff but we're going to talk today about a topic that isn't as popular as it used to be nowadays a lot of people are taking low doses running them long term I've been on primo for 325 days this year you know something like that at 100 milligrams a day or a week anyway we're gonna talk about rotating compounds which used to be more popular and you used to do it more often didn't you oh yes yes so first thought we used to think like oh you have to change the compound so that the androgen receptor doesn't get used to it is that what you were subscribing to at the time I not in that much detail I was just told you need to change over six weeks so I did I mean my my drug knowledge in my early days of usage was beyond abysmal it really was I did not have a scooby-doo but yeah every six weeks I'd change an injectable bear in mind I stayed on continuously so I never and I don't mean TRT or cruise I just stayed on so it was just under a gram for the most part part very a little bit my drop down to 700 go back up to 1.1 but it was just under a gram for first part and and I used to do two injectables and I'd swap one out alternatively every six weeks okay um but depending sometimes I'd leave the testing as a baseline sometimes I'd drop it completely because I just didn't know what I was doing what do you think there's any so are you saying that swapping every six weeks is inferior no so this was some of rich pianos subscribed to as well and it's it's not as pointless as it first appears but it not for the reasons that you might think so androgen receptor at least for a few hours dies every time an androgen engages with it it duplicates itself so there's two of them and so they're constantly being reproduced and dying off and reproduced but with the presence of anabolics the overall number of androgen receptors does increase okay now all anabolics have unique properties to that individual compound they might not be vastly different but they are still different for argument's sake mast and primo are pretty close compounds in the sense of the effects that they have most people would argue that mast is probably slightly more effective in building muscle mass and obviously mast tends to act more like a CIRM rather than an AI where primo tends to act like an AI so you see mast tend to block estrogen effects rather than actually technically lower estrogen but in some people it will still do that and primo pretty much across the board lowers estrogen so each drug has its own unique properties and as a result of that it also has its own unique stressors or negatives to those properties so the the old idea that you needed to change androgens to keep the receptors guessing and all this sort of crap was a load of bollocks just doesn't stack but by changing the anabolics what you can do is change the downstream negative effects so for argument's sake say you put EQ in if you only ran it for six weeks you get some of the benefits of EQ but you're not necessarily going to get a large amount of blood thing and then you can swap it to another compound say decker again in the real world very similar effects when it comes to muscle building but completely different effects when it comes to side decker is potentially going to be a little bit harder hitting on emotional stuff and obviously there's a prolactin issue and possible erectile problems as well so the idea of rotating compounds to spread out the toxicity almost isn't necessarily a bad one there is a counter to this which is and i really don't know where i sit on the fence with this i think most cycles are going to be somewhere between 10 and sort of 16 weeks the odd person might push to 20 etc but most are going to sit somewhere in that that port of fall so there isn't really to me a huge benefit to changing compounds unless you know that at a certain point say for argument state you start a cycle on EQ and you know when you start to get around six eight weeks blood thickening is going to become an issue that's right let's drop that out and put something that's less direct in that that mechanism in but other than that i don't really see a major thing for it so there is some argument that that like i said by swapping out compounds you can reduce toxicity but there's also an argument that if you stick to one set of compounds your body's only dealing with one set of negative actions where if you swap compounds you've got the negative actions from the first compound now you're overlaying that with negative actions from the second compound less exposure to the direct negatives but a more broad spectrum base of negatives yeah um so i think in the real world there are a few occasions where maybe swapping compounds would be useful for an individual but i think for the most part it doesn't serve any real benefit there's some psychological issues around it in the sense that changing compounds can sort of pep somebody up mentally in the sense of they feel like they start a new cycle so it can pull them a bit more adherent if you do things like that um and there are certain compounds that we don't want long-term exposure on so we would bring them in and out particularly for that reason i mean there's no real difference to this to what you do in prep where you bring your compound in towards the end for a specific effect and if you're enjoying our show let me ask you to please hit the like button it doesn't cost you anything and it definitely helps us out leave us a comment we love to hear what you think and if you're new here let me encourage you to subscribe and hit the bell we have lots of bodybuilding education and entertainment coming out each week the bell will let you know when new stuff comes out let me ask you though i got so i've got questions and i know that our listeners would have questions and thoughts too and by the way i want to throw this out there because we've been getting a lot of really good feedback on what our listeners are doing and i always love hearing that stuff so if this is something you've ever done switching rotating compounds what have you rotated and how did it work for you i'm going to throw that out there to our listeners but i want to throw this at you dave so yeah if you take EQ it's going to start working from the time you take that first injection but it is going to also build up over time so if you're bringing the EQ let's say we took EQ for six weeks and then we cycle that out and we go to deca for six weeks okay did we ever really get a chance to fully get the benefits out of the EQ sure we're not getting the same sides as you would from a 16 20 30 week cycle EQ but are you really going to get the benefits from it either when you're going up and then not even letting it build before you come back down well most stuff's gonna plasma peak at around six weeks so technically you'd probably be in the region of plasma peak from it i think the EQ takes a long time to work isn't as accurate as we used to think it is and i think as we discussed in a previous podcast that might have been down to a misunderstanding of the estrogen management on EQ and i think it's probably a little bit more effective a little bit quicker if we've got that estrogen in the right place so i think that was something that held EQ back from the point of view of having tangible impacts on how we felt and how we performed you've also got to remember that those circulating levels aren't going as soon as you stop injecting they're going to be around for two four three two three weeks and then they're going to slowly decline okay so you're even though you might stop at six weeks you'll have EQ in your system till nine weeks possibly a little bit less  revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing revealing explain why in a minute recently put a video out where I did a bit of a chat with Cooper and we were talking about multi-injection and estrogen management and this started a bit of debate and there's loads of people are you have to inject every day now yeah it's popular now blood plasma peak drives anabolism the higher your blood plasma peak is the more effective that compounds gonna be but also the more sides you're gonna get absolutely so by going to a daily injection you will massively reduce sites but you also reduce the effectiveness of that drug because you're not driving the high peak from very early on so it won't be until you reach plasma peak at six weeks time that you will actually get the full benefit what that's doing you will have a reduced effect for that first six-week period if we're talking in the cycle format so you know peak levels have a positive and a negative so we bring this back to this and it's the same scenario where yes there's gonna be some negatives because on certain compounds you may not get as long as you would ideal on that compound but that's offset against the fact that you're limiting the negative side effects from that compound which in this scenario would be blood thickening so you're not letting it get too high where it becomes problematic and hopefully if the theory worked in what we're discussing you would have slightly elevated blood values which is going to be a positive to increase nutrition and transit there was a time when people used a mega dose EQ for the first two weeks of a cycle then drop it oh yeah yeah I did that the second time I ran it yeah you front-loaded it basically did double the dose so that you got this massive increase in blood transit nutritional transit and oxygen transport in the body that you could then manipulate in performance and recovery without having the long-term driven increase in blood values ongoing so I think it's very easily with anabolics to to get super over complicated and I think that's what a lot of people are doing yeah I don't think personally now there'll be somebody that disagrees with this without doubt I don't see much of a major benefit from everyday injections to injecting two to three times a week okay all right I think that the net general of that is pretty similar particularly when you use in a slow acting as the light in and they also been a yeah I would agree that for most people you're not going to see a major difference from them I would say at least every other day you know to like I really do think that the everyday is unneeded although Dave I think a lot of times people are also looking at the logistics sides of it where if they do everyday shots they can get away with using an insulin pin versus having to load up a 3cc syringe so is the other yeah and this is where I get this is all kind of besides the point right yeah but this is where I go I mean we've gone off topic now but I'm gonna hit it anyway this is why I get a little bit confused potentially in within myself I have a little bit of a conflict here because it's like everybody so you take steroids to elicit a response to aid you in the growth of muscle mass or strength yeah sure but then everybody tries to make it as minimal effort and disturbing for them they want it to be all soft and fluffy and cushy yeah and alter their approaches in order to facilitate that at the potential cost of progress and I think there's an element of you know what doing anabolics provides certain things that aren't going to be joyous and to a degree you just need to fucking accept them and move on instead of trying to make everything so fucking easy and so pretty and so comfortable but then part of me is like well if they can do it why shouldn't they do it so I have this bit of a conflict between a sort of old-school attitude about anabolics like just shut the fuck up get on with it use a green what you're being a fanny for and then the other side of it is like well now at the end of the day if it's more comfortable for them why would they create problems they don't need yeah and I really I have a proper conflict about it I don't know where I genuinely sit mostly depends what side of the bed I get out of yeah okay well let's get back to the main topic then so rotating compounds okay so so let's do this then would it I I think that it would make more sense with faster acting compounds and I think that that's something that is commonly done too let's say that we take EQ which we were talking about already or DECA Nandrolone long-acting Nandrolone you have that running longer term while you're rotating in and out shorter acting compounds maybe say for instance testing EQ for however long you're going to run it but the first phase you're maybe running NPP with it you swap that out later in the cycle to trend ace you know like you could do you could do a lot I think you could get a lot more a lot more benefit with a more dynamic and I'll use the term dynamic because I feel like that we're creating more dynamics within the cycle rotating those faster acting compounds maybe even orals rotating orals versus rotating those I always see the long-acting compounds as being like our foundation we're getting those levels up keeping levels up you know I think the other thing there is it also depends on what you're trying to achieve because you might be transitioning in what your goal is so it might be I'm gonna start with a bit of a build of anabolism in old-school sort of stuff and then I'm gonna start moving towards more fast acting because I'm gonna go into a cut period at the back end of this so there's things like that or I'm going into a hard comp prep at the back end of this you know I've definitely like if you were cycling a powerlifting or a strongman you you may well start with a just old-school base of test and decker go on the joints all round and then moving close to the show you might start to drop compounds out and bring in a bit of trend and bring in some bit of men so you've got these high androgens that you don't want to be exposed to for really long periods of time because the negative build-up but I'm gonna give you a significant strength boost moving into the comp so there is that side of it rotating for the sake of rotating it no I think is no real benefit even though I did it for absolute years but I think planning your cycle around stages of what you're trying to do in that period and what you're trying to realize yeah definitely because again you pick the right tool you know you're not gonna use the same woodworking tool for every aspect of building the wardrobe I at some points you're gonna have to change it and get a different one all right well listen I I'd be curious like I said to hear what our listeners have to say do you guys rotate compounds I I definitely have layered in faster acting compounds with people with myself and and I think you nailed something to one last point I'll make is that psychological benefit of oh I'm taking this new thing massive massive yeah yeah you know it's more than I think people give me credit for yeah you get used to whatever you're using and after a period of time it's like well now we're switching from NPP to trend I think that yeah there's definitely even if you're kind of across the board trying to keep the same effect like for me you know 300 NPP might swap that out for 50 trend ace every other day after say for the second half of the cycle something like that yeah you're gonna maybe get a little bit more out of that I definitely think but at the same time you're more or less you're kind of making an even trade I don't know but yeah you get like that more psychological boost um skip had talked about he found like the reduction of health issues by rotating in and out orals somebody misunderstood him I think and I'll have to clarify it with him for sure but I believe so somebody was saying skip was his he thought that skip would be on one oral for four weeks and then go to another oral for four weeks and then go back to the first oral for four weeks you're gonna keep getting you know like like liver stress all throughout that what skip would do is four weeks then four weeks off then four weeks right on yeah and he found that to be like really beneficial have you ever done anything like that um periodization for certain things yes generally one of the things that one of the big beefs I have about pro strongmen and pro powerlifters to a degree is that they compete way too fucking often okay particularly pro strongmen on this on the circuit um and it requires multiple peaks in a generally short period of time because you're having to bring them up for shows and stuff yeah so in those scenarios I would definitely utilize orals you know a couple of weeks before this show then drop them back out so we're not getting overly stressed and then bring them back in a week before the next and that also depends on the caliber of the show the level of competition and the importance of the show to the individual same with bodybuilding really everything you're saying apply  I think bodybuilders, no, no, we need to get some down time, and I've actually had huge success with power sports, I've actually taken them off cycle 10 days out of the show. Really? Really? Really? Yeah. Really? Yeah. Everything? Yeah. Everything? Because they, yeah, they drop all the stress. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. I couldn't imagine. They come in fresher and stronger. I couldn't imagine that. I couldn't imagine that. I couldn't imagine that. I couldn't imagine like stopping the manager all. Getting them to do it is difficult because obviously there is that fear factor. Yeah. So it usually ends up in a compromise of just lowering the dose and having a sort of high cruisy dose but not quite cycle-y dose in there. But yeah, dropping, dropping about a week out has a huge impact on it. On stress factors and levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels levels on it, YouTube would be like, nope, not monetized. Nope, not monetized. I can't help how ugly I am. It's just what God gave me and life, to be honest. Life has battered me fairly hard when it comes to the lux department. They didn't like your channel, did they? No. Surprising some of that's still up. Yeah. I haven't touched that in a year. I did have a big fight at one point about it. It's all educational. They went quite in depth with it. I got most of it passed. I also think that shirt has a problem with us being demonetized as well. It could be. Dave really doesn't like this shirt. It looked like it died and you dug it up. Alright guys, so a bunch of you had asked for tank tops. So the day has finally come that we've got them. If you're interested in one of our tanks, check them out at the merch store. I'll have links below. Who knows, you might end up meeting somebody else that listens to the shows too. I've had that happen more than once. Somebody's like, hey, you listen to that podcast? I like those guys too. And before you know it, there's a budding bromance just waiting to happen. So if you want to look freaking jacked and support the podcast, you guys can do that all at the same time. Just check out the shirts. Bam! There we go. Get the good light. So listen, we had where was that one? We had somebody who claimed to us that mint does not aromatize at all. You remember that? Mm-hmm. So I sent that over to you. I'm trying to pull that up. Somebody said Marius. So he says, citation needed mint does not aromatize at all due to steric hindrance. Okay? So I looked the term steric hindrance up. I think I'm saying that right. And from what I understand, that's what's responsible for it not having any 5AR conversion. Yes. So there's no the way that testosterone converts to DHT. And we discussed that on the show. So there's no conversion to DHT or like chemical like DHN type thing with nandrolone with this. But I don't see that being responsible. And he went on. He had some further thoughts saying that it will hit the progesterone receptor hard. And of course, if you have higher progesterone, you're going to be more sensitive to estrogen. But he's saying that that's what's going on. Dude, everything I've looked at is that saying that there's like the what is it? It's like a 7-alpha methyl estrogen or estradiol that that met converts to. That's everything I've found says that and that there is going to be this high conversion to that. As we've said, like this really nasty synthetic estrogen. In my personal experience, you know, I struggled with it. I saw high estrogen levels, though I don't think I don't think that your standard E2 test or you're looking at estradiol then, right? You're not going to see this 7-alpha methyl estrogen, right? I'm not sure. I honestly don't know if it shows in the test or not. What I can tell you is anecdotally, I have seen without fail high estrogen on people running MENT. An estrogen that has increased from the addition of MENT. It's not a compound we come across a lot with EVAL, so there isn't a shitload of data, as in collected for myself about it, but I've seen enough to know there is definitely an estrogen increase when MENT is introduced. But there are quite a few studies. There's one from 2005, Mechanisms of Androgen Action Lessons from MENT, that talks about the conversion to estrogen. There were a few others that I found as well. Unfortunately, not all the links work, so it wasn't possible to actually have it on screen. I looked one of the studies up that you sent me. It was like there was a paywall to it. You had to pay for $40 for the study. Victoria should be able to get you passed up. She probably can. I'll look into that. She'll have academic access, so she should be able to get it for free. Okay, I'll send it to her, and in the meantime, I will put those links, or excuse me, those references in the description to this show in case Marius wants to check those out for himself. I'm not saying he's wrong and we're right. All I'm saying is that the evidence that I've seen suggests and supports that it converts. Whether there's something I'm missing here, or a later study has disproved this, because obviously when I searched for studies, all I searched was for studies on men and estrogen conversion. So I didn't check for anything further than that. I drew up about a 12. Studies that supported the estrogen conversion from men. But as we should make aware, if people don't know, studies are by far not the fucking Bible in any way, shape, or form. True, yeah. You've got to look at the context of the study, i.e. the people it's been done on, whether they're relevant, and studies don't always necessarily mean it's a true trend or it's a true action. it takes a lot of studies repeating the same information before science goes, yeah, that's what really happens. So there are conflicting studies. There are studies that will say, no, this doesn't happen. There are studies that will say, yes, this does happen. And it's only over the volume of repetition of studies in that area that we come to the conclusion that an action does take place. So there's a context with studies, both in the environment and the people it was implied within. Whether there is any, I can't think of the word, conflict of interest, though they should declare it, some are still a bit fucking dodgy. And then there is that this is just the results of an experiment because that's what a study is. It's an experiment to see what happens. Yeah, yeah. And that's kind of, I guess, what I'm getting at too is like, you know, from a coaching perspective, it's nice to be able to look at this stuff. And I definitely am interested in understanding it further. But just from, you know, the more basic stuff that I've read and then my own personal experience, I would say like high estrogen, you know, from MET. And to, yeah, to go deeper, I would be interested though. So like I said, I'll put those references down. I'll talk to Victoria too and see if we can actually pull that stuff up. And as you said though, even if we do, it doesn't prove anything either way, right? One study. Yeah, there is, there is, you've got to be careful. All right. In that case, let's talk about Zoloft and SSRIs. We had a guy who, and I think we already kind of know what our answer is for this situation, but he said, would 50 milligrams of Zoloft help to offset the mental sides of 19-nors, particular anxiety and panic attacks? I said, thanks guys. You know, I basically told him like in the chat there that I wouldn't bet on it. And plus I think that like just trying to dose an SSRI in general, people struggle with that. You know what I mean? Like just trying to get your dosing down for any particular SSRI can be a project, let alone then trying to combine that with something like Trend. He came back and he said, I was put on Zoloft after three months from stopping Trend at 10 milligrams a day. I believe that it lingered longer than expected. I dealt with significant insomnia and anxiety for a while and I needed low dose antipsychotics temporarily to help with sleep. Once sleep normalized, everything improved. Both medications worked well and I felt great again. So now he's using Master, excuse me, Primo and a low dose of test. So I think what he's asking is, when are we  like, can I, can I go back on trend now that I'm on Zoloft? I wouldn't. Yeah. So, so, so what you've got to remember is a lot of these mechanisms, like medications, like medications, they're not, in the most part, stopping the negative action, they're just compensating for it. So in this scenario, you've got to be very careful, because trend is still going to be the doing the damage and the impact that it has on the brain, but you're just overlaying that with a drug that, that doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn doesn you're trying to do i would say avoid the fucking thing and even then man like if you're doing something specific there are other other routes if you're taking i think he said 10 a day 70 a week of ace yeah 10 a day and you're getting side effects like that man dave i i want gear to improve my quality of life you know make things enhanced versus take away i feel like he's he's dealing with side effects months after discontinuing this stuff it sounds to me like maybe he was already prone to that those side of or those issues i i would not want to rush back to that compound anytime especially if he's feeling good now i think the the reality of this situation is that like many other people have experienced with trying it has done some damage it has caused a permanent anxiety state that actually if you stop the medication you will go back to um and and so with that medication not in play you're not fixed you know i mean it's only because the medication is there you're not feeling the impact of that anxiety and everything that comes with it so um i i would suggest that you you be very careful around your anabolic use moving forward because it's not the only compound that can do it yeah you know dave you've said this a number of times now about how somebody may continue to experience anxiety from trend after they've stopped the trend you know and when you first said it i was kind of like i've never seen that but we've heard a few people in the chat now say yeah yeah i had that happen so you know maybe maybe there's something what you're saying here yeah it's look we our brains are very adaptive um organs you know i mean so when we do screw part of it up um it will gently find a workaround yeah so even though you know i i've i've seen it and i've had people report it um it doesn't necessarily mean that it's a permanent state doesn't mean that you get rid of the problem it just means you learn how to deal with the problem and how to cope with the problem it's you've gone through various processes in your life about abstinence and changing the drug use and all that sort of thing absolutely do you now sitting there today i'm sorry if this is too personal tell me to shut the fuck up but you've usually been quite open about it so i didn't think you'd have an issue yeah do you now still see those mechanisms there but you just manage them in a different way it's not that you've got rid of it you just learn to use it in a positive manner than a negative manner yeah i just have to i i feel like that same stuff is always there i'm i'm not a different person i'm the same person i'll always be you know but i've i've just learned i i don't know if this answers your question but i've i've learned how to how to look forward as to what my actions are going to you know create and and use that what would describe as in old school terms addictive personality in a positive way like with developing coaching and the podcast and things like that as well yeah yeah but it could also create drive kai yeah absolutely man it's definitely there but i also have to be careful because it you can take i think for somebody like myself that has an addictive personality i could take that same stuff and turn it into something negative you know like a great example for me is video games like if i pick up a video game i will get a freaking addicted to it and guess what man like if you were to have the you know how like if you don't have an iphone but if you have an iphone you'll get like this weekly review of how you spent your time on your phone it gives you like your weekly breakdown how much time are you on social media how much time were you working all that like dude my that would all shift to like gaming gaming gaming would just get higher and higher each week i can't monitor i can't control my gaming if i get into a game so that way i just realized like you know what i want to stay away from games so there are still you know it or i could take it like bodybuilding you know i i spent several years in recovery like when i first got into recovery i'll make this quick i stopped bodybuilding for the first six months all together because i was afraid of like taking it too far you know and and then when i got back into it i i kind of dipped a toe slowly there was like a lot of behavioral modification stuff that i worked on for a long time otherwise i could still turn anything into a negative experience you know like every with the positive most the best of intentions i can take something too far and basically pervert it until it becomes something bad for me you know and you've seen it right people in bodybuilding who like sacrifice everything sacrifice their health their families their relationships and i think to be the best it's not worth it especially for a guy with genetics like me you know it's not going to end pretty i think two degrees a necessary trait to a small degree it's obviously the scales of this isn't there the scales of of obsession and dedication as we like to call it in bodybuilding dedication um yes but the the scales to this i've i've fuck me i mean i didn't push to where i pushed because i was a normal balanced individually mentally you know what i mean you've got that thing too you've got that thing too and you and i have it now we work as well i can get overly we work and and i i i tend to keep myself very busy but on a variety of things because it stops me from focusing on the single because i've got lots of things i've got to do so i can't concentrate on the single you know what i mean uh but yes but my point is that's never gone away you've just learned how to manage it and that's very often what we see with people coming back off trend is they have issues on it they then the first for a lot of people is just not realizing where it's coming from so it's scary it's confusing you know why am i behaving like this why am i getting these feelings once they have causation and they realize it's the drugs they start to get a better handle on it because they know now this is because of what i'm doing it's not what i am and then post they can usually manage it a little bit better than they would have done when they first got engaged with it i never experienced the severe side of trend but i noticed a personality change with it uh probably the most negative thing i've had from the point of view of mental health with drugs was actually ephedrine really that left me with anxiety for years oh like even after you stopped using it and i was hammering the shit though i mean i was taking a lot okay hey that had to be really great for your heart at the time too oh yeah it was great for everything you know i mean yeah no i i got very bad with ephedrine for a while like what are we talking here what are we talking dose wise it would vary from 20 30 milligrams to 150 milligrams okay so what is it 25 milligrams is a standard dose so daily so that would be 150 would be six six tabs that's a lot so i would get up and take ephedrine to start the day oh it became my coffee yeah you kind of like it's bad dude and then obviously you feel a crash yeah i'll do that the worst crashes from so i'd take another one because i didn't want the crash yeah uh and and that became daily ugh there's no doubt it was a form of addiction uh didn't recognize it at the time but yeah you often don't do you um you get terrible adrenal fatigue you know it was just it was a tool that enabled me to do whatever it was i needed to do that's how i viewed it you know i mean so i didn't at any point consider i'd become dependent it was just like i'm tired yeah i need a boost um and made every excuse in the sun that i was tired because of workload i was tired because of xyz or whatever it was and the reality was i was tired because of the ephedrine right yeah exactly all right let me see what else we have here we got a bunch of good stuff um all right what about this one oh dude just a random comment this guy had this is crazy he says man i'm 48 years old when i took this in my late 20s uh oh i think he means meant did you know so a couple people commented this and i'll read the comment do you remember meant was available as an oral at one point  I went from 315 for like 17, from eight reps to like 17 reps. It was in pill form and some people, could not take it, could not take it, it would make them throw up immediately. I've never experienced it in pill form. I do know it was available and it was available and it was a bit like Superdraw where it actually had a non-classification for a period of time so it was sold over the counter. Oh God. Yeah. I do. Not very bioavailable orally from what I read. No, it's not, it's not something that I've had a lot of experience with. I just, but I've seen the paperwork so to speak. I've seen the paperwork so to speak on it, you know. Yeah. Yeah. Hey, here's some more meant feedback. He says, Hey guys, love the show. I do my fast and cardio every day listening to you and I really enjoy all the shows on the channel. In Brazil, meant has gotten really popular over the past year. A lot of pro bodybuilders are running it at high doses, up to 600 milligrams a week and having great results. They usually combine it with tests in high doses of mass. Just like you were talking about really grateful for everything I've learned from Dave, Skip, Andrew, and both Scott's much love to you guys from your friend in Brazil. You have a friend in Brazil? I do. Yeah. He apparently likes you too. He says you're all right. Yeah, I'd go with that. I'm all right. So he said the, remember Dave, I was mentioning maybe run it with a high DHT to kind of help combat some of what we think. Maybe we're all wrong. What we think is the, the, because there's, it's unopposed, you know, you, you don't get a DHT from men. And that may be part of the reason that we're seeing such significant estrogen related side effects. Well, DHT does have a preventive action in the sense of gyno. So yes, there would definitely be something there from low DHT. Yeah. I wonder. The lolly, he says, I was just like Dave with the pills, but mine were MDMA though. What are you doing? Are you just surfing the internet right now? I'm actually looking for some on meant. Okay. I'm trying to do it tactfully, but obviously I'm not capable of that. Have you seen the new underground HGH, HGH pen floating around? He says, I won't mention the name, but I'm sure some people have seen it or used it. The stuff comes pre-mixed and apparently can last up to a year in the fridge. Do you guys have any thoughts on this? I haven't, I haven't seen it, Dave. Have you seen this? A new GH pen. What's new about it? It's pre-mixed. They've been around for a while. Especially with the long acting one. I'm sure that's a pre-mix. Is it a pre-mixed? Maybe. I'm trying to remember when I was doing the research on it. I have a client who's running it. He's using five milligrams per week right now. I'll ask him. So I'm here texting and you're there reading the internet. This is a really interesting podcast, guys. It is, but I'm doing something to do with the talk. So shut the F up. Dave, you do the things for the shock, for the talk, before the show. Well, what if you give me the topics when that's in five minutes before? You're welcome. Okay. Yeah, it is pre-mixed, he said. Shout out to Ty. What's up, Ty? Did anyone find Dave's old headphones? All right. I enjoy the show and the banter every week. Why is Dave against a small amount of pre-mote on TRT? If your lipids and CV system are all cardiovascular system, we're all in good shape, why is pre-mote more deleterious for the health than an AI? I'm 52 and I feel my best on 180 tests, 90 primo. I do bloods every two to three months. Right. I'm going to try and put this in a way, using small words, so people can understand. Oh, Dave, that sounds very disrespectful. Yes, it does. Yeah, it does sound. Condescending was a better word. Yeah. I'm not against dosing. And you've said it because you've said this a lot, right? I'm not against dosing above TRT ranges as a bridge between cycles. I'm against calling it TRT. The problem I have with this is that when you label something TRT, it gives the connotation that it is safe and that it doesn't require management and it is not risky in any way. It doesn't pose a risk because TRT is generally regarded as being a safe dose, keeping you in medical ranges and perfectly healthy. Doing tests with primo isn't that. It doesn't mean it's wrong. It's your personal choice with what you do. And I have no judgment on that as long as you accept what may happen off the back of what you do. But the issue I have is more in how it's regarded rather than the actual action itself. Because as soon as you start saying that 200 mega tests and 150 mega primo is TRT, then what's next? You know, you start to get this complete disregard for the health risk from running those doses. And as a result, it's not managed correctly. You don't do the necessary precautions. And then this is a long term commitment. This isn't 10, 12 weeks of a cycle. This is the rest of your fucking life. Over that period of time, there can be some nasty things occur. Now, primo particularly is harsher on lipids than AIs, particularly when you start looking at AIs like proviron or aromasin, eczema state. Well, yeah, proviron is not an AI, just to be clear. It has a mild AI action, doesn't it? Is that due to it being a DHT opposing estrogen? It binds with aromatase in the same way it binds with SHBG. And so as a result, it does lower conversion. It's not dramatic. It could be considered in a TRT environment. I wouldn't consider it in anything above that. Okay. Anyway. All right. So let's wipe that and just say aromasin. All right. Aromasin is not negative to HDL. Primo is. Now, you've said you do your bloods regularly and HDL is good. Great. You're managing it. Crack on. Don't have an issue with it. I have an issue if you start saying I'm doing TRT. You're not. That's my whole point. Now, personally, I feel that downtime is important. And I don't feel that the negative impact downstream of stress, which isn't really measured in the blood work, is worth what you're going to gain. Inanibalism from sticking 100 meg, 150 megaprima on top of a TRT dose. Personally. I don't see any gain there. All I see is an excuse to move. Now, please don't take this as a personal attack. It is not. But all I see is a way of justifying extended and elevated drug use without looking at it and accepting it for what it actually is, which is elevated and extended drug use. I'm wrapping it up in the TRT label and therefore saying, oh, it's all safe. It's all that. I'm not going above where I should be. You are. So as long as that element of it's recognized and it's managed accordingly, no issue whatsoever. But call a spade a spade. Don't look at a Mini and call it a Range Rover. Like Scott does. Tells everyone to drive. He's got a Range Rover key fob on his keys and throws it on the table every time he goes out. Thank you for coming to Dave's TED Talk. Bit of a run. But it's people say I'm against. I'm not against it. Personally, I don't see a necessity for it. I don't see the logic with it. I would rather do TRT or do a bloody cycle. But each to their own. I don't stand in judgment of you doing it. I just stand in judgment of how you label it. Okay. Let's see what else we have here. You love that, didn't you? Fucking triggering me, you twat. It does trigger you, doesn't it? Fucking does, yeah. We have an older guy who has problems running higher doses of test or DHT compounds because of BPH. I'm thinking about trying ment with my 200 test at maybe 100 milligrams of ment and 100 milligrams of EQ to help a little bit more with strength and muscle. What do you think about this one? An older guy who can't handle, has got prostate issues if he goes up on DHT-based compounds or test compounds, which are going to convert to DHT. Could meant be a safer option for those guys. Well, you're not going to get a DHT conversion, so there is an element there.  Yeah, yeah, I mean, that was, I believe, one of the reasons why it was considered for TRT was the fact that it would be prostate friendly. Huh, okay. There's another factor as well. This may diminish hair loss as well. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We did get a question on hair loss today too. may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may may bollocks so I'm just trying to find something if there is something that gives me a direct you know just bang this is it I can quote oh okay this is waiting for you finish your sentence you're like I I'm just you know trying to you know looking for you know study that I like Dave I'm sitting right here I'm just waiting for you we're doing a podcast we're recording the show all right now right now there's like five minutes left there's like five minutes left it's all I ask no it's not you ask everything you take my soul you ask too much young man you called me a soul sucker no at what what was it an emotional vampire was that we had like three people that loved that comment last week okay there's a guy who was saying it was popular it meant was popular in the early 2000s does GH increase heart rate what if you're gaining 10 pounds of water BP yeah yeah increase BP yeah maybe not necessarily resting heart rate but BP definitely oh well so we had a female I can't find her exact question but I remember it oh is this it no this isn't it but so here was her deal so she's run anivar before okay she ran it at five milligrams she's done well with it um now she's running five milligrams of anivar 10 milligrams of test and two IUs of growth I can't remember how far in she is but she's a little ways in she's not having the same experience as the five milligrams anivar she said she's holding a whole she's up 10 pounds which I don't think she was very so like you know if a female would say 150 pounds her being up 10 pounds is different than a 220 oh yeah it's seven and a half percent increase in body mass it's it's not a lightweight jump she says not pretty what were our thoughts on her doing this what were our thoughts on her doing the test are you reading the comments now so I just popped up about vigorous steve um so she's doing 10 milligrams of test per week five minutes yeah don't laugh I was just laughing at your ADD leave me alone I do that I get it too I get it too um yeah five five milligrams of our 10 milligrams of test test yeah so actually what I was actually think considering was what that would put her at her uh blood values on 10 milligrams of test I was just trying to remember off the top of my head it's going to be putting her about seven n mole okay what's I don't know n mole for that doesn't about five times upper range of natural female five times I thought that around 10 milligrams a week would be kind of like a TRT to TRT plus usually from what I've seen in blood work about three milligrams four milligrams is TRT okay I've seen three to ten ish depending um I would say I thought 10 would be like a cycle good I don't think it's crazy talk to you no he's quite low dose because I was what I was looking at was considered right have we got a higher aromatized estrogen aromatization here but no because believe it not even in women test aromatizes to estrogen um but no we don't so it's not going to be significant so I'm wondering if it's the growth test doesn't aromatize as much in a female though as it does nobody still happens it does still happen though to a degree so that's yeah so I was just trying right blood value aromatization no that shouldn't really be a factor unless she's well she was going to be suppressed or I would have thought she'd be suppressed um so then the next question is right I can't see it being the test so is it the growth I wonder if it's a growth too I've seen some not everybody but some people have a um like just a real negative reaction even to low dose like dude I know a woman who gained she's strong too this girl is um I don't I don't want to out her but I'll just say that she's very strong as in like in the world strong you know what I'm saying like real strong and um I don't know what she weighs but she's got to be around probably at least 200 would be my guess solid real solid and two units of growth put her up like 20 pounds strong on it too so my thought was and I've seen this before with my friend Vijay some people get a weird response and their progesterone goes high and that will cause a significant amount of water retention um and that's that's what happened with this this lady I wonder if there's something like that going on with her she's getting some sort of weird you know not traditional high progesterone response from the growth hormone I would I would initially look at dropping the gh uh yeah and seeing how that works um because I think out of the three elements of this unless the vase deep all I can't yeah but even then I can't see it driving what she's talking about so yeah I would definitely look at dropping the gh I think that's probably where the problem lies and I think in general like we went from she knows how anovar affects her she doesn't know how test affects her she doesn't know how growth affects her she throws them all in I would want to know like okay well if I know how this works why don't I try the gh next you know that way you'll know you gain 10 pounds you'll be like oh that's because I'm taking growth and then try the test and then you know consider combining them yeah I mean I I gained a huge amount of water on um growth and then I just took just took insulin to drive it into the muscle and was full as a house I bet you were yeah we did have a comment on from uh what did he say here uh I think vigorous steve just talked about mint and the biggest problem is that it's hard to control the aromatization to synthetic estrogen whereas test is more predictable so steve also is saying yeah it's it's the common belief within anabolics and I'm not saying the gentleman is wrong I'm very yeah no the mechanisms at play but it is the common belief and from what I can see in the small amount of data that there is that it is also repeated within research as well um all saying the same converts to 7 alpha methylated um and then a few few others there's a couple in equine studies which obviously I get isn't exactly the same but we have that with a lot of stuff um and there's stuff about doping testing and analysts around sports and again looking at men so they all seem to have the same basic agreement that it just converts so but I say if he's got data saying otherwise I'd definitely like to see it and that isn't a dig in any way shape or form I generally would like to see it yeah no absolutely all right we'll wrap this thing up we had some more questions but we'll call it good here why I'll stop looking at it now we're good no I'm you lost your opportunity Dave no we're already at an hour what uh what do you have to work you know and give the answers to people and and what really should happen is you should hold the thought while I do a little bit of side research you could tell me that if you wanted to want to communicate with me fairly obvious if you get half a brain solid pair of eyeballs hey I do have one more important question for you and it's from a couple weeks three three weeks ago to be exact okay um why do cheeseburgers get such a bad rap I mean you've got a good serving of beef a slice of cheese what's so unhealthy I mean yeah you've got a couple pieces of bread in there but personally I've never understood why they're frowned upon in the bodybuilding diet can someone please enlighten me I never frowned upon them it's not the joke  cheeseburger, cheeseburger, cheeseburger, it's the quality of the quality of the ingredients used, if you do a 5% lean state burger, in a 5% lean state burger, in a shibata roll, or a bagel, or a bagel, with an organic grown cheese, with an organic grown cheese, quiz in mate, spot on, if you're downing, if you're downing, did you say organically grown cheese? I'm just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it Yeah, oh yeah. And they used to have turkey burgers in bagels. Now you tell me what's wrong with that now. I like using some Mexican seasoning on my turkey, ground turkey, and just chopping it all up. I've got to be careful. I'm an absolute three-year-old girl when it comes to spices. Really? No kidding. Oh, terrible. Yeah, no, I'm really bad. You don't be a fun show one day. Struggle with garlic. I'm really bad. But we should do a show where me and you are both eating cheeseburgers on the show. Like we have people go out and get us burgers, and then we're just like sitting here eating burgers while we do the episode. That'd be fun. Many moons ago, I was in America for a period of time when I was 18, 17, 18. I was a keen amateur bodybuilder. And do you remember when McDonald's used to do like the 29-cent burger things? Oh, that was a long time ago, but I barely do. Yeah, yeah. They used to just do like you could buy like the regular burger, which is more bread than it is meat, granted. Yeah. You could buy them for like 29 cents. I would literally go and spend $10, $15. Oh, God. And sit there and just eat. We had hot now when I was in high school. It was like this burger chain that was real cheap burgers, and they were like, you know, 39 cents or so. You get like a whole meal for $1.99 with a Coke. Fucking hell. You've got to understand that's crap quality. It has to be to be those prices. You know what I mean? Oh, yeah. Yeah, but they're delicious, too. And he's always the same. The shit food tastes nicer. You know, we recorded with Lee Priest, and he told us that there was a show in Hawaii that he guest posed at, and that the show was sponsored by McDonald's. Yeah. And because he was a guest poser, and he came over and spent the week there, they gave him this McDonald's gold card that he could go anytime he wanted McDonald's while he was there, and he could buy food. Well, you get free, don't you, a gold card? So do they actually exist? I thought that was an urban legend. He ran it up. He said he was buying, like, all the homeless people burgers on the beach and stuff. He was like, he spent so much money there just feeding the whole beach, basically. He said he was like the god of the beach by the end of the week. So those are real. McDonald's gold cards do actually exist. You've heard of this before, huh? I've heard of the gold card. I've never seen one or known of anyone have one. Huh. I wonder. I'll look it up real quick here. Now, I'm presuming McDonald's in the U.S. are the same as the U.K. and that they're franchises, correct? I think, yeah, yeah. So how does that work with a franchisee? If you, if I run a restaurant, be it McDonald's or whatever, and McDonald's gives someone a card that allows them to eat for free in my restaurant, I'm not going to be fucking happy. That's a good point. Yeah, that's a real good point. Do they claim it back from McDonald's? I need to know. These questions are important. I won't sleep tonight now worrying about McDonald's gold cards. Huh. Okay. So the McDonald's gold card is real, but it's extremely, it's an extremely rare perk. Granting holders free McDonald's meals open for life. Huh. Huh. Through the terms of the card. Oh, wait. Though the terms of the card may vary, but celebrities like Bill Gates and Warren Buffett own versions with global and local restrictions. So there must, there must be a fair use of this policy with it as well, or there would be now, I would have thought, particularly, probably all because of Lee. Not a standard program, but a gift from franchisees and corporate VIPs through, though McDonald's has run contests open to the public and they have mobile versions. Huh. Okay. I have a new option. Oh, it says benefits range from local only use to worldwide access. That's what Bill Gates has is a worldwide access card. I have a new life goal. To get a McDonald's gold card? Worldwide access gold card. That would be pretty cool, dude. That would be the first thing. I would put that in my Instagram bio. You know what I'm saying? That would be the first thing I'd want you to know about me. Go for McDonald's gold card. Hold on. Yeah. Not CEO, entrepreneur. No, just McDonald's gold card. Hold on. That's all they need to know, man. That's all they need to know. Oh. Hey, so we. I'd hammer him. We did get a comment from Gabe last week. I do want to throw this at you. He was like, I don't know what I'm going to do with myself without having had Dave's advice for the week. So I think at least for Gabe, you know, we got to give him some. I don't. I can't. So something's happened this week. I've done some of this week. It's both excited me and terrified me. And a few people have gone, Dave, at your age, why are you starting on a project like this? Under construction three? No, no, it's not a film. I'll tell you off there. And I'm not trying to be secretive deliberately. I just don't like discussing materialistic things. Okay. Publicly. I'm not a, I don't like too much show and tell, so we speak. And it has. It's, it's, we, we agreed on it yesterday. Yeah, Monday. Okay. And it's excited me and it's excited me with possibilities, but it's also effing terrified me. And it's a two year project. I have a guess, but I, but I won't say it. You, you do need to take risks. You can't live in a bubble. And I mean, I've taken some risks that have proved to be financial disasters. And it's just a case of, at the end of the day, it's only money. Yeah. But you've got to take well from the experience you gain by going through these processes. Yeah. You can, you can live a safe life and there's nothing wrong with that. But I do think it'd be a boring life. I do think it'd be, it would lack substance and quality. And when you come to the end of your life and you're sat there as an old person reflecting on your life, there ain't going to be shit to reflect on if you've not ever taken a risk. Yeah. You know, some of the, some of the biggest fuck ups in my life have actually been the biggest learning curves and have helped me develop the best as a person. So yeah, I do think, I do think taking risk is important. Having said that, obviously you want to try and control as many variables when it comes to the risk as you can. But I think as we get older, we get very risk adverse. Yeah. We, we get settled. We've got his house, you know, we've got a stable income, we've got a job car, whatever it is. We go on holiday once a year, twice a year, whatever. And, and things become quite stable. And then we get scared because we get comfortable. But I do think you still need to stretch yourself. That doesn't have to be financial. It can be a million and one different things. But I do think it's important that you, you do take risks, that you do stretch yourself, that you do challenge yourself with things that may actually be beyond your capability at the point when you start them. Yeah. Because I think those are what make life rich and rewarding. And even if you don't succeed, it's still rewarding because of the experience. Okay. Well, I wish you luck with it, whatever it is. Is there a time that you'll be able to tell us about it? It's, there's no reason why I can't tell you bar from the fact that I don't like being particularly open about, it is a materialistic thing. Okay. But yes, I would potentially be able to tell you about it when the project's completed because it'll be a different sort of scenario then. Okay. Well, we'll look forward to that. And at the same time, we'll respect your wishes until that time, you know. And we can still, I think, take away a lot from that. Yeah, man, I think you're right. You know, I can tell you that I, at one point, was comfortable enjoying, like the bodybuilding lifestyle that I had. You know what, Dave? You can really kind of get, like, sucked into the day-to-day Groundhog's Day of bodybuilding. And I had, you know, quit my former life in the world of photography, moved back to Michigan, was working a blue-collar job. ViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViViVi just did that i had to take risks and believe me man to be sitting here talking with you right now i took some pretty scary you know jumps at times they were calculated don't get me wrong i was coaching over a hundred people for two years straight working full-time before i decided to quit my full-time job you know i try to keep it pretty light and i you know have fun on the show but like i worked my ass off as a coach helping people and like in order to be successful at that you have to have the results you know what i'm saying um so i ask a lot of questions and i kind of you know try to stay in my lane but i also say man i know a decent amount of stuff about the sport and i've helped a lot of people do well at it and because of that i'm sitting here today but it took a lot of definitely risks man to i think be able to do this i think one of the problems of bodybuilders face and probably bodybuilders more than strong men are powerless because bodybuilding is more lifestyle based yeah it more controls every aspect of your life because you've got much more emphasis on diet and things like that calorie intake and performance but i think one of the things that we're all gwy of and i know i have been is that when someone proposes something to you that might be out of your schedule you automatically go no because it disrupts the schedule absolutely bodybuilding yeah and actually if you just step back and go hang on if i do this and that i can actually make this work and it's not going to be that impacting the fact that you might have to juggle meals around a little bit or do something slightly different isn't necessarily going to have a long-term negative impact on your progress and we'll probably do your i'm going to use a bit of a hippie term here but probably you do your spirit the world of good because you're just getting different stimulus and you're experiencing something completely new and i think i mean i used to do a bit of modeling not because any grandeur of being a model or anything of that shit and obviously when you i was signed with ugly models so you can tell the sort of work i got ugly models yeah in london um but i didn't do them because the money was shit by the time i paid for my trains i was just about breaking even okay but i did them for the experience i did them for the fun i did them just to experience new things and do something different and i had some right laughs so i'm still hung up on that term that company ugly models what would you do what would you do like what would they bring you in for so for ugly models i have done an adidas advert where i played a roadie that had a builder's ass and we had a long discussion well they had a long discussion to the adidas executives about how much ass crack showing represented the adidas brand which was the most surreal conversation i've ever heard in my fucking life i did something for snickers but that never aired yeah that never aired okay i did something for plenty kitchen towels which is a brand over here uh i think i saw that one i think we brought that up one time yeah that i got banned uh for sexual innuendo did we find that commercial one time i i would love to find it i can't find it then we did i did a series with lemsip oh yeah yeah i think i saw that one before lemsip squad yeah lemsip squad and then i did readly magazine app where i get my head shaved off oh yeah yeah yeah i've done a few what was that readly readly was a an app so basically the scene is i'm sat in a barber's chair looking at the readly app on an ipad yeah the barber's shaving my head i've got a wig on the barber's shaving my head and he shaves a massive shave right through the middle of my hair because he's reading the app over my shoulder yeah and then i did the the man with a hammer film uh which was mad but i found that i found one hold on hold on very effing cold was man with a hammer but it was it was brilliant experience actually won awards for that yeah that that was crazy dude we we watched that on the show um or parts of it at least that was a really cool movie too i thought you did a great job and you got to keep the hammer which you've now given away haven't you yeah i give it to nick at monster that was a german film right yes it was about uh long distance runners hitting the wall all right or as they say meeting the ham with the the germans call it meeting the ham with the man with the hammer uh which causes pain and doubt within your brain and your body all right look what i found let me turn this up yeah this is the reedley one can you hear that by the way i can yeah okay oh dave hold on i gotta roll that back there's dave with hair it's a wig oh dude that actually looks pretty realistic on you that was an expensive wig uh i had to go to london it was filmed in london at a little hairdressers in london but i had to go the day before to a wig shop which was an incredibly expensive wig shop okay um and the guy that ran it was very gay uh and very camp he was absolutely hilarious we had a right laugh okay he spent literally two hours trying to get the right wig that matched my beard and and looked like it belonged on my head and everything else it was quite then they went in shape of anything look at that t-shirt you have on too is that that was wardrobe i take it that t-shirt yes that was wardrobe yes okay what size is that it looks like it was probably three you never wear shirts that were that size no it was small it was deliberately small they they did it deliberately the whole idea was this contradiction of you know super tight t-shirt little fluffy kitten on it yeah big monster of a bloke and his hair gets shaved that is absolutely amazing i forgot about that one i think we found the lemzik one was that what it's called lemzik lemzip l-e-m-s-i-p yeah i think we found that one before you had the lemzip squad and you were one of the people yeah that was fantastic man hey if you guys can find any of the commercials with dave in them what was the other one you said you can't find the first one you mentioned you said there's the snickers commercial that didn't go anywhere um there was the adidas one which i've never found and adidas did a series of short films that was just they weren't ads as such they were short films with loads of a lot of placement yeah uh so this is about an up-and-coming band they're playing at the o2 in brixton i think it was um and i'm basically out the back of the venue unloading the van with speakers and that's all i do is they fill me from behind i bend over my arse crack pops out uh i pick up a speaker and i just walk past the camera into the venue that was all i did um they paid me a fortune for that did they really that's wild man they fed me very well huh um so that was that one george royce with us he said his business his old uh gym business partner roger waters was in ugly models his best role was being the great dane owner and uh 101 dalmatians they the one of the guys that owns ugly models is is a bodybuilder because he oh no kidding when i went in for my audition okay that's wild man yeah i've done a few i did did one i don't know what it was for it was just a photo shoot i had to dress up as a workman yeah um some some were literally just because i looked the way i looked facially and others were to do with how big i was you know it just depended on what the role was that's why but yeah there was there were uh the the the um plenty kitchen towel one that was such a laugh yeah not the plenty kitchen towel i want to i can't remember if we found that one before or not so i'm basically i'm a biker oh yeah okay i think we did and i've got a dirty helmet and the guy that is the main character for plenty kitchen towels is a guy called one sheet and he speaks in a spanish accent which is his real accent it's not born yeah uh and he has to polish my helmet okay yeah it was now it was supposed to be really spoofed so he's doing a front to camera and then i get wheel i'm stood on a board with wheels on and i get wheeled in on the board from the side obviously it's squeaky and i'm wobbling a little bit because it's all supposed to be a bit spoofy okay and it was actually a piss take of early american advertisements that what they based it on huh um i'll have to look around for that one the rope broke so they had to push me in um they couldn't get it even so i kept falling off and basically we must have done 17 17  T-er, take-er, take-er, you know, we just kept going, and going, and going, and going, and going, and going, till we got it. That's funny, man. All right. All right. Well, listen, guys, we appreciate you tuning in. If you find any commercials with Dave, then definitely let us know. Man with the hammer. That is available on YouTube, I believe, isn't it? It's a short German film. You said it won a bunch of awards, right? Yeah, it won an American horror award. Did it really? Yeah, that was good. I watched the whole thing and probably a couple of times. Definitely worth watching. Go to evalbloodanalysis.com. Get your labs done by Dave, of course, if you're in the UK. Strom Sports Nutrition, both in the US and the UK. There's a description for them. They have great health stacks, especially if you're on cycle. Check out Thrombo Max. You can get great protein powder, creatine, and intra-workout, stuff like that, over at truenutrition.com. Use our code THINK, as well as go to supplementsource.ca for Canadians, because they have great deals that change week to week on short-dated and label change products. Thank you, everybody, from Patreon. We did have a couple of Patreon questions today. Totally missed them, guys. I apologize. We'll make sure that we get to them next time. And for another episode of Drugs and Stuff, we'll see you soon. Thanks, Dave. I'm going to be live. It's too late. We already are. I don't like being live. Hey, what did you record with Cuba? I didn't. Oh, that was ages ago. Yeah, we did a review of his blood, which turned into a sort of bit of a general topic conversation. Okay. And then he videoed it and chopped it all up and bit it out. I see. So, you basically talked about labs and what to expect out of your labs, what you want to look at, that kind of stuff. No, we talked specifically about his labs, and then we branched off a little bit about the importance of HbA1c management, which he's a big fan of. And multiple shots, estrogen management, that sort of stuff. No, but nothing too dramatic. Okay. Yeah, I'll tell you, Cuba's definitely, he's definitely, he pays a lot of attention to lab work. He pays attention to his lab work, and he has no problem coming out and saying, like, here's what my labs look like. Generally speaking, the only thing with his labs is he's got low HDL, but he's always had low HDL, and he's always had low LDL. And actually, his HDL ratio isn't bad. It's just that his HDL always looks really low, because it's always sub 0.5. Okay. But then his LDL's low, and his ratio then is not too bad, so. What's up from Femic? Sup from Warm Phoenix wears Dave's blanket. You know that blanket shirt you wear? Bodybuilding clothing today. Because I am a bodybuilder, innit? There are plenty of people who wear flannel shirts in bodybuilding, Dave. It's got nothing to do with it being flannel. It's got to do with every shade of dog shit. You don't like orange, is what you're saying. That's brown, motherfucker. There's oranges in here, too. That's brown. That's shades on the shit spectrum. These are brown stripes. In fact, when you picked that shirt, did it say on the description, blue shirt, red shirt, shades of shit shirt? You know, when I first got this shirt, we were at the grocery store, and this guy in line kept looking over at me. And it got kind of awkward. And I'm standing there with my wife, and then he goes, hey, that's a cool shirt. Where'd you get that from? Because I thought, like... I was like, ah! It was actually, like, it was on sale. It was, like, after the season was over one year, when, like, they're trying to get rid of the flannels. And I was like, you know what? I'm going to get that flannel. Dave will love it. I'll wear it on the show with him. He'll compliment me on it every time I put it on. Let's debate pudding again. I had a dog called Pudding. Did you? That's a good... You did! I knew that dog. Well, not in person. Our old listeners knew Pudding, too, didn't they? That Pudding is very happy. Pudding would be under the dusk, and you'd hear... You remember that? That's just me. Pudding. Pudding.