I met like I thought I trained hard like you know 5 10 years ago and at that time I was in my mind and you know perceivably I was training hard but uh that me from back then trying to do a workout from today it it wouldn't be the same to be quite honest with you like and I think it takes time to build up like that that ability to push yourself that far. Hey everybody, welcome to It's Just Bodybuilding. Of course, my go co-host Dusty Handshaw, Scott McN, our producer, and guest today, Rough Diesel, Terrence Ruffin. What's going on, man? Hey, how you guys doing? Thanks for having me. Um, Mike's pretty busy. I got a new puppy here. He's He didn't want to be left alone. So, what exactly you got there? How big's he going to get? Not big. This is a a mini Australian Shepherd. Like 35 pounds. Yeah. Right. Wow. Those are high energy dogs, aren't they? It's not. Yeah. My my uh my wife um she she uh is the high energy one, so good. Good. She'll do the walking then and all of that, I'm sure. Yes. Well, it's a it's a dog friendly show. We have we have many dogs on many laps on this show. So, it's it's all good. We welcome the dog edition. Remember everybody, like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. There you go. And remember, podcast is sponsored by Mutants. So, go to immutant.com uh and use my code bigon 20 or dusty 20 and get yourself 20% off. Okay. So, you're one of the few people who's been on the show twice now. Really? Really? Yeah. So, it's good to have you. It's good to have you. For some reason, when Ron and Dusty have someone on, they're like, "Well, we already had them on, you know, we're done. We move on now. Care about them." Yeah. Old news. Use them once a couple years. So, it should be good. Yeah. A lot's changed since then. A lot happened. Hell yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, I know you wanted to talk some about business today and I'm looking forward to hearing that because I know you've been really invested in that. Um, before we did, I wanted to ask about the Olympia and, you know, what happened there? What what did you take home from that? And what does that mean for your direction in bodybuilding moving forward? Cuz I know I know you're you're not doing the Arnold this year, right? Right. So, um, no Arnold this year. Basically, you know, I felt like I've been in this situation before where I I've I've kind of hit this um this this this new level of um of competition, you know, in my career and then I'm there for like a moment and then I kind of drop back down a bit. Um, you know, same reason I took off in 2019 was because I I moved from ninth to sixth place and then back down to ninth place. So, um, I'm kind of I would say like, um, not used to it, but I'm aware of like this could happen. Um, yeah. And it doesn't really bother me all that much because, you know, if you follow bodybuilding, you know, for a number of years, you'll see people throughout their career kind of go up and go down and go up. I mean, Brandon Curry, Ramy Rammy, um, Head Chupon, all you know, Mr. Olympia at this point, and all of them have placed all over the place throughout their careers, you know, so, um, it doesn't really bother me all that much. It does kind of, you know, I'm obviously pissed in the moment like, oh [\h__\h] you know, you never want to do worse than you did before. But as in terms of like career-wise and what I'm capable of, it it doesn't really change a whole lot. Right on. Uh, basically, you know, after any show that I do, um, I like to go back and look at photos and see, you know, where I can improve and what can be done to elevate my physique at the next show. And it's a little weird for me. Um, you know, normally I like to listen to the judges. Um, and I'm aware that each judge is going to have a different opinion. Uh, and when I spoke to one of them, they said, "Okay, you need to show up um tighter at the night show." So, huh, you know, that was my goal. I did that. Unfortunately, the I don't think the night show was judged. So, um, but after looking at photos, I I was pretty on par with my showing last year at the Olympia, even maybe a tad bit better. Okay. Personally, I think the biggest difference was um a lot of the guys were growing a lot quicker than me, which is typically the case, you know. Um so, moving forward, I want to get a little bit bigger and um obviously the bigger I get, you know, with the the weight limit, the tighter I have to be regardless. Yeah. And um come back um improved later this year. Cool. Yeah, cuz you know, man, you know, I'm like the biggest fan of you. you're you're my favorite classic guy. I always tell everybody that. And uh I I I was concerned personally cuz I was like, "Oh [\h__\h] I hope that I hope that this doesn't like knock you that you didn't do as well cuz you I mean you're an Arnold champ now, you know?" And it's like to like you said, you always want to try to at least stay where you were. And I I I think that that sounds like AI don't know. It sounds like a a great perspective to me cuz I feel like the great thing about bodybuilding competition is it'll it gives us a catalyst outside of ourselves that will make us strive to do better than we had before, you know, and I feel like that that excites me that to see that what it sounds like you're saying is you're going to use this to come back even better. You're a young guy, you know, and you've got plenty of room on the scale. like what did you come at come in at weight wise and what is your your cap? So it's confusing. Uh I think they should do something about the weight limits but I'm right at that a height where um by like depending on the show I can be a different different um you know I can have a different weight cut off. So um the past three shows my weight cut off has been 180 which is like 55 and 1/4. Okay. Um, this was the first year in 2 and 1/2 years where it was less. It was lower back down to 175. So Oh, really? Um, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, personally, I would love it if they would measure height us once. Yeah. Regardless if I was 175 or 180, just so people, you know, kind of know what they're they're walking into, you know, the day of the show instead of weighing it in and then having to run up and down the escalator for like, you know, 10 20 minutes. Yeah. Um, but but uh I'm just going to go into it with the belief that, you know, 180 is still my cut off. And um if that's the case, then I have about like 5 lbs uh of tissue I can add. But I I I've seen a lot of guys suck down a lot harder. I mean, especially when you're in amateur ranks, you know, trying to make a weight, you know, for a different height, you know, a different weight class in bodybuilding. Yeah. People drop 10, 15 pounds easy. Oh, yeah. Yeah, I I could see that. So, did that happen here? Did you Did you end up needing to pull down last minute for this show? Yeah, I was on the escalator outside the uh the room jogging up jogging up the escalator. Uh how did I miss that, guys? I was there. I feel like I needed to be there. I would have been like your, you know, Rocky coach. I would have stood on the stairs, the standard stairs next to you and I just been like, "Go, Terrace, go. Yeah. Yeah. So, uh I had to do that this year. Um that makes sense. Mhm. Did you Did anybody see you? Was there anybody who was like, "Oh my god, that's Terrence Ruffin." Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, people were walking up and down the escalator. I was asking them, you know, hey, you know, excuse me. Excuse me. You're going the wrong way up the escalator. Just sitting on it like a stairmaster. Yeah. So, a lot of people a lot of people saw that's amazing, man. How did I not hear this until now? So, yeah. Anyway, and and feel free to jump in Ron or Dusty anytime you guys had something. I just I could keep talking though. Um I I uh I guess so from there, I just want to ask you training wise then because I know I know that you know we had talked a lot about training a couple years ago. Um, and I would love to hear your perspectives on it now because I know that, you know, two one two years that's a long time to develop. Can you tell us a little bit about your philosophy like going into growing several pounds of muscle on, you know, an advanced physique? Like what what is your what's your your philosophy going to look like? Um, right now we're just in a health phase. Um, training is actually pretty low, lower than it's it's honestly ever been. Uh, you know, guys like Ronnie and all those guys would just take months off. Uh, I'm not a fan of that. I'm not in a position to do something like that either. But, um, changes three times a week right now. Um, Monday, Wednesday, Friday, uh, push full legs. And on leg day, we do um some arms as well since that's kind of a weakness of mine to keep those up. And since, you know, quads are pretty much a strength. So, they don't need a ton of they don't need much volume at all, to be honest. Um, outside of that though, um, this time I really I really want to be very meticulous and like, um, tracking things, you know, um, to make sure things are working and progressing like they need to. So, um, a lot of the same things, you know, progressive overload, you know, just pushing the the weight as much as I can really. Um, and not only that, just making sure I'm really connected to the muscle as well. In the past, I've been a little bit more focused on just moving the weight up and down and at the same time where I have on the surface good form intentions like what I'm doing internally isn't quite where I want it to be. so really focusing in on things like that, like those really subtle cues that you can't typically see, you know, a person doing, but you can feel if you're doing it yourself. Mhm. Um, and but the metrics I'm tracking, you know, I I've been tracking, you know, my, you know, all my my body fat, my lean um lean mass with the DEXA scan. They have one in town, luckily. Nice. Um, some circumfer circumference measurements and um just just checking everything I can, you know, just to make sure that I'm putting on muscle where I need to be and um what I'm doing is actually working. I've never done that in the offseason. Um, tracking all this stuff. I've done it during a prep. Um, University of Tampa, they had a case study um, uh, two years in a row where they tracked my tracked all this stuff with me during a prep, which is pretty cool. And, um, yeah, I don't lose any muscle in prep, which is nice. Um, I've always put on muscle a little bit slower, so I wanted to kind of see how things work on that end. Yeah. What are some exercises that cuz I know you're very specific with what you're doing in the gym. I know your volume, you said your volume isn't very high right now. So, you're you're picking obviously like real bang for your buck exercises, I'm assuming. Yeah. Um what um body part? I mean, it depends. So, like uh with with legs, I typically do like high squats and um we had RDL's in, but I just some reason my body hates them. I always something my soaz always starts to pull like I pull it like every time. Um this last prep I pulled it and I couldn't like get myself off the couch without um help for like two weeks. So I just kind of gave up on RDL's um but you know I normally do half squats, seated uh leg curl, um leg press and um a leg extension. um back. We'll do um like a chest supported row with the arms wider for upper back. We'll do a T- bar row with arms tight for lats. Um and then we get a bit of that um that bracing in that in that lower back since I can't do those hip hinge movements. That's kind of a way for us to work our rectus. Um we've actually been doing pull-ups. I haven't I've never really um had pull-ups in a program, but um it's been working out okay. um recently. Uh and I've been able to progress just with my body weight going up post show. So that's been nice, right? Um arms we'll do like just preacher curls. We'll do JM um presses. Um chest, just a normal pressing movements. We'll do uh incline press, a fly, a really high incline press as well for shoulders, delts, upper chest, things like that. Yeah. So just like what reason I'm h I'm I'm enjoying your list and it's because you know I I'm all about I mean we talk about it on the show here bang for your buck exercises right being efficient in the gym you know picking stuff that you can truly overload target muscles with. You know, I know there's there's there's a lot of exercises out there, and when you talk to like the really highlevel guys like yourself, it's hacks, presses, preacher curls. You know, it's funny. People always ask me, especially like hamstrings and stuff, they're like, "What's the best exercise for hamstrings?" I'm like, "There's only like three real movements. There's like lying, seated, and the hip ends." You know what I mean? Like, what do you mean? Just do all of them. Yeah. You know? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. you know, with every they need something we need something fancy for Instagram, you know, I think. And then and then you do have the odd thing like I know Joe's big on like, you know, setting the bench up for certain shoulder cable raises and stuff like that, you know, which looks fancy, but in reality, it you're finding like the most basic lines of movement like you're you're you're just using a really nice setup because you got the adjustable pulleys. You can set it up just perfect. But at the end of the day, it's you're doing a very basic movement in a very very natural pattern. You know, there's nothing weird about it. I think sometimes people get too hung up on like what's going on like around the body when they should be, you know, focused on what the body is actually doing, what the movement is, like you you're still just raising your arm at the end of the day, you know? Yeah. It's not, like you said, it's not super complicated. You're just, you know, lining things up in a really nice way. I wonder when you look the way that you do, people tend to think it's it's got to be more exact because you look at like just, you know, I mean, and it's funny cuz your your physique is literally looks like it was built with a scalpel. Like every muscle is exactly where it's supposed to be, just sharp enough. I know. Like you I had to laugh like you were like, "My arms are weak." And I'm like, "They are." Well, I mean, and I know what you mean, like a comparison, but but it's it's why people want to complicate it with someone like you because they really do look and say, "He must be doing there's no way he's just doing hack squats. My quads don't look like that." You know what I mean? There's there's And it's also how you execute a movement. Like you said earlier, it's like, you know, this is something that I go over because I've been getting really into because of Ron, honestly, into real slow negatives on a lot of stuff. But there is a point where you're just slowing down the weight. You're not slowing it down with your quats. So you have to like remind people that, you know what I mean? Is it's finding that line where it's like sure you're doing a negative or whatever it is, but what is providing that slow? Cuz if it's your hips, it doesn't matter. Like you might as well just go faster. You know what I mean? So I think that that's probably why cuz even people who are in the no, we want to believe you're doing something special so we can pretend that we could actually look like that. It makes us feel better. You know, you know, it's crazy though, like there it's simple, but then I see every now and again like um what what Chris did with his back or what Michaela did with her legs where people just out of nowhere just blow up a muscle and it's it's really cool to see like um you know, I kind of got like a firstand view on what Michaela did and like she just trained legs. She almost she almost trains like a wellness athlete now, right? It's pretty crazy where it's like legs three times a week almost no no um upper body you know it's it's it's pretty crazy and it's it's you know I've said this before with like genetics you know sometimes you just like you you oh you can picture your genetic you know cap or limit as like a door and you know you could be doing something knocking on that door for years but if you don't have the right key you can't unlock that door and then you know Michaela has been lifting 10 years or so and then she finally finds that right key to unlock that leg, you know, her leg genetics and then it just blow she just, you know, explodes and now she's like top five in the world out of nowhere. Um, right. It's really crazy. Is that what you're I we've talked about Michaela's sets many times. Dusty's brought it up many times. And you know, it's it's funny how we use the we say, "Oh, she blew her legs up out of nowhere." But then if you stop and think about it, watching her sets, it's not out of nowhere. It's like she's doing it doing these sets that most people cannot string together. Like I say that I say everyone can train super hard today, but to train the way she trains tomorrow and the day after and the day after and then next week for legs again and then Wednesday again and then Thursday again and then Saturday again and leg pressing again. like the stringing that together. That's what that's what builds these like ridiculous physiques that you know we're seeing at your level is just the consistency and the ability to do it over and over and over again. You know, do you do you ever like I I was training yesterday and I I had a bit of a quad injury so I just went in and did hamstrings and I was, you know, working on my hips in between sets and trying to stretch out my quad. you know, you know, you're you're not at your your best, you know, and I thought, ah, I'm not training that hard today. And then I kind of laughed and I'm like, wait a minute, I've done six sets to absolute failure with perfect form. My hamstrings are completely engorged with blood. Like, they're just swollen. I can't even bend my leg 90°. But it's just that we're so used to performing high quality sets that we it it's it's not hard for us to do that now. you just like flip a switch and it to us it almost seems like we're just training like ah I just trained some hamstrings today but to the average person that that would be like a completely mental hamstring workout. They'd be sore for like weeks, you know? Yeah. So we it's the way that we perceive things is sometimes, you know, it takes somebody to watch from outside and be like, man, this is You know what I mean? Like we just get so used. No, I know exactly what you mean. You know, another thing I I like to think about is it kind of takes time to get there, you know, like that doesn't you like I met like I thought I trained hard like you know 5 10 years ago and at that time I was in my mind and you know perceivably I was training hard but um that me from back then trying to do a workout from today it it wouldn't be the same to be quite honest with you like and I think it takes time to build up like that that ability to push yourself that far you Yeah, it's like when you say it is the um not for you cuz I feel like you're so advanced. If you were trying to describe to someone who's trying to get where you are, how do you get yourself in the mental space before every set? You know, you hear that like from your clients. I'm sure you I had an off day today and it's like so off. I'm like, well, where was your head? Like I don't really have How is it that that's what I'm saying like how did like it shouldn't happen. So, like is there a way that you suggest to your clients like prior to a set or prior to a workout or both to make sure they're in there to do work and really locked in? It's tough, man. I feel like I I may be so removed from like what an like an everyday person may be going through like cuz you know I wake up, I eat breakfast and I go straight to the gym. Like I have that that luxury in life. I don't like my whole life is kind of focused on bodybuilding. So, even when I get questions like, "How do you go to the gym when you're not motivated?" Well, I'm like, "Well, if I don't go, then I don't have a roof over my head." You know, you know, that's motivation. I'll do it. Yeah. Yeah. So, it's like a It's like a job. The same way someone, you know, you may not want to go do your job, but you want to eat, you want all these other things. So, you you know, you go because there's a reason, there's a big enough priority, you know, to go. Um, but when it comes to to like every like going in the gym and and you know pushing a set one, I think having a training partner has has been very very helpful. Like I'm not going to waste Joe's time in sandbag ever in the gym, you know. Um, having that accountability is always helpful. Um, but I really typically don't need a whole lot at this point. like um I think I've been able to like it's kind of like if it's hard to explain but um when you've had a really really hard experience and then you you move on from that experience and nothing in life is quite as hard you know or you can deal with that that obstacle any obstacle on that level pretty easily from that point. So, you know, once you've had enough hard sessions in the in the tank, I think that you don't really have to think about like having to for me at least, I don't have to think about turning a switch on or anything like that. When I get into when I get into under the machine, when I get under the bar, just it's just easy. I just know what to do, you know? Um I don't know. I don't know. It's a tough question for me. It's a tough question in general, you know. We It's a question we ask on the podcast all the time. It's like we've never been able to truly answer, you know, what is intensity? How do you turn it up? It's you you can teach somebody how to train, but you know, my thing is, like I said earlier, it's the skill. So, like I don't expect a person to be, you know, first time or or even the first couple times in the gym to be able to do what I do. What I would want for them to do is to be a little better each time they hit the gym, you know, because eventually they'll get there. If you're better each and every single time, then eventually you're going to be able to hit tests to failure like like that, you know, every single time you hit the gym, you know. I wanted to ask you um what did you think I mean and you know, in hindsight, what did you think of how Bumstead looked this year? I think he looked great. I think he grew a lot. I think that was another big I don't know. I don't know what the numbers were if he, you know, anything like that, but I think he looked great. I know he had the bicep injury. Um, it wasn't really noticeable to be honest with you. Luckily, his biceps weren't that great to begin with, so having an injury wasn't a big deal. Yeah. But I actually just thought I just thought his biceps looked a little bigger, but I didn't and and and the shape and it, you know, the shape was just I just thought, ah, it was but they is there wasn't anything weird about his arms, you know what I mean? So, it just was one of those things it didn't really matter. I think um he might have I think uh conditioning wise I think Honey brought him in probably um a little better than um Ian did. But, you know, I totally understand that with Ian competing at the Olympia and also trying to prep someone at the Olympia. It can be, you know, really difficult and stressful for both of them. So, they did they did okay. They did okay as a parent. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Um what how did you feel you know um obviously you weren't obviously you didn't get the result you were looking for but how did you feel about how the fans and everyone had your back after and and you know you still had your support and and and all that stuff I mean how did you feel after the show when when you got kind of the love from everybody and the feedback and all that stuff? No, I thought it was great. You know, um going into the show, I was a little nervous, you know, um each and every show you're a little nervous, you know, with stuff like that. How are things going to go if things don't pan out the way you want them to? And um I just had to kind of have faith in the people around me um that it wouldn't change much. Um, and I'm real big on like looking at I'm I'm a big history buff. So, like I look at guys like, you know, Dexter Jackson who was, you know, he won one and, you know, never won one again, but people still loved him. You know, people still called him a blade. So, um, and even if you look at guys like, you know, Kai Green where he never won a title, but arguably he was more popular than, you know, most Miss Olympias, you know, in history. So, I didn't think that would it would affect me too much. Um it's definitely a goal of mine to win. Um I definitely want to do that before I'm done, but um you know, you never know how your your journey is going to go, you know. Is there any carryover? How do I word this? So, for example, watching Clarita win the 212 when he's technically the smallest guy, do you do you find any motivation or any sort of like spark in that you're that you're in classic and you're kind of the smallest framed guy and and there's a lot of parallels there. Does that motivate you like I can win this? You know, it's funny. Uh I was a big fan of Sean even before I turned pro. I remember I was one of the fanboys asking him in his DMs like, "Hey, how do you get sponsors?" You know? Um, so I've always been a fan of of of Shawn. Um, and to be quite honest with you, like it's it's defin 100% very 100% motivating and like even with him, you know, winning the 212 as probably the smallest 212 guy, but even winning the um the was it the Legend Show? Uh, yeah. Yep. um is the you know as the smallest guy in the open. I'm like it's it's highly impressive and I still I still get comments every day. You know, I didn't realize that I was the shortest guy in classic, but I think I might be um like at the Olympic, right? It just dawned on me this year. I was like, "Holy shit." All right. But uh that's me. But uh yeah, you know, um people I I get it every every Q&A like, "Do you think um it's unfair for you to compete because you're the you know, is it unfair for shorter guys?" And I'm like, "No." I mean, you got guys like I'm, you know, I've won the Arnold twice. I've placed second at the Olympia twice. It's not, how would how is that unfair if literally every other person that has who isn't first place has lost to me? How would it be unfair? You know, how is it unfair when you got Sean Karita winning all these shows, you gotti now, one of the shortest Mr. Olympias ever? You know, I don't I I get tired of people um I don't like a victimhood or a victim mentality. You know, I think you should believe that anything is possible. You know, what are some of the things that you think people can do to help their mentality in that way? Let's say someone, you know, we all we all know those people. They're they're they're good people. We'd like to see them do well, but every time we talk to them, they've got something that they're really complaining about. like there's this obstacle they have in their head, you know, like, oh, well, you know, if I wasn't this height, you know, I might be able to do like they're they're starting from that point. They've got they've got the the the hurdle is like built into the front end of their goal and you know what I mean? Like a great What do you say to people to just change that narrative? Like get that out of your head. Like, you know what I mean? I don't know. Oh, I mean, you must have had to have done a bunch of that. I think um the easiest way just in like if we look at like human history, the easiest way to get over something like that is to look back and see if it's been done before. You know, every time in a sport, the first time someone does something, then everyone starts to do it. whether it was, you know, track or basketball, whatever sport it may be, anytime someone's the first, it very quickly is kind of like the norm, you know, to be able to do that that that uh record, you know. So, I would say that's the first thing. Um, outside of that, man, I think very cuz I think of like things like what can someone do like what's an actionable thing someone can do? And I highly believe that like just like we train our our bodies, we need to train our mind. I our minds, you know, some people just have it naturally where they just know how to be, how to act, all those things. But the people who don't, um just like anything else, if you struggle in something, you work on it, right? So, you know, self-help books, you know, motivational things, anything like that is is a good pathway to go down, you know? Um I think that's very important. like not just like once a month or something like that, but just you know every a couple minutes every day. Um even like we have research that says like gratitude journals just spending like a couple minutes a day saying this is what I'm thankful for because honestly you most likely this per if they're doing bodybuilding then life isn't that [\h__\h] bad. They they got money to do bodybuilding you know. Yeah. Right. So yeah. So yeah they they have some things to be grateful for. Um but those are the biggest things I would say. um each and every day. Back to the Olympia, something that that I felt watching the show, first off, you didn't get to do your routine, which ruined my life for the night. Um I forgot about that. Yeah, that's but but with that do and and I know this seems like a question that I can answer for you, but I really want to know your opinion, which is so we go to the show, Mutant bought us all seats. They were over $200 a piece and there wasn't a show. I really feel like I mean in you know when I like you were saying about Kai and back in the day and Levrone and all these guys used to go to the Olympia and the guys put on a show not necessarily dancing or whatever but everyone had a there was effort put in you know what I mean even a guy like Ronnie who wasn't the greatest poser he had a plan I feel like the pro level the Olympia level is dropped down to turn music on and hit your mandatories like what do we have to do and and do you think they should get a little more exact on making posing matter? Cuz I got to be honest with you, when we're at the show, I appreciated mutant paying for it. And I thought to myself, I would have rather go to a Vegas show because sure, the outcome was fun, but I could have got that on Instagram later and I could have put that $250 towards a show that would have had me going, "Oh, wow." What are your thoughts? Yeah. No, I agree. And I I've I've said this before where I think like for the Olympia to grow like it's honest audience a little bit more they it needs to be more like a show you know in some in some way or shape or form. Uh it's tough to kind of get that done the way they structure things right now. Like even the the um the press conference is very last minute. like we get there and then right before we get on stage they're like okay this is what I like I didn't know what was going on when I got backstage for the press conference and then you know they cut us off like halfway through so even that was wasn't done properly you know so um I think a little bit more planning on that end is is is very important like I get like the stage is is important the prize money is important but I uh the most no one no one in the in the in the you know in the crowd cares about how much money the athletes are getting paid to be honest with you. You know, that's no one's coming to the show because, oh, they get to see this guy get a big check. They want to come to the show, you know, to see something interesting or something fun. So, I would say the best way to do that is through your routines. Make those routines more interesting. And like I've had a couple times where I've gone like, you know, for the Arnold, I wanted to do a routine with another guy. Um I me and him were local. Um he's another good poser. I wanted to choreograph something together to be really interesting and I was like look I know you guys are doing prize money thing if we need to forfeit that because there's two people that's fine I just want to put on a good show and then they turn me down so I don't know what it's going to take to kind of to kind of get to that point where we can can do a little bit more with the routines or even have a bit a better production with the routines like I think it would be cool I know I'm going on a tangent here but I think it would be cool if we were required to maybe turn in our music a little earlier and then we had a light show that actually matched the music in the song like a like a like a a concert, you know, in a concert the lights match the the music. So even something that simple with like elevator routine even if the routine's not the best. Um you can make it better by doing something like that. Like I know people have seen my routines. Um like I call them like the music video routines where uh me and Paul Hood would put together once a year. Um a lot of the routines aren't very complicated. They actually are a little simpler so he can kind of do all the cool camera work and lighting and stuff and that's what make that that's what makes those really cool, you know. So even so just saying that because you don't need the most complex routine to make it interesting. If you got like cool stuff around it, a little more preparation ahead of time with the stage production could take that average routine and elevate it. That's cool. Another another thing that that stuck out that sticks out to me is um as you know a longtime watcher of bodybuilding, it really irritates me when the you know you're you're sitting maybe you're at the back row so you're watching the big screen that goes down the side. You just want the camera to just stay on the guy head to toe for the whole time he's on stage. like Terrence Ruffins comes out and you just want the camera to lock on him from the front and just shoot that and have it up on both those big screens the entire time you're doing your posing routine. Yeah, but you know the camera's jumping side shot, you know, just calf. Just the calf. Yeah, just a calf, you know, or just your face while you're, you know, you could tell you're looking down flexing your leg and the camera's on like your face like just like like just that sort of like not understanding. It's almost like there's a little there's still a little bit of a disconnect between what's actually important to the viewer sitting in the seats and the people running the cameras and the show. Well, but they're acting like you're you you could have possibly just wandered in there and had no idea what you were watching and just dropped 300 bucks on an impossible seat to get. I'm like, everyone there knows what bodybuilding is. You do not have to do that. It's the same at the Arnold every year where the guy comes out and goes, "This is the round." I'm like, "Motherfucker, everyone knows what this round is. Shut up." No one in this room doesn't know what's happening right now. Very good point. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, I know you wanted to talk some about business, too, Terrence. Uh, and I know that you've you've been building a lot in the last year or so. Can you tell us a little bit about that? What's been going on on that front? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's it's obviously I'm I'm still learning. I I'm nowhere near an expert. I just like to talk about it just to, you know, I love it. share with people what's going on, you know, kind of like the life of like a a pro bodybuilder and like, you know, how we kind of go through life and make money and things. And um yeah, I recently started a a coaching company, Iron Eating Coaching, um about three months ago. Um and it's been great. It's been great so far. Um I originally before that I was working with FitBody Fusion. Um, it's mainly a bikini coaching team, but they brought me on as the head male coach to bring on more men. And, um, that was a really, really awesome experience. Um, I ne negotiated like just getting 5% of, um, the coaching cost of every male that joined. Um, so that was a nice little, you know, extra bump, too. Um, I just got to a point where I was like, okay, well, I max out on my clients. you know, I could keep making the 5% from each new person, but I was like, well, what happens when I I want to retire or something like that? Then none of this is mine and you know, things like that. So, um, I end up leaving. And they were really big. They sponsored every single national, every every single show that can get you a pro card. They sponsor that. They sponsor the Olympia, every Arnold. Um, they sponsored a lot of the the production companies that help shows like Tim Gardner. Every show he runs, they sponsor. every show Joe Piscula runs they sponsor and a few shows on the uh west coast as well. Um I forget the company name but um they're really big and um now you know I'm starting from scratch. I'm starting from my own thing and it's it's definitely hard and also doing that while I was in prep for the Olympia was very difficult. Um good and bad. Good. Yeah, good good in the sense of like a lot of eyes are on the business. We got a lot of of business very upfront, but like the initial energy it takes to to to start up a business was a lot. You know, I'm working, you know, I was working like 12 plus hours a day. Um, getting all the things we needed in order. And um, learning how to hire people and fire people and manage people has been really, really tough. But I I really enjoy it to be honest with you. It's a lot of fun. Um, yeah. Yeah. And um, How you doing that's different on the on the back side because I think when a lot of people listen this they're going to be like oh I have a coaching company too which means I have an email address and people I write diets like you know explain because I actually know the other business well I know people that are work over there but what are you doing on the back end that requires upfront 12 hours a day work? Okay. Okay. Um so we have five coaches at the moment. Um, I have um AI would call them like a VP. I hired a company that kind of that has all the people I need. Um, we have a uh social media strategist to help us get content ideas to make sure the coaches are posting because if it's just me posting, it makes it very difficult for clients to want to work with other coaches. So, sure, making sure these coaches are are upfront and cuz people, it's a good thing with the business to be, you know, in a spot that I'm in to like, but it's also very difficult at the same time. You know, I get a lot of people um I get a lot of leads, a lot of people inquiring about the business, but having them work with other coaches is a little bit more difficult than say maybe um Fit Body Fusion was kind of their model. Um so, we have a a content strategist. I have a a marketing director who has been helping me get email marketing campaigns going. So, um we have that. We we figure that out and I had to shoot about 40ish videos for all the different touch points we have for everyone. you know, if they they complete this part but not the second part, if they done this part, um if they completed the journey, if they um were a client at one point, and you know, it's just a lot of different touch points, you know, to have to shoot videos for. We have a uh have an automations guy who's making it easier for me, which is really nice. I think the the obviously the best way to scale a business is to have more systems in place, you know, where you don't have to look at it every single day. So, um I've been been learning a lot from that um from him. Whereas, you know, when people sign up, they're automatically sent the welcome packet, you know, and the the steps to get started with the the um coaching software. We have a new coaching software we had to switch to, which was a pain in the ass. Um moving like, you know, hundreds of clients over to a new system. And then there's issues with the system as well since it's newer. Always is. So that's a pain. Um we're building a community um some platform soon um because I you know the way the world is going with AI and all that I've been really interested in that um very soon what coaches do um obviously like with with bodybuilding it's a little different because we have the the anabolic component. I don't think AI is at that point at all but just the diet and nutrition and lifestyle clients. are usually the majority of people's coaching business to be honest. Sure. Usually um especially if you want to grow a large one. Um but AI is going to be able to do that very soon. I mean typ we already got like very simple things that can build out a a meal plan already and it's just only going to get better. The the key to keep people interested is building connections and building community. So we're working on that. We have to film content for that as well. you know, to have people say it can't just be like another Instagram, you know, there needs to be a value component outside of um just oh, I get to talk to people on the team, you know. So, we're working on content for that. Um there's a lot. And then we just there's things like um lead generation lead generation um resource material. So, building out free resources for people. So there's a lot of different things that I've I've had to kind of learn and work on. And then there's like the finance of finance side of things where I which I suck at. So I've been having to learn a lot about that. And it [\h__\h] me over because um speaking about the hiring and firing and the finances like I had a person that didn't align with the company very well and um I overpaid them and uh that was you know then they started asking me for my money. Then I went back and looked. I'm like hey I I overpaid you like a thousand bucks. like you know I'm not you know so um it's a learning process for sure um and then you know as a team you know obviously in the beginning I can't hire out everybody to do everything you know I don't have the the resources for the fun sure time is your resource right now and I think too it's important for me to kind of learn those different jobs you know a little bit so like I can know if someone's not doing it right you Yeah. Um, let let me ask you this on the learning front with the business. How much did you learn during your prep? Because you've never had to do this much when you were in prep before. Is that experience going to help you a ton for next year? is I don't think most people have been in that spot uh where not you're not just going to work but you're literally learning new things which means you're mentally stressed you're exhausted all these other things and you're doing that while you're at the Olympia level. um what have you taken away from that those last you know couple months or whatever of prep that you go okay these are the mistakes I made in that how can I be better um because obviously you don't want to be less than you are on stage and you also don't want to be a a mediocre business owner so what are you what are you figuring out with that it's a good question that is a good question so I think it I'm hope you know part of me hopes that it won't be as crazy next year but then I start to realize realiz it never stops. Yeah, exactly. Like this never stops. It always will. It never stops. Um so I think um being more um this time I'm more aware of what's going to be coming, you know, what's going to be happening. So I'm just letting just communicating with my team like, hey, um the last two weeks I'm going to be busy. And having the right people in place to kind of get things done if it needs to be done. Mhm. Um on top of that, yeah, this prep I had um I I put too much on my plate for sure. I had a coach coming into town and I thought I'm like, "Oh, um I'll be able to, you know, do some content with them." And then also whatever. That didn't plan out very well. Um and then on top of that, there's the stress. Like I like I found out that this coach was like um what was it? Um doing some things that weren't in line with the business. So, um I wanted to fire them like 2 three days before the Olympia, but I didn't want the added stress, you know, cuz I didn't know how they were were going to respond. So, um just even having just like, okay, I need to fire this person after the show was kind of kind of shitty. Um, so just not putting myself in those positions to kind of um have any business stress kind of happen those last, you know, two weeks or at least at least a week before the show, but ideally like two weeks. The the real I mean part of the reason I asked was you got to compare it to the first time you've ever gotten really really in good shape, right? Everyone remembers the first time they got nasty and you're just not ready. You don't realize what it's going to feel like to find out that your hamstring is what lifts your leg up because you've never been so tired that you've realized like, "Oh, that muscle is what lifts my foot." Yeah. Um, but once you've experienced that, the next time you're ready, you're like, "Oh, okay." And every show after that, I mean, we all know like it's terrible, but when when you talk to an experienced pro about their prep, they're like, "It's prep." Like, yeah, it is what it is. You know, that's what will happen to your business as well is every prep, cuz that's why I was teasing like it doesn't ever stop, but your ability to know what's coming. Like when the wheels fall off, you go, "Oh, there they are. I was wondering when that was going to happen." Yeah. It doesn't really affect you. You're like, "Okay." You know, so so it it will be a lot easier for you. Like it's funny, but even if [\h__\h] was worse next time, you won't feel it because you're going to kind of be adapted. So, I'm excited to see just because I love watching this and when Scott told me about the business side, it's something I I feel like more people should see because you got a lot of young athletes dreaming of being where you are and their thought is, I just need to survive until I get where Terrence is and then I'll be rich and it won't matter. Now, they're hearing you in the heart of it. I mean, you know, I don't think anyone on this podcast disagrees that you are one or two in the world. I don't really give a [\h__\h] about one show. You're number, you know, you're fighting for number one in the world of what you do and you're building a business while doing it and I just want more people to catch that. Like, this is not the time for Terrence to relax. It's the time to go all in and cash in on who you are on stage so there's something to retire to. You know what I mean? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And that's what I that's kind of the reason why I thought about that. like I thought, you know, again, like history-wise, I see all these pros um building businesses after they retire. And like they may be kind of moderately successful or a lot of them actually fail, but um I definitely think like if you're able to build something while you're you're going through the process, then that's when you can really really take advantage and capitalize on that on that success. Um because it's crazy how just how quickly once you retire um how much like people just stop caring. Oh yeah. Bodybuilding moves so fast. You know bodybuilding moves so fast they they'll forget you know in a in a year you know where where where that guy was. You know, Dust Dusty and I have had to humiliate ourselves weekly on this podcast relevant at all with constant humiliation. We never mattered, but whatever. You know, great if we could have built this while we were still competing. So, they're stuck here with me. Yeah. Yeah. I I I do love the, you know, like I think one of the big misconceptions with a lot of people is like, "Oh, he's a pro bodybuilder. That's what he does for a living." Yeah. Yeah. It's like, no. know, he's spending his whole day like building like other [\h__\h] like frantically working on other stuff. And when he's doing his cardio, like he's on his phone on the stepper and he's [\h__\h] you know, shoveling his meal while he's returning messages and he's doing calls while he's driving to the gym. And like they don't realize what is going on. Like I say, some people, you know, we talk a lot on this show about the people that don't have a hobby or they they just work their 9 to5 and they just that's they're just kind of content and they think that's how it works. And and you know, someone like you that's just constantly constantly working and chasing something and trying to build something. And I think that's good for people to hear it. You know, I you're not just a pro bodybuilder. Like pro bodybuilding doesn't pay you [\h__\h] right? like you have to you have to like go out there and make this stuff happen and and I think that's that's great. I'm I I love the fact that that message is is a big part of what you're telling us. You know, like I remember I don't I don't know if it's still true or not, but I remember I I trained with Nick maybe like two years ago and I I had in my mind too like every bodybuilder I every bodybuilder has something going on but um he was like, "Oh yeah, just bodybuild." And it shocked me. I was like, "Holy [\h__\h] there's still bodybuilders." And they obviously he's as sponsorship and and you know, he has to take photos and videos, but honestly, that's within his normal day of being a bodybuilder, but like 90 99% of bodybuilders have a different, you know, source of income, you know, outside of just lifting weights and things. And, you know, um Yeah. Yeah. So it it's interesting that like that's very I remember when um Scitec was the big company that was still kind of like old school and I remember when they dropped Cedric McMillan and that was kind of like a a moment for me. I was like wow this is like the last bodybuilder who was just paid to be a bodybuilder like because um you know I was holy [\h__\h] is like an end of era. I remember when I first got into it like they still had these six figure contracts. Um I remember in 201 what 13 or 14 Nicki signed with Muscle Mass and it was a huge deal and um he was like the last amateur to get one of the last amateur bodybuilder to get one of those six figure contracts and I'm like you know it's really crazy kind of how like things were just like you know 20 years ago where you could be making good money if you're one of the best but even now if you're one of the best um that doesn't guarantee you to make money these days. Yeah. Yeah. And even if you could, I think the smartest people are still doing something else, you know, on on top of that. I remember last time we talked, you were doing a lot of traveling like I with posing and stuff. I think you were, if I recall, was it Japan you had gone out to? I went to Korea. Korea. Korea. So, how does how does that kind of stuff figure into what you're doing now? I'm trying to I'm trying to get a handle on that. Um, but uh that's how I made a lot of my money. A lot of my money back then was I I would do those events and it was it was a it became a bit much. You know, I was traveling like 30 plus weekends a year. Yeah. And it was very fun for a while, but then I got to a point where um I spent last Christmas just hanging out by myself because I had traveled like eight weeks before, like each eight weekends before Christmas and then I was going to be gone for another four weekends after Christmas and I was like, I don't want to go home cuz even though I want to see my family, I don't want to travel anymore. I just couldn't, you know, do it. So, um, that was kind of like the point for me where I was like, I don't want to travel anymore. As much at least as much. Yeah. Um, I had set this goal for myself. I was like, um, the first year, um, I kind of got into that traveling thing. I was like, I want one event every month. And I I I got probably like two events a month. And then I told myself, I want two to three. And then it became way too much. Way way too much very quickly. So, um I remember for the Arnold last year, I uh was traveling I traveled like six weekends in a row and I had the last two weekends at here in um at home before that that Arnold. So, yeah. Uh I got it done, but yeah, I was like this is not the way to do it. You know, that's wild. Plus, you remember I mean you're you're trading time for money, which means it runs out. There's a cap with what you're doing now. There there you can always add another trainer, add 10 more trainers, add 30 more trainers, add a new, you know, a new app. There's endless things that once they're put into motion don't require your time anymore. At least not as much. It's like personal training. You know, I I used to work 60 hours a week personal training. And then I was like, okay, I can't work 60. I'll work 50, but I'll start pairing people together. Then the number will go up. It still becomes I can only work so many hours. Yeah, you know, so you can only go so high. So I I love the the mentality you're putting into it because it really will be endless because there's things that are you're going to figure out or ideas you're going to have where in five years you're going to look back at your business when you started and be like, is this even the same business? You know, it's exciting. I I think you'll be shocked at how much fun that side is for you. And it'll actually take stress off of bodybuilding because you don't need the money, you know? I mean, it'll truly be like fun to bodybuild with no stress. Yeah, I'm excited. You know, I And you know, when I I I I decided to to to start this business, I um what I did was again like I I didn't quite think about like, you know, I was invest, you know, the time thing you mentioned, but I I knew that like I didn't have enough of it. So, like I I um I got rid of two sponsorships. Um there's still great people like Tough Raps was one and then I can't remember I can't think of the other at the moment but um because I knew I was like this is too much going on my mind. I already have you know two other sponsorships that pay really well and even though this one is paying me a decent amount I think that time could be better spent you know on myself and um and then when I left Fit Body, you know, obviously I lost that that percentage I was getting as well. So I took a big pay cut. I was I was really happy. I was at like 200 a little over $200,000 a year at that point and then I dropped back down to maybe like like a little over a hundred and um I dropped down to and I was super you know because each and every year my goal was to to to double my income. That was my goal and I I got to that point where I was like I don't see how I could do it you know anymore. And so, um, this is my attempt to kind of get back there and and to surpass it. And, um, I've even and even to the point where I have to invest a lot more, you know, into this business where I have more bills. I have to pay this team. Um, you know, I I've reached the same amount of the the coaching team that I have. We've reached the same we reached more clients than I've I've I've ever had. Um but um obviously they take a percentage of that so it's not the same amount of money that I was getting with just coaching a large amount by myself. Um there's a lot of interesting things that you know that are happening that like you said it's really exciting. And then on top of that you know I realized I was talking to my my my friend um last week I was like I you know I have this amount of money um you know there's I have and there's I can only spend it in one place. So, I can either take another coaching course or I can take this um Alex Hermoszi business course. And he Yeah, he's coming. He's coming to Tampa uh May 4th through the 6th. So, I I spent $1,200 to go to his course to learn from him. So, and I that's what I did when I first started um competing. I mean, when I started coaching, I I spent way more money than I had on uh learning from Austin Stout. Y I don't know if you've ever Yeah. So, um I spend money on John Jewish course. I I you know I I heavily believe in like investing in yourself. Yeah. Absolutely. So, what are some of the what are some of the things that you can take from this year with how your year went business-wise and Olympia wise? What are some things that you're going to take into this 2023 now as like big markers of of what you definitely don't want or do want to happen? Okay. Um I've gotten a lot better at time management, like squaring off time and and just focusing on one thing. I think that's very important. Um, even with my meals, like um when the at the very beginning of my my prep, I was trying to eat and work at the same time and then I would finally finish my meal and then it would be time for my next meal, you know. Um, so I made an an agreement with myself where my when it's time to eat, it's time to eat. I eat and then I get back to work and that's the way I do things. Um, I've read this book called One Thing and he says people aren't very good. Even though we think we're good at multitasking, we really suck at it and all that. Yeah. Yep. Yep. So, we just wind up doing a mediocre job of multiple things. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And I'm like, "Holy [\h__\h] that is exactly what I'm doing." So, um, that's one big thing is when I'm focusing on something, focus completely on that. Um, recently I I've started really like um I' the past January I've been slacking on like the social media stuff and like uh just last week I was like, "Okay, let me devote like four hours to this." And then I boo I I filmed out eight videos in in that time and I'm like, "Okay, this is awesome. I just need to do this like three days a month and I have everything I need for the month, you know?" Nice. Um, so I I realized I'm like, "Okay, this this this um intention, this really focused and driven intention is is really beneficial for me." That's probably the biggest thing I' I've really learned this year, especially Especially too like being an independent business person, you know, I can relate from both managing the podcast and managing clients. It's like you can I can get caught up in that same thing where you're just trying to do all these different It's not like you go to a job and you just do your job for 8 hours. You know what I mean? It's like you're managing several different things all at once and if you're not organized with it, you like you don't you don't get anything done. I can see everything you're saying, man. I'm kind of feeling inspired right now to to check out that. What's the name of that book? One thing. Um one thing I got to see who was by I'll find it. Yeah, thank you. I'll I'll find it. Yeah. So, how long you you you mentioned AI earlier and uh we were actually talking about chat GPT in the last episode. Yeah. And uh what have you been on that? Have you tried it out? Honestly, um I've been using a little bit of AI recently to kind of help me um just be more efficient. It's pretty it's in it's insane. Like I've I really did a deep dive just because I was a little worried and also a little curious right now. A lot of people are a little worried really like honestly like overnight chat GPT destroyed like a couple jobs like it destroyed like copywriting and like all that career it's done. Um, even to the point where graphic designing, like you could still get a graphic designer because it's a little easier to communicate with them. But if you're not super particular in what you want, you can get an AI to do it like to design your thumbnails, to design your logos, to do all that stuff. It's it's a like again, it's a little it's a little scary, but then at the same time, if you're smart, you'll know how to kind of take advantage of it. So, I don't want to be like one of the people who are scared and just like done it and then it just pops up on me, you know? Um, you ain't going nowhere. Yeah. It's not going anywhere. So, uh, yeah, I've been I've watched like four or five podcasts on AI um, in the past like two weeks. I've been sitting on chat GPT every morning for the last week while I'm eating my breakfast just typing in random things just trying to see what it says like writing write an write a 500word essay about Dorian Yates and it just writes this Yeah. And it was really well done. I was like, "Oh man, you could submit this to a like a if you had to write an article if your boss was like do an article on Dorian for me. Just copy paste done." Like a lot of people using it for 30 minutes. Yeah. A lot of people are using it for blog posts now. And the crazy thing I was using earlier was like I can um there's this AI that can like like do my face or whatever and it can look like me and and then um I can have it type in stuff and it can say it. It won't sound like me, but then there's another AI where I speak for I can speak the script or read the script for 20 seconds, 30 seconds and then it can reproduce my voice. So, I pair those two together. Oh my god. And then and then I can pair in the the cop the chat GPT and then I can have the GPT make a script and and give it to the other AI and they can just say it. I don't have to do [\h__\h] Yep. Face and your voice. Yeah. I'm actually using it right now. I'm not on this show for you guys. I'm at the gym. I got the T1000 doing the interview for me. Yeah. It's crazy. That's amazing. Well, I know we've had you for an hour. I wanted to ask you one thing I ask a lot of guests. What's one just totally off topic before we let you go here. What's an Instagram account that you have a lot of fun following that people might not know about? just something you know they think oh Ruffins bodybuilder Terrence Ruffin bodybuilder bodybuilder but you know what else are you following that you might think is fun I'll do three cuz they might be boring so someone one of them might be interesting to somebody okay I follow the probably the most boring one I follow is like the aband I follow one called like abandoned houses they just show pictures of abandoned places around the world and it's like super interesting to me like like I don't know why but I just love finding like like abandoned places and looking at them. Um, another one I follow is this this one called like Asian Boss News, which is just they just ask people in Asia or sometimes America. Um, just different questions like random questions like uh they came to America on the last one I saw and they just asked Americans how many Asian countries are there and no one knew. But um and then the third one might be let me see if I can think of an interesting one. I feel like everybody abandon abandoned houses and Asian boss news. I've recently deleted a ton of them cuz I was like, man, I'm spending too much time on Instagram. Yeah, I found abandoned houses. I found abandoned houses. That looks cool. I I found Asian bosses nude, but I don't think that's what you're looking for. Wrong website. This is awkward right now. Asian Boss Media. Asian Asian Boss Media. There we go. Okay. There we go. There we go. Holy [\h__\h] Yeah. Not not news. Uh um other than that, I follow the boring ones. Like I follow like uh Value Tamement, Russell Brand's podcast. I'll follow like um some anime stuff here and there. Uh movie stuff. I'm really into movies. So like um you know I train at Dave's gym. So um he's got that new movie uh Knock Knock Cabin or Knock at the Cabin Door. Yeah. The Might Shaman movie. Yeah. So like I was really worried. Yeah. I was really worried because like holy [\h__\h] might because might's been kind of sucking recently. So but like they say it's gonna be good. So, um, I follow movie, anime, news, and [\h__\h] like that. Yeah. Nice. I love knowing you're a nerd. Um, that's great stuff. That's funny. Well, thanks for that, man. Um, we appreciate your time and, uh, obviously we wish you the best. You're one of our, like I said, one of the few people that's been on twice. So, uh, you know, big fans of you and, uh, love seeing you slay people on stage and, uh, we want to see you up there again at your absolute best. New and improved Terrence Ruffin at the next stop. Do you have what what would be the next show for sure? Do you have I don't have it set. Um, most likely in August. August. So, there's like two shows. There's Tampa Pro and then there's one in Texas. Cool. So, not far from home then either. Easy to get to. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. just timing wise it's really close to Olympia so it makes sense you know. Right. We we didn't ask too um what are your current sponsors just so people can take a look and if you got any discount codes or whatever. Yeah I appreciate that. Um Flag North Fell um you know owned by Rob Rob and Dana Dana former former Miss Olympia if you if you you know that old remember the first Yeah. Uh, first I personally pay your sponsorship, just so you know. Personally, pay it. I personally pay your sponsorship there by buying clothes off the website. So, it's all he talks about. Your expensive habit I have being on that website. You know, I like them, man. I like I I you know, I think about [\h__\h] like this like um I think about some of the cuz this is another thing like real quick. I know we're we're running out of time, but like athlete wise, choosing your sponsors can play a big deal on like um how you not how you do like competition wise in the sport, but like who sees you like you know um how big you can get. So like say for instance like with uh my wife Tiffany um she's just signed with like LA uh no Young LA great company and yeah they're popular as hell. So that's just going to help her grow like as opposed to her going with like a a smaller more niche company, you know. Um so that's some things like I didn't think about when I first started like oh [\h__\h] you know, maybe you know be a little bit more selective. But um anyway, Flag Norfell is one and then Rise. Rise is a new a newish supplement company. Uh I think it's about 5 years old. Um started by uh this guy named Nick and Joey Swole. uh he's no longer with the with the company, but um I really like them and they're really like it's really interesting what they're doing and um it surprised me because I thought Raw might have been the number one company in uh Vitamin Shop, but Rise is number one in Vitam with like no major athletes, you know. Um they're growing, you know, just based on how they I really love it because it's really transparent. like they say they say like I saw an ad they did one time like you don't need supplements but you know this is why you might take them or um they're very honest with about the athletes you know um these yeah we hire athletes that are you know are enhanced but you know we're totally fine with it we just want to be upfront with it so that's cool it's pretty cool how like transparent they are and how well like the community receives it absolutely well I'm uh I know you're valuable because uh people keep, you know, like you said, you had so many sponsors, you had to let some go. You have time for them. You must be uh you must be doing right by your sponsors if you got that many. So, it's uh you know, it's good to see. But we're we're we're again thankful for your time. I know uh you know, when you're running businesses and stuff, giving up an hour to talk to three meatheads is uh much appreciated. So, is there anything final words you want to say to the fans? Thanks for listening. Honestly, you know, um thanks for keeping bodybuilding alive, you know. Um bodybuilding, you know, just watching shows isn't enough. You know, supporting things like this is important. So, thank you. That's cool. I agree. There you go. Supporting our show is important, especially this one. Yeah. Yeah. It only works if you watch this one. Yeah. Remember everybody, like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. And ring the bell. And remember mutant.com. 20% off with Big Ron 20 or Dusty 20. You can get in there, get your stuff. They support the show, so we support them. Thank you very much. Thanks, Terrence. Appreciate it. And look at that. There's the real star. There's the real star. Okay. Thanks, man. And remember, it's just bodybuilding. Thanks, brother.