Maybe it's that, but there's something else, too. Okay. Okay. I'm not sure why. So, there's very little inventory now. Many products are no longer in stock. Huh. Can you ask her besides primo and mast, what else has been low? That's very interesting. We're getting we're getting this straight from the source. Testosterone is number one safest, then mashed. And that's Primo that's a riskreward situation where I don't think the reward from Primo is significant enough whereas I think the reward from Mast is greater. You didn't die. You weren't like ripped 415. Let's put it that way. I'm still pretty. Oh, you're pretty in the pretty in the face. Thank you. What's up, guys? Welcome back to the podcast with Dave Crosslin. All of our programming is brought to you by evalanalysis.com. You can get your labs done by Dave if you're in the UK. And uh we are also brought to you by Stroports Nutrition. Go to Stum Sports if you're in the UK to get some great health stacks. Plus, you can get some great health stacks from Stum in the US. I'm going to try some of their stuff out. Did you know, Dave, their bottle actually says like Crosslands on it? Oh, for Support Max. Support Max. Yeah. Yeah. because you helped design that product. I'm excited to give it a try. I couldn't get a hold of it before because they didn't ship to the US, but now they ship to the US. I'm going to try a couple things out. Um, we are also brought to you by trueenutrition.com. The code think now gets you 10 whoa, excuse me, 10% off your orders. Um, I'm going to put a link below and if you click that link, it'll automatically plug the uh uh the code in. U also to supplement.ca for our Canadians. They have great deals that change week to week. I just saw highly branch cichlic dextrin the other week for like 20 bucks on a close out because it was shortdated. Dave, we got a bunch of stuff today, man. Uh we got some great comments, some great questions. You guys leave us questions on uh you know each of the shows. We tackle your questions on the next one. And I want to encourage you too that if you're new here and you enjoy this content, then I encourage you to hit the subscribe button, hit the bell, but only if you really like our stuff. If you don't like it, then that's okay. We understand. We appreciate it. But definitely hit the like button. All your comments, they do help us out to boost the show so that other people can see it and help our podcast to grow. Dave, so maybe too for anybody who's new, I'll give them a quick refresher. Dave has been an expert witness in the UK court system. If you haven't seen the movies Under Construction and Under Construction 2, you got to like 415 pounds. It wasn't pretty, but basically Dave's got a lot of experience with Gary. He's done a lot of education with people. What do you mean I wasn't pretty? Well, you didn't die. You weren't like ripped 415. Let's put it that way. I'm still pretty. Oh, you're pretty in the pretty in the face. Thank you. A mass monster. Otherwise, my my wife says I'm a pretty princess. We We have a bunch of stuff for you guys. Like I said, we're going to take all your questions. Uh big topic or main topic is safest cycles. So, we're going to get into that when you guys asked us that question. But before we did, um, there was this conversation we recently saw online. Dave and I, we both don't really completely get it, but there's been thoughts that there is chemicals that are used to produce Masteron and uh, Primobylan that are also used to produce uh, all a word that rhymes with pentanol. And because of that um those ingredients are being more regulated due to you know the uh everything that the US is trying to do to stop that production. So that's that's the word that we've heard on social media. I hadn't heard anything about this before somebody had made a post. Um Dave, what do you what do you think about this? I don't know. I mean, I suppose it it the thing is the word we can't say because of YouTube shutting us down. Um, is a legitimate legitimate thing used in several countries throughout the world. So, it's legitimately produced. Oh, yeah. I don't know factually. We've both heard and we were discussing this off air before we went on camera. We've both heard various stories about how the anabolics are produced in China. Um that you know there were there was there is stated that there's loads there was loads of mom and pop little businesses. Then it's also that there's only three or four major producers and there's just this front line of lots of resellers. So we don't really know. Um, so what we we also don't know then is are the anabolic raws being made in a factory legitimately as part of their schedule and then some of it's just been siphoned off. Yeah. Or are they like staying after hours in a legitimate factory and producing the stuff or are there other, you know, are they completely illegitimate manufacturing processes? Yeah. So we we don't really know factually, you know, we don't know for for certain how the raws come about. Now, we can argue that that that certain compounds could be filtered off a a genuine production line because we know they're commonly used and commonly available, but there's certain compounds that aren't. Yeah. So, so then it starts to get a bit questionable about, well, how are they producing this? How are producing that? So, there must be some form of illicit manufacturer at some point, whether it's in Yeah. methyltren. I haven't seen any medical uses. No, I've never seen any. So, exactly. So, you know, there has to be some illicit manufacturer at certain points. Yeah. Is it that the raw powders are are much more tightly regulated? Um, and we did some digging beforehand and I believe someone sent you some information about a substance that may be used in both called Paladine. Yeah, that was Andrew Barry. So, you know, I mentioned it to him and it was Skip that had sent us this message. Um, and and it looked like Andrew was like, "Hey, maybe it's palladium because it's showing Masteron and Primo and what it takes to make them versus um pentanol." Yeah. Yeah, I mean this and that was that was like one of the major crossovers besides also there were like esters and and acids chlorides which you had mentioned like it's probably not that because that those things are going to be used everywhere widely solvent side of it widely used protecting groups uh you know things that would uh produce or protect the compound itself like they're going to be using that in it says in some but then acid or base catalysts that's going to be used in a lot of stuff. And then solvents, so esters, solvents, things like that, that's going to be used in all sorts of medications. You couldn't just, you know, it'd be like trying to regulate water. Yeah. So, I mean, it it's there's obviously a legitimate supply chain that's used to produce because China's the biggest producer of ROS for pharmaceutical industry anyway. I I I think it's something like 10 billion a year or something. I'm not quite sure. I saw somewhere. and they reckon there's something like 3,000 factories that produce raw pharmaceutical powders, but there's two or three big ones, two or three hundred, should I say, big ones. Um, but I mean, we've previously heard that there's only two or three factories doing the anabolic roles. So, but who knows? Yeah. And that's what makes it difficult to have any real opinion on it because we don't know what the manufacturing process is. Um, we know there has to be some element of elicity in it. Yeah. Uh, which would mean Yeah. they would have to be getting extra stocks in in order to be able to do that. Um, but Primo is also legitimately made. So, I don't know. Yeah. And and and here's the deal, guys. So, you know, we're just shooting straight from the hip here. And I know that you've probably heard stuff, too. We've we've heard stuff for years. You know, I I talked to Latz, who is a very respected member on the message boards and the source groups and stuff and and he has said, "Hey, there's, you know, all these different mom and pops that were producing it that have now gotten shut down recently." You know, could that be a part of it? Possibly. Um, were these more illicit places, these small places? cuz he said that like a lot of these places weren't even registered with the government, you know, and and you know, on the other hand, I've heard them say I've heard people say that like you mentioned that there's only three big manufacturers, you know, that are producing the majority of the raws in China. So, it's it's hard to tell what to believe just because we aren't talking to somebody who's directly there that we can trust. If we're talking to somebody who's there, it's somebody who works for them and we really can't trust exactly what they're saying, you know? I'm just messaging a a Chinese contact to just ask them point blank. But when I've asked in the past, they've been very evasive. Of course they are. And that's what I'm saying. It's hard to tell. It's like why can't you just tell me what the problem is, but they don't seem to what they admit there's a problem. They admit they can't get hold of it, but they won't seem to give a reason for it. Yeah. So, hey, you know, anything that we're saying here, this is just purely purely speculation. We're not adding anything, you know, really. We're just kind of talking about what we hear is going on and this new aspect of things being related to, you know, this other compound, pentanol. So, anyway, that said, let's get into our main topic. And by the way, if you live in China and you're somebody we can trust, you don't work for them at all or whatever, and you've been to the places where these things are being produced, then definitely reach out to us. We would love to hear from Didn't we have somebody in China that's commented in the past that gave us some information regard manufacturing? I can't remember. We've had so many We've had so many people on this show that have, you know, given us over the years. Are you dedicated to this show, Scott? Like I'm 50/50. Yeah. Really? Are you dedicated? Okay. 40 60. Are you dedicated to finding the truth for our viewers? Um, are you are you suggesting that I fly to China? You pop yourself on a plane to old China and let us know what crack is. Scott McN here from Think Big Bodybuilding Media and we live live manufacturer Primo. That would go viral. You You want to get subscriptions? Jesus Christ. You'd have subscriptions out of your wazoo if you did that. Hey, if you guys can arrange that, let me know. I'd be happy to go. So, the topic it was a listener said, and I think there's a lot we have to dig into with this one, but the question was, "Hey, man. I'm really interested in, you know, running gear and and doing cycles, but I really want to think about my health first. That's number one. What are the safest cycles to run?" Not running one. Yeah. So, that's the number one way to stay safe. Yes. But beyond that, because I think what he's going in for is a list of compounds, but I think we back that up a step further because, you know, dose, duration, devil is in the dose really. You know, that's a big part of it. Yeah, there are some compounds that maybe aren't going to be as, you know, damaging as others. I am listening. I'm typing to me Chinese bird, so just bear with me. Okay. Um, she has actually come back to me. Um, already. Yeah. Yeah. Um, what' she say? She just said they're not producing it. So, I'm like, why? Why? Yeah, there's got to be this is this is the runaround you get. Well, they're not making it. Yeah, but why are they making it? Yeah. Okay. So, only the most popular compound out right now. You know what I mean? They are all safe. What a city. No, they're not, Justin. They have risks. Everything has risks. Yeah, it it is always a riskreward. Um the key is knowing what risk you are taking so you can make a decision on whether that riskreward is worth it for you. Obviously lower dosing I is a significant factor. Uh your own health is a significant factor. You know if you're a fat unhealthy mess then adding an situation is not going to be you know the risk increases significantly. So being fit and healthy in your own self is a big step towards actually being able to manage the cycle with minimum risk. Uh I'm big fan of test. Your body knows it. It knows what to do with it. It's not overly stressful. It's a good allrounder. It gives a reasonable reward for the risk that you take. Primo. So test would be your number like if we were making a list now of like number one. Yeah. Uh yeah. Okay, I'm 50/50 with Primo. I know Primo's mild. They've got this big HDL adulteration, but other than that, in every other aspect, yeah, it's very low impact. Yeah. But I go back to the riskreward thing. In order to get significant reward, do you have to pump up the pren then starts to cause a risk? Yeah. I mean there is an element of there is a reality I should say that the more you take the more results you get the safer you are the uh probably the less potential results but my thought would be you mentioned health as being a number one thing I honestly man to me a big part of what our podcasts have been about is let's look at what are the other factors and I know that everybody always thinks like I've got my training nailed, but there's always more that we can learn, you know. I'm in my mid going on late 40s now. And I mean, sorry, 57, guys. And I'm still learning about training, you know, and nutrition is something that we can always continue to improve upon. And the better you are at those two things, the more you have your rest locked down, the more you're going to get out of any cycle, the less you can take and get the best results, right? So I think that that's my that's my big thing is health and then that aspect get the most out of everything else it will magnify your results even with say a mild test cycle you know mildly above TRT levels. Yeah. Um I mean if you're looking at the drugs that on paper give the the the least negative from a health. Now we also got a there's a there's a factor here in losing your hair isn't a health problem. Gossmetic issue but it's not a health problem. Um then I would say you know you test primo mast when you start getting into nors then the health risk become much greater definitely uh you could argue that any oral consumption is a greater health risk. I'm not that signed on that one. Um I think orals get a bad rap, but I still think they do need to be very much respected. Um so and then you know EQ as a compound is quite well tolerated until we start looking at blood thickness and the potential issues from blood thickness. But then it's like well yeah but if you manage that then the risk reduces significantly. It's only when you don't manage it that that risk becomes significant. I mean EQ in itself isn't a particularly harsh compound. Yeah. Yeah. I I I'd agree with that. There are some people that can't tolerate it like Kuba has said like ah it's just not for me. You know some people are like I get major anxiety from EQ. So there's an element too of Yeah. And I think we also need to what works for you individually. Yeah. I I think when it comes to health, we also need to consider mental health. I mean Cuba struggles with MPP as well. Okay. Um so I think there is and and that's very much an individual thing. I mean I had no mental health issues with highdose trend or highdose decod stuff, you know. So I I think that there is very much an individual tolerance there and and obviously going batshit crazy and being completely paranoid for the rest of your life is is definitely impacting on your health. Okay. So you put test at number one, then you put primo at two. No, I'd put I'd put mass before primo to be honest. Oh, you didn't mention that. Okay. So testosterone is number one safest, then mast and then primo. That's a riskreward situation where I don't think the reward from primo is significant enough whereas I think the reward from master is greater. Yeah. And as a result because the reward from primo isn't significant enough you end up needing to run more primo which then makes it less safe. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Did she get back to you by the way? I hear I hear your messages going off. So what she said is so I asked her and she said because manufacturers China have stopped producing including our company I said why have they stopped production I don't know exactly why but all the factories in China are attempting to shut down raw powder the story is linked to America trying to stop maybe there you go no I said that oh yeah and you also said that word what pentanel yeah with a pentanel yeah maybe it's that But there's something else too. Okay. Okay. I'm not sure why. So there's very little inventory. Many products are no longer in stock. Huh. Okay. Can you ask her besides Primo in mast, what else has been low? That's very interesting. We're getting We're getting this straight from the source. Look at that. You guys, Dave, you saved me a plane trip to China. No, you still got to go. All right, I'll book it after the show. I'm not going to book it, guys. That's because Scott doesn't care about you. Look, guys. He He just want He just wants your subscriptions and then subscribe. All right. Um, so as Dave does that, I'm going to run through. I can't really argue with anything that you're sharing. I would put EQ in there for myself and for a lot of other people, but if you know yourself and and it all comes back though to dose and duration, could you get away with trend, you know, even on the other extreme, I I think that you can at a low enough dose. Would would would a low low dose of Trend be healthier than a high dose of Primo? Absolutely. That's that's where it gets difficult, isn't it? is you know um a safe drug but at a gram a week against a not safe drug but at 150 milligram a week. Yeah. I think that's where your personal tolerance element start coming in. Um I have met people that on doses as low as 150 milligrams and 200 milligram tremit it sent them absolutely batshit. Um, and obviously if you're the person suffering from that, that's that's severely impacting. But and I do think too there's an element of the whole polyfarm pharmacy. What else are we doing with the trend? You know, that I think sometimes I've seen that be an issue. Are you managing your estrogen or is estrogen through the roof? And now you're on trend. And now because I generally found that if we control estrogen while on trend and we have a good baseline before you start the trend, we know where you're at that you'll be less likely to have some of the emotional side effects. I'm not saying that's a fact across the board, but it's it's kind of what I've heard, you know, and what I've seen. Yeah. Uh I I as a rule of thumb for someone who has no experience would just say just avoid nor 19s personally. Yeah. Yeah. They're tricky across the board if you don't know what you're doing. So yeah. What about Okay, so you mentioned orals. Safest oral in my book is going to be Anifar. You're going to get some adulteration of cholesterol and of course there's going to be some changes to your liver values. I will challenge you and go T-Ball. Yeah, I haven't had enough experience. It's the one oral I haven't had experience with. You know what? It's the one oral. I do not understand why it's not more popular. Well, maybe if they run out of everything else, people will start using it because it it ticks so many boxes. Yeah. But um yeah, I I Yeah, I mean anavar is generally very well tolerated. All orals are going to lower HDL. Annavar unfortunately has a side trick of increasing LDL but but in the most part but then in the most part I don't see people having huge problems with orals if they're not being [\h__\h] with doses. Yeah. In duration. Yeah. I mean obviously the old oxy's anadrol A-bombs nap 50s because I have to give all those names because I always get shouted out for calling them oxies. Um I'll get a potentially trash appetite. So that you know there are things there but um smoothest overall cycle I guess I'll I'll go back to what you said originally testosterone only boost it up beyond your TRT levels and you know I think that like you mentioned it's bio identical right our body already knows that compound and I think that we can have a pretty smooth run and you don't need to do a bunch of different things to make good progress you can keep it really simple and if you put the majority of your focus into your training have have some humility, you know what I mean? Because we all think that we're the best. You like we're great at training, we've got it figured out. The sooner you realize you're not you don't have it totally figured out, you know, the the sooner you can figure out the next step because what works for us now is not going to be what works for us in five years. Like there's always going to be some changes to how we get the most out of our workouts. I think that people should, everybody should get more passionate about learning about training. Everybody's passionate learning about drugs. Everybody's passionate about learning about diet, but not that many people are passionate about learning about training. And I think if people start getting passionate about learning about training, all their progress will improve. Yeah, I I see a lot of guys I work with are really passionate about it. But I I do I I could agree overall. It it's something I can't argue with. I think people are passionate about training. I don't think people are always passionate about learning about training. I think there is a total difference there. There's a lot of people that will not try new stuff. Okay. They get very stuck in the ways. They get fearful of new things, but they'll try new drugs. That bit I don't get. But anyway. Yeah. All right. Fair enough. We'll move on to our listener questions. Um did she get back to us at all yet on that? Uh, at the moment she's busy apologizing about why there's no stock. We all know that creatine is great for muscle building, but were you aware of its benefits for brain health? Uh, I think it's pronounced creatine. No, it's definitely pronounced creatin. No, it's definitely creatine. I'm positive of it. Yeah, I that's pretty much what I said. Creatin. Creatine. Well, regardless of what you want to call it, creatin plays an important role in brain health. Research demonstrates that your brain needs a significant amount of ATP to perform difficult tasks. Supplementing with creatin will improve phosphocreatin stores, helping your brain produce more ATP. So, if you're not on creatin now, give it a try. Check out true nutrition.com. Use our code think over there. They've got all your basic health supplements like creatin, protein powder, everything else you can think of. Use our code think to help support our programming, get some additional savings, and get a great supplement. Yeah, it's definitely creatin. Well, we'll get into our listener questions. And uh you know, I have to tell you, Dave, I started an experiment and I want to tell you a little bit about it. Never. You start an experiment. Yeah. So, first of all, I have to tell you that um is this the experiment of the oldest gear you've found and whether it still works? Oh, a company uh went under supposedly the FDA closed them down. uh initials AA. They're no longer so they're no longer with us. Um and I've had a lot of people messaging me about that. Um so I said something out with a code for a new company and then we actually have two. I'm not going to talk about those here, but I do have some MK-677 that I started. I have not run MK in a dog's age. Right. So what is your reason? I'm a bit confused now. Mhm. Because you're using slope. Yep. Yep. Yes. I just got back on it. And I think we should call it slope moving forward with the as the slope. Slope. Okay. So, you're using slope. So, you're using dietary aids. Yep. Why would you take a compound that's going to increase your grenine output? Well, that's what I'm going to get to. So, here's the thing. Scott and I did a podcast all about MK-677 and you know we had done a show about it a few years ago. One of the big things, one of my big takehomes from the initial podcast was that it it had a lot of variability in how much growth hormone it released. Okay. So for some people, you know, they did a test after one day and after one week they tested GH blood levels and they found in some cases after one day they saw elevations after one week they saw no elevation. Somebody who was taking the same dose all through the week. So I'm thinking, oh my gosh, we're wasting this stuff. You know, it it it's not predictable. So I thought to but then in this second podcast we did more recently, you guys probably all saw it. We saw this that in older individuals who aren't producing as much growth hormone, they tended to have a better response to it. They actually got more benefits from it. And they also we found that intermittent use may be beneficial. So I thought to myself, you know what? I think that I this could be something interesting for me as an aging individual who's probably not producing as much growth as I did. we begin declining our growth hormone uh output in our mid30s. Basically, all of our cellular processes begin going back down. We keep going up until that point and then on average around 35 we start going back down. So I thought well intermittently I could use this on say training days or heavy training days improve my recovery. Plus I noticed always that MK had produced some really good quality sleep for me. So, I said, "I'm going to try it, right?" And uh I get a bottle from this new place and uh lo and behold, I took it last night before bed, Dave, I woke up four times starving to death. I was so hungry. I was like, "Oh my god, I totally forgot how hungry MK makes me. I don't think I can do it, man." Dude, I was just dying of hunger. Well, it did seem a bit of a weird choice to me. Um, but hey, well, anytime I had used it in the past, it had always been in uh off seasons where I was pushing a lot of food already, so I didn't notice the appetite increase as much as I did last night, let me tell you, man, it was awful, dude. So, anyway, um, listener questions, we've got a bunch of them, and you guys are welcome to leave us questions for the next show. Uh question for the next episode. PIP and infections. Aside from how much more effective is Winstrol suspension? Oh, okay. So, aside from infections and pain, um how much more effective is Winstrol suspension compared to its oral form in terms of its anabolic and cosmetic effect? Of course, the injectable is more bioavailable. Uh but just how big of a difference is there? For example, 50 milligrams of Winstro suspension versus 50 milligrams oral every day over the course of four to eight weeks. Sorry, the hiccups are really bad at the moment. Yeah, guys, I didn't tell you that Dave has hiccups right now. Stand on your head and drink a glass of water. You can do it in the background. We'll watch. He's [\h__\h] hurting. For real, I found that drinking a glass of water upside down does help. I just bend forward and I drink out the other side of the cup. I had him a couple nights ago. Oh, right. Go on. So, go through that again. By the way, she's just come back to me and she's just clamped up. So, now she doesn't have anything else for you. All right. So, I'll say this. Um, I don't think we actually know what the difference is going to be. uh bio like how much more you're going to get out of the winstal injection than from the oral. Um I will tell you that you aren't completely immune to the liver stuff because it eventually does have to pass through the liver. Um and and I will say this too, my experience with injectable orals has been limited to deanal. I did find milligram for milligram it did have a stronger kind of cleaner effect. It didn't affect my appetite quite as much. Um, but overall man, I I wouldn't take the water-based. If I were to use it, I would consider the oilbased uh suspension or, you know, the oral-based nosterl. I I would say that the injectable gives you a better delivery. Um, orals are fat soluble, so they're combined with non-dietary fats, which means you can have some absorption reduction. Obviously, there's a stomach stress thing, which is significantly reduced by doing injectable. But unfortunately in the world of anabolics, water is the most infection risk carrier out of all the suspended um compounds. So yeah, as Scott has said, if you can get oil, it would definitely be a safer alternative. Um, water can be a bit trickier, but yeah, I'm I'm with you in that I do think it it is slightly more if effective. I'm sorry about the hiccups, Dave. I'm getting pissed off with him now. For real. If you guys have any comments in the stream on tell Dave how to fix his hiccups, what's your secret? We'd be curious to know. He's going to meditate now. Yeah, I'll tell you too that uh generally in my personal experience using Winstro, it had mainly been the last four weeks of a contest prep. I've used it with people, clients of mine, maybe if they're not using another DHT, we might start it at six to even possibly eight weeks out. Um, and I I I I've always felt that usually we're doing enough injections as it is, I don't want to add another injection on top of that. much rather go to an oral. That is the other problem. I mean, it becomes another and it's a daily. So, it becomes another injection that is daily. Um, and it has a fairly short window as an injectable as well. I mean, the orals do, but it's even shorter as an injectable. Um, I don't know about that. I think it's similar. I've even seen it being listed as longer, but it might be because you get a higher plasma level. You know, I I I was always an impression it was it was quicker. Okay. Well, you are only taking it once versus with the oral tablet, you could split it up. So, yeah, I've never understood that logic, but okay. Yeah. Well, you could if you want to get stable blood levels, you know. I know you're not a big fan of stable blood levels. No, it's not that. It It's the re all the research on oral administration has shown a single higher dose is more effective than a split dose because of the peak plasma level that it creates. Yeah. That might be in part why the injectable works as well. Get better from it because you're getting a greater peak plasma. Yeah, I I would say this. I think the difference in my experience with injectable dbol versus oral dbol, it's not so different. You know what I mean? It's not like another world different. Yeah. It's kind of like more of the same. Little more of the same. Yeah. I I definitely agree with that. I think there is a difference, but I don't think you don't It's not going to be a like, you know, black and white comparison. All right. when you did test EQ and MPPP, how long did you run the MPPP from the start of the cycle? Would 6 weeks be long enough or would you want to want to run it 10 weeks? I I I would say if you have enough for six, that's a great place to start. And by the time that you run out, your equipoise and then test are going to be all built up, you know, to to close to peak levels. So, I think you'd be just fine with that. I do think there is kind of something nice about the three of them together. So, I I was my personal favorite cycle, but you know, it doesn't have to be NPP all the way through six weeks if that's what you've got. You know, if you were my client and you're like, "Hey, I have six weeks of MPP." I'd say, "All right, let's just run that." You know? Um, all right. How about this one, Dave? Uh, I Oh, okay. That was just a comment. Uh, question for the next show. Uh, been getting great pumps in the gym, but when I eat, my jaw gets so pumped I can't chew for very long. Have you ever heard of this? Uh, it's quite annoying at times. I I used to suffer with jaw ache from chewing. Uh, but I've never had a pump. I've gotten that during like prep time and my jaw starts freaking especially something you have to chew a lot, you know? Yeah. But you tend to chew a lot when you're in prep anyway because you want to make the most out of every morsel of food you're eating. Yeah. Uh uh but yeah, I used I used to get pain in my jaw from from the high volume of food, you know, aching. Oh yeah. Yeah, that's kind of what I got too, but I've never I don't know how I'd even recognize a pump in my jaw. I mean, maybe that's what he means. Yeah. So, is it is it just aching or or are you actually seeing an increase in your jaw width because pumping with blood? It's getting all pumped up. Uh, cheers guys. Much appreciated. Um, oh, this is the guy who tore his Achilles and he had it reattached. Uh, where is the best place for injecting HGH for healing my Achilles? In the stomach as usual or in the heel? It's systematic. It doesn't need to be cited. Um, and it doesn't have a a rapid decline rate that's going to affect if you put it systematic. So, no, I wouldn't put it in the heel. Yeah. Um, all right. Oh, we did get a bunch of comments saying like, "Uncle Dave's wisdom is great. It's a great ending to each episode. Please keep it as part of the show." No, I'm stopping doing it unless you contribute to the ProCharger fund. Somebody did another one. Yeah, we got another one. I owe you 31. Oh, I have it I have it commented. I have it saved here. So, I was going to get to it at some point as we scroll through them. Um, I've been completely serious when I say this. I'd listen to Dave's wisdom all day long and take every word to heart. The man's a national treasure. And if anyone disagrees, well, as Dave himself would say, they can bugger off. We love you, Dave. That man needs help. He definitely needs assessing. Yes. So, Justin Bruce, it was Justin Bruce. He donated $4.99. He said, "This is for Dave Supercharger." And he also donated $4.99 to the channel. So, thank you, Justin Bruce. You are Is there a Is there a fee of 1 cent that gets taken off? It just seems an odd number. Does $4.99? I I don't know. I don't know because I I would just do five, you know, if you were going to straight five bucks. It's it's simple. It's clean. I just wonder why the it must there I there's actually I think more of a fee than that, you know, but yeah. All right. Question for the next show. What is your opinion on BPC-157 dosage uh average dose uh and higher doses per week? I'm 46 years old, 242 on gear for over 20 years. I heard a lot of positive uh stuff on this peptide. As I get older, the body isn't as recovering as fast. I've heard BPC was a great supplement for recovery. Your opinion on dosage, higher dosages in average dosages. My opinion would be no for for recovery. My opinion would be TB for recovery. Oh, bring the inflammation down. Mhm. So BPC does have anti-inflammatory effects as well. It does. But you think that overall and you've used a lot of TB yourself, right? Yeah. For me, TB has a more has a greater impact on soft tissue recovery than BPC. Okay. So I'm I wouldn't be looking at BPC as a dosing for general recovery. I'd be looking at TB and 5 to 10 millig. Five should be plenty to be honest. Five milligrams a week. Yeah. Yep. Five a week of that. So he was asking low or average and high doses. I think a lot of people are doing the way I've seen it listed is on BPC 350 micrograms twice a day. I've gone to more like 500 twice a day or just one milligram once a day. I've also gone to high dose being like a milligram twice a day. But um I wouldn't recommend that as just part of like my standard average everyday rec you know recovery training. You got to be careful as well because when you start going high dose with BPC you could start getting stomach issues. So you mentioned that and one of our listeners said hey I've gotten that too. I've got that. Yeah you've got to be substantial. Um but yeah when you start mega dosing BPC it can can hit your stomach quite hard. Um I now question because I've never done it in that format. Did you feel there was more of a benefit with the high dosing over the the more traditional dosing of around 300 micrograms? Absolutely. Was it worth it? Yes. Yeah. When I use it, I will use it at a milligram a time every time. Um I'll start there. So the main thing that I found it beneficial for I used to get a lot of bicep tendinitis occasionally I still do a lot of it has to do with tight pecs and everybody in bodybuilding gets that you know we should have pretty you know if you're standing there you should see your thumb you know what I mean you you shouldn't see the back of your knuckles if your arms are just down if you're seeing the backs of your knuckles those hands are getting pulled around from tight pecs and that needs to be worked on that needs to be loosened up. If you don't fix that, then that bicep tendinitis isn't going to go away. But I found that when I start experiencing issues with it, a milligram popped right into the front delt per day is what I've generally done. Uh for the first five days vial, usually I'll get the 5 milligram vials. Then I'll back it off to like 750 micrograms a day for the next vial. And then the third vial, I'll back it down to 500 a day. And by then, I've usually got it under pretty good control. I'll even feel a difference. Like if it's painful enough that I feel it without doing anything, I will feel a difference within two hours of having taken one milligram of BPC. Okay. So, I've never I've never done that format, but I've done the IV. Um Oh, yeah. That's got to be strong. Oh, yeah. Yeah, that that hits hard. How much IV? Uh 5 milligrams. Okay. Well, I could see how that might upset your stomach at a high dose then. Um, 10 10 milligrams upset the stomach. It took 10. So, the upset stomach thing is probably not going to happen. You know, you know what I'm saying? Well, no. Straight into the muscle. It depends on your 500 microgram. Depends on your your definition of mega dosing, doesn't it? The thing is you say mega doing to some people and they go ridiculous. Yeah. Um, but yeah, I'm also quite tolerant of this [\h__\h] as well. So, um, I've I've known people have the IVs and get problems at lower doses. How frequently would you do that dose with the IV? I when I was really trying to manage my kidneys and my feet, it was weekly. Once a week? Yeah. Yeah. Five milligrams once a week. TB and Okay. BBC. Okay. Did you notice a difference? Yeah. Improved my kidney function. Okay, fantastic. Permanently nice. Not a lot, you know. We didn't get [\h__\h] miracles here. We only got like four or five points, but Okay, four points. I'll take, you know, because it it one of the issues with with being where I am with Mickey is fatigue. Um, and it can be quite severe and um the BPC just brought it up enough where the fatigue became less of an issue. Okay. So, I mean, I still I don't wake up fresh. Yeah. You know, it doesn't matter how good a night sleeper, I don't wake up feeling energized and fresh. I wake up feeling tired. Yeah. But it it it it made it um less impacting during the day. I mean, that's sometimes why you see me and I'm yawning me head off all the way through the podcast is just because the kidneys will be struggling. I thought it was me. I thought I bored you. No, I just don't like you. Oh, thanks, Dave. That's okay. That's why he's trying to send me to China, guys. No, I just think you should be dedicated to the show and our listeners. All right. What about this one? And it's cheaper for you to get to China than me. Is it really? Huh? I feel like there's a travel ban to China for US residents or something. I don't know, man. Either that or because you don't want to go. Yeah. Uh, okay. I would love to go to China. I would like to see it. I think it'd be cool, but I'd much rather if I were to go to the Far East, I'd rather see Japan, but one of us already got to go there. They got You can't argue with it. Can't argue with that one. No. So, I wanted to give this guy figure out what we would give him for advice. Uh, Dr. Jax, he says, um, I'm using Rea and insulin together. I have zero choice. Um, same when I use Mojouro. Uh, I had to use insulin. Neither of them lowered my blood sugars, lol. Probably safe to say that I'm type 2 diabetic anymore. And I said, "Well, are you running growth?" And he said, "Two to four units before bed with metformin." And he said, "Also, I've been told to drop Deca and don't use it anymore." So, I I think we skipped that last part about Deca, but man, that's a lot going on there. He needs insulin to control his blood sugar while using rea and metformin. Reta inclusive lowers BG. So reta wouldn't be causing increase in BG unless he was using something that wasn't reta. No, that's what I'm saying is his blood sugar is still high but he's he needs he's he needs insulin on top of that plus metformin on top of that. Yeah, but that's for your diabetic. I mean, I don't get I'm a bit confused here. What the issue is if it sounded like he was saying he needed insulin once he'd started using the reta whereas what it sounds like is he needed insulin before anyway. He's on Okay, that's not the way I read it. I think so. He's saying that even with rea I still need insulin and metformin as well. Yeah. I wonder man. I I would test I feel like I would want to come off all the stuff for a minute, including number one, the growth. He's on two to four units, which dude, I don't feel like two to four units is going to destroy your blood sugar, but maybe long term. I don't know. The thing is, it it sounds like you're diabetic. If you're diabetic, then using RET is not going to stop that. You're still going to be diabetic. It might make a slight reduction in the amount of insulin you need to use, but it's not going to get rid of it. I It's not good for diabetes. No. And I don't think he's saying it is, but I'm concerned. So, I'll give him my advice is this. I would say that cut the growth out temporarily and see if things get back into a normal range and that you don't need insulin. And then from there start testing your blood sugar not only fasted but 1 hour into twohour postpandal of your large you know larger carb meal and see if you're actually producing insulin like get to the bottom of this and then instead of figuring it out like trying to manage this on your own get get some real treatment you know I'm a bit confused on the whole scenario um so I'm gonna bow out because it I'm If you needed if you needed insulin before the retachide, why would you expect that to change with the interview? He's not. Never mind, Dave. He's not That's what I don't get. I I'm confused. Yeah, just leave. I just read that and I was like, "Holy crap, this guy needs help." Like, he shouldn't just continue on doing what he's doing in my opinion. No, I I I I think removing the growth hormone is a completely sensible thing. I I'm just a bit confused about the question and what's there was no question. All right. Leave me alone alone. All right. I I I Yeah, he didn't ask a question. I just wanted to throw some help at him. Why doesn't anyone res Why doesn't everyone respond to creatin supplementation? Are there people that don't respond? Not some people get diarrhea. Latch told us that the other week. Oh yeah. Yeah. Stomach upsets can be quite common. So old school wise it used to be monohydrate. If the monohydrate was causing stomach upset then you'd go to the creesters or something of that nature. Uh but that was only it wasn't that the monohydrate was crap. It was that the other versions would be much gentler on the stomach. Yeah. Uh I second that. Dave's a national treasure indeed. Thank you, Josh. Yeah. I I I wonder what he means by responding like some people don't respond to creatin or creatine as some people most people everybody but me might say. Yeah. Well, also what were you expecting? Is is it is it that you are responding but just not what you thought it would be? How would you rate oral minoxidil for? By the way, this guy's name is Satan. 1515. Satan is asking us, how would you rate orominoxidil for guys who are using gear or perhaps uh reverse or slow down hair loss and give some BP support as well? Just shave it off. Ask Scott, he he's done all the hair crap obviously, as you can tell. It's not something that's ever really bothered me. So, I looked at a while ago because I I thought there was something to it like, oh, this could be damaging to your liver, but it's not. I double checked this morning cuz I was like, you know, that doesn't feel right to me. And and it's generally not, but it can do damage to the kidneys. Uh, so I would watch that, especially as a gear user. And I don't know why he wouldn't consider the topical instead of the oral. Yeah. I mean, it seems to make more sense to me that you you'd just concentrate on the area you want it in. Yeah. Now, I worked with a guy who got a hair transplant and his doctor told him to use or minoxidil for the rest of his life. So, I don't know. Maybe there's something to that. Do you see Dean got a hair transplant? Dr. Dean St. Martin today. I haven't seen Yeah, he went to Turkey. We had him on the podcast. uh went to Turkey, had it done. It looks good. It's It's been a while now. It's growing in. It's uh he's got he's got a full head of hair now. You bunch of vein bastards. Comment on the last show from our show and tell. I can still get the Anadrol Green Giants as well as the growth hormone that's overdosed uh as well as uh Sustanon organ brand. Um, and that's uh all I get when I use sauce. The sauce. All these are super common to get these days. So, that was hygien you had and that was a long time ago that they were overdosed. There's probably like seven different brands of fake hygiens now. You know what I mean? There is. I I don't think Yeah. I mean, Organon's still producing sustenon. Organon still exists. You know, they haven't gone anywhere. That's that's a far more legit company. Whether he's getting legit organ on would be another conversation. I have no idea. Yeah. Uh but um yeah, this is a fun one. Let's save this for the next show. We could make this our next lead topic question. With no mast primo, what would give a similar look? Save that one. We did this, didn't we? A couple weeks ago. Yeah. Okay. I'm sure we did. Ask ask our wonderful Yeah. Did we cover that yet, guys? You guys tell us. Comment below. Thank you. We've definitely discussed it whether we've done it on air or not. That might be where I'm getting mixed up. And I've got another one, important one. He says, "Scott, Dave, I'm sorry. I was the angry listener. I admit that I went about it incorrectly. I'm incredibly ignorant about anabolics. It's all new to me. Reliable information is very scarce. I didn't consider some topics may have been beaten to death or beaten like a dead horse. Um, so it it can be tiresome. I'm a disabled 37year-old single father of a young son. Your videos are my daily entertainment. I've been watching your past videos to educate myself. I'm sorry. My apologies for my behavior. You don't need to apologize, mate. He needs to apologize. You jerk. Dave, an inconsiderate. Dave, you are rude and inconsiderate. Mate, seriously, don't take us that seriously. We are, as you can tell, sarcastic individuals. So, here's the deal. We didn't quite answer his question. Yeah. So, his question was, "Can you take expired gear?" And we did kind of talk about it, but you know, and we did have some good viewers, too, that left like left very detailed responses for him to fill in for our lack of ability for you being a [\h__\h] Yes. To produce, you know, quality content information. You can squirm. You abused a disabled single father. You horrid individual. I can't believe you did that, Dave. You pointed. you pointed and you were like you you yeah right right um so concerns around expired gear one is decline in the strength of the drug obviously that's not really an issue from a point of view of health but it is an issue from a point of view of effectiveness bacterial potential loads or gross is a big one crashing or unstability of the gear is a big one which will make it [\h__\h] painful so they're the main factors the main things that happens with anabolics when they're out of date. And that's if those dates are anywhere near genuine because bear in mind UGL's just put a freaking date on there. They put a number on it. Yeah. Yeah. What one we using this week? Um, but if you're talking something that's 5 10 years old, then yes, it's going to be out of date. So, the biggest, as you saw with some of the stuff in the box, you know, oxidization of the trend where it goes really dark yellow, that's definitely something I wouldn't be too keen on injecting in myself. You're fine. rain. If it's cloudy, it's got floaty bits, and it's starting to come out of suspension, you could potentially eat it up and use it. But again, I'd be wary, but the main thing is probably going to be a reduction in effectiveness or reduction in strength. Um, I appreciate that there are circumstances where, you know, financial constraints mean that sometimes you have to look in that box and go, you know what, I can't really afford. I want to do a cycle. Just be careful. If it's oral, there isn't any real concerns. It's just going to get weak. If it's injectable, then there starts to be greater in, you know, risk from a point of view of an abscess or some sort of infection at the injection point. And that's really the main thing we're concerned about here. Um, don't be like Scott and just be that cheap and tight that you'll use it up because you're too cheap to buy more. But he's not got any excuses. But I do appre renew, reuse, and recycle. Dave, I want to make sure that our environment doesn't have too many floating bottles of gear. Yeah. It up. But yes, you know, I I appreciate that when when budgets are tight and you're trying to do the best you can on limited income that stuff that that may be a bit older maybe. I mean, I used out of date sust. Yeah. CRT. Um, but I did start to notice that it wasn't quite as it should be. Was it not as strong? I It's hard to explain. I just I I sw I switched back over to just a regular UGL testy. Yeah. U 60 milligrams twice a week. Well, actually probably near A-50 twice a week to be fair. Um uh and I I feel much better. M where previously the sus felt good it just got not quite right and that's the only way I can describe it was it just there wasn't any specific symptom it was just not where it should have been. Yeah despite levels being good and everything else. Um so I I dropped that and went to things. So I do think there is a decline in quality over time but that's not necessarily going to cause you any health issues. It just might means you don't get the same results as you'd expect. Growth hormone would be one that you know like it's a peptide, right? And those protein peptides are not necessarily going to last, especially a fragile more fragile peptide like growth. So HCG is another one as well. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. HCG. Um I found that things like BPC and melanitin, they seem to be more stable longer term. Um, but yeah, in general, your peptides are when they're out, they're going to be out versus I I'm with you. I do think that the key is to if if it say is a little expired, you look at it, see what's going on. If you see any Cuz the big thing, too, is how was it stored? Did you keep it in a nice like cool dark environment or has it been like sitting in your garage, you know, your hot garage or in your trunk of your car or something, you know? I think that those are two different scenarios. The heat is going to war light is going to break it down faster. And reality is I think that what's your expiration dates on meds in the UK? Ours is three years, but I think you have five years on average, right? It varies to be honest. Um I think ours is two to three. I haven't got any meds to hand to check. Okay. Um medical equipment is definitely shorter. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Cuz we get tubes going out of date um for the blood testing. All right. Let's see if we get something that comes up here. Uh global differences in expiration date coding. Uh it's just the way they have it written. I wanted to say that in the US uh it's uh this is just the way it's written the versus like Russia versus the US versus EU how the the the month and the day because we usually do month first on stuff. You guys do day first. Yes, you do. Um I've just found some meds here and they've got three years on them from date of prescription to expiry. Oh, okay. Yeah, we get about three years. I think some European places are longer, like five. And I think realistically, like you're probably with with something that's an oral tablet, you're probably going to be okay for much longer than that, you know. Yeah. Um most the meds that I can currently see, you're looking at anywhere between three and five years. Okay. Okay. Yeah. And um one of the big ones you don't want to use outdated is antibiotics. Antibiotics, I said that weird. Antibiotics. Antibiotics will they can turn into poison basically. I I used to have an antib. What's that? I used to have an antib. Huh? She's dead. My 13-year-old son. What? What is an auntie B? I have Oh, you mean like your aunt? Yeah, I had an auntie B. Oh, it took me a minute. It's okay, old mom. Uh, what is this here? My 13-year-old son uh just got quality bands with handles. We have no shortage of weight equipment in our home, but I am trying to keep it simple here. He plays ice hockey four days a week. Did he have something else here or is he just telling us I got some bands? Yeah. Yeah. I don't see the rest of the message. Maybe it didn't all show up. Yeah, that's the whole message we got. Huh. Maybe he was talking to somebody else. Um, Sharp says, "Uh, what's a great uh what's great is a lot of GH is quality these days. Much better than 15 years ago. Scott, I'm starting to get a complex. I emailed you a few times and never heard back from you." Oh, typical, mate. Typical. You're welcome to reply with He's too good for his commoners now. Oh, I'll have to look. I'll have to look. Um, I think that first message though about the quality GH. Yeah. Like back 15 plus years ago, hydroropen was a great brand name to get because you didn't know what to trust out of the generics. And now there are so many like different color top generics that if you get it from the right place, it's high quality, super prevalent for a very um competitive price. Let's turn to our national treasurer and ask him for some advice on growth. No, just you know you your Dave Crosslet, our national treasure. I used to answer them. Yeah. Oh, you mentioned them before. Yeah, I used to like cancel him. It was It was good. Then they stopped selling. How about managing stress? Actually, that was your fault. What was stopped selling to the public? That was my fault. America. Oh, collectively your fault. Really? Yeah, you ruined my GH supply. Why did I ruin it? I want reparations for that. Okay, it'll be in the mail. In the form of a procharger. Um, sure, no problem. I'll just charge you shipping. Let's not have that conversation. Trauma that caused. Oh god. Um, yes. Um, how about stress levels? You know, how I'm not doing very well with stress at all at the moment. I might just use this as a my own counseling session. How's that? Tell everybody else what to do. So, you're really telling yourself. I am I am incredibly stressed at the moment and I am finding that might be why I've got the hiccups to be fair. Yeah. Um, no, my heart's fine. Don't stress. I know that's all right. Um but yes um stress is is horrible. Um and it is difficult to manage and it comes from all sort and I've always found that being active against whatever is causing the stress helps but very often the stress comes from the fact that we can't be proactive towards what the cause is be and that's why we're stressed. Yeah. So, I don't really have any great solutions. I would say this when you're in a stressful environment or you're working a stressful job or you're just feel yourself getting swallowed up by pressure and stress to the point where you you just don't see you'll be looking at a list of things you've got to do and you just don't see it. You know, you sort you look at it and you look at it and you look at it, but you don't actually do anything about it because you you're just so wound up that you're just almost spinning wheels constantly. Yeah. Go away. Find somewhere quiet. Might even be the bog. I used to like the bog for this. The bathroom. Does that translate to the Yes, the bog. The toilet. I got You're speaking English today, sir. The bog. Okay. Go sit in the bog. Close your eyes and just breathe. Don't poop. No. Actually, I find a poop very enjoyable. Is that wrong? Go take a nice poop. Yeah. Is it wrong that I find a poop enjoyable? Well, it's good to get that out of your system. You don't want to keep it, right? No, I don't want to carry it around forever. Exactly. No. Um, anyway, I'm going off a war here. Um but yeah, just just try and remove yourself from wherever the pressure is. So if you work in an office, you know, just try and get out of the way for five, 10 minutes somewhere quiet and and just just let it go. Um you might have to do that five, six, seven times in a day when things are really bad, but just getting up and removing yourself from what is creating the intensity of that stress. It might not get rid of the problems, but what you usually find is it's not the issues that are the problem. It's that you've got so fixated on what's causing you to stress that you your head spinning and you just can't ground yourself. Yeah. Actually start doing anything. So just take it away. Take away from the environment. Go have a cup of tea. Cup of tea fixes everything apparently. Ah, it sounds good. Actually, I've got a qu I've got a serious question for you and I know that you like to joke around but be honest with me now. I know that obviously we record the show and it takes up time and I'm with you like if I didn't record the podcasts I could definitely like be done with my job earlier and stuff each day but do you get a break when do you feel like you get to take a break when we do this sometimes yes last week was was a riot I enjoyed last week and and sometimes it and it's not a reflection of you or the questions it's a reflection of mine my mindset at that point. Yeah. Um and I I do go through this conversation a lot in my head in in that it's like now I I'm wound up to the hill. It seems to be that I've got the reverse of the minders touching that everything that I'm involved with at the moment is just turning to [\h__\h] It's not. It's my perception of it. And I do need to pull myself back sometimes and just go, you know what? It's actually you've got I've got a lot to be thankful for. I've got a lot to celebrate. Yeah. But I do have a and it's one of them where I fix one problem then there's another and I fix that problem then there's another and I uh but at the same time and this is what you sometimes got to pull yourself back to is Yeah. But I am fixing them. Yeah. Yeah. Sometimes I get that like god is the world just out to like is life out to get me right now? You know what have I done wrong this week? But yeah, yeah, you know, I am fixing them. And if you look back at there's been times in your life where you've been stressed and you've thought like there's no end to it. Yeah, it was. You got you got through it. It might not be perfect, but you'll survive it. Bloody hell. So, yeah. I I mean at the moment I am this just got some frustrating crap going on at the moment. But uh it's nothing sinister. It's all in part of developing things and moving things forward. But it just when you start dealing with people that don't seem to have any common sense, it can get incredibly frustrating, particularly when they're in a a position of regulation. M um so um but yeah, other than that it's stress is is difficult and stress is without doubt a progress killer when it comes to trying to do what we do. Um, and I think also you've got to manage stress in a sense. And one of the problems I'm having at the moment with my stress levels is because I've got too many projects and they're not just work projects, there's personal projects as well involved in that and and they're all having problems. So if there was less projects, there would be less problems. Yeah, that's true. So part of this is an overextension on my part. Um and and I I I am a firm believer that in you know a lot of our problems we create ourselves. Um and some of these problems I I have created through accident. Um I I damaged something uh because I didn't pay enough care to what I was doing with it. Um and I'm I'm in the middle of refitting it and now I can't continue the refit because of the damage that I've done. And so that's been a real pain to fix. Getting there. It is getting there. But but so you know that there are we can manage stress by not creating more problems when we're already in a hole. I tend not to do that. I tend to create more problems. National treasure. Our national treasure. If you've got loads of [\h__\h] going on in your life, then don't take on something else that's going to cause you more [\h__\h] Even if it's a personal project, it's not a work related thing or it's not a related thing. Yeah. Yeah. You know, it's going to be challenging. We're going to leave it alone until you've got better tanks to deal with it. You know what I mean? Yeah. Hey, um, are you taking on new clients right now? I am. Yes. Uh, though I am also considering putting my prices up. You should. You're very cheap. Listen, I'm underpriced. I know that. And I think you're less than I am. So, by a small amount. So, no, large amount really large amount. 180 per month versus 100. So I'm equivalent to about 120. 120. Okay. So I'm I'm twothirds of you. Well, there you go. We just sent everybody away from me and to you. No, not at all. Not at all. Uh I don't really do comp prep, so I'm no good for you though. I I I I only do it with people that I've worked with for a very long time. Yeah, I don't do a lot of contest prep anymore. Um, I the ones I do I enjoy, but I, as you guys probably see, I don't like advertise myself. Like Andrew, he's pushing it hard. He's like going to the shows and you know what I mean? He's like really trying to build up a a stable of uh, you know, and he's doing a great job, too. Let me tell you, he's good. We are actually two very different coaches. Um, and I You and I. Yeah. Yeah. Not in a bad way. Just just we have different approaches. So yeah, which I like that because when I I you know even if I don't agree with you on something you've said like an idea on the show, I still take that on board and I do think maybe hey maybe you know if it there's no single way to get there, right? No. And I I think because of that you you challenge your own thought process, don't you? Because we're not exactly we're not arrogant enough to go I'm always right. We're you know I'm more than willing to go okay I'll listen to what you got to say and then it challenges my thought process. Then I go away and it's like yeah maybe and even if you don't change anything sometimes it's the re reaffirmation of it reaffirms you to like yeah I am happy with this and how this works you know. No I completely agree. I completely agree. Dave was completely wrong though. I'm kidding. My wife tells me that on a daily so I'm quite happy to accept that. Um but yeah no I'm struggling with the price thing. Um, I I sort of know I need to do it, but sort of very reluctant to do it. Understand, man. I mean, like I said, I'm still very underpriced, too. So, I I just I don't know, man. I feel like and and you know, when I'm going to kick myself is when it's time to retire. You know, it's nice to be able to help people out and do it at a very affordable price, but then it's down the road is when we going I'm going to pay. You know what I mean? because eventually I don't have the savings that I would have and I've done all the work if not more, you know. I get that. I get that. Yeah. Yeah. I think I'm going to have to do the inevitable because things aren't getting any cheaper. The cost of living's gone up. My bills have gone up and and I've never reflected that on. Yeah. All right. Well, reach out to Dave. Maybe if you hit him up today, you'll still get the old pricing. Maybe not. And uh you can reach out to me, too. We'll put our uh information down below. Check out Dave's app. We've got that linked in the podcast. And uh go to eval but blood butt analysis. Get your lab work done by Dave. Get a phabbotomy while you can. Uh uh all your supplements of course from truenutrition.com. All your basic all the over-the-counter meat and potatoes staple supplements, your creatine, your uh intra workouts and everything else. Uh and of course Stum Sports. Check them out. Strong Sports Nutrition. And they've got everything now in the US and in the UK. Uh supplements.ca4 Canadians. Thank you to everybody from Patreon. We'll make sure to tackle Patreon questions in the next show. And Dave, just to check because I heard you're you're probably getting other messages, but did she message you back anymore or was that it? No, she went quiet, mate. So, um I it was obviously it wasn't coming. I don't know if she genuinely doesn't know or if she just doesn't want to say it. It's you always get the impression that they're they're not telling you something. And I mean she did allude to that she thought there was something else but wouldn't tell me what she thought it was. Um and and I I Yeah. So I don't know is the honest answer, but uh me either. I'll keep poking and see if I get a response somewhere down the line. All right, guys. For another episode of the podcast, we'll see you soon. Thank you, Dave. Pleasure.