 naringin, diaper, naringin, diaper, naringin, diaper, naringin, diaper, naringin, diaper, naringin, diaper, naringin, diaper, naringin, diaper, naringin, diaper, naringin, diaper, naringin, diaper, naringin, diaper, naringin, diaper, naringin, diaper, naringin, diaper, naringin, diaper, naringin, diaper, naringin, diaper, naringin, diaper, naringin, diaper, naringin, diaper, naringin, diaper, naringin, diaper, naringin, diaper, naringin, diaper, naringin, diaper, naringin, diaper, naringin, diaper, naringin, diaper, naringin, diaper, naringin, diaper, naringin, diaper, naringin, diaper, naringin, diaper, naringin, diaper, naringin, diaper, naringin, diaper That's the risk reward situation where I don't think the reward from Primo is significant enough. Whereas I think the reward from Mast is greater. You weren't like ripped for 15. Let's put it that way. I'm still pretty. Oh, you're pretty in the face. Thank you. What's up, guys? Welcome back to the podcast with Dave Crosland. All of our programming is brought to you by evalbloodanalysis.com. You can get your labs done by Dave if you're in the U.K. And we're also brought to you by Strom Sports Nutrition. Go to Strom Sports if you're in the U.K. to get some great health stacks. Plus, you can get some great health stacks from Strom in the U.S. I'm going to try some of their stuff out. Did you know, Dave, their bottle actually says like Crosslands on it? Oh, support max. Support max. Yeah, yeah, because you helped design that product. I'm excited to give it a try. I couldn't get a hold of it before because they didn't ship to the U.S. But now they ship to the U.S. I'm going to try a couple of things out. We are also brought to you by truenutrition.com. The code THINKNOW gets you 10% off your orders. I'm going to put a link below. And if you click that link, it will automatically plug the code in. Also, too, supplementsource.ca for our Canadians. They have great deals that change week to week. I just saw highly branched cyclic dextrin the other week for like 20 bucks on a closeout because it was short dated. Dave, we got a bunch of stuff today, man. We got some great comments, some great questions. You guys leave us questions on, you know, each of the shows. We tackle your questions on the next one. And I want to encourage you, too, that if you're new here and you enjoy this content, then I encourage you to hit the subscribe button. Hit the bell. But only if you really like our stuff. If you don't like it, then that's okay. We understand. We appreciate it. But definitely hit the like button. All your comments, they do help us out to boost the show so that other people can see it and help our podcast to grow. So, Dave, so maybe, too, for anybody who's new, I'll give them a quick refresher. Dave has been an expert witness in the U.K. court system. If you haven't seen the movies Under Construction and Under Construction 2, you got to like 415 pounds. It wasn't pretty. But basically, Dave's got a lot of experience with Gary. He's done a lot of education with people. What do you mean I wasn't pretty? Well, you didn't die. You weren't like ripped 415. Let's put it that way. I'm still pretty. Oh, you're pretty in the face. Thank you. A mass monster otherwise. My wife says I'm a pretty princess. We have a bunch of stuff for you guys. Like I said, we're going to take all your questions. Big topic, our main topic is safest cycles. So we're going to get into that when you guys asked us that question. But before we did, there was this conversation we recently saw online. Dave and I, we both don't really completely get it. But there's been thoughts that there is chemicals that are used to produce masteron and primabolin that are also used to produce a word that rhymes with pentanol. And because of that, those ingredients are being more regulated due to everything that the U.S. is trying to do to stop that production. So that's the word that we've heard on social media. I hadn't heard anything about this before somebody had made a post. Dave, what do you think about this? I don't know. I mean, I suppose the thing is, the word we can't say because of YouTube shutting us down is a legitimate thing used in several countries throughout the world. So it's legitimately produced. Oh, yeah. I don't know. Factually, with Beaufort, and we were discussing this off air before we went on camera, we both heard various stories about how the anabolics are produced in China. That, you know, there was, there is stated that there's loads, there was loads of mom and pop little businesses. Then it's also that there's only three or four major producers. And there's just this front line of lots of resellers. So we don't really know. So what we also don't know then is, are the anabolic raws being made in a factory legitimately as part of their schedule? And then some of it's just been siphoned off. Yeah. Or are they like staying after hours in a legitimate factory and producing this stuff? Or are there other, you know, fantastic? Are there completely illegitimate manufacturing processes? Yeah. So we don't really know factually, you know, we don't know for certain how the raws come about. Now, we can argue that certain compounds could be filtered off a genuine production line because we know they're commonly used and commonly available. But there's certain compounds that aren't. Yeah. So then it starts to get a bit questionable about, well, how are they producing this, how are they producing that? So there must be some form of illicit manufacturer at some point, whether it's… Yeah, like methyltrin. I haven't seen any medical uses. No, I've never seen any. Exactly. So, you know, there has to be some illicit manufacturer at certain points. Yeah. Is it that the raw powders are much more tightly regulated? And we did some digging before and I believe someone sent you some information about a substance that may be used in both called paladine. Yeah, that was Andrew Barry. So, you know, I mentioned it to him and it was Skip that had sent us this message. And it looked like Andrew was like, hey, maybe it's palladium because it's showing Masteron and Primo and what it takes to make them versus pentanol. Yeah. And that was like one of the major crossovers. Besides, also, there were like esters and acids, chlorides, which you had mentioned like it's probably not that because those things are going to be used everywhere. Widely. Yeah. The solvent side of it is widely used. So protecting groups, you know, things that would produce or protect the compound itself, like they're going to be using that. And it says in some, but then acid or base catalysts, that's going to be used in a lot of stuff. And then solvents. So ester solvents, things like that, that's going to be used in all sorts of medications. You couldn't just, you know, it'd be like trying to regulate water. Yeah. So, I mean, it's, there's obviously a legitimate supply chain that's used to produce, because China's the biggest producer of raws for pharmaceutical industry anyway. I think it's something like 10 billion a year or something. I'm not quite sure. I saw somewhere. And they reckon there's something like 3,000 factories that produce raw pharmaceutical powders. But there's two or three big ones, two or three hundred, should I say, big ones. But, I mean, we've previously heard that there's only two or three factories doing the anabolic raws. But who knows? Yeah, that's what makes it difficult to have any real opinion on it, because we don't know what the manufacturing process is. We know there has to be some element of illicitity in it. Yeah. Which would mean, yeah, they would have to be getting extra stocks in in order to be able to do that. But Primo is also legitimately made. Don't ask. Yeah. Yeah. And here's the deal, guys. So, you know, we're just shooting straight from the hip here. And I know that you've probably heard stuff, too. We've heard stuff for years. You know, I talked to Lats, who's a very respected member on the message boards and the source groups and stuff. And he has said, hey, there's, you know, all these different mom and pops that were producing it that have now gotten shut down recently. You know, could that be a part of it? Possibly. Were these more illicit places, these small places? Because he said that, like, a lot of these places weren't even registered with the government. You know, and, you know, on the other hand, I've heard them say, I've heard people say that, like you mentioned, that there's only three big manufacturers, you know, that are producing the majority of the RAS in China. So it's hard to tell what to believe just because we aren't talking to somebody who's directly there that we can trust. If we're talking to somebody who's there, it's somebody who works for them. And we really can't trust exactly what they're saying, you know. I'm just messaging a Chinese contact to just ask him point blank. But when I've asked in the past, they've been very evasive. Of course they are. And that's what I'm saying. It's hard to tell. Why can't you just tell me what the problem is, but they don't seem to want – they admit there's a problem. They admit they can't get hold of it, but they won't seem to give a reason for it. Yeah. So, hey, you know, anything that we're saying here, this is just purely speculation. We're not adding anything, you know, really. We're just kind of talking about what we hear is going on in this new aspect of things being related to, you know, this other compound, pentanol. So, anyway, that said, let's get into our main topic. And, by the way, if you live in China and you're somebody we can trust, you don't work for them at all or whatever, and you've been to the places where these things are being produced, then definitely reach out to us. We would love to hear from you. Didn't we have somebody in China that's commented in the past that gave us some information in regard manufacturing? I can't remember. I'm sure. We've had so many people on this show that have, you know, given us sympathy over the years. Are you dedicated to this show, Scott? Like, I'm 50-50, yeah. Really? Are you dedicated... Okay, 40-60. Are you dedicated to finding the truth for our viewers? Are you suggesting that I fly to China? You pop yourself on a plane to old China and let us know what crack is. I'm Scott McNally here from Think Big Bodybuilding Media. Live! Live! I'm Manufacture Primo! That would go viral. You want to get subscriptions. Jesus Christ, you'd have subscriptions out of your wazoo if you did that. Hey, if you guys can arrange that, let me know. I'd be happy to go. So, the topic, it was a listener said, and I think there's a lot we have to dig into with this one, but the question was, hey, man, I'm really interested in, you know, running gear and doing cycles, but I really want to think about my health first. That's number one. What are the safest cycles to run? Not running one. Yeah. So, that's the number one way to stay safe, yes. But beyond that, because I think what he's going in for is a list of compounds, but I think we back that up a step further because, you know, dose duration, devil is in the dose, really. You know, that's a big part of it. Yeah, there are some compounds that maybe aren't going to be as, you know, damaging as others. I am listening. I'm typing to my Chinese bird, so just bear with me. Okay. She has actually come back to me. Oh, already? Yeah, yeah. What did she say? She just said they're not producing it. So, I'm like, why? Why? Yeah, there's got to be. This is the runaround you get when they're not making it. Yeah, but why are they making it? Yeah, okay. So, only the most popular compound out right now. You know what I mean? They are all safe. What a sissy. No, they're not, Justin. They have risks. Everything has risks. Yeah. It is always a risk-reward. The key is knowing what risk you are taking so you can make a decision on whether that risk-reward is worth it for you. Obviously, lower dosing is a significant factor. Your own health is a significant factor. You know, if you're a fat, unhealthy mess, then adding an abnormality to that situation is not going to be, you know, the risk increases significantly. So, being fit and healthy in your own self is a big step towards actually being able to manage the cycle with minimum risk. I'm a big fan of tests. Your body knows it. It knows what to do with it. It's not overly stressful. It's a good all-rounder. It gives a reasonable reward for the risk that you take. Primo. So, test would be your number. Like, if we were making a list now, it's like the top safest. I think test would be my number one. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. I'm 50-50 with Primo. I know Primo's mild. We've got the big HDL adulteration. But other than that, in every other aspect, yeah, it's very low impact. Yeah. But I go back to the risk-reward thing. In order to get a significant reward, do you have to pump up the Primo to a point where it then starts to cause a risk? Yeah. I mean, there is an element of – there is a reality, I should say, that the more you take, the more results you get, the safer you are, the – Yeah. Probably the less potential results. But my thought would be you mentioned health as being a number one thing. I honestly, man, to me, a big part of what our podcasts have been about is let's look at what are the other factors. And I know that everybody always thinks, like, I've got my training nailed. But there's always more that we can learn. You know, I'm in my mid – going on late 40s now. And – I mean, sorry, 57, guys. And I'm still learning about training, you know. And nutrition is something that we can always continue to improve upon. And the better you are at those two things, the more you have your rest locked down, the more you're going to get out of any cycle. The less you can take and get the best results, right? So I think that that's my big thing is health and then that aspect, get the most out of everything else. It will magnify your results even with, say, a mild test cycle, you know, mildly above TRT levels. Yeah. I mean, if you're looking at the drugs that on paper give the least negatives from a health. Now, we've also got a – there's a factor here in losing your hair isn't a health problem. Yeah. It's a cosmetic issue, but it's not a health problem. Then I would say, you know, your test, pre-mast. When you start getting into no-19s, then the health risks become much greater, definitely. You could argue that any oral consumption is a greater health risk. I'm not that signed on that one. I think orals get a bad rap, but I still think they do need to be very much respected. So – and then, you know, EQ as a compound is quite well tolerated until we start looking at blood thickness and the potential issues from blood thickness. But then it's like, well, yeah, but if you manage that, then the risk reduces significantly. It's only when you don't manage it that that risk becomes significant. I mean, EQ in itself isn't a particularly harsh compound. Yeah. Yeah, I'd agree with that. There are some people that can't tolerate it. Like Cuba has said, like, ah, it's just not for me. You know, some people are like, I get major anxiety from EQ. So there's an element too of – Yeah, and I think we also need to – It works for you. Yeah, I think when it comes to health, we also need to consider mental health. I mean, Cuba struggles with MPP as well. Okay. So I think there is – and that's very much an individual thing. I mean, I had no mental health issues with high-dose Trent or high-dose Decker. But I know other people struggle with low-dose stuff, you know. So I think that there is very much an individual tolerance there. And obviously going batshit crazy and being completely paranoid for the rest of your life is definitely impacting on your health. Okay, so you put test at number one, then you put primo at two. No, I'd put mast before primo, to be honest. Oh, you didn't mention that. Okay, so testosterone is number one, safest, then mast, then primo. That's the risk-reward situation where I don't think the reward from primo is significant enough. Whereas I think the reward from mast is greater. Yeah. And as a result, because the reward from primo isn't significant, a few end up needing to run more primo, which then makes it less safe. Yeah. Yeah, okay. Did she get back to you, by the way? I hear your message is going off. So what she said is, so I asked her and she said, because manufacturers of China have stopped producing, including our company, I said, why did they stop production? I don't know exactly why, but all the factories of China are temporarily shut down raw powder. The story is it's linked to America trying to stop fentanyl. Oh, there you go. No, I said that. Oh, yeah, and you also said that word. What? Pentanol. Yeah, with a P, pentanol. Yeah, maybe it's that, but there's something else too. Okay. Okay. I'm not sure why. So there's very little inventory now. Many products are no longer in stock. Huh. Okay. Can you ask her, besides primo and mast, what else has been low? That's very interesting. We're getting, we're getting this straight from the source. Look at that. You guys, Dave, you saved me a plane trip to China. No, you still got to go. All right. I'll book it after the show. I'm not going to book it, guys. That's because Scott doesn't care about you, little guys. He just wants your subscriptions. Subscribe. Subscribe. All right. So as Dave does that, I'm going to run through. I can't really argue with anything that you're sharing. I would put EQ in there for myself and for a lot of other people. But if you know yourself, and it all comes back, though, to dose and duration. Could you get away with trend, you know, even on the other extreme? I think that you can at a low enough dose. Would a low, low dose of trend be healthier than a high dose of primo? Absolutely. That's where it gets difficult, isn't it? Yeah. A safe drug, but at a gram a week against a not safe drug, but at 150 milligram a week. Yeah. I think that's where your personal tolerance elements start coming in. I have met people that on doses as low as 150 milligrams and 200 milligrams of trend, it's sent them absolutely batshit. And obviously, if you're the person suffering about that, that's severely impacting. And I do think, too, there's an element of the whole polypharmacy. What else are we doing with the trend? You know, that I think sometimes I've seen that be an issue. Are you managing your estrogen or is estrogen through the roof and now you're on trend? And now because I generally found that if we control estrogen while on trend and we have a good baseline before you start the trend, we know where you're at, that you'll be less likely to have some of the emotional side effects. I'm not saying that's a fact across the board, but it's kind of what I've heard and what I've seen. Yeah. I, as a rule of thumb, for someone who has no experience would just say just avoid door 19s personally. Yeah. They're tricky across the board if you don't know what you're doing. Yeah. What about, okay, so you mentioned orals. Safest oral in my book is going to be Anavar. You're going to get some adulteration of cholesterol. And, of course, there's going to be some changes to your liver values. I will challenge you and go T-ball. Yeah. I haven't had enough experience. It's the one oral I haven't had experience with. You know what? It's the one oral I do not understand why it's not more popular. Well, maybe if they run out of everything else, people will start using it. Because it takes so many boxes. Yeah. But, yeah, I mean, Anavar is generally very well tolerated. All orals are going to lower HDL. Anavar, unfortunately, has a side trick of increasing LDL. But in the most part. But then in the most part, I don't see people having huge problems with orals if they're not being dickheads with doses. Yeah. In duration. Yeah. I mean, obviously, the old oxys, Anadrol, A-bombs, Nat 50s, because I have to give all those names because I always get shouted out for calling them oxys. I'm going to potentially trash appetite. So, you know, there are things. Yeah. But. Smoothest overall cycle. I guess I'll go back to what you said originally. Testosterone only. Boost it up beyond your TRT levels. And, you know, I think that, like you mentioned, it's bioidentical, right? Our body already knows that compound. And I think that we can have a pretty smooth run. And you don't need to do a bunch of different things to make good progress. You can keep it really simple. And if you put the majority of your focus into your training, have some humility. You know what I mean? Because we all think that we're the best. Like, we're great at training. We've got it figured out. The sooner you realize you're not, you don't have it totally figured out, you know, the sooner you can figure out the next step. Because what works for us now is not going to be what works for us in five years. Like, there's always going to be some changes to how we get the most out of our workouts. I think that people should, everybody should get more passionate about learning about training. Everybody's passionate about learning about drugs. Everybody's passionate about learning about diet. But not that many people are passionate about learning about training. And I think if people start getting passionate about learning about training, all their progress will improve. Yeah. I see a lot of guys I work with are really passionate about it. But I do, I could agree overall. It's something I can't argue with. I think people are passionate about training. I don't think people are always passionate about learning about training. I think there is a subtle difference there. There's a lot of people that will not try new stuff. Okay. They get very stuck in the ways. They get fearful of new things. But they'll try new drugs. That bit I don't get. But anyway. Yeah. All right. Fair enough. We'll move on to our listener questions. Did she get back to us at all yet on that? At the moment she's busy apologizing about why there's no stock. We all know that creatine is great for muscle building. But were you aware of its benefits for brain health? Uh, I think it's pronounced creatine. No, it's definitely pronounced creatine. No, it's definitely creatine. I'm positive of it. That's pretty much what I said. Creatine. Creatine. Well, regardless of what you want to call it, creatine plays an important role in brain health. Research demonstrates that your brain needs a significant amount of ATP to perform difficult tasks. Supplementing with creatine will improve phosphocreatine stores, helping your brain produce more ATP. So if you're not on creatine now, give it a try. Check out truenutrition.com. Use our code THINK over there. They've got all your basic health supplements like creatine, protein powder, everything else you can think of. Use our code THINK to help support our programming, get some additional savings, and get a great supplement. Yeah, it's definitely creatine. Well, we'll get into our list of questions. And, you know, I have to tell you, Dave, I started an experiment. And I want to tell you a little bit about it. Never. You started an experiment. Yeah, so first of all, I have to tell you that... Is this the experiment of the oldest gear you've found and whether it's the one? A company went under. Supposedly, the FDA closed them down. Initials AA. They're no longer. So they're no longer with us. And I've had a lot of people messaging me about that. So I set something out with a code for a new company. And then we actually have two. I'm not going to talk about those here. But I do have some MK-677 that I started. I have not run MK in a dog's age. Right. So what is your reason? I'm a bit confused now. Mm-hmm. Because you're using Slup. Yep. Yep. Yes. I just got back on it. And I think we should call it Slup moving forward. With the P as the Slup. Slup. So you're using Slup. So you're using dietary aids. Yep. Why would you take a compound that's going to increase your grenadine output? Well, that's what I'm going to get to. So here's the thing. Scott and I did a podcast all about MK-677. And, you know, we had done a show about it a few years ago. One of the big things, one of my big take-homes from the initial podcast was that it had a lot of variability in how much growth hormone it released. Okay. So for some people, you know, they did a test after one day and after one week. They tested GH blood levels. And they found in some cases after one day, they saw elevations. After one week, they saw no elevation. Somebody who was taking the same dose all through the week. So I'm thinking, oh, my gosh, we're wasting this stuff. You know, it's not predictable. So I thought, but then in this second podcast we did more recently, you guys probably all saw it. We saw this, that in older individuals who aren't producing as much growth hormone, they tended to have a better response to it. They actually got more benefits from it. And they also, we found that intermittent use may be beneficial. So I thought to myself, you know what? I think that this could be something interesting for me as an aging individual who's probably not producing as much growth as I did. We began declining our growth hormone output in our mid-30s. Basically, all of our cellular processes began going back down. We keep going up until that point. And then on average around 35, we start going back down. So I thought, well, intermittently I could use this on, say, training days or heavy training days, improve my recovery. Plus, I noticed always that MK had produced some really good quality sleep for me. So I said, I'm going to try it, right? And I get a bottle from this new place. And lo and behold, I took it last night before bed. Dave, I woke up four times starving to death. I was so hungry. I was like, oh, my God. I totally forgot how hungry MK makes me. I don't think I can do it, man. Dude, I was just dying of hunger. Well, it did seem a bit of a weird choice to me. Well, anytime I had used it in the past, it had always been in off seasons where I was pushing a lot of food already. So I didn't notice the appetite increase as much as I did last night. Let me tell you, man. It was awful, dude. So anyway, listener questions. We've got a bunch of them. And you guys are welcome to leave us questions for the next show. Question for the next episode. PIP and infections. Aside from how much more effective is winstrel suspension? Oh, okay. So aside from infections and pain, how much more effective is winstrel suspension compared to its oral form in terms of its anabolic and cosmetic effect? Of course, the injectable is more bioavailable. But just how big of a difference is there? For example, 50 milligrams of winstrel suspension versus 50 milligrams oral every day over the course of four to eight weeks. Sorry, the hiccups are really bad at the moment. Yeah, guys, I didn't tell you that. Dave has hiccups right now. Stand on your head and drink a glass of water. You can do it in the background. We'll watch. He's fucking hurting. For real, I found that drinking a glass of water upside down does help. I just bend forward and I drink out the other side of the cup. I had him a couple nights ago. Oh, right. Go on. So go for that again. By the way, she just come back to me and she's just clamped up. So I'm not getting it right now. She doesn't have anything else for you. All right. So I'll say this. I don't think we actually know what the difference is going to be. How much more are you going to get out of the winstrel injection than from the oral? I will tell you that you aren't completely immune to the liver stuff because it eventually does have to pass to the liver. And I will say this, too. My experience with injectable orals has been limited to deannable. I did find milligram for milligram. It did have a stronger kind of cleaner effect. It didn't affect my appetite quite as much. But overall, man, I wouldn't take the water-based. If I were to use it, I would consider the oil-based suspension or the oral-based no ester winstrel. I would say that the injectable gives you a better delivery. Orals are fat-soluble. So they combine with non-dietary fats, which means you can have some absorption reduction. Obviously, there's a stomach stress thing, which is significantly reduced by doing injectable. But unfortunately, in the world of anabolics, water is the most infection risk carrier out of all the suspended compounds. So, yeah, as Scott has said, if you can get oil, it would definitely be a safer alternative. Water can be a bit trickier. But, yeah, I'm with you in that I do think it is slightly more effective. I'm sorry about the hiccups, Dave. I'm getting pissed off with them now. For real. If you guys have any comments in the stream on tell Dave how to fix his hiccups, what's your secret? We'd be curious to know. He's going to meditate now. Yeah, I'll tell you, too, that generally in my personal experience using Winstrel, it had mainly been the last four weeks of a contest prep. I've used it with people, clients of mine. Maybe if they're not using another DHT, we might start it at six to even possibly eight weeks out. And I've always felt that usually we're doing enough injections as it is. I don't want to add another injection on top of that. I mean, that is the other problem. I mean, it becomes another, and it's a daily. So it becomes another injection that is daily. And it has a fairly short window as an injectable as well. I mean, the orals do, but it's even shorter as an injectable. I don't know about that. I think it's similar. I've even seen it being listed as longer, but it might be because you get a higher plasma level. I was always an impression it was quicker. Okay. Okay. Well, you are only taking it once versus with the oral tablet. You could split it up. Yeah, I've never understood that logic. Okay. Yeah. Well, you could if you want to get stable blood levels. You know, I know you're not a big fan of stable blood levels. No, it's not that. But all the research on oral administration is so a single higher dose is more effective than a split dose because of the peak plasma level that it creates. Yeah. That might be in part why the injectable works as well. You get better from it because you're getting a greater peak plasma. Yeah. I would say this. I think the difference in my experience with injectable D-ball versus oral D-ball, it's not so different. You know what I mean? It's not like another world different. No. Yeah. It's kind of like more of the same, a little more of the same. Yeah, I definitely agree with that. I think there is a difference, but I don't think you don't. It's not going to be a black and white comparison. All right. When you did test EQ and MPP, how long did you run the MPP from the start of the cycle? Would six weeks be long enough or would you want to run it 10 weeks? I would say if you have enough for six, that's a great place to start. And by the time that you run out, your equipoise and then tests are going to be all built up, you know, to close to peak levels. So I think you'd be just fine with that. I do think there is kind of something nice about the three of them together. So I was my personal favorite cycle. But, you know, it doesn't have to be MPP all the way through. Six weeks, if that's what you've got. You know, if you were my client and you're like, hey, I have six weeks of MPP. I'd say, all right, let's just run that, you know. All right. How about this one, Dave? I, oh. Okay, that was just a comment. Question for the next show. Been getting great pumps in the gym, but when I eat, my jaw gets so pumped I can't chew for very long. Have you ever heard of this? It's quite annoying at times. I used to suffer with jaw ache from chewing, but I've never had a pump. I've gotten that during, like, prep time. And my jaw starts freaking, especially something you have to chew a lot, you know. Yeah, but you tend to chew a lot when you're in prep anyway, because you want to make the most out of every morsel of food you're eating. Yeah. But, yeah, I used to get pain in my jaw from the high volume of food, you know, aching. Oh, yeah, yeah. That's kind of what I got, too. But I've never, I don't know how I'd even recognize a pump in my jaw. I mean. Maybe that's what he means. Yeah. So is it just aching, or are you actually seeing an increase in your jaw width? Yeah. Because of pumping with blood. It's like getting all pumped up. Cheers, guys. Much appreciated. Oh, this is the guy who tore his Achilles, and he had it reattached. Where is the best place for injecting HGH for healing my Achilles? In the stomach, as usual, or in the heel? It's systematic. It doesn't need to be sired. And it doesn't have a rapid decline rate that's going to affect if you put it systematic. So, no, I wouldn't put it in the heel. Yeah. Yeah. All right. Oh, we did get a bunch of comments saying, like, Uncle Dave's wisdom is great. It's a great ending to each episode. Please keep it as part of the show. No, I'm stopping doing it unless you contribute to the ProCharger fund. Somebody did. What, another one? Yeah, we got another one. I ain't never told that. I have it commented. I have it saved here, so I was going to get to it at some point as we scroll through them. But I've been completely serious when I say this. I'd listen to Dave's wisdom all day long and take every word to heart. The man's a national treasure. And if anyone disagrees, well, as Dave himself would say, they can bugger off. We love you, Dave. That man needs help. He definitely needs assessing. Yes. So, Justin Bruce. It was Justin Bruce. He donated $4.99. He said, this is for Dave's Supercharger. And he also donated $4.99 to the channel. So, thank you, Justin Bruce. You are the fucking man. Is there a fee of one cent that gets taken off? It just seems an odd number that's $4.99. I don't know. I don't know. Because I would just do five. You know, if you were going to have a straight five bucks, it's simple. It's clean, isn't it? I just wonder why the fee. It must. There's actually, I think, more of a fee than that. No. But, yeah. All right. Question for the next show. What is your opinion on BPC-157 dosage, average dose, and higher doses per week? I'm 46 years old, 242, on gear for over 20 years. I've heard a lot of positive stuff on this peptide. As I get older, the body isn't as recovering as fast. I've heard BPC was a great supplement for recovery. Your opinion on dosage, higher dosages, and average dosages? My opinion would be no. For recovery? My opinion would be TB for recovery. Oh. Bring the inflammation down. Mm-hmm. So BPC does have anti-inflammatory effects as well. It does. But you think that overall, and you've used a lot of TB yourself, right? Yeah. For me, TB has a greater impact on soft tissue recovery than BPC. Okay. So I wouldn't be looking at BPC as a dosing for general recovery. I'd be looking at TB. And five to ten milligrams. Five should be plenty, to be honest. Five milligrams a week. Yeah. Yeah. Five a week of that. So he was asking low or average and high doses. I think a lot of people are doing, the way I've seen it listed is on BPC, 350 micrograms twice a day. I've gone to more like 500 twice a day or just one milligram once a day. I've also gone to high dose being like a milligram twice a day. But I wouldn't recommend that as just part of like my standard average every day recovery training. Yeah, you've got to be careful as well because when you start going high dose with BPC, you can start getting stomach issues. So you mentioned that and one of our listeners said, hey, I've gotten that too. I've never gotten that. Yeah, you've got to be substantial. But yeah, when you start mega dosing BPC, it can hit your stomach quite hard. Now, question, because I've never done it in that format. Did you feel there was more of a benefit with the high dosing over the more traditional dosing of around 300 micrograms? Absolutely. Do you feel it was worth it? Yes. Yeah, when I use it, I will use it at a milligram a time every time. I'll start there. So the main thing that I found it beneficial for, I used to get a lot of bicep tendonitis. Occasionally, I still do. A lot of it has to do with tight pecs. And everybody in bodybuilding gets it. We should have pretty, you know, if you're standing there, you should see your thumb. You know what I mean? You shouldn't see the back of your knuckles if your arms are just down. If you're seeing the backs of your knuckles, those hands are getting pulled around from tight pecs. And that needs to be worked on. And that needs to be loosened up. If you don't fix that, then that bicep tendonitis isn't going to go away. But I found that when I started experiencing issues with it, a milligram popped right into the front delt per day is what I've generally done. For the first five days, usually I'll get the five milligram vials. Then I'll back it off to like 750 micrograms a day for the next vial. And then the third vial, I'll back it down to 500 a day. And by then, I've usually got it under pretty good control. I'll even feel a difference. It's like if it's painful enough that I feel it without doing anything, I will feel a difference within two hours of having taken one milligram of BPC. Okay. So I've never done that format, but I've done the IV. Oh, yeah. That's got to be strong. Oh, yeah. Yeah, that hits hard. How much IV? Five milligrams. Okay. Well, I could see how that might upset your stomach at a high dose then. 10 milligrams upset the stomach. It took 10. So the upset stomach thing is probably not going to happen. You know what I'm saying? Well, no. Straight into the muscle. It depends on your definition of megadosing, doesn't it? The thing is you say megadosing to some people and they go ridiculous. Yeah. But, yeah, I'm also quite tolerant of this shit as well. So I've known people have the IVs and get problems at lower doses. How frequently would you do that dose with the IV? When I was really trying to manage my kidneys and my feet, it was weekly. Once a week? Yeah, yeah. Five milligrams once a week. TB. Okay. BBC. Okay. Did you notice a difference? Yeah. Improved my kidney function. Okay, fantastic. Permanently. Nice. Not a lot. You know, we didn't get fucking miracles here. We only got like four or five points. But four point points are tech. Yeah. You know, we could see. One of the issues with being where I am with McKinney's is fatigue. Okay. And it can be quite severe. And the BPC just brought it up enough where the fatigue became less of an issue. Okay. So, I mean, I still, I don't wake up fresh. Yeah. You know, it doesn't matter how good a night's sleep, I don't wake up feeling energized and fresh. I wake up feeling tired. Yeah. But it made it less impacting during the day. I mean, that's sometimes where you see me and I'm yawning my head off all the way through the podcast. It's just because McKinnis will be struggling. I thought it was me. I thought I bored you. No, I just don't like you. Oh, thanks, Dave. That's okay. That's why he's trying to send me to China, guys. No, I just think you should be dedicated to the show and our listeners. All right. What about this one? It's cheaper for you to get to China than me. Is it really? Hmm. Huh. I feel like there's a travel ban to China for US residents or something. I don't know, man. Yeah, you just make it up because you don't want to go. Yeah. Okay. I would love to go to China. I would like to see it. I think it'd be cool. But I'd much rather, if I were to go to the Far East, I'd rather see Japan. But one of us already got to go there. I can't argue with that. I can't argue with that one, no. So I wanted to give this guy, figure out what we would give him for advice. Dr. Jax. He says, I'm using Reta and insulin together. I have zero choice. Same when I use Maggiore. I had to use insulin. Neither of them lowered my blood sugars, LOL. Probably safe to say that I'm type 2 diabetic anymore. And I said, well, are you running growth? And he said, two to four units before bed with metformin. And he said, also, I've been told to drop Deca and don't use it anymore. So I think we skipped that last part about Deca. But, man, that's a lot going on there. He needs insulin to control his blood sugar while using Reta and metformin. Well, Reta includes, lowers BG. So Reta wouldn't be causing an increase in BG unless he was using something that wasn't Reta. No, that's what I'm saying is his blood sugar is still high. He needs insulin on top of that plus metformin on top of that. Yeah, but that's so you're diabetic. I mean, I'm a bit confused here what the issue is. It sounded like he was saying he needed insulin once he'd started using the Reta, whereas what it sounds like is he needed insulin before anyway. He's on – okay, that's not the way I read it. I think – so he's saying that even with Reta, I still need insulin and metformin as well. Yeah, I wonder, man. I would test – I feel like I would want to come off all the stuff for a minute, including, number one, the growth. He's on two to four units, which, dude, I don't feel like two to four units is going to destroy your blood sugar, but maybe long term. I don't know. The thing is it sounds like you're diabetic. If you're diabetic, then using Reta is not going to stop that. You're still going to be diabetic. It might make a slight reduction in the amount of insulin you need to use, but it's not going to get rid of it. I mean, it's not going to go for diabetes. No, and I don't think he's saying it is, but I'm concerned. So I'll give him my advice is this. I would say that cut the growth out temporarily and see if things get back into a normal range and that you don't need insulin. And then from there, start testing your blood sugar not only fasted, but one hour and two-hour post-perandale of your larger carb meal and see if you're actually producing insulin. Like get to the bottom of this and then instead of figuring it out, like trying to manage this on your own, get some real treatment. I'm a bit confused on the whole scenario. So I'm going to bow out because I'm a – If you needed insulin before the retitutide, why would you expect that to change with the insulin? He's not. Never mind, Dave. He's not expecting it to change. That's what I don't get. I'm confused. I just read that and I was like, holy crap, this guy needs help. Like he shouldn't just continue on doing what he's doing, in my opinion. No, I think removing the growth hormone is a completely sensible thing. I'm just a bit confused about the question and what's – There was no question. All right. Leave me alone. All right. Yeah, he didn't ask a question. I just wanted to throw some help at him. Why doesn't anyone – why doesn't everyone respond to creatine supplementation? Are there people that don't respond? Not that I've heard of. Some people get diarrhea. Lats told us that the other week. Oh, yeah. Yeah, stomach upsets can be quite common. So old school-wise, it used to be monohydrate. If the monohydrate was causing stomach upset, then you'd go to the creafelestors or something of that nature. But that was only – it wasn't that the monohydrate was crap. It was that the other versions would be much gentler on the stomach. Yeah. I second that. Dave's a national treasure indeed. Thank you, Josh. Yeah. I wonder what he means by responding. Like some people don't respond to creatine or creatine, as some people, most people, everybody but me might say. Yeah. Well, also, what were you expecting? Is it that you are responding but just not what you thought it would be? Yeah. How would you rate oral minoxidil? By the way, this guy's name is Satan. 1-5. 1-5. 1-5. 1-5. Satan is asking us, how would you rate oral minoxidil for guys who are using gear or perhaps reverse or slow down hair loss and give some BP support as well? Just shave it off. Ascot, he's done all the hair crap. Obviously, as you can tell, it's not something that's ever really bothered me. So I looked at a while ago because I thought there was something to it like, oh, this could be damaging to your liver. But it's not. I double-checked this morning because I was like, you know, that doesn't feel right to me. And it's generally not. But it can do damage to the kidneys. So I'd watch that, especially as a gear user. And I don't know why he wouldn't consider the topical instead of the oral. Yeah, I mean, it seems to make more sense to me that you'd just concentrate on the area you want to aim. Yeah. Now, I worked with a guy who got a hair transplant. And his doctor told him to use oral minoxidil for the rest of his life. So I don't know. Maybe there's something to that. Do you see Dean got a hair transplant? Dr. Dean, St. Mark. Did they? I haven't seen him. Yeah, he went to Turkey. We had him on the podcast. Went to Turkey. Had it done. It looks good. It's been a while now. It's growing in. He's got a full head of hair now. Bunch of vein bastards. Comment on the last show from our show and tell. I can still get the Anadrol Green Giants as well as the growth hormone that's overdosed. As well as Sustanon organ brand. And that's all I get when I use sauce. I think that's the sauce. All these are super common to get these days. So that was Hygiotropin you had. And that was a long time ago that they were overdosed. There's probably like seven different brands of fake Hygiotropins now. You know what I mean? There is. I don't think. I mean Organon is still producing Sustanon. Organon still exists. They haven't gone anywhere. That's a pharma legit company. Whether he's getting legit Organon would be another conversation. I have no idea. Yeah. But yeah. This is a fun one. Let's save this for the next show. We can make this our next lead topic. Question. With no mast and primo. What would give a similar look? Save that one. We did this, didn't we? A couple of weeks. Yeah. Okay. I'm sure we did. Ask our wonderful audience. Did we cover that yet, guys? You guys tell us. Comment below. We've definitely discussed it. Whether we've done it on air or not, that might be where I'm getting mixed up. And I've got another one, important one. He says, Scott, Dave, I'm sorry. I was the angry listener. I admit that I went about it incorrectly. I'm incredibly ignorant about anabolics. It's all new to me. Reliable information is very scarce. I didn't consider some topics may have been beaten to death or beaten like a dead horse. So it can be tiresome. I'm a disabled 37-year-old single father of a young son. Your videos are my daily entertainment. I've been watching your past videos to educate myself. I'm sorry. My apologies for my behavior. You don't need to apologize, mate. He needs to apologize. You jerk, Dave. And inconsiderate. Dave, you are rude and inconsiderate. Seriously, don't take us that seriously. Honestly, we are, as you can tell, sarcastic individuals. So here's the deal. We didn't quite answer his question. Right. So let's get back to his question. Yeah. So his question was, can you take expired gear? And we did kind of talk about it. But, you know, and we did have some good viewers, too, that left very detailed responses for him to fill in for our lack of ability. For you being a twat, yes. To produce, you know, quality content information. You can squirm. You abused a disabled single father. You horrid individual. I can't believe you did that, Dave. You pointed. You pointed and you were like, you, you, you. Yeah. Right. So concerns around expired gear. One is declining the strength of the drug. Obviously, that's not really an issue from a point of view of health, but it is an issue from a point of view of effectiveness. Yeah. Bacterial potential loads or growth is a big one. Crashing or instability of the gear is a big one, which will make it fucking pay for. Yeah. So they're the main factors. The main things that happens with anabolics when they're out of date. And that's if those dates are anywhere near genuine, because bear in mind, UGLs just put a frigging date on there. They put a number on it. Yeah. Yeah. What am I using this week? But if you're talking something that's five, 10 years old, then yes, it's going to be out of date. So the biggest, as you saw with some of the stuff in the box, you know, oxidization of the trend where it goes really dark yellow, that's definitely something I wouldn't be too keen on injecting in myself. You're fine. You're fine. If it's cloudy, it's got floaty bits, if it's starting to come out of suspension, you could potentially heat it up and use it. But again, I'd be wary. But the main thing is probably going to be a reduction in effectiveness or reduction in strength. I appreciate that there are circumstances where, you know, financial constraints mean that sometimes you have to look in that box and go, you know what, I can't really afford. I want to do a cycle. Just be careful. If it's oral, there isn't any real concerns. It's just going to get weak. If it's injectable, then there starts to be greater, you know, risk from a point of view of an abscess or some sort of infection at the injection point. And that's really the main thing we're concerned about here. Don't be like Scott and just be that cheap and tight that you'll use it up because you're too cheap to buy more. But he's not got any excuses. But I do... Renew, reuse and recycle, Dave. I want to make sure that our environment doesn't have... Too many floating balls of gear. Yeah. But yes, you know, I appreciate that when budgets are tight and you're trying to do the best you can on limited income, that stuff that may be a bit older, maybe... I mean, I used Outer Date Farm Assust for two years. Yeah. At the RT. But I did start to notice that it wasn't quite as it should be. Was it not as strong? It's hard to explain. I just... I switched back over to just a regular UGL testee. Yeah. 60 milligrams twice a week. Well, actually, probably nearer 50 twice a week, to be fair. And I feel much better. Where previously the SUS felt good. It just got not quite right. And that's the only way I can describe it. It was... It just... There wasn't any specific symptom. It was just not where it should have been. Yeah. Despite levels being good and everything else. So I dropped that and went to things. So I do think there is a decline in quality over time, but that's not necessarily going to cause you any health issues. It just might mean you don't get the same results as you'd expect. Growth hormone would be one that, you know, like it's a peptide, right? And those protein peptides are not necessarily going to last, especially a fragile, more fragile peptide-like growth. So I'd say... ACG is another one as well. Yeah, okay. Yeah, HCG. I found that things like BPC and melanotin, they seem to be more stable, longer term. But yeah, in general, your peptides are... When they're out, they're going to be out versus... I'm with you. I do think that the key is to... If it, say, is a little expired, you look at it, see what's going on. If you see any... Because the big thing, too, is how was it stored? Did you keep it in a nice, like, cool, dark environment? Or has it been like sitting in your garage, you know, your hot garage or in your trunk of your car or something? You know? I think that those are two different scenarios. The heat is going to... Warblite is going to break it down faster. And reality is, I think that... What's your expiration dates on meds in the UK? Ours is three years, but I think you have five years on average, right? It varies, to be honest. I think ours is two to three. I haven't got any meds to hand to check. Okay. Medical equipment is definitely shorter. Oh, yeah? Yeah. Yeah, because we get tubes going out of date for the blood testing. All right, let's see if we get something that comes up here. Global differences in expiration date coding. It's just the way they have it written. I wanted to say that in the US, this is just the way it's written, versus like Russia, versus the US, versus EU, how the month and the day... Because we usually do month first on stuff. You guys do day first. Yes, you do. I've just found some meds here, and they've got three years on them from date of prescription to expiry. Oh, okay. Yeah, we get about three years. I think some European places are longer, like five. And I think realistically, like, you're probably, with something that's an oral tablet, you're probably going to be okay for much longer than that, you know? Yeah. Most of the meds that I can currently see are looking at anywhere between three and five years. Okay. Okay. Yeah, and one of the big ones you don't want to use outdated is antibiotics. Antibiotics. I said that weird. Antibiotics. Antibiotics will... They can turn into poison, basically. I used to have an anti-B. What's that? I used to have an anti-B. Huh. She's dead now. My 13-year-old son... What is an anti-B? Oh, you mean like your aunt? Yeah, I had an anti-B. Oh. It took me a minute. It's okay, old man. What is this here? My 13-year-old son just got quality bands with handles. We have no shortage of weight equipment in our home, but I am trying to keep it simple here. He plays ice hockey four days a week. Did he have something else here? Or is he just telling us? I got some bands! Gamboni Lo. Yeah. Yeah, I don't see the rest of the message. Maybe it didn't all show up. Yeah, that's the whole message we got. Huh. Maybe he was talking to somebody else. Sharp says, What's great is a lot of GH is quality these days. Much better than 15 years ago. Scott, I'm starting to get a complex. I emailed you a few times and never heard back from you. Oh. Typical, mate. Typical. You're welcome to reply with. He's too good for his commoners now. Oh, I'll have to look. I'll have to look. I think that first message, though, about the quality GH. Yeah, like back 15 plus years ago, Hygiotropin was a great brand name to get because you didn't know what to trust out of the generics. And now there are so many like different color top generics that if you get it from the right place, it's high quality, super prevalent for a very competitive price. Let's turn to our national treasure and ask him for some advice. On growth? No, just, you know, you. You're Dave Crosland, our national treasure. I used to like Hanson and him. Yeah? Oh, you mentioned them before, yeah. I used to like Hanson and him. It was good. And then they stopped selling. How about managing stress? Actually, that was your fault. What was? Hanson and him stopped selling to the public. That was my fault? America. Collectively your fault. Really? Yeah, you ruined my GH supply. Why did I ruin it? I want reparations for that. Okay. It'll be in the mail. In the form of a pro charger. Sure, no problem. I'll just charge you shipping. Let's not have that conversation. A trauma that caused. Oh, God. Yes. How about stress levels? You know how? I'm not doing very well with stress at all at the moment. I might just use this as my own counseling session. How was that? Tell everybody else what to do so you're really telling yourself. I am incredibly stressed at the moment. And I am finding it. That might be why I've got the hiccups, to be fair. Yeah. No, my heart's fine. Don't stress. I know that's all right. But yes, stress is horrible. And it is difficult to manage. And it comes from all sorts. And I've always found that being active against whatever is causing the stress helps. But very often the stress comes from the fact that we can't be proactive towards what the cause is. And that's why we're stressed. Yeah. So I don't really have any great solutions. I would say this. When you're in a stressful environment or you're working a stressful job or you're just feeling yourself getting swallowed up by pressure and stress, to the point where you just don't see, you'll be looking at a list of things you've got to do and you just don't see it. You know, you look at it and you look at it and you look at it, but you don't actually do anything about it because you're just so wound up that you're just almost spinning wheels constantly. Go away. Find somewhere quiet. Might even be the bog. I used to like the bog for this. The bathroom. Does that translate to the? Yes, the bog. The toilet. I got you. We're speaking English today, sir. The bog. Okay. Go sit in the bog. Close your eyes and just breathe. Don't bloop. No. Actually, I find a poop very enjoyable. Is that wrong? Go take a nice poop? Yeah. Is it wrong that I find a poop enjoyable? Well, it's good to get that out of your system. You don't want to keep it, right? Oh, I don't want to carry it around forever. Exactly. No. Same red. Anyway, I'm going off for one here. But yeah, just try and remove yourself from wherever the pressure is. So if you work in an office, you know, just try and get out of the way for five, ten minutes. Somewhere quiet. And just let it go. You might have to do that five, six, seven times in a day when things are really bad. But just getting up and removing yourself from what is creating the intensity of that stress. It might not get rid of the problems, but what you usually find is it's not the issues that are the problem. It's that you've got so fixated on what's causing you distress that your head's spinning and you just can't ground yourself. Yeah. You'll actually start doing anything. So just take your way. Take away from the environment. Go have a cup of tea. A cup of tea fixes everything, apparently. It sounds good, actually. I've got a serious question for you. And I know that you like to joke around. But be honest with me. Now, I know that obviously we record this show and it takes up time. And I'm with you. Like, if I didn't record the podcasts, I could definitely, like, be done with my job earlier and stuff each day. But do you get a break? Do you feel like you get to take a break when we do this? Sometimes, yes. Last week was Orion. I enjoyed last week. And sometimes it's not a reflection of you or the questions. It's a reflection of my mindset at that point. Yeah. And I do go through this conversation a lot in my head. It's like now I'm wound up to the hill. It seems to be that I've got the reverse of the Midas touch and everything that I'm involved with at the moment is just turning to shit. It's not. It's my perception of it. And I do need to pull myself back sometimes and just go, you know what? It's actually – I've got a lot to be thankful for. I've got a lot to celebrate. Yeah. But I do have – and it's one of them where I fix one problem, then there's another, and I fix that problem, then there's another. But at the same time, and this is what you sometimes got to pull yourself back to is, yeah, but I am fixing them. Yeah. Yeah. Sometimes I get that, like, God, is the world just out to – like, is life out to get me right now? You know? What have I done wrong this week? But, you know, I am fixing them. And if you look back at – there's been times in your life where you've been stressed and you've thought, like, there's no end to it. Yeah. There was. You got through it. It might not be perfect, but you'll survive it. Bloody hell. So, yeah, I mean, at the moment, I am – this has just got some frustrating crap going on at the moment. But it's nothing sinister. It's all in part of developing things and moving things forward. But just when you start dealing with people that don't seem to have any common sense, it can get incredibly frustrating, particularly when they're in a position of regulation. So – but, yeah, other than that, it's – stress is difficult. And stress is, without doubt, a progress killer when it comes to trying to do what we do. Yeah. And I think also you've got to manage stress in a sense. And one of the problems I'm having at the moment with my stress levels is because I've got too many projects. And they're not just work projects. There's personal projects as well involved in that. And they're all having problems. So if there was less projects, there would be less problems. Yeah, that's true. So part of this is an overextension on my part. And I am a firm believer that in a lot of our problems we create ourselves. And some of these problems I have created through accident. I damaged something because I didn't pay enough care to what I was doing with it. And I'm in the middle of refitting it. And now I can't continue the refit because of the damage that I've done. And so that's been a real pain to fix. Getting there. It is getting there. But – so, you know, there are – we can manage stress by not creating more problems when we're already in a hole. I tend not to do that. I tend to create more problems. Our national treasure. Our national treasure. If you've got loads of shit going on in your life, then don't take on something else that's going to cause you more shit. Even if it's a personal project. It's not a work-related thing or it's not a related thing. Yeah. You know it's going to be challenging. We're going to leave it alone until you've got better tanks to deal with it. You know what I mean? Yeah. Hey, are you taking on new clients right now? I am, yes. Though I am also considering putting my prices up. You should. You're very cheap. Listen, I'm underpriced. I know that. I think you're less than I am. So by a small amount. No large amount, really? Large amount? $180 per month versus $100? So I'm equivalent to about $120. $120? Okay. I'm two-thirds of you. Well, there you go. We just sent everybody away from me and to you. No, not at all. Not at all. I don't really do comp prep. So I'm no good for you, though. I only do it with people that I've worked with for a very long time. Yeah. I don't do a lot of contest prep anymore. The ones I do, I enjoy. But as you guys probably see, I don't advertise myself. Like, Andrew, he's pushing it hard. He's, like, going to the shows. And you know what I mean? He's, like, really trying to build up a stable of, you know. And he's doing a great job, too, let me tell you. He's good. We are actually two very different coaches. And I... You and I? Yeah. Yeah. No, in a bad way. Just we have different approaches. Yeah. Which I like that. Because when I, you know, even if I don't agree with you on something you've said, like an idea on the show, I still take that on board. And I do think, maybe, hey, maybe, you know, if it... There's no single way to get there, right? No, and I think because of that, you challenge your own thought process, don't you? Because we're not... We're not always right. You know, I'm more than willing to go, okay, I'll listen to what you've got to say. And then it challenges my thought process. Then I go away and it's like, yeah, maybe, hmm. And even if you don't change anything, sometimes it's the reaffirmation of... It reaffirms you to, like, yeah, I am happy with this and how this works, you know. No, I completely agree. I completely agree. Dave was completely wrong. I'm kidding. My wife tells me that on a daily. So I'm quite happy to accept that. But, yeah, no, I'm struggling with the price, though. I sort of know I need to do it, but I was sort of very reluctant to do it. I understand, man. I mean, like I said, I'm still very underpriced, too. So I just... I don't know, man. I feel like... You know when I'm going to kick myself is when it's time to retire. You know, it's nice to be able to help people out and do it at a very affordable price. But then it's down the road is when we are going... I'm going to pay. You know what I mean? Because eventually I don't have the savings that I would have. And I've done all the work, if not more. You know? I get that. I get that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I think I'm going to have to do the inevitable. Because things aren't getting any cheaper. The cost of living has gone up. My bills have gone up. And I've never reflected that on. Yeah. All right. We'll reach out to Dave. Maybe if you hit him up today, you'll still get the old pricing. Maybe not. And you can reach out to me, too. We'll put our information down below. Check out Dave's app. We've got that linked in the podcast. And go to Eval Blood Analysis. Get your lab work done by Dave. Get a phlebotomy while you can. And get all your supplements, of course, from truenutrition.com. All your basic, all the over-the-counter meat and potatoes, staple supplements. Your creatine, your intra-workouts, and everything else. And, of course, Strom Sports. Check them out. Strom Sports Nutrition. They've got everything now in the U.S. and in the U.K. Supplementsource.ca for Canadians. Thank you to everybody from Patreon. We'll make sure to tackle Patreon questions in the next show. So, and Dave, just to check, because I heard you're probably getting other messages, but did she message you back anymore? Or was that it? No, she went quiet, mate. So, it was obviously it wasn't coming. I don't know if she genuinely doesn't know or if she just doesn't want to say. You always get the impression that they're not telling you something. I mean, she did allude to that she thought there was something else, but wouldn't tell me what she thought it was. And, yeah, so I don't know is the honest answer. But me either. I'll keep poking and see if I get a response somewhere down the line. All right, guys, for another episode of the podcast, we'll see you soon. Thank you, Dave. Pleasure. Pleasure. Thank you.