So, I said to Chris one day, I said, "I want to have a family in the future. I want to have a business." Um, and he turned around to me and said, "You can have all of it and be a worldclass bodybuilder." Right now, going into this show, I would say to Chris, like, my confidence is through the roof. Like, I'm just happy. I know I'm going to bring my best and I'm not even thinking about the competition. I know I can beat Borak in my head, right? So being able to get out there and show the physique and the the crowd were really responsive. So I think that just made me enjoy it even more and uh mill the shots. Welcome back to It's Just Bodybuilding. I'm Scott McN with Dusty Handshaw and we are joined by IFBB Pro Cassan Herate. What's going on, man? Nothing much. Thank you guys for having me. It's a pleasure being on the show and uh I've been very much looking forward to this one. It is absolutely a pleasure to have you here. And before we get into it, I have to say like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. Nice. Nice. I've heard Ron say that so many times, but I'm never the guy to say it. And of course, don't forget to support the programming. I am Mutant. You can go to immutant.com. Use your code dusty or big Ron. either of those codes will work even though Ron's not with us today. Ron already left. He's on his way to Fibo. So, it is the three of us today and we're freaking pumped to get Cissan on cuz I literally just saw him here in Detroit, Dusty, and it was a freaking incredible show, man. Yeah. I'm excited to see I didn't even know that you're competing in a few days. Yeah. So, you know, I'm like Oh. So, it's good to know that you're rested. You haven't been suffering in any way. Hey, you're just relaxed and and ready to get this rolling. So, yeah. Yeah, I'm fine. I'm I'm suffering a little bit this time, but nothing like I usually do. Okay. So, so with that, I I have a little plan here to go way back in time, but I kind of want to start in the current first. Um, get us caught up uh for those following. I know you you've uh worked yourself, you've worked with Chris. What's going on currently for this prep? So, this prep has been all Chris from. It's been a short prep, to be honest. 10 weeks out from Detroit, I decided to jump in. And um the uh the initial the plan was to go with Chris to the Olympia. Last year, I did the only time I did my own prep was last uh year was my comeback show after six years. Yeah. I started the prep with Chris, but halfway through I just I just wanted to do my own thing. I think it was the family thing, the routine. I didn't know how I was going to do on stage. Uh it was more the comeback was more for the coaching and the lifestyle and a little bit of business traffic, that kind of thing. So my goal wasn't an Olympia qualification. So in that sense, I had I had a young baby at the time. He was only a few months old and then my second was three uh four years. So I wanted to plan my own time around that schedule and be able to prep and be able to give back to my coaching clients and my family. So I needed to plan ahead a few days at a time, you know, with the food and the the just the schedule of cardio and training. So, I didn't feel like I could completely 100% give myself up to even though Chris, he would have accommodated, you know, what he's like. Oh, yeah. But I didn't feel like it was fair to say, Chris, I can't do this. I can't do this today. I've got to do this in two days. And it didn't feel natural to do that with Chris. So, I did my own for like the last seven weeks. Um, overdighted. Came in came in peeled, but it was flat and it was peaked too early. and uh peak week wasn't the way it should have been. But it was a good show. It was a great comeback. I had great feedback. I came fourth I placed fourth to Bonak Berus and Kriso, which wasn't, you know, it wasn't bad. I was happy with that. And um but moving forward, the idea was just to get back with Chris and get to the Olympia no matter what I had to do. This is switched off and uh it's been probably the best prep I've ever done. And it was it's just been every two weeks I'd message Chris and say like Chris this is this is super easy and let's not let's not jinx it. Even like four weeks out I was like Chris I still don't feel like I'm dieting. The cardio was barely I could probably count on two hands how many cardio sessions you made me do the entire prep. Um carbs were high. Uh there was no stress. My sleep's been perfect. I think the only time I started to feel the bite was the last probably from two weeks out. I started to feel like, okay, I'm I'm a little bit hungry now and I feel a little bit tired, but nothing I couldn't, you know, it's crazy. I'd say to Lean, like, honestly, I I feel absolutely fine. Peak week's the only time I start to feel it, I think, when we start to really pull pull the the fluid out and you start to feel empty and brittle. That's the only time. Other than that, it's been an amazing prep. Um, it's short because I was planning on doing Pittsburgh. Um, and then forward messaged me at Christmas and said, "Look, you know, you should think about doing Detroit. It's an early show. It'll be, you know, not easy, but it'll be you'll have more of a chance to place." Uh, so I thought, well, I'll do Detroit cuz Pittsburgh is looking to be stacked, which it is now. Oh, yeah. It's like an Olympia lineup minus Samson. So, uh, I'm glad I did Detroit because it was a great prep. We landed it perfectly and I got to stand next to Bonak, which I think showed a lot of my strengths that I've been working on. Agreed. Yeah. So, it was uh the plan wasn't to do another show, but on the way back, I just I was sat on the plane thinking, I feel really fresh, so it's Fibo. Um, and I I just want to jump in it. I just want to strike while the iron's hot, right? And Chris being Chris said, why not? So, uh, here we are. Four days, five days out. About to go again. When do you when do you head over? So, it's Monday night. I am I fly Wednesday night. So, in two in two days. Okay. Um, yeah, athletes meeting registration is Thursday. I think tanning is Friday and then the show is a one-day show on Saturday. So, nice. Now, I want to kind of take back to last year. First off, the the layoff 6 years, was that a retirement originally? What was the deal there? Yeah, it was it was um many reasons. The main one was I was tired of coming second. Um no, I I was relying on uh sponsors and prize money a little bit too much. I didn't have Yeah, I didn't have a fallback. So, uh, I decided to step back, kind of work on social media coaching, just something to get onto my own two feet, but at the same time, I wanted to start family before it got too late for me and Leanne. So, it was an easy decision to just say, right, I need a break. That break quickly turned into, I'm happy now. I'm I think I'm going to retire. You know, you get comfortable, right? And um but that over the it was a six year break. I think by year three I was I lived I lived the lifestyle. I still trained. Uh I didn't eat six meals. I ate maybe three meals a day. I still loved it just as much. I was I was a bodybuilder. I just didn't get peeled or stupidly heavy. Like stayed in that middle ground. Um, but the passion and the reasons I did it in the first place started to come back to me. Uh, prepping other guys for shows, getting excited for them to get on stage, then watching all the the young guys I grew up with climbing the ranks. And I just felt like, okay, am I going to regret this when I'm 60, right? I didn't, you know, I didn't quite scratch the surface of my potential. Um, so it turned into like right I I think I need to get back on stage. Even if it's just to say I give it one more go and um if I can get to the Olympia that would be kind of the seal that I could say and retire happily afterwards. Uh yeah, six years is a long time and I wasn't sure what my bodies was going to do with it. So I had some aches and pains 39 now. So, but I have I have seen some aging in certain body parts. Um, and obviously some aches and pains, but as a whole, after speaking to Chris, this is definitely I'm at my best. So, for the foreseeable, I'm going to try and keep going. Um, not for too long, but because I want to be around for my kids, you know, 100%. So, uh, I reckon, you know, the next year or two, I'll give it. Then what did uh what did Leanne say when you uh when you said you uh the itch was needing to be scratched? Um she wasn't 100% happy with it initially, you know, early on in the in the break when I started to kind of mention, you know, am I I don't know if I'm done yet. Um but I think she saw it in me that I I still I had to I had to do it because otherwise I'd have regrets, right? I'd resent myself. So, she saw that in me towards the back end of the six years. And also, it helps the business. It helps you stay relevant on social media. Sure. And with me, my physique has always helped open opportunities. Every time I get on stage, something opens up, you know, like there's a light bulb moment. Um, and I needed those opportunities to fall into my lap a little bit. So, it was kind of a no-brainer, but I've enjoyed it more than ever. I've actually enjoyed being on stage, which I never really used to. I I always I did the preps and I just wanted to get on stage and get off stage and then look at the next goal. Whereas now, I'm actually enjoying working with the crowd and enjoying posing a little bit more than I used to. And I I just kind of I'm I'm taking it all in. I love that matured in that sense. I've kind of got a question that's re related to that is you know loving like you did it before you obviously enjoyed bodybuilding before you stepped away and you came back and competitively and you know you you have more age now right more wisdom and I think that as we get that age and wisdom we gain more appreciation for the things that we have you know interesting what is it like give me a couple examples of like things that maybe you didn't even expect to be like, "Oh, yeah. I'm back in it." And I absolutely love this part of the sport, you know? So, it's it was probably the part I hated the most. It was show at show day. I just didn't I never used I used to be so nervous. Um I hated just waiting backstage and pumping up and I didn't like feeling uh weak and dehydrated. Um, I didn't look I didn't look at it from look at how I'm looking on stage under these lights. I didn't look at it from um all these years of hard work, months of prep and this polished, conditioned, crazy looking physique. I I'm I'm inside it. I didn't look at it from that point. I just looked at it as I feel like crap. I want to get off stage and I want to eat. Yeah. I just didn't, you know, I I I loved the journey in between those bits. But this time, I remember Spain last year, I was backstage and then some of the other competitors were saying hi to me and saying, "Oh, you know, we're a fan." You know, guys I was on stage with on my in my class, they took pictures with me and that started to make me feel, okay, so this is this is definitely I never looked at it as it was my dream job. So it hit me last year in Spain that I am literally doing something that a lot of guys would love to do. Um, a lot of guys would love my genetics, my sponsors, be able to just get on a plane, go to another country and compete for possible prize money. All these other things were like all of a sudden lit lit up in front of me. and speaking to Bonak, speaking to like Beth Ruse last year and I thought, right, I'm going to be the pro bodybuilder now. I want to go out there and put on a show and I want to show my physique off and that started to get me pumped. I remember we got we did our individuals and I just came off stage and I and I really enjoyed it. The crowd were cheering. It's like I was seeing and hearing things I never used to see and hear back in, you know, 15, 16, 17. probably because I had these like these blinkers on that I just wanted to create this physique, get my prize money and get off stage. So, and you're missing half the uh half the you realize that, you know, you've created a physique that is worth showing off on stage. And that got me really pumped and it made me proud of being able to, you know, being able to show my hard work um years of decades of hard work. So, it's kind of just like all came together. Um, you know, as as you say that, I'm thinking about your routine from Detroit. And, uh, I I shot video of it. Maybe I like in the post-production, I should overlay that and I'm sure people have seen it. Man, it was a beautiful routine. and the the poses that you hit. Like it wasn't just like your standard here's a most muscular hand to the ear, here's a most muscular like Dusty, he had some really good like twisting shots and here's a back shot and here's this other like it was really well put together, man. And I could tell that you had a passion for that routine. And I don't know if you could hear the audience from up there, but there was a lot of people that were behind you at that show, too. I did. I did. And I'm not really the guy who um can work the crowd easily. I'm quite shy. Okay. I don't see I've never I never used to see that or hear the crowd like I said but and that routine. I know it's not a Kai Green, but it's also not a robotic one. It's kind of in the middle. I like watching Rhoden uh Sean Ray, you know, those guys who have the slow transitions. Yeah. I've had this routine as like a template from day one, but I never used to do it slow enough. I never used to enjoy hitting the shots. Whereas now, I get I went on stage and because I I was in such a good condition. Every time I hit a pose, I could hear the crowd. So, that made me slow it down even more and really hit the poses. Um, and since then, I've been working on them because some of my twisting stuff, it just wasn't I wasn't quite hitting it. So, the next one will be better. Okay. But yeah, I it's funny because I had this kind of routine for my pro card win back in 2015, but I I every time I got on stage, I'll tweak it. I'll add something in. I'll take something out. Um, but I think because I'm much more confident right now going into the show, I would say to Chris like my confidence is through the roof. Like I'm just happy. I know I'm going to bring my best and I'm not even thinking about the competition. I know I can beat Borak in my head, right? So being able to get out there and show the physique and the the crowd were really responsive. So I think that just made me enjoy it even more and milk the shots and use the music to just Yeah, it was fun. In in hindsight, now that you've got the backing of of a career that you've put together in a business, do you think that that's helped allow you to enjoy it? Because in the past, like you were saying, you needed that prize money. Good point. It had to happen to cement the I mean hell to live but also just to like that decided success or failure was did you make enough money to make it worth it to whereas now obviously we all all could take a little extra chunk of change here or there but your life doesn't change no matter what. I mean 10 grand 20 grand is not going to change your life. Obviously it's enhancing but it's not paying your mortgage now. Have you found that that allows you also to relax and be a little more present because you're not thinking like, okay, this will pay the bills or this will make sure that, you know, our kids are handled. A thousand%. Yes. 100%. It's it's like back in if I rewind to 2017, I did two shows back to back. Um I only placed in one of them. So I came back in a negative four grand. So that's a hard pill to swallow when you know you haven't got a 100% secure income or good money flowing in. that's enough to kind of say what's the point you know even though you're coming second you're almost making it to the Olympia it you know the numbers weren't making me feel you know safe or secure when I'm coming back home and I'm thinking so that's one of the things that made me a little bit bitter towards oh it made me think I should have beaten that guy and you know he had no hamstrings and he had no calves why is he be I was m I was questioning stuff that I shouldn't I should just kind of put behind me and said, "Right, we'll come back better." Right. But because there was this cash like obstacle in the way, it stopped me from being confident and being able to progress and finally it just it made me just stop altogether so I could focus on the security of money. But whereas now going into a show knowing that okay, if I place first or last, I'm coming home the same, I'm no no worse off. I'm no better off, but I'm no worse off and I can just continue doing what I'm doing. And because I'm already enjoying the training again and the competing side of things, I think that just enhances it brings stress levels down. Mhm. Um, and when I'm happy and chilled, I always perform better in the gym. You know, it's it all just it all flows a lot easier. Yeah. It's it's funny because it's something and I know you coach a lot of guys now so I'm I'm assuming you hammer a lot of these thing same things home but that's a that's something I press on to guys coming up no matter how good they are is a what are you going to fall back on but b what is left when you're done you know like you said doesn't you win this week obviously that's great but you will the journey and the pictures and and the fans and eventually the clients that come from it are far they're more lucrative than the prize. You know what I mean? And and using your your own preps and things as a way to build that business is always the way that I saw it. I see a lot of guys who are who are great pros who are making who are getting the checks consistently and I still can't help but think in my back of my mind, you have all this time. Why aren't you creating something to to build off of? You know, uh Scott, we go way way back. Um I actually uh gave SAS the not so subtle nudge to uh to hire Chris. Okay. Uh back in the day. Okay. Like what are we talking what's what's back in the day? G give give that breakdown, Sass. Right. So I used to follow Dusty when he was with I Force. Um, he had a he was on YouTube doing cooking videos and he had a mohawk at the time, I bet, didn't he? He did. He did. Yeah, he did. He did. And, uh, Chris prepped him at the time and I was a big fan of Chris. So, anytime I found something to do with Chris cuz I was learning, uh, I would fixate on it to find information about how Chris's mind worked. So, and then, uh, Dusty came up. I think he uh just did the nationals and then there were all these cooking with Dusty videos and training. So, I just started like just started watching it and I was like, "Hang on a minute. You can make your green beans taste pretty good in prep." And um I was just like I was hooked on all his videos and Chris would do his high days and Dusty would go into it and I was just I was a big fan straight away. And then um it was Body Power 2014. Okay. Um yeah, 2014 me uh we queued up to meet Dusty and um you know I did the whole you know I'm a big fan and uh I've just competed and then Dusty said okay let's have a look at your pictures and um I showed him my pictures and he was like all right are you work are you working with anyone? you know, he basically said, you know, you've got the potential to go pro. Uh, let me speak to Chris and I'll Facebook you. I'll Facebook message you. And he he messaged me later or the next day or a few days later. He said, I sent me some pictures. I'm going to send them to Chris. And uh, he sent them to Chris and then he wrote back and said, "Here's his email. Give him an email. He'll work with you." And I was just like I was mind blown. I was I'd spent years just looking up Chris's Q&As's on bodybuilding.com and then all of a sudden Dusty, who I'm a fan of, has has put me in touch with Chris Aceito and I was just like, "Is this real?" Um, so I spoke with Chris and he said, "Yeah, let's, you know, let's get it started." And I and I think I borrowed the money off my dad at the time because I didn't have anything. I was like, "Dad, I need I need this and I need to I need to work with Chris. He's going to make me grow." And then that was it. The rest I've done 11 years with Chris minus those seven weeks in Spain. Um and I think it's it it tells all tells a lot about Chris because I don't think Dusty ever left him. Um Oh no. Uh so it's just so I always thank Dusty whether it's um in reality or in my head. I've always I've always you know it's it's the it's the start of my career. The the the different story for me Scott Yeah. was when I opened the photos and went, "Oh [\h__\h] this is what a real bodybuilder looks like. If Chris can do this with me, I can't even imagine what he could do with this guy." No, I I could imagine what you saw, man. Cuz Sass has like just in you have incredible shape. Like you're even if you didn't have the size you have now, like I could imagine with less size, it'd be like, "Oh yeah, this guy's got something." You've just got really round muscle no matter how you slice it, you know? Well, when you could tell back in the day, Scott, um, as soon as I looked at the pictures, my brain went sliced, overdided, okay. I was like, okay, this is a guy that's not afraid to work. Y, but he just needs someone actually to tap the brakes on him a little bit, which is what Chris does so well. You're pushing forward and then all of a sudden your brain, you're like, "Oh, I better I better deplete a little harder." And Chris is like, "Go eat a cheeseburger." and you're yeah, you know, don't do cardio for the next week. And and you're you're just like, this is I don't know about this. And it it never ceases to amaze because and I'm sure you can relate to this SAS is like I've always said there's two people that prep themselves for a show if they're less than successful. It's the guy who is so worried about size that he doesn't get hard enough. Sure. Or the guy who is so obsessed with being shredded that he goes too far. Yeah. Yeah. And that's where you kind of f fell into the play. It's like it's never enough one way or the other. If you're one of those two guys and you need somebody that comes in that you can trust 100% and with obviously Chris's experience and the way he handles things, I was like I plugged these two in. I I almost felt bad like I wanted to like send a notice out to all the guys getting ready for the same show. I'm like, "Hey, y'all might want to stay home on this one. It's It's not going to be a good day for you." Yeah. It was. Yeah, you're absolutely right. Chris is um Chris still to this 11 years on, he still surprised me this prep really. Um yeah, like he would just feed me, he would do things uh with supplements that I'm like that, you know, you've never done this before. Um but the thing with Chris is that that Dusty said, you just don't question it. You just you follow what he says and you know it's going to work. And even if he has no idea why he's just done something, it works. It works. And um yeah, even even like I think it was two weeks out, I sent him my morning pictures and he sent me the diet for the next day. And then he said, "Send me some gym pictures tonight." Today I sent him some post-workout pictures and he said, "All right, I've changed my mind." He went from a usual 3 and a half thousand calorie day to to a big 7,000 calorie refeed. So I said, so I said, just out of curiosity, what what what made you change your mind? He goes, at the time I was 249 and he said, because you're going to be 247 tomorrow and I didn't want that. Okay. So I went home and I told Le and I woke up 247.3. And I messaged Chris is like, "Yep, you're right." And he literally he he saved me from probably getting on with another low day and digging in a little bit too deep. Whereas I would have happily done four more low days. Yep. Felt like crap. Lost strength in the gym and just slowed the machine down and just probably just, you know, pushed the body too far. So he did that all prep. He just like Yeah, it's crazy. I just can't some It blows my mind even after 11 years. That's cool. Yeah, it's it is something he does, Scott. And it always drives me nuts because anytime he'll say a number Mhm. it's correct. Like every time he'll tell me, "Oh, do this. Do this. Tomorrow you're going to wake up at X." Okay. And you wake up in the morning and it's like after a while you just go step on the scale so you can laugh. You're like, "Yeah." H how did you How did you know what was going to happen beforehand? Yeah. He did it. So this is this is Sorry, this is a crazy one. three four weeks out I was um 256 250 255 256 and I messaged Chris and I said you know I'm still like 25 pounds above the Spain prep at this point I was so much heavier and he goes yeah you look it and then I said and then he said you're going to be 252 hard hard like sliced and this was four weeks out I was like no that's three pounds away right I've got way more to lose. Anyway, now that I'm ready to go, if anything were depleted, I'm 250 now sliced. So, I'd be 252 still hard, right? And he nailed it from four weeks out. That was just, you know, any other coach would say, "Yeah, couple of pounds a week, you know, we're going to lose another six, eight pounds." Yeah. But not Chris. That's he definitely has that that view. Now, with that, what have you been able to take from Chris that you're doing with with your clients, whether it's competitive clients or just, you know, wreck clients? You know, what what kind of things have you stolen? Because I know Ron and I have both robbed him blind of of everything we've learned. It's probably like 95% of what I do is off of what Chris has done. Um, one thing I I tend to find myself doing more and more is um, sitting and just waiting to see what another few days on the plan does. Okay? You know, instead of well, there's been no change in three days. Instead of changing something, just say, well, let's just give it another couple of days, right? And then another couple of days and then I find that a lot of the time things just start moving. Yeah. Um, the other thing I've used recently is, um, Chris checks me in every day. I don't know if he was like that with you. Oh, yeah. Sometimes more than once a day. Well, yeah. So, it used to be every two to three days, but I remember I remember when I got with him last year, we had like 20 weeks and he was doing every day. So, and then at one point it was like 20 weeks out. I said, "Shall I check in every day still?" It's like, "Well, I think twice a day might be too much at this point." So, I thought every day from 20 weeks out, I'm getting my money's worth here, but I know it's So, I started to look at my own coaching and think, you know, there's guys that I'm checking in once or twice and they're not really changing. So, I started to do like, you know, every other day. And then these guys without changing the plan, they started to progress, okay? Because they knew, well, I've got a day or two, so I need to work. Whereas it's like if I've got a week to check in with SAS, you you don't you know you might pump the brakes on for like a day or two a little bit. Yeah. Consciously. So that's something I've taken away. And the other thing was just as you know minimal uh supplements and just let's see what the body does with it. Health. I think a healthy, fresh body, rested body seems to give you more than one that's just been smashed just to get heavy or strong. Um, and and it's okay to get soft in the offseason, right? Yeah. That that was probably a hard one for you to digest. You're always uh you're his version of soft, by the way, is is not soft, for the record, right? Yeah. Yeah. Let's let's be clear that uh soft to him is 9% body fat, but uh exactly. So, with the preps this year, um have you found like what are some parts of the of the preps now that you're enjoying it more, now that you're more in the moment that you've really queued on queued in on? And is there things that you're you're kind of learning in this process? And I know as a uh I've essentially been a step-in dad for just a little longer than you now. Yeah. And I find that uh my life and the things that I learn become things I try to figure out how to teach so that they can learn them not when they're in their 30s but maybe in their teens. Is there things that you're kind of catching along the way that you're passing on? Hoping to as they get older I should say your kids are so young. There's stuff I've learned from prep or just in general. just in general like from from your approach to prep from from doing what you love versus just doing and and you know and being in the moment and that stuff. I think um one thing is try not to second guess and overthink yourself too too often. You know, if you set yourself a goal, get it done. Even if you might not want to do it in the middle, just get the job done and then decide if you you know if you want to do it again or continue doing it. I think knowing that having faith in the fact that you are working hard will pay off instead of just you know sitting back and wondering like what if I did it this way? Is there a quicker way to do this or you know like just stop that and just get just do it you know switch that off almost and just get the task done and then look back at it sit back and look back and re-evaluate analyze it in that sense right that's something I would like to uh to teach or trying to teach because mine are very young still um the other thing is just being present and kind of just switching off the distractions. Um, in the past in preps without the kids, I would uh, you know, in between meals, you're thinking about meals or you're thinking about bodybuilding, you're thinking about training or, you know, and it can get a bit too much, especially when in prep you're hungry and you're tired and it's getting quite hard. Um, thinking about how hard it is, it can really put you off and it can make it worse. Oh, dude. Whereas with the kids, with the kids, you know, even if you haven't got the energy, you can sit there with them, you know, watch watch something they're watching, play something they're playing, go out with them. Um, I think there's there's there's uh ways you can fill in the gaps in time to make that day go a little bit easier and more more positive, less stressful, which in turn always helps the end goal, I think. So yeah, they've definitely made it probably why I haven't done any cardio because of them. You don't really get a chance to sit down much, right? I think the basics like going back to basics, basics in life, you know, simplicity, um going for a walk, going out and playing physically, sitting together and reading, you know, the the the stuff that people might not tend to do that much. Mhm. Just kind of shutting off like social media and the news and, you know, whatever else nonsense is going on and just like just being with each other, I think is is priceless. I I think I would like them to be be there, you know, as much as they can with their with their kids and family and that kind of thing. I think everything else falls in line if you've got the good relationships there all the time. Yeah, you got a bit deep there. Sorry. Yeah. No, no, it's good because that's that's kind of what I was was looking at because now, you know, as an outsider, just from your description, you're a lot busier than you used to be. I mean, you were just prepping for shows. Your only job was to get ready for the show and focus on it. Whereas now, you've got a family. You've got, you know, your work that needs to get done, your clients that depend on you. their goals don't take a backseat to your goals, which means you have less time to just sit and overanalyze like you said and kind of, you know, just sit there and drudge along stuff that really doesn't matter. I know Scott, you know, when he first started was was working a ridiculously busy physical job and it, you know, I'm sure Scott you can weigh on that, but like you don't have time to do those things because you're you're too busy. My first prep, the company I worked for, before I worked for the pop company, they were closing and I knew it was happening and it was happening during prep. So, they're like, "We're going to lay you off, you know, so you can start looking for work." And I was like, "No, man. I'm going to be in prep. I'm just going to live the dream. I'll collect the unemployment for a few months during the end of my prep and then I'll look for a job after that." And oh my god, I thought I was going to be living the dream. And it was compared to the next time I prepped. So, the next year I prepped, my girlfriend was dieting, too. I was working at 7Up, plus I had kind of like my night gig, uh, doing a Q&A online for bodybuilding stuff. So worried about her, so worried about getting my job done, plus I have all this other work to do online that I I realized it was her day for the show. And I realized I'm like, why do people keep asking me if I'm doing the show today? They were asking me because I was like peeled inside out. And I realized my show is in two weeks. Like my prep's already over, you know, and I was in better shape. I had a better experience. And it was like I wasn't so selffocused. I was, you know, concerned about other people and taking care of the things I need to do in life. The whole time you were saying that, Sash, that's exactly what I was thinking of was the difference of those two preps. Sitting on my couch all day thinking about when I'm going to do my cardio or like getting out and doing stuff, you know? I'd much rather be busy. Yeah. Yeah. It's funny because before I stopped, I remember saying to Chris, um, it was when I thought, you know, this is this is too much work for what I'm getting in return. So, I said to Chris one day, I said, I want to have a family in the future. I want to have a business. Um, and he turned around to me and said, you can have all of it and be a worldclass bodybuilder. He said, like, you don't need to be a Dorian Yates that's 100%, you know, taken over by Yeah. the routine, which obviously he's on another level, but I wasn't going to be adoring Yates. So, I wanted to have a family and a couple of businesses, but at the time when he said it, I said, "No, I can't do that while prepping for a show. I can't I can barely walk my dog 20 minutes a day, um, getting ready for a show. There's no chance." But then fast forward now, if if I was to go back to my old self and say, "You're going to have two kids, two boys on the five. You're going to have a thriving coaching business. You're going to have sponsors that you're going to have to work for every day, do stuff for. Um, you're going to have a mortgage. You're going to, you know, there's going to be people you're going to obviously have a relationship. And I would have turned around and say, there's no way I would do a bodybuilding prep in that situation. No chance. But it's funny because you're right that you make it work. Like I think knowing that I've got these plates to spin Yeah. It makes you excel like more so than you ever thought you could. Um, yeah, it's quite it's quite rewarding. And then when you do manage it, you just want to be able to keep going and doing more. Well, do you find also that with all the plates going, you're more successful in all of them because you don't have the ability, you know, like you didn't know this, but like when you and I met um I still owned five stores. Yeah. So, when when I would leave the um like when we would go to FIBO, when you go you get done with FIBO, you go back, of course, you know the routine. You know, you have a meal, you head to the gym, you come back, eat a meal with the team, everyone goes to the room and goes to bed. I would go to the room and then work on my business for 4 hours and then say, "Okay, it's time for bed. I can sleep for three, be up and and at the breakfast table with everyone else in the morning, and it's kind of funny, but in hindsight, I'm the opposite stance. I'm like, how the hell was I doing all of that?" But it's because you you had to be ridiculously organized. You know, I have AI have a good friend that's just competed recently and she's a pro and and and makes good money as a pro. But I'll laugh because I watch like the updates and it's like laying on the couch and saying, "Oh, just trying to trying to muster the energy to go do my cardio and I'm thinking when you're busy, yeah, it's not about energy, it's about time. We do cardio at 4:53 in the morning. That's when it gets done cuz it's the only time you have and then you know you eat your meals when they have to be eaten and everything is just on a clock and then you come home and it's 11:00 p.m. and you're like, "Oh, bedtime." Yeah. And you do it all over again the next day. Absolutely. And I and I feel like that is an area that you that people don't understand you can really thrive and and things feed each other because then when you're at work, you're like, "Listen, I've got 27 check-ins today. I have to knock out 11 of them before my next meal." And then as soon as I'm done with that, I got to do X amount before I do whatever else is on the schedule. And it really does lock you in to where you're more efficient and operating at a higher level because I'm sure your clients notice like, okay, he's, you know, a week out and I just sent my check in 45 minutes ago and he answered. Yeah. Yeah. I I remember being on the airway on the runway of the airport in the pl on the plane about to leave and um I was using the last bit of internet to to knock these emails out. Yeah. And people next to me were just watching like they're all waiting and um and then I I I found out I could pay for a little bit of Wi-Fi on the plane. So I paid and I was doing emails in in the air which I found was pretty crazy. Oh yeah. Um on the way back the Wi-Fi wasn't strong. So again we were landing and we had a lot of time between landing and coming off. And I was I was like right how many emails can I do now? Yeah. It was just even from weeks before I was thinking am I going to be at the airport? How long I had a layover in Paris? I've got an hour and a half there to do some work. And it's crazy because it felt normal to me. Whereas when I was on the plane and there were people napping next to me, waiting to get off, falling asleep, and I was thinking, "Yeah, that's not that's not me right now." And and I prefer it not to be because I think when you stop, it slows down and u you slow down and I can't fall off the treadmill because you've built this life. Like yourself, you've done so many businesses. When you slow the treadmill down, everything starts to crumble around you and it could all really fall apart quite fast. Oh, yeah. Um, so just it it just pushes you to keep going. Yeah. I want to I wanted to ask you a little bit about training. You know, I I I don't know. Do you remember SAS? We did a podcast together. It was like I think 2016. Yeah. And at the time you had been training with Jordan and so and that's when Jordan was doing Muscle Minds with Scott and I like we wanted to bring SAS on and talk about it. And I I recall you were like, you know, this training is not for me. you know, which I I think is a big thing to be able to say. I love Jordan, first of all, you know, incredible dude, incredible training, but you sit in a room with him and tell him that you want to train in a different way than he trains. It's almost like when Jordan talks, it's almost like there's no other way to do it. That's the way it just feels to me. And to be able to like have the gut, Steve, and say like, I don't think this is for me. And that's what you did. I I I'd love to hear you talk a little bit about how you figured out that that heavy progressive overload of that style wasn't for you. And you know, talking to Alex from AW Muscle Fitness, he told me you've got some pretty unique training techniques and ideas of your own. So, I'd love to hear what you do. Um, unique, I guess, in the sense that they're not they're not um they're not newly invented, but unique in the sense that I blend things together, I think. Um, I I guess I cross over different styles uh just to suit what my body needs at that moment in time. I think that's one thing I've done. I I'm able to do now is really tune in to what my body or that muscle groups needs at that certain time in on that day in the gym. Um, but backtracking a bit, uh, being able to say no was easy for me because when I go back to when I first started weightlifting, I was 13. I bought a set of weights in my room in my bedroom. Everyone's same story. Mhm. But it was me and these set of weights and this poster I had that I copied uh, all the different exercises on it and that was it. That was that was the that was bodybuilding to me. Obviously, I started to see the physiques later on in the magazines and the movies, but it for me it was what did what what was my mom cooking for me to eat to be able to train in my room to be able to try and get stronger and feel better. It was about feel. It was about enjoying it with no one watching. Um and I remember like few months in I I went to school and and a couple couple of the lads were saying you know you look like you've you know bulked up a bit and that was the first sense of achievement and I was thinking I did that you know it was it was my training it was in my room um obviously learning off whatever I could find. Um so fast forward to trying different styles. Every time I went into a specifically strict style of training um a the firstly I didn't like the fact that my free as a bird mentality in the gym was taken away from me because everything was set. That was just I like to go in and I like to feel what I what I'm doing in the gym. Set plan. Yeah. And then I I I want to be able to know I can adjust it. The other side was the the passion and the feel. Uh when I was doing progressive overload, which is honestly it's a great way to train and I still use it, but when it was 100% pushpull legs aim for this number on this set, I felt like I was in in in prison in training prison and I had to do it this certain way. And if I hadn't covered all the variables over the last couple of weeks and I didn't hit a lift, it would eat away at me and it would start to to kill that kind of passion and feel that I had from day one. And with bodybuilding, um, if it wasn't if I wasn't passionate about what I was doing, it just I didn't I didn't excel. Like I didn't do I didn't work hard. I didn't want to do it. Mhm. Um knowing that it's someone else's plan forced onto me, which it which it wasn't. It was my choice. Sure. Just took away that kind of this is me, like I I'm in control. Um and I think that disengages my mind and my instinct, you know, of how what my body's telling me because I need to hit this I need to hit this number regardless of how I feel. Mhm. and the way I trained and I had some niggles and injuries by that point. Who doesn't? Um, I wasn't in tune with that anymore. So, I was sometimes doing a little bit of damage without thinking about it cuz the adrenaline of getting a big set, adrenaline would just mask the pain. Yeah, it was a different mentality for me. So I think that I I I straight away I realized that it wasn't going to be beneficial for me. Even if even if let's say I followed it and I got the biggest the strongest I could have got. What's the point when I'm not passionate about it? You know, to me it was it wasn't making me loads of money at the time. It still doesn't. But so what's the point when you don't love it? When you don't love the fact that you're going to go to a gym and you don't love what you're about to do. It took me a long time to figure that piece of it out, but that's the most important part of any training plan, isn't it? That number one, you enjoy doing it, you know? You believe in it. Yeah. Yeah. Because they all work and they all work. And then fast forward to today that, you know, someone asked me, "What are you high volume? Are you low volume? Are you pushable legs? Are you bro?" And and I'll just say, look, I I'm not against any of it. And I will use any of it at any any time, any given time. If I want to go in and just do one set on everything, work up to one big set, which I have done in this last offseason, I went for a couple of weeks where I just go in and build up to one all out set because it just felt good. Yeah. It felt good. I felt strong. I felt like my body was enjoying it and I was enjoying it. But then there it comes a day where it's like, right, this isn't going to work today. So, I'm going to back off and do pyramid up and do three work sets where I'm not going beyond failure. I'm going to stop and have a shorter rest period and go again. And then you're filling the muscle up in a different way and it feels different and then you see yourself different in the mirror and you're kind of enjoying it in a different way. So, I kind of just majority of the time I'm a little bit of a higher volume bro split, but like I said, I bring in all the different all the different methods. I like to be able to use them all. It's like if you've got if you got access to 10 supercars, Ferrari, McLaren, and Porsche, you know, do you want to just drive one for 12 months? Not really. You want to be able to just go in and drive whichever one tickles your fancy that day. You know what I mean? Right. That's another thing I heard about you. You're a big car guy. Yeah, big car guy. Oh, yeah. Sometimes I wish I wasn't. Yeah. What's more expensive, bodybuilding or cars? You know, the way that the Yeah. My Mustang Bill would say the cars at the moment. Yeah. Yeah. It's uh it's never ending, but it's like I said, it's it's passion. So, do you find that um having the external like Ron is big on this and actually I adopted it from him, but having the external passions that have nothing to do with bodybuilding helps round you out in a way that not only you enjoying life more, but like you said, it sounds like enjoyment is the the key motivator for you, the thing that makes you want to do things. Do you find that having those extra things kind of enhances bodybuilding as well? Absolutely. I think they all work together. I think that if you're happy there and there, whatever you're doing outside of your bo, you know, whatever you're doing with your body and mind is just going to be done at a at a higher level, at a more productive level. You're going to enjoy it. Um, with the cars, I it was my first love before bodybuilding was cars. Um, if I was if I had the mind to be a mechanic, I'd probably be a mechanic. Absolutely rubbish. I broke more things than I could. That's what I was going to ask you. So, like you don't do your own work on your cars. Yeah. I've tried. I've given up the Yeah. I I just pay other people to do it now. Yeah. Yeah. But it it it's like my drive to the gym, my gym experience, the drive to the gym is a part of it for me. Being able to just get in the car, hear that V8, put some music on. Um that starts to get me, you know, get me going. Um my son loves it. He he loves the sound. Uh I love I love just looking at the car. It's it's what makes you feel good. Like Dusty said, my I had three words to describe myself that that I I look at life. I think one was happiness, one was convenience. I think one was comfortable. Comfortable not in the way that I want to be comfortable. I like to push myself out of the comfort zone. But you know, like I don't like I don't like arguing. I don't like disagreements, confrontations. I like an easy kind of, you know, a happy low stress sass does does way better than everything he does with a V8 under the money drives everyone, but for me it's not like I I wouldn't do whatever it takes to make a million kind of thing. I would I would go the right route. And it's saying like Chris, like if someone turned around to me and said, Sass, if you get with Honey Ramad, you will be second at the Olympia in 2025. No doubt. Like you, if someone said you you leave Chris now, go with Honey. And if you stay with Chris, you'll get eighth or you get last or whatever. And not that I'm just saying hypothetically. Yeah. I would stay with Chris because of the relationship and the way we are with each other and just the comfort. Stressfree. Mhm. easy uh work relationship, friendship I've got with him. I wouldn't let that go for, you know, bigger checks or trophies. Not at this point in my life anyway. Right. Yeah. Yeah. That means more to me. So, speaking of that, and this is something that we talk about a lot at my house, how do you define success for you? Um, success is, I think, is being able to obviously the financial freedom. So, you're not worried about paying the mortgage or the bills. Um, financially being able to be comfortable, um, whatever that means to the person. But the other part of it is working a job that you enjoy, that you're passionate about. Mhm. Um, having family that you unconditionally love and would do anything for. And I know that sounds simple, but I don't think everyone is able to have that. Mhm. Um, and I know some people don't have a choice. But being able to go to sleep with minimal stress and just fall asleep happy knowing that there's nobody after you, there's there's no the tax man's not after you. you know, you're not worrying about, you know, it's I think it's hard to explain for me, but that that's success. It's like happiness plus your relationships, plus enough wealth to be comfortable, but not stressed because I know some people I have AI have a few millionaire friends here that just I just don't think they'll ever be happy because it's just one thing, one problem after another, right? and they've got all the money in the world, but they're constantly chasing something to make them happy, right? You know, they're not they're not happy. So, yeah, I hope that came across. No, it's perfect because that that's kind of what I I in in hindsight, like when I when I first started life, I'll say, um I thought I was driven by money. I really did. I was like, I just want the money. Just pay me the money. And over time, I really learned that that wasn't what drove me. Um, I found a lot more happiness, like you said, in doing the things I was passionate about. And then the passion ended up turning those things into paydays. Yeah. Where, you know, if I took my skill set to a different arena, I would make more money and I would be less happy. Yep. You know, um, that's exactly it. And I and I feel like when I when I look at you and kind of the growth that you've had just in this conversation even, it's cool to see and I and I try to drive it home, you know, when you're meeting fans and stuff and you see the, you know, you'll have someone walk up to you ask somewhere and they've got their wife with them, their kid or whatever it is and they're thinking in their head like, man, what what must it be like to be him to have, you know, the celebrity? And in our sport, I mean, you are wildly popular. Everyone knows you, but I don't think that most people realize that the best part of your life. Yeah. That family has Oh, yeah. And they don't they don't necessarily see that. You know what I mean? Like for me, I I've been going to the shows. I mean, this is my 19th Arnold this year. Yeah. And it's funny as I'm getting ready to go to FIBO tomorrow. It's harder to leave home now than it used to be. Absolutely. And it's also more exciting to go home when it's over because as cool as it is and I love going. I love the fans. I love hanging out with the boys and doing everything. But you're like, man, the the thing that really makes me tick is actually at home. 100%. And you what's funny is um over the last couple of years as my coaching business grew, people would turn around and say, you know, why do you charge more or why don't you do why do you do this online and why don't you travel more or and I know there's coaches that might make twice as much as I'm making. Mhm. But those coaches are also here, there, and everywhere all the time or they're constantly on their laptop or their phone literally 24/7. And I'm thinking, okay, so what's the point? What's the point in, you know, having all that money when all you do is you're glued to the screen. You don't have time to be there for your partner or your kids. Um, I like how busy I am. I could I be busier? Yeah, of course I could. But I can't sit down after 700 p.m. once the kids are go to bed, enjoy a couple hours with Leanne, you know, I'll be having to, you know, answer emails. I will if I have to, but I can have the choice right now to not to I can do my workload earlier. If I want to go and take the kids for lunch tomorrow afternoon, I can move around my work. Uh, but if I was busier and making twice as much, even 50% more than I'm making now, I wouldn't be able to have that liberty. So, what's the point? What's the point when you can't make those little memories along the way? Um, traveling kills me because I hate being away from the kids. They're constantly changing. Um, but I also remember that this is this is for them as well. And it's also for my own happiness. It's my dream to be able to compete, try and get to the Olympia. So, it's a good tradeoff. But if I was having to do that all the time, just sat there making money 247 365 days a year. That number didn't make sense to me right now, but but it's right. But I just wouldn't be happy. And then I think that would have a knock-on effect down the line somewhere in some way. It'll have side effects. Do you um you know, one thing I have to request uh as a friend and a fan is I'm going to need you to erase the if I can get to the Olympia statement because uh I told you a long time ago when you were going to go pro, I was like, "Well, you'll do that next year." And it's the same with the Olympia. Yeah. And that's as as a fan that's watched the sport as long or longer than you. There's certain people that just have it. Yeah. and you've always had it genetically, but I think now with the maturity you've went through, the growth, the time away, it's really time for you to just understand that that's going to happen. Yeah. And you know, it's it's not a matter of of if, it's when. And you know, anybody who goes to a show that you're in knows that you could win it. And you know, I really do think that if you can alter that those words inside of yourself. Yeah. For a little while, yeah, the seconds are going to become first because it's predetermined. You know what I mean? Like when when Jay was coming up and took last at the Olympia, I don't think he ever wondered if he could do it. Yeah. You know, and that's what separated him. And you have all the pieces. is you've got the perfect foundation, I'll say, between the family, the things that drive you, all that. It's like, you know, for for me, uh I look forward to you remembering this conversation because the Olympia qualification is going to come and you're not going to be attending the Olympia to attend. You're going to be going to the Olympia to do damage. And I think that you need to know that because I speak for all the fans. We want to see you there. I mean, Scott will tell you, I don't know how much you watch our show, but after last year's Olympia, I was really disappointed because a lot of the guys didn't put the effort into the show, and I'm just a fan now. I go the same as everyone else. I'm sitting there just watching and I was like, that was a disappointment, right? Because the classic guys put on a show and the bodybuilders, it seemed like a afterthought and this is the biggest show there is. Um, now fast forward to the Arnold. A lot of guys put on a show. Yeah. But uh Scott shared your posing and I was like I could have muted it and felt it. Oh yeah. Yeah. And that's the part that as a fan you want to have where like I'm having my own experience watching you perform. Yeah. And I I think that that's something that you have that you got to just climb in on because it is so much fun as a fan because you're like you're watching and you're like I've never seen this before. Even if you even if you've done it because there's an energy that's coming out of the of the routine. There's there's an emotion in a physical thing that we all gather and Scott and I can watch the exact same routine, but it applies differently to us. You know what I mean? So, you've got that thing that that's why the fans were going nuts because when you came out and you were feeling it, they started to have their own feeling towards it and kind of gave it back to you. You know what I mean? AB: Absolutely. It's funny you saying these things. Um, up until the show I just did, I was of that if I get to the Olympia. Um, and I know I said it today, but uh it was I think it was from a few days before Detroit. Um, I was driving and I just felt like someone gave me some ecstasy, you know, like I was listening to music, thinking about my posing, and I just got this buzz inside, and I was like, and I like to stay quite mellow going into a show. I don't want to get excited. I don't buy into the hype. Mhm. I was getting excited. And then the same thing kept happening every time I listen to my posing music. And in the hotel after prejudging, I was practicing a bit of my routine and I was just ready to explode. And I've never ever felt that before. So something definitely happened in those six years. Me just realizing what I am able capable of doing on stage, what I can do with my physique. Before I don't think I had that belief like deep down I didn't I knew I was good. I know I knew I had had the potential, but I don't think I 100% believed it. This that's the difference. This time I 100% believe it. um my confidence has been skyhigh and I was ready to have to put on a show which I've never felt and I think on stage it just felt natural and I remember Samson coming up to me after prejudging and he just gave me a big hug and he just said [\h__\h] you just put on a [\h__\h] show like well like he was he was buzzing like you could tell he was passionate about what he just saw. Yeah. So I agree with you. I think something has changed and I know I can I know I'll be at the Olympia and I'm going to love putting on a show and bringing that kind of the polish and the pose in and the attitude that I've grown up watching from my favorite pros and I can't wait to kind of just bring that to the Olympia stage. And um yeah, it's going to be cool because you know when when we watch these um there's no one like you and that's exciting as a fan. Like when you look like when we when we talk on the show we're like well you got Samson, you got Andrew and you go through the list of guys that are similar. Yeah. And then you come down and you're into you're into the Derek and Nick Walkers and then there's you and there's no one like you. Not just physically, but but how you approach it, you know, like you said, I mean, you essentially, especially nowadays, and this is where I feel bad for kids these days, they get on the internet and there's a rule book now. Yeah. It's like, well, you got to train this way or you got to train that way and you got to eat this and you got, you know, all these rules. And I hope that you get out enough and get on more podcasts and stuff because you were handed all the rules and you looked at them and you crumpled them up and you tossed them over your shoulder and you're like, I'm not going to do that. Yeah. I'm going to do it my way. And I think that more people will get something from you because I think there's a lot of people trapped in the box that they are told to be in. Yeah. That when they see a guy like you who chuck the rules and had massive success, not just with the result, but also with enjoying the process. I'm hoping that a lot of young guys and girls coming up go, I just want to do this for me. You know, it's like when you started building your physique, you didn't say like, what do the judges want? What do I want? Yeah. And I feel like that shows in your physique and it's why you have such a AI mean, it's just a different look. like when you came out on stage for the Detroit, I was like, "Okay, that is wildly different." And I mean, I'm a huge fan of a lot of those guys, but you stood out in how you carried yourself and what your physique looked like. And it was exciting knowing that, like I said, I mean, I've never been a rule follower. So seeing you chuck it and and just roll with it, I I hope more guys hear your message and understand that they will get further doing what they enjoy than following my rules, Scott's rules, whoever's rules. Well, that and I think the other aspect is the fact that you can have it all. You know, and that's that's the real thing I hope some people walk away with because that's a conversation I have with people, you know, not all the time, but it is a conversation that you do have with people where they're like, you know, me or the family, you know, body bodybuilding or that, you know, a big thing you said too was that, you know, part of it is doing this for them. Part of it is like you're doing this as a business for your family, but you also said an important thing. Part of it is for you, you know, because you really do have to be happy first. if you were to, you know, if if you didn't follow your dreams, then then what are we? And it doesn't mean that it has to take away. And I don't care whether you're Cissan Herat or you're just trying to prepare for the Michigan State, you know, uh, championships. It's like if this is your calling in your heart, that's what you want to do, you really can have all both. You can have it all, you know, you really can and be 100% plugged in for both, too, you know, and you're proving that. I agree. It it almost uh it all has to come together for it to be like I used to watch bodybuilders who would lock themselves away from their kids, you know, because they're hungry. They don't want to get snappy. It's like, okay, why don't you why don't you sit down with your kids and have a good time. Like that will take your mind off being hungry and tired. Yeah. You know, it's why do you have to go lock yourself away like fight camp? You know, we're we're we're we're bodybuilders. We're not, you know, we're not fighters. And once I realized I can do that, um, the family didn't become a burden. It became a boost. That's strange. To get me through to get me through the day to my next meal to the next training session. Um, and then throw in the Mustang. That's my little win for the day. Get there. That that's that's like happy hormones. And like Dusty said, um once you throw out these restrictive or at least say, okay, I don't need to follow this, but I can if I want to. Yeah. You intend to do something that you enjoy with your training. And when the enjoyment comes in, everything else just falls into place. Like it's like one big um it's one big circle. Every I say to my guys, they want to do their first prep. Okay. So, is everything okay? Are you all right? You know, are you in a good place with your job or with your relationship? You know, if you've got issues at home, maybe doing a contest prep isn't the best for you. And, you know, everything has to almost be in line for it to be a welloiled machine with a good outcome. And like Dusty said, I definitely one of the biggest reason, one of the things I wanted to get out of this comeback was to be able to give back to bodybuilding because it's given me so much. It's given me almost everything I've got today. So, I would like to give back to the younger generation and just say, you know, you can do this. You can stay relatively healthy. You can pick your shows. You can pick the way you train. And you can do it whilst having fun. And you don't need to throw your all your eggs in one basket. You don't need to throw your career away to do it. Yeah. I would love to be able to say there's more ways to train and eat. There's, you know, you can always make something work when it comes to bodybuilding because it's a lifestyle. I would love to be able to give more information out and my own experiences. So, I've said no. I've I've I've said no to podcasts in the past, but my attitude now is say yes to every podcast. So, I've got um Chris Total and Milos tomorrow. Nice. I think Dennis James just DM'd me. I think he wants me on his podcast. So, the old sass would have been like, "Oh, no. I'm traveling. I'm prepping. I'm doing this and doing that, but I'm just I'm going to fit it in whenever I can just to get my voice out there." Well, you're welcome here on this show or any other show anytime you want to come on, man. We're more than happy to have you. Thank you. I'd love to come on after Fibo and talk about the win. Hell yeah. Absolutely. I love that idea. Well, I want to before we before we end because I know we already stole an hour of your time, I just want to point out one thing that I think is huge that you're you're doing. Number one, the more you chase your goals personal just for you, the bigger your reach gets. Yeah. The more people you can impact. And then the other thing, and I stole this from Evans Centani years ago because I thought it was so important, you know, when he was having kids, all parents tell their kids, you can be anything you want to be. But I think the problem is that's only heard if you're being what you want to be. So when your kids grow up and you say, "Hey, you can do whatever you want." And they look at your life, they'll go, "My dad did what he wanted." Yeah. And it all worked out. But it doesn't come out as well when your kid looks and goes, "Well, you hate your life." Yeah. You know, so I think that you're you're on a path to impact way more than you probably ever realized you would obviously within your own house. And uh I've always been a huge fan and friend, and I'm super stoked to see this weekend. I love knowing that uh I've just got one more reason to brag on Scott that I'm going FIBO to watch you on stage. And uh we really appreciate you joining us, man. Thank you. Honestly, I can't, like I said, I can't thank Dusty enough for uh giving me a massive leg up on this career from uh from the start and um I can't thank you guys enough for the kind words and obvious the support and having me on having me on the show as well. So, uh I hope I know I will do well this uh this weekend in Spain and I'll have some successful topics to talk about next time. Hell yeah. Sounds good, man. Next time. So, um yeah, thank you guys for having me having me. It's been it's been a pleasure. Even though I'm five days out, it's been it's been um more fun than ever to be honest. We just wanted to get you closer to that next meal, buddy. Right. Guys, you're pushing those together later on, which is always a good thing. Guys, if you're not following SAS, we've got his uh Instagram and everything down below. So, of course, remember that. Remember I am Mutant. You can go to I am mutant and uh use codes uh big Ron or Dusty to get some savings. And of course we've got to remember to like, share, subscribe, comment and ring the bell. Ring the bell. And Sass, I still have that poster. So if you need any good new exercises, you let me know, man. I still got that gym poster here. So anytime you need them, let me know, bro. I'll hook you up. I still I do the same thing, though. I have it hanging here in my office to remind me, you know, where I came from and where it started. And I I I love your story, man. I appreciate having you here. And I'm sure the audience is going to enjoy this, guys. Of course, comment, tell us what you think. What did you think about the SAS interview? That's right. And obviously add all your questions below so we can steal him for the next episode because we will have him on after he grabs that Olympia qualification this week. Yes, sir. Thank you. And for another episode of It's Just Bodybuilding. No, wait. Is that how it goes? No, he says, "And remember, that's what he says. And remember, Dusty, it's just bodybuilding." That's