 aromasin, arimidex, arimidex, arimidex, arimidex, arimidex, arimidex, arimidex, arimidex, arimidex, arimidex, arimidex, arimidex, arimidex, arimidex, arimidex, arimidex, arimidex, arimidex, arimidex, arimidex, arimidex, arimidex, arimidex, arimidex, arimidex, arimidex, arimidex, arimidex, arimidex, arimidex, arimidex, arimidex, arimidex, arimidex, arimidex, arimidex, arimidex, arimidex, arimidex, arimidex, arimidex, arimidex, arimidex, arim and see how close to 24 you are. You know what I mean? Hey, everybody. Welcome to It's Just Bodybuilding. I'm Big Ron Partlow. And of course, I got Dusty Hanshaw and the producer, Scott McNally. Remember to like, share, subscribe, comment, and... Ring the bell. Yes, and remember, Iammutant.com. Get your iso-surge, get your all-in, and everyone should get on the gear. Codes Dusty and Big Ron. There you go. Or the BCAs or the MindFK. Get your stuff. And yeah, save money. Have it delivered right to your door. Don't have to put socks. Don't have to put underwear on. You don't have to put clothes on. You just order, and then someone will knock, and you can wait for them to leave. You don't have to even talk to them or make any human contact whatsoever. If you do talk to them, put your clothes on, though. That's one tip. Ideally, but you wait for them to leave. I hope this doesn't say more about me than it does about other people. It says a lot about me. Don't have to have any human contact. You can just stay in your house. Yeah. That really begins. Recluse goals. I can't believe not everyone's doing this. Yeah. Yeah. So that's what I think. You should just order your stuff through Iammutant.com. There you go. And I must give one quick little pump. For those of you who haven't tried the MindFK, I, once again, yeah, one quick pump. One quick pump for the MindFK. It's my favorite pre-workout of all time. Sometimes I just take it and then just stay home on a Sunday afternoon. I've been known to use it with nicotine to work longer. Right, right. Listen, I'll say close. I'm going to say still jacked or jacked. The original jacked. Yeah, that was maybe my favorite. But this is close second there. You haven't tried them on the same day. With all the band stuff in it. You remember things better than they were. Yeah. Like ex-girlfriends, jacked. All those things. I've been taking a full scoop of the MindFK before I go ride my little bike. Yeah. And it's like perfect. I'm not like, I'm just like super focused. Oh, yeah. So it's good stuff. Play guitar on it. You know? All the things. I took the scoop. Then it did a workout. And now I'm doing the show. So we'll see if I'm better. You guys tell us. Yeah. So far we're not. We're off from a bad start. But okay, we'll see. Okay. Okay. I did not have it yet today. I'm just making regular coffee. I used the competitors before this show just in case it's not good. You're purposely going to bomb the episode now as like an ad. Kind of a subtle advertisement. This is what I used before we ruined the show. Dusty was really off today. I should have heard one of his suggestions for a topic. It was like totally wrong. Yeah. Yeah. See? Now we know what it was. Okay. So we're going to rock on with this episode. Right, Scott? Yeah. Rock on. Really get the goat horns going. Okay. Full goat horns. I can't even say it. You didn't use it either. No, I know. I need it. Okay. Sass wins the Toronto Pro. Yes. Fifth time's a charm. Going to the Olympia. And obviously, friend of Sass. Although, I'm still upset that I wasn't on. I don't think I was on the episode last time he was a guest, right? Wasn't he on? Oh, no. You weren't here. You weren't there. Dusty shined on that episode. Yeah. It was a really good one, too. Sometimes he comes through clutch. But I must say, I did a mutant on a mission at AW Muscle and Fitness in England last year. And Sassan was at the gym that day. Nice. And he got in on the episode. And we chatted a bit. And then I actually posted a shirtless photo with him. I was brave enough to do it. That was brave. Yeah. And I happened to be really lean at the time. So I looked okay. Yeah. So I was okay with it. But very happy about Sassan winning the Toronto Pro and qualifying for the Olympia. And I thought he looked fantastic. What a crazy physique he has. Was this his best look of the year, would you guys say? I mean, they're all awesome. He's Sassan. I mean, I think he looks like that a lot of the time, doesn't he? It was the right show. I did hear some people say that, though. And I'd be curious if you guys tell us at home, what did you think? I know at FIBO, I believe, everyone heavily criticized the lighting at that show. Yep. And said that it was horrendous. Just softened everybody up and really blurred everything. So I remember Sass came by the booth at FIBO. Remember that, Dusty? Yep. And I mean, the chat was that Sass looked absolutely mind-boggling. And then everyone on stage kind of looked the same condition. Yep. That was the show that Andrew Jacked won. Yep. Yeah. Who we also saw at FIBO. And we and Dusty were like, oh, God, look at his arms. I was like, oh, God, look at that guy's arms. I'm like, because he had his head down. I go, that's Andrew. He goes, oh, yeah. Okay. Yeah. I was like, I could have just seen the arm and been like, oh, that's Andrew. Okay. Perfect. Yeah. His arms are crazy. What did you say? Did you say that Samson's arms were? What did you say, Ryan? 24. Oh, yeah. Did you see that video on Instagram? I wish I would have sent it to you guys. I saw it. But they were at Independence Gym. Yeah. Which is in Phoenix or Scottsdale? Scottsdale, yeah. And they had Derek and Brandon and Samson all there. And the reporter said, oh, let's tape your arms or whoever it was. And Samson just gave like, it wasn't like a careful tape. He just like put it around the big part and it was easy 24. Yeah. And the reporter was like, oh, 24 inches. And I was like, God damn. Yeah. Because like, you know, 24 is outrageously big. To put that in perspective, for average listener, do me a favor. Measure your quad and see what you come up with and see how close 24 you are. You know what I mean? Try to find something on your body that's 24 inches. I got something. Easy 24. My head. Easy 24. My head. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. What's a skull measure? You know? I mean, my neck is still, I think my neck's still almost 20. Yeah. Yeah. That's definitely telling. That's a good point. That is. That's what you got. Farm kid neck. Farm kid neck. So, Samson, I got to tell you guys, just listening to everybody talk. Because, you know, I talk to a lot of people that are into, you know, following the shows each year. There have been so many people that have wanted Sasan to punch his ticket to the Olympia. Like, so many people that have been behind him. I had multiple people. I was really busy this weekend. I went to the Michigan State Championships, and I didn't get to follow along as close as I would have liked to have. But I had people texting me along the way, and they're like, did you see Sasan? Did you see Sasan? I think Sasan's going to win. Vijay was texting me. One of my clients. And then I got multiple texts saying, he did it. He did it. So, it's cool to see how many people were behind him and excited to see him get this, you know? Oh, yeah. Easily one of the most consistent guys. And the best part was, he got stuck on his flights. Had a huge layover. Didn't have food. You're kidding. Had to make alterations on the fly. And now he has to get stuck at all future shows on the way there. Because that seemed to be the missing ingredient. Right? The inconvenience was what he needed to put him over the top. He was there for hours and apparently didn't have food for that point. And because obviously it wasn't a planned thing. So, yeah. When you're him, it doesn't matter. I have to repeat a short story about Dexter right now. Because it fits right in here. I remember seeing Dexter at Feebo one year. He was standing at the Pro Tan booth. And it was like on the Sunday. So, it was like kind of dying off. And he was waving. Because he was off in the corner. And he was like waving. And I go, oh, hey. So, I walked over. And I go, hey, Dex, what's going on? And he's like, man. He goes, how you doing? And we start chatting. And I go, hey, congratulations on Australia. Because he had just won Australia. Okay. And I was like, hey, congrats on Australia. You looked unbelievable. And he's like, oh, man. I barely made it. I missed my plane. So, I had to take a flight that got in like a couple hours before prejudging. Oh, God. And I go, no way. And he's like, yeah. Ate the airline food and everything. Had a Heineken on the plane. And just walked. Showed up. Walked on stage. And I was just like, I go, Dex, you're a different animal. And he's like, yeah. Can't worry about it, eh? You're like, hey. If I'm going to eat airline food anyways, I might as well have a beer to go to Washington. Yeah, I might as well have a Heineken. They said he had a Heineken on the plane. Ate the airline food. Yeah. Showed up a couple hours before prejudging. Oh, God. Yeah. It's like the reaction we watched with Sean Ray. And he was like, you know, I don't really measure my food. I just kind of clean things up. I get all these things made from sizzler each day. And, you know, I just eat them. And, you know, I eat more broccoli when I get closer to the show. I don't think people know the genetics. Like, when we say genetics, what that level means. Yeah. Yeah. I had a guy. I can't remember who it was. Durability of condition. I verified through Jose that this was a true story. But backstage at the USA is one year. Jose is sitting there just like, oh. The guy's like, you all right? You're not feeling good? He goes, no, man. He goes, and this is the day of, this is prejudging. Yeah. He's like, what? Are you sick? He goes, no, man. I was out all last night drinking, hanging out. And then he proceeds to win. And this guy's like, I haven't missed a meal in a century. Yeah. This guy was out just running Vegas before the USA is and then just shows up and beats everybody. Can we get Chris Camere on here one day? Because I feel like Chris could outdo all of these stories. Oh, Chris has told me, Chris, Chris told me some crazy stories before. Yeah. Like he went to the, he was on stage at the O still kind of rolling from the night before. It's how he dried out, you know? Oh, yeah. He's still rolling. He was dancing until 7 a.m. one year. And he went on stage at the O at like 10 a.m. Yeah. You got to dry out that way, you know? Yeah. Let's not promote this to kids. No, no, no. So when we talk genetics, everyone thinks like, you know, structure, muscle tie-ins, muscle bellies, ability to get huge, you know, natural body fat levels, you know, that sort of thing. But there's also just like a durability with what you can do diet-wise and stuff. Like if you have every single food sensitivity under the sun, that's not great. Yeah. It's not helpful. Oh, yeah. Right? And then you have other guys that are like, carbs are carbs. Yeah. Yeah. Like the idea that a carb might upset their stomach has never crossed their mind. Right. They're like, oh, it's 50 grams in this, 50 grams in this, blah, blah, blah. Yeah. And the same look occurs and the ankles are tight and dry and nothing. Like it's just that sort of stuff is also a genetic factor. It's one of the slides on the equalizer. You know, like when you think of a stereo with a 12-band equalizer on it. Yeah. Perfect skin. You've got muscle size, perfect skin, tie-ins, waist, like all that stuff. One of them is just durability with what goes in your mouth. Yeah. You know? Like to Dexter, that Heineken is, you know, 30 grams of carbs. Yeah. And a little bit of diuretic. Right? Right? Where to me, that Heineken is like bloat. Yeah. Like, oh, God, I'm going to burp for an hour. Right. You know? Why would I not have a beer on the flight that's going to get me there just in time to make it to pre-judging? Yeah. Just, you know, that sort of thing. So. Hey, would you say we check out some buys and tries pictures over at Instagram? Yeah, let's look at Picks of Sass. All right. Good, good, good. Let's see here. I'm going to share this. Here he is next to Reagan. I mean, Reagan looked good, too. Oh. He always looks good. These guys both looked incredible. And I mean, arguably, you could say, I mean, Reagan's got the larger X frame, right? Yeah. Yeah. He's got the crazy structure, especially in the back double. Reagan has, like, the crazy X in the back double. You know what I mean? Like, with the waist and the taper and everything. Yeah. Sass is a smaller frame, not as wide in the shoulders. But the muscularity won this for Sass. Oh, yeah. And apparently, I wasn't at this show. I stayed home because I have to leave on Wednesday for Vietnam. So I didn't go to this show. Yeah, yeah. But apparently, in person, Sass's conditioning was definitely better. It's funny how the pictures do that sometimes. Yeah. Because I felt the same at Detroit. Like, it looked different than what you saw in the pictures, you know? So I will say this for Toronto lighting. That backdrop is very red. Yeah. Right? And it's sort of not the best coloring, I guess, for the color of the guys. And the lighting is also a little bit – I feel like everyone in Toronto always looks like they don't quite have a lot of oil on. And it sort of equalizes everyone in the photos. Right. But when you're in person, you can see. Right. So I was messaging with people like, oh, this class looks close. Because they also had the amateur show, right? Right. I was like, this classic's close, this classic's close. And everyone was texting me back, that class isn't close. Oh, wild. So as the photos kind of have that everyone looks equal sort of flavor to them. Look at that hamstring drop on Sass and that side tricep. I think what they nailed at this show is he looks like he could pop. Like, he's extremely full, which just made him look harder. Yeah. And that's even in the pics. I mean, you can just – look at the left hamstring there. They're both great in the glutes and hams. Yeah. Like, really dialed. Like, you know, and again, these pics don't exactly show the graininess. Yeah. Especially, you know, we're not – these aren't just fresh pics. They're posted to Instagram and then posted to YouTube. Right. Yeah, right. Like, double compressed or whatever. What could go wrong with that? Yeah. I just can't understand – and Justin Shire went on a bit of a rampage about it on his Instagram stories – why these promoters refuse to listen to the audience and to the fans with the colors of these backdrops. It's – I mean, it's one thing to say you want to put the sponsors back there, but to make it red is horrific. Like, you wouldn't put red flooring down. Yeah. So, I don't know why that just doesn't seem to matter. Yet, when you go to Fuad's show, that's what everyone's talking about, the black backdrop, the black stage. Well, the old Iron Man formula. Yeah. Right. And the same thing – now, the Olympia, they're saying they're going to do black. It's like – it's not harder to do a backdrop that's black than it does this weird-ass red. I can't get past it. You've got lots of room up above them for sponsors. Like, you can just go up eight feet and you can blast the shit out of that. You know what I mean? Yeah. It's like hockey. The ice is blank. They just plaster the boards. Mm-hmm. Right? You know what I mean? Like, it's – there's certain things. I could see that. Yeah. The assassin's great. I mean, you could tell he's dialed right in. I mean, that's a crazy look. Look at those quads, dude. So much freaking leg. Very happy for him, you know. So he's going. We've got – how many people are – at this point, it's almost like the top 10 is going to be crazy. I mean, even top 12, top 15. Oh, God. You know, it's like there's going to be battle upon battle, you know, battle for first, battle for second, battle for fifth. What's the latest news with Hottie? Is this travel ban going to affect him? Huh. I assume so, unless there's some weird loophole for athletes. But I think if – I think if he was in a sport where they – where the Federation would take care of it, it would probably be fine. Well, maybe – maybe you think Solomon's got somebody's number? It would help. I don't know that they care enough because we've been down this road before with other athletes. So, you know, it's one of those things where, based on the things that have happened in the U.S., it sucks for him. But it's – in my opinion, it's not a bad ban. It's just people who are solid people doing normal life get screwed by it, and that sucks. Yeah. You would think there would be a way with his regular travel, the fact he's done it so many times. I'm hoping there's a loophole there because that would be brutal. That would be a huge loss to a show that he could very well win. I mean, I would never say he couldn't win the Olympia this year. No, no. A hottie – even when hottie's third, it's almost a win. Do you know what I mean? Like, because remember the last couple times he's been there, you're like – like, there's no – it's not like, oh, they're clearly going to go with him. Like, the year Samson won, it wasn't like they were clearly going to go with Samson. You were like, I think they might, but Jesus, look at hottie. Like, there's all that stuff always going on. Yeah. Now, what do you guys think – back to Sass for a minute. So, he has been competing, like, all season, right? He's just hitting show after show after show. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And I believe he still was working with Chris for this. You guys can correct me, you know, at home if I'm wrong. But you guys know Chris really well. How would Chris handle this to take some downtime only to plan to peak again for the Olympia, you know, toward the end of the year? How would Chris handle this? Yeah, what would you – in your experience with him, what would you guess? In my experience, he would take a few days off and relax and spend time with the family and probably tell him not to train for several days, maybe a week. And, I mean, how many months out are we now from the O? We're like so many – I mean, I want to say somewhere between 15 and 17 weeks. Like 17 weeks or something, yeah. Yeah. So I would guess if I had to put money down, Chris would tell him don't train for a week, don't think about the gym, just spend time with the – you know, that's his kids, doesn't he? Yeah. I mean, that's – Chris would say that's probably the best thing for your mentality is just spend time with the family and invest in that. And then he would probably kick him back into training and it would, you know, obviously staying on a tight diet so it doesn't go backwards. But I would assume the supplements would go right back to early prep. Yeah. Way back down, right? Very conservative. Probably the amounts that most guys wouldn't even believe. Right. Yeah. Right. Like right down into like typical Aceto, that's not what he's taking territory, which we've all been there. I've been there. I remember Chris saying, take one Sustanon and send me pictures in 10 days. Yep. Oh, God. Right? You mean 10 days. I mean one a day, right? One day a day. No, hour. Yeah. One. One. Take one. Like, you know, 10 days later, I'm nine pounds heavier and a bit leaner. And he's like, okay, take one more. Like. Do it again. Yeah. So we're into that territory, I think. And it would just be right back, fresh prep. But you're starting from already having strided glutes. So now your food is higher, cardio is lower, and you're just managing to hold that look into the ramp up again. That's what I would assume Chris would do. Okay. But, you know, that's only, I only did eight shows of them. So what do I mean? Yeah, what do you know? Yeah. Chris is very, I think what makes Chris a special coach, and any of the great coaches, is managing fatigue you don't even know you have. Yeah. Because when you're dealing with someone that's at the highest level mentally, they're never going to say, I'm tired. Yeah. Because you get to a point where tired is a baseline. So it doesn't really mean anything. And you don't think about it. And I think that he, I mean, there's been many times that he has, me, Ron, a lot of other people, he's backed down or said, all right, you need to eat for a couple days. Let's not do cardio. And this is like five weeks out. And you're like, what? And he's like, no, no, just take a couple days. Relax. Don't train. Don't do cardio. I'm going to up your food. And he's managing not where your body looks like now, but what it will look like in three, four days if he doesn't. You know? Yeah. I think that that is where his experience comes in that just is game changing. Because you'll take those days and then you take your next set of pictures and you look and you're like, I'm bigger and harder and haven't trained or done cardio and I ate more. Yeah. Hmm. Yeah. And there's nothing random about it. He sees something that's like, oh, I think we're teetering. Yeah. You know? He's also the type, you know, I know Chris said to me once, like, I can't remember who he was talking about, but he had somebody like resting. And they sent him a video of, like, one of their competitors squatting, like, five plates for reps. And he's like, oh, this guy, look what he's doing. Yeah. And Chris was like, oh, it's good. Just let him burn all his fuses. Just let him burn all his fuses. Like, you know? And I remember also another time I sent him a picture of Kai Green one year. Kai was, like, four weeks out and he was standing in his kitchen doing, like, kind of a back shot with his arm up. Yeah. And it looked insane. And I said, fuck, look at Kai four weeks out. And Chris responded, eh, big deal. Just means the cake is baked too early. And then sure as shit, you know, Phil won again. Like, he's like, it won't be Phil. Phil pull the cake out of the oven the day before the show and put the icing on it. And Kai's cake will be cold and dry. That's my favorite. Just his analogies are so ridiculous. That's a good one too. He broke down that analogy for me one time and it was so good. He's like, he goes, I don't know anything about baking cakes. He goes, but let's say that to bake a cake is 20 minutes in the oven at 450. Yeah. He goes, you can't put the cake in there at 225 for 40 minutes. It doesn't come out right. He's like, you also can't be running late and double the temperature for half the time and have it come out right. He's like, it has to be just right to be perfect. He said, that's a prep. Yeah. It has to be just right. I love that. And that's something that I've used. I mean, I used that probably last week because I had a client that's, she's awesome, really driven. And she's like, I'm ready to kick it in. Let's, let's kick it up. I'm like, it's not time. Yeah. But I feel good. I'm like, it's not time. Yeah. Right. Don't worry. Right. You're not going to need to ask me to push you. I'm going to push. So it's time. Chris, Chris called me a few days ago. And you know how we say he doesn't say hello. Yeah. Just start talking. I see him. I'm chewing food. I'm like, that's Chris. So I answer it and I go, hey. And he goes, why is it that when someone says something to me that's exceptionally stupid, I think I'm going to call Ron. And so anyways, we chatted. And then at one point we were talking kind of good old days talk. And I said, yeah, you know, like that analogy that every prep is you're sailing to an island that you can see, but every prep is a little bit of a different trip because of the current and the wind and there might be flat ocean. And then one day there might be big waves. So you have to kind of go that way. So the waves bring you back to the island. And then one day a storm might hit while you're halfway to the island and you wind up going around the backside of the island to come in. And and he goes, that's an amazing analogy. I love it. And I go, Chris, that's your analogy. I'm glad you like it still. You said that whole thing to me in like 2010. Yeah. And he's like, did I? That's a good one. Like, it was just hilarious. Thanks for that gem run. Well, I got a great analogy. Chris, that's your analogy. Hey, Dusty, I got a question for you. Yeah. If so, Chris wasn't in like directly in charge of the type of training you did. Dusty did Dusty's training. Right. Tell me. So if you were in Sasan's position now, I mean, obviously, Chris would probably tell you to take that time down. You wouldn't train. You know, I know a lot of people are doing a lot more progressive overload nowadays, even into prep. And they're trying to stay as strong as they can during prep. How would you handle this next phase between now and the Olympia as far as training goes? For him? No. Yeah. If you were, if for you, if you were in his shoes. Oh, I would do exactly what he does, which is do exactly what you always do. Okay. I think that that's the area where people mess up. It's like, you know, it's the old saying, don't forget who, who brought you to the dance. Yeah. Like people get confused and all of a sudden they want to change stuff. I didn't change my training the week of the show. You could like, just no changes ever. See, you're telling me that you were like, okay, I got 11 reps with, you know, 485 last week. So I'm going to get 12 reps today. And then I'm going to go to the show. The only time we backed down at all, like when, and I mean, in hindsight, I should have done some of that, but I would have trained with the same intensity and that stuff. Whereas for me, I was still strong. So it was just another day. Okay. I just, it seemed like more noise to adjust and try to map out the perfect training. It's like, this is what works for me. I'm not injured. My body feels good. Keep going. You know, if your body's giving you signs that you need to make adjustments, you do. But other than that, and the way that he trains, yeah, he's going to do the exact same thing as soon as Chris gets him rolling again. And if anything, it's just going to be more of Chris pumping the brakes overall, you know, and I, and it's funny, but, uh, I've told this story before, but it just always makes me laugh. Chris sent me on one of my first preps. He said, train at 70% today. And I text him back. I said, I don't know what that means. And, and he laughs and he sends back, he goes, I've only ever had one other person say that. And that was Evan sent upon me. And he goes, so what I'm going to tell you is look at your planned workout today, train exactly how you do, but only do 70% of it. I'm like, okay, I can do that. Cause I'm like just the work sets. Yeah. Because he, because he was, he was like, he's like, it was just funny because I'm like, I don't, what is that? You are either training or you're not trained. I didn't know. I literally meant, I don't know how to gauge what 70% is. And he's like, perfect. We'll just lower your volume by 30%. I'm like, ah, mathematically that's easy. Perfect. Yeah. So I can still go nuts, but I only get three sets today instead of five. Okay, cool. Right. What, what I'll sometimes tell people who like are in certain situations is okay. Like what's your, let's say we're, you know, just pick an exercise like incline Smith machine press, right. For shits and giggles. Say, okay, what's your working weight? And they might say three plates for eight. Okay. Yeah. Is like my hard ass fail set. I'm like, okay, what's your prep weight? Like your, your last warmup. Yeah. And they'll say, well, I do two and a half plates for five. That's like a final feeler. And I'm like, okay, do two and a half for eight. And then move on. I like that. Okay. So like prep weight, but you know, and you're not saying that's a failure either. You're not taking it to 12 now. No, not quite. Just taking it to the slow rep, racking it, move on. You're not going to shrink at all. Right. And it's very, very safe and you know, very low taxation. You know, if you're worried about that or you're in a situation where that's a thing, um, you know, so that was kind of what I would do maybe the last, you know, few workouts, but yeah. You know, most of your clients have brains. Yeah. The rest of us are either unleashed or not. And when it comes to a guy like SAS, do you remember when he was training with JP for a while and he said he actually had to tap out and like put training for a while because like that type of training just beat him up so bad and everything on him hurt and his knees hurt and his elbows hurt and everything hurt. It, I mean, that level of progressive overload, like, you know, obviously JP's, you know, JP, but you know, that didn't work for SAS and it actually like totally fried him. And he said, you know, he does better with a little bit more volume and, you know, not, not doing all the four straps and stuff. He trains by himself. So he's not, you know, burying, you know, a bunch of shit beyond failure and all that stuff. And I mean, look at his physique. I mean, I'm not going to tell him how to train. Right. I think the great thing about that story though was that he was getting great results. Yeah. And that's the part that most people, and I can say I would not have had in my prime the ability to ignore the results, even if it was hurting. I'd have been like, well, it's rocking. And he's smart enough to go, yes, I'm getting the results, but I can get those results in a different way. That's smarter for me. And that's enormous. That's why training is not one size fits all because it's not like he was looking and going, it's not working. I'm getting bigger. I'm getting stronger. But, you know, and that's why he can continue. I mean, he's better now than he was before he retired. Yeah. And he will be better in two years than he is now if he keeps going. So he's definitely found the sweet spot for his training. Yeah. He has like a, he seems, he strikes me as being in a very sustainable place. You know? When he, but the thing is too, it's not that he's not training hard. Look at the muscle. His muscle tells you his training is hard. Oh yeah. Yeah. It's got a different look. It's not just weight. And I think that's where people get confused. It's like when they think of training hard or training heavy, they just think of weight. And it's like, no, for the kind of training he's doing, it's extremely hard and extremely heavy. He's just using a brain with it also, which a lot of us don't do very well. You looking at me? That was actually right into my own picture. Um, I was staring at him right there. The old has been. Yes. So do we have some questions, Scott? Um, I have some loaded as well. Yeah. I think we have a couple. We had a couple from YouTube last week. I will say guys, everybody watching YouTube. I mean, I know Ron said like share, subscribe. And he said the comment part. We get a lot of really great comments. We've been getting some awesome ones. In fact, Lee priest left us another number of comments on our reaction video, Lee versus Sean. So that was cool. Um, but leave us questions. You don't think of any good questions you have. Anything could be serious questions. Could be fun questions. Um, I know Ethan left us a fun one. We'll have to get that. It's in the live stream. But what do you have, Dusty? Uh, actually I have a good one from, uh, Paul, our, uh, client, Scott. Um, he has a, uh, a lot of stress going on in his life. That's out of control, uh, out of his control, I should say. Um, so he's interested to hear how we have handled stress in our past. He says, uh, we know we messed with our body. So what are some strategies to manage it, uh, its impact and manage our expectation whilst going through it? All right. I'll take it. I'll take it. Do it. Do it. Do it. You go first. Yeah. I'll, I'll say this, that we can't like get rid of life, right? Like you can't get rid of, like, you can't tell somebody like, well, I'm really stressed from work. It's super demanding and long hours. So yeah, you got to do what you got to do sometimes. Right. But, and I've learned this a lot from Victoria. You have to, when you know that you're under more stress, then you have to be beef up on the anti-stress stuff. You know what I mean? Making sure that you get to bed a little earlier. Oh my God. She's got me on the schedule now. So when we first started dating, we were going to bed at like 1030. And now we're at like 915. The TV goes off and we get ready and we're in bed by 930 and to sleep by 945 every night. And I'm up by six, 630. It feels really good. But, you know, getting sleep, being able to do all the sleep hygiene stuff that we've talked about a hundred times and you hear everywhere else on Instagram. Hydration is another, I think, key factor when you're dealing with a lot of stress that our bodies burn through more water. Using a good electrolyte during that time is going to help you to hold more fluid. And also too, let's say stress isn't usually like the same day to day to day. It's like I had a really stressful day at work today. You know, maybe you make some adjustments for your training that evening. Like maybe I don't do my hardest workout. Maybe I have the ability to switch things up. Like was I going to do legs tonight or was I going to do this pump workout? Well, I'll do the pump workout instead and I'll save legs for tomorrow. You know, if you can make those kinds of adjustments, being flexible, I think is huge. You know, and one last thing, I had a woman named Kate DiNunzio on the show a couple times and she works with individuals and companies to help them with embracing change. And she's a really good bodybuilder too, by the way. And I asked her like, what's the number one thing that you see in successful people? And she said, resiliency. People who can adapt. And you guys know what it's like as a coach and as an athlete. There's times that I've responded to a change and I'm like, oh my God, you know, I was doing this before. Now I have to do this. If you can stop and just be like, oh, okay, I'm going to do this now and just accept it. The faster you can accept a change, like the less stress you're going to deal with and the more successful you're going to be. So I'll leave it at that. Yeah. I guess, I mean, I agree with everything Scott just said there. Resiliency, obviously, adaptability. That's huge. Um, also like sometimes just, just turn your mind off and check the boxes. Huh? You know, like some people I've seen them like there's, their stress levels are high and I've been there too where I'm like, oh my God, I'm dealing with all this stuff and I, and I still have to get my shoulder workout in. Uh, and like, you know what? At the end of the day, you can mindlessly work out. Yeah. Like you can work out without using your brain at all. You can turn your brain completely off and just go in and check the boxes. Okay. I've got two sets of laterals. Go hard. Boom. Done. And move quick. I got it. Press. I normally use a stack, stack, press failure. Done. Move on. Next exercise, rear delts. Boom. Failure. Move on. And you can just check the boxes mindlessly. You don't have to bring up all this mental energy again to, to devote to this thing that you've done a million times. Like I get it. We all love to be in the moment for our workouts. It's part of our enjoyment of the day and everything like that. But when it comes to actually bodybuilding, like I've told the story before how I, I moved out of my, my buddy's basement one day, like, cause him, him, his, his wife and I had a little disagreement and I was like, okay, I'm just gonna move out. And I just packed up all my shit and moved out. And then I went and trained at like 10 o'clock at night that night. And I just, I had 30 minutes to train. I just smashed through a workout and I just mindlessly got it done. Done. Yeah. Done. Like it's done. Move on. Like you can, you can check boxes sometimes just to get through what you have to get through without adding more stress or worrying about it so much. You know, at the end of the day, a lot of stuff isn't that big of a deal. Just get it done. You guys are both good at that too. Like I, you know, when we've done things, either interviews with people or events, like going to one of the, the big expos and we're going to do a live podcast or whatever, like you guys are always so fricking chill. Even when it is something that's kind of stressful, you're just like, oh, okay, we'll do this. You know? And it, it, it, I think is, um, you know, there's, it's kind of like, well, you can handle it this way or you can handle it this way. Either way. You know what I mean? The same thing is going to happen. So yeah. I think the, the only thing I would add is, and this is just how I handle everything in life is, is this stressful thing in my control? Yeah. If it is, then what do I have to do to eliminate it, to handle it? If it's not, fuck it. Yeah. I mean, there's nothing you can do. And I think the area where Paul and a lot of people get caught up is in your head, you're saying I'm stressed and I'm going to the gym. What's this going to do to my results? Is this going to have an impact? And you're actually compounding the stress. Whereas if you just say, Hey, these things that are going on in his case, I know what they are. They're completely out of control. They're going on either way. Okay. I'm going to, I'm going to do like Ron said, I'm going to go to the gym. I'm going to tear it up, but I'm not going to worry about, because I think half of the reason, like when somebody goes in and they're thinking like, I hope that I'm as strong today because I'm under all this stress. I'm like, well, you're already not because you've brought that possibility. And it's like, I'm going to go here. I'm going to train my face off like I always do. And what's going to happen is going to happen. You know, it's, it's the same thing. You do your first working set and say you're a crazy log booker. Yeah. And today you were off. That doesn't mean that the next movement will be unless you decide. Oh, I'm weaker today. Right. It's like, no, you were weaker on that. Maybe the next movement is strong, but I really think that that comes down to just compartmentalizing everything and moving on. And like you said, Ron, if you push yourself through the workout, whatever it is, it is, you know? And I think that's where people like really have an issue. Oh, okay. That's it. Yeah. Like, you know, like I, that's why people get it. I mean, Nikki gets annoyed with me because it doesn't matter what's going on in life. I'm like, okay, we lost everything today. Okay. Guess we need to get an apartment. Anyways. So we're going to have dinner. Yeah. Yeah. I, I, I've noticed another thing too, when it comes to actual training, um, in my, this retirement phase that I'm in, um, because you know, like when, when you're, you know, cranking on the cycles and you're eating like crazy and you're really big, um, you, you know, you're, you're, you think if you have one workout where you don't go hard, you might lose something. Yeah. All of it. Right. And, and, and obviously you want to keep the mentality where you're going to be as consistent as humanly possible. But now that I'm in this retirement phase, like I've had a whole bunch of times where like maybe Braden is working late. So I got to train by myself today. And then I got stuck like fixing a piece of equipment or something happened with the gym or I'm busy doing something. And I wind up with like 30 minutes to train at a weird time. Yeah. So I literally go in and I'm like, I just got to get the fuck out of here. And I just get on like a plate loaded press and do three hard sets and do three outsets of pack deck, call it a chest workout. Yeah. And I don't even pay attention to weights or nothing. And then the next week when I come in to train with Braden, I'm just as strong. Yep. Sometimes stronger, sometimes stronger. Like sometimes I'll get a rep on something. Braden will be like, oh, you're actually up a rep. I'm like, fuck, that's funny. So because you expect like on the TRT, you'd expect to be even more fragile in a way. Yeah. Like you'd expect in not eating as much or you'd expect to be even more difficult to hold your current level or whatever. But no, just continue to keep moving on as if it never happened. And I sort of think, man, you're a lot more durable than you give yourself credit for. And I think when I was like really in the thick of it, I was a little too paranoid about little things like any little change or any little alteration at all. You know, and you realize that these pros like guys like, you know, guys at like Lunsford's level and, you know, Samson and these guys that are traveling all over the world and in different time zones constantly and doing all these appearances and all these obligations and stuff, they know that. Like they're not every single workout is completely identical for them. They're training on all this different equipment. They're going to a gym that says all this brand of equipment one day and then this stuff isn't there the next workout. And then the next workout, they're got to use this. And they're all over the place. Right. And they're able to just make it work and not worry about it constantly. And that's part of being durable. That's you gave me a great segue into another question that I had here. Looking back at your competitive careers, what are some things that you wish you'd have done differently or just looked at differently? I was really dogmatic for a long time about training exactly the same way all the time. And I think that I was always on, I was always generally on the right track with a lot of philosophy. Like I always chose exercises that I think for the most part, I chose exercises where I was very well braced. I've talked about how I wasn't a fan of like, you know, like I didn't think lunges were the best because you couldn't necessarily push yourself as hard because of stability and all that stuff. So I would always choose like braced exercises where you could really exert yourself. I would always choose, you know, I did general training philosophy. I trained really hard and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. Moved weights, I think, well for the vast majority of the time I was training, but I was just really dogmatic. Like, you know, I was, I was to the point where for a lot of years, like even doing one extra set, I was like, well, I can't, that's not on my plan. You know, or one less set. Oh, no, I can't do that either. Right. Where I think I should have been a lot more flexible with stuff. I, I trained through, my main thing was I trained through aches and pains I shouldn't have. What about you, Scott? I would say that some of the things, and it's kind of cool because these are things that I can help other people not make the same mistakes, you know, like one guy who is doing a show in November and we're in a position now where he can, he can go out and have a cheat meal. And he was like, oh yeah, man. My wife and I, we went out and we got these burgers and fries that we really like and we took them to our favorite lake and ate them there. And I was like, that's awesome. And I said, let's keep the cheat meal in as long as we can. By the way, guys, he's got like lines all through his legs already. And it's like, we aren't even starting to diet yet. And I have him just kind of slowly coasting down, but I know he's still growing at the same time. And we're going to try to keep doing this as long as we can. But I said, eventually there's going to be a point that we can't have the cheat meal anymore probably. And when that time comes, don't stop spending that quality time together. You know, I think that being in prep. You can bring your diet food to the lake. Yeah, you can bring your diet food to the lake. You know, I've had people too that like I've let them go out and get like a chicken breast and a green salad. And they might even eat lower calories than they would have normally for that meal, you know, but it gives them an opportunity to go out and do something that at the end of the day, though, it's not about the food. It's about that quality time that you guys are spending together. And I don't want somebody to go through a prep and feel like, you know what? I feel like I really neglected this aspect of my life. You know, maybe you can't give 110% to every aspect of your life all the time. And prep is kind of part of that. But you know what? You can still do something. So anyway, that was one thing that I wanted to share with him because I didn't even want to do that kind of stuff. You know, I kind of I looked at it as like, I got to be locked in. You know, I'm just going to stay at home. And it's like, you know what? That kind of stuff, it doesn't have to be that way. And I think that longevity wise, if you can get outside of that, you'll enjoy bodybuilding for longer. And so will your family. Yeah, right. The thing that I thought of when I saw that question was I don't looking back, I did not enjoy every phase of the process enough. Like for any of you guys that are listening that have a dream of winning an overall at a bodybuilding show and you're nowhere near that yet. The phase you're in right now is awesome. And the time you're in right now and hanging out with your friends in the gym and the day to day. I have years I don't remember. Yeah. Like because you were so focused on the chase. It's funny, but I'm sure, Ron, you've seen this too. And Brad Marchand that's playing for the Panthers right now, he keeps reiterating that the thing he's doing at this stage in his career is being very mindful of how awesome the moment is. He says he has moments in his career, entire series that he played that they won, that they did well, that he remembers nothing about because he was just chasing the win, chasing getting the Stanley Cup. And it was funny because I listened to him like, oh, I know exactly what he's talking about. Yeah. You know, and not just in the bodybuilding and being fortunate enough to travel the world and do these things like, yeah, you're, you're just doing them. You know, it's, it's kind of like, it's the same with your kids. They're not going to be six forever. So it's like, you really want to soak up that time, even when it seems like a hassle, because when they're 15 and they don't want to hang out with you after school, you're going to go, oh man, I remember how I used to get irritated because they always wanted to play. And now they don't want to play at all, you know? So I think there's a lot of that in life, but definitely in bodybuilding where the moment you're in right now is an awesome moment and the future moments will be too, but make sure you're, you're in the one you're in now and, and soaking it up so you can look back and say, man, that was a great period that I didn't skip because in bodybuilding, you're talking about years. I mean, you want to find out if you're any good at this, you got to devote a decade to it. You don't want to forget about years one through three. Yeah. I got one more. I got one more. And that is, and this is one that I truly do regret. And that is that I didn't stop to take more pictures when I got into shape that, um, because my idea was, you know, when I competed, some people they'll wait and they'll say, I'm not going to compete until I'm a super heavy. And my perspective was I'm going to compete and that's going to be an outside catalyst to help me drive to, to continue pushing harder and doing better. And it definitely did, but I'd compete. And then I would say, okay, now this will be my opportunity to get to the next level and instantly back into growth phase, like instantly, you know? And I wish that I would have taken time to hire a photographer, do some cool pictures. And I know that there are a lot of people doing pictures now, you know, Instagram, social media, all that stuff. Like there's a marketing aspect to it, but I'm not even talking about that. I'm talking about every phase of your physique. Yes. You might be better next year. Cause that's what I had in my head. Oh no, I just got to go grow my quads. Like, you know, when I have better quads, then I'll take pictures. No, take pictures. Now you don't know if this might be your last year. Last year doing it. Not to mention if you do have better quads, it'll be really cool. No matter what, 20 years, 10 years, five years down the road to have just those, it's not even the memories, but having, I don't know, what is it? Having the document of what you took your physique to. Cause if you've made it to a show, even if you took that last, you've pulled an incredible feat that most people will never achieve. You know what I mean? Scott, I have no pictures from competing of my entire career. Yeah. I never paid for photos. Like when they offered them at shows, I was like, eh, I don't need those. And same with you. It was like, I'm not good enough yet. And when I look back, I'm like the very, I mean, I have a couple of like my mom's backyard that are like, this is me when I started, but I wish I had 500 of those for the whole phase. Cause it's funny that the gym did a thing. They were like, get, get a picture from when you competed at a stage shot and bring into the gym. And my first thought was, I don't really care. And the second thought was, I don't even think I have one. I don't think I have what I like. Yeah. You know, so those are also definitely good things. I'd be like, you know what? I'm now I'm holding water. You know, I went out to eat and now I'm holding water. So I don't want to take the pictures cause I was better yesterday. So, and then, you know, just like, no, take the pictures. You're still awesome. Well, three days from now, you're gonna be 30 pounds up. So let's not do that. Um, I'm going to keep firing off some more. Yeah. What else you got? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. All right. Um, this one I thought was good based on the last five pro shows. Is it safe to say we can put this, put the idea of politics and professional bodybuilding going to sleep? Yeah. It's ludicrous. I did like, I don't, I hate it when people say politics at some of these shows. Like these, these judges aren't thinking like that. Like Jesus. Reaching for your wallet. And if it was politics. Back in the. Sorry. Reaching for your wallet back in the. Yeah. Yeah. That's us. Yeah. I forgot about that. Jesus. Yeah. I know. Um, it, it blows me away. I, uh, I, I mean, I know these judges, they don't even talk to each other all year. They show up at the show. Like, Hey, how's it going? Yeah. You sit down at the table and the judges show like, and I've talked to lots of judges where they're like, yeah, I was surprised that guy won. I had him second. Yeah. Mm-hmm. Like, or yeah, I had that guy first. I don't know why I didn't win. I was shocked when they announced him second. Like people think that there's this grand scheme of things. It's just not like that. It's funny. Cause it's in every sport, you know, cause obviously I follow hockey really closely. And if there's a bad call, Oh, that's the, the, the NHL is dying for a Canadian team to win the Stanley cup. I'm like, yeah. Like game one. They give a shit. So that was funny. Cause remember game one, the Oilers won in overtime on that beautiful power play goal. Right. Yep. And when that guy shot the puck over the glass, every single ref on the ice simultaneously put their hands up. Yeah. They all knew. They're like, Oh, that's a delay of game. Like we have to call it. Yeah. They don't want to call it. I didn't even look at each other. They didn't even look at each other. They didn't want to call it, but they're like, Oh, I mean every, every single person in the building saw that. That's a rule. Yeah. And then after the game, like, Oh, well, there's only one that cause refs put them on a power play fucking refs looking for a Canadian team. It's like, there was no meeting. You watch five hands go up at the same time. When Panthers bench went like this, the whole Panthers, the Panthers coach went, Oh, like that. And every single oiler went, yeah, like instantly. Cause there's no way that's not getting called. Yeah. Like they'll let a little elbow up in the corner. A little lot going over time. They'll let a lot going over time. They'll let a lot of rough shit. Oh yeah. Washing in the corner. Go. They'll let these guys play hard. They'll, they'll try not to call penalties in overtime. They don't want it. They don't want it. They do. And the guys don't let it slide. They'll let it slide. They push each other harder. They want these guys playing. They don't want them to decide the game. They don't want them to call every little tiny thing and make it like, ah, fuck, you know? Cause you know, a power play goal in overtime to win the game. That's a big fucking deal. Yeah. Like, like, you know what I mean? They don't want to call penalties on these guys, but man, when you shoot the puck over the glass, it's a rule. Yeah. They don't have a choice. It's not, it's not optional. It's like, no. So like, you could look the other way out of holding the stick or this or that here and there. If it doesn't damage the play, you can't look away from those, but that's, yeah, it's a delayed game. Completely normal. But that I, I, I really enjoy the Tyler's taking the time to do the social media and the explanations. Yeah. Tyler's explanation. Like he's really breaking it down. Awesome. So it's like, if you can still claim politics, then you're just not paying attention. Yeah. Like Tyler even said, I had Nick winning and Nick didn't win. Yeah. Yeah. So like, it is though. Look, so if the puck goes over the glass, it literally, the puck goes over the glass. If, you know, Nick Walker's back is not quite as lean as this guy. Yeah. It's a different thing. But it's still your, it's, it's still just, listen, if I'm watching Ron on stage and I want him to win, even if I don't mean to, in my head, I'm thinking of all the reasons he should win. Yeah. I'm not thinking why the other guy could win. And that's what I tell my clients all the time. Cause I have clients, they'll send me pictures after a second place and they're like, look at my quads compared to his and look at my, this. And I'm like, no, no, no. If you want to become a better bodybuilder, don't look at why you should win. Look at why he could have won. Yeah. Like find the reasons that they might've thought he was better. Yeah. And then you can become better. Like when I took, I didn't win the overall for junior USA or junior nationals. Everyone thought I was going to win. I mean, it was on MD, it was everywhere and I didn't win. And as soon as I didn't win. MD's muscular development used to be a website for those people. Yeah. If they don't know what those are anymore. Um, but I, I just, I immediately looked at Matt, the guy that won the overall and I go, Oh, I see it. He's pretty. He's put together. Do you like apples? Do you like oranges? Bam. And it didn't slow me to Matt Loudon. Great bodybuilder. Great bodybuilder. And I, to this day have zero issue. Not Matt Lauer, the NBC TV host. Well, he was also a great bodybuilder, but a lot of people don't know that. So no, that's, uh, those are those factors. Um, yeah. Okay. Here's, here's one from a guest that I thought was cool. What is the best part of being retired from competitive bodybuilding? Oh, the best part. I get to do other fun stuff without caring about all the bodybuilding, you know, regimentation that I used to be a part of, you know? I mean, I got out of bodybuilding, like I'd say the last few years I was in it, it was definitely work and I was looking forward to being done. Right. Um, so I, I, I maybe hung on a little too long, but, uh, managed to make it worth my while, I guess you could say, um, in, in that way. But I mean, the best part now is like, I also don't care as much. Like we all have some body dysmorphia and I still got plenty left over. Yeah. You know what I mean? But, but I still got plenty left over, but you know, I used to look at things wrong with my physique as like, it was a huge deal. Yeah. And now I look at things wrong with my physique and I'm like, Oh, that's kind of a battle scar from all the stuff I went through. You know, like, you know, if you're, if you're a NFL football player and you got like, you know, a shoulder surgery and a hip surgery and a, you know, stuff, you're not, you're not like going to be as young to be self-conscious about those scars. Cause they're like part of your story. Yeah. You know? So I got the messed up lat and fucked up calf and stuff, but I'm starting to get like a lot better with just the fact that it's just, Hey man, I took my body farther than most people could ever dream of. And that's just, I wore some shit out, you know? And, uh, so trying to get past all that stuff has been, you know, that's, I mean, I'm, I'm really happy to not be so like, I look at some people now and I, I think, well, I hope they enjoy it while they're in it, get the most out of it, but I hope they also can get out of it after they're done. Right. Like I was able to. What about you, Scott? Yeah. I would say the time consuming aspect of having to do everything that it takes. And of course, yeah, you can make it work, but I have a, I have a, I have a really demanding day that I would not be able to do competitive bodybuilding at the level that I would want to be able to do it and do all the other stuff. Like I would have to make some, uh, concessions. What? Concessions. Yeah. Yeah. I'd have to like change things around a little bit, you know? Um, so there's that aspect also. Um, so unlike you guys, my struggle was always in trying to get bigger. So the offseason to me and I, and unfortunately I had like a real physical job for like five years and it was like in my best bodybuilding time too. So I'm constantly stuffing food, stuffing food, and then walking it off, working it off. And I, I did a lot better after I stopped doing that, you know, and was working from home. But, uh, there were a lot of years that I was just like always feeling stressed that I needed to eat more. And my offseason oftentimes felt like I was always falling a little bit short and it's not a good feeling. And I know other guys that are like that. Like it's the guys with the real fast metabolisms that it's like, no matter what you do, you feel like you should have done a little bit more today for food, you know? So it's a, it's a battle. And then the contest season was always easy, you know, because you just, now you get to feel like you eat like a normal person. You're not bloated all the time. I was going to say my, my biggest thing was, uh, I have not been full since I retired. I refuse to get feel stuffed. Yeah. Nikki knows like I'll eat and I still eat a pretty good amount. You do. I've seen you put away a lot. What I would qualify is a lot actually. Yeah. But when, but when I get done, when I get done eating, like we'll be at a dinner. Yeah. I'll eat a bite and I'll go, okay, I'm satisfied. I literally will call the waitress and be like, can you take my plate? Cause I don't want to eat anymore. And if it sits here, I probably will. And I do not ever want to feel full again. 15 years of being either stuffed or starving. Yeah. I don't want to be full ever again. I laugh cause people get ready for the holidays and they eat until they're going to burst. And I'm like, Oh no, one plate, maybe, maybe one and a half. Yeah. Good. I do not miss looking at a plate of food completely full at the moment. And I haven't started eating and going, this has to go down. Yeah. And I don't even know how it's going to. Yeah. I accidentally, um, that's funny. You mentioned that I just recently stuffed myself and I, all of a sudden I realized, Oh shit, I'm not feeling good. This is how I used to feel all the time. And I like literally put my food down. I was like, Oh fuck. And I like sat back and I was like, Oh, and I was so turned off. I was like, I hate this feeling. It was like, I was all of a sudden 320 pounds again and just feeling like bloated and gross. And I sat there watching TV with Emily. We like finished the movie and I was like, took all the way to the end of the movie for me to feel better. And I was like, Oh, and then I was like, wow, that was that old feeling. I got that old feeling that used to just say good old regular every day, three times a day feeling. I hated it. Yeah. So the counterpart to that question is what was the hardest part of retiring and changing your life? Oh, that's, that's, that's a good question. And, um, I think, like I said, I, I was so ready to do it that it wasn't hard. Like, I remember the first thing I loved was I was just like, not tied to food anymore. I had four meals today. Oh, well, got a lot of shit done. Right. I was like, Oh, my incline press went down a bit. That's going to go down a bunch more. Like I was, I was ready. I was ready. And I think that that's why I had a guy was also older, you know, and I'd opened, we'd opened the gym. So I had all this other stuff to do. And I was like, that's okay. My life's moving forward here. Like I don't need it to be here. I'm going this way now. And so, yeah. And then picking up hobbies. And I think I was just at a spot where I actually relatively had an easy time. A little, maybe some of the body dysmorphia at first, you know, I remember certain t-shirts. Like I remember when I went from a four X to a three X, I was like, ah, my arms aren't filling these shirts out anymore. I went down to a three X. But then by the time I went from a three X to a two X, I was kind of laughing about it. Oh, I'm a two X now. Oh, here we go. Like I was, and I realized I'd kind of gotten past a lot of it. Right. Scott. I see the guys who they like, they're like, well, once I'm done, then I'm going to intentionally size down. And they, they, I think it's a matter of like taking control versus like, Ron, you're talking about how well shit, it's just kind of happening to me. You know what I mean? And I think that it's, there's an element of, and for you, especially like you went out on your terms. And I think that that's a big thing. It's something I've kind of looked into a lot in the past five years is, you know, although I was never going to do anything huge. And I didn't ever like officially retire. And it kind of was in the back of my head. I'm probably not going to compete. But then when I got to 240 and I was, or close to 240 and I was like, well, if I got to 240, that might be a different physique on stage. Cause I just don't want to put the same physique on stage again as I had in the past. And, and then I got sick. And then from there, everything went downhill and I had to accept it. So, uh, I, I would say for me, it wasn't quite on my terms. And I've, I, I have, uh, I think that's the thing you have to look out for in, in athletics, in any sport, when you're really passionate about it is, uh, you know, go out on your own terms as best as you can. And know when it's time to take your exit because eventually if you don't, it will be taken for you, you know, and I'm grateful that I'm not trying to still be big. I still would like to be, you know, bigger if I could, but I'm happy to, I'm happy to like size down. I'm at a one X now. I was a two X and now I'm a one X now that I've been dieting and it's a little uncomfortable. I'll be honest, but I'm okay with it. It's good. Yeah. For me, the hardest part was figuring out what I wanted to look like. Hmm. Because it was weird. I mean, you, you spend all your time every, we've talked about this many times. What you look like in May was based on when your next show was. Yeah. If your show was in June, well then you were appealed. And if your show was in a year plus, you were heavy and it never, it never bothered. Like, you know, some people are like, Oh, I can't wait to get lean. So I look better. I never cared. I was like, today is based on whatever the next show date is. So when I got done, I was like, I don't even know what I want to look like. Like choose my own look. And it was really hard. And then I would commit to like, I'm going to lean down. And then two days later or one day later, I'm eating bullshit. I'm like, okay, I don't know why I'm doing that. And I was like, you know what? Maybe I'll, maybe I'll put some size back on. Yeah. And then it come time to eat a meal. I'm like, I don't want to do that. And I'm like, why can't I even commit to anything? I can't, I'm, where did dusty go? That just flips the switch. And it wasn't until I just realized like, Oh, I just need to let myself go. Like Ron said. And then at some point something will click and I'll start eating a certain way and looking a certain way and be okay with it. And that was it. But it, I mean, that was a two year process of like, how do I just accept where I'm going to be? And what's the look I like, you know, whereas now it's like, I want to be leaner than I was, but being small, I've definitely determined is going to be a decision that requires not training, not eating. It'll be very hard. Do we have any, do we have any questions off the chat yet or no? Yeah. I've got, I've got one that I wanted to make sure we threw away. I don't want to be just rattling these off without it. So go ahead. All right. Um, all right. And this is from Ethan. He said, uh, if you had one set, one set that you could do before you are on a live, like I'm going to say a death row set, uh, like the, the, the last meal of sets. Um, but for a set for a specific exercise, pick the machine, the movement training partner and a gym. You get the full thing, the full package. I would do, Hey man, I just go to my happy place. I would, I would do, uh, am I healthy? You're very, yeah, there's nothing. And even if you're not, it doesn't matter. Cause you're not going to have to worry about training after this. You can destroy it. You just have to get through the set. Yeah. Yeah. Just have to get through the set. Well, I figure if I'm going to be on alive. Yep. Um, then I want to get that ultimate feeling of being alive, which is leg day. Yep. That's, I think why we all love. Birthday leg days. Crushing a birthday or a Christmas day leg day. Like back in the day I used to always do that. It's just, there's nothing like after those big sets, you're like, Holy shit. And I also used to have that like mentality, like before a big set of hack squats, I'd be like, if I, if something happens during this set, I guess it happens. Yeah. Right. A little Dolph Lundgren. Right. If he dies, he dies. If he dies, he dies. That sort of thing. Uh, so I would do a set of hack squats, heavy ass set of hack squats, maybe, you know, to obviously an absolute failure with a couple of forced reps. Um, maybe I'd pick a weight where I'm shooting for like 10 reps, you know, so it was like some grinding there and really got to dig deep, load that, load that thing up. And, uh, Hey, Braden's been training with me for like six years now. He's been a great partner. I'd just do it at West coast iron with him like any old Tuesday. And, uh, and, uh, if, uh, and, and if I, if I make it through, then I get my one last steak and fry meal with a little pizza. There you go. And, uh, yeah, there we go. Piece of dairy milk chocolate. And then, uh, one piece. Cheers. I like that. Scott. Well, I just trained at West coast, you know, the other week. So I'll say that I'll do, I'll train at West coast iron with you guys. Show the shirt. Oh yeah. I got the shirt. I like this shirt too. This is a, I like the earth tones. You know what I mean? So it's a good flannel. That's your flannel. That's very, very matchy match. That's I think you pick that color for that flannel. I feel, I didn't know I did, but I think you're right. I did. Um, subconsciously West coast iron. And, um, you're going to have to get a transformer bar. Cause we're doing safety squat, safety bar squats. I have a safety bar for now. It's gotta be a transformer bar. We'll get it shipped in. I'll book my flight. Yeah. All of this too. If this is like a death row thing, I think I'm buying myself some time. You know what I'm saying? It might take seven to nine weeks. Yeah. It's stuck in customs right now. Yeah. Yeah. Tariffs, you know? Yeah. Tariffs. I like it. Fair enough. Um, so I don't think that mine is actually possible, but, uh, since I can make it anything I want it to be, Ron and I would recreate our back day at Dino's. Oh, because that, that, that was like, that is, that is my workout. I remember for the rest of my life. It was the whole scene of the entire thing. The whole night. Yeah. It was a Ron and I, it was great. It was a great meal. You'll love this Scott. So I tell Ron, uh, all right, let's do, let's do some, let's do some dead stop rows. And the gym is slammed. Yeah. And you've been to Dino's. So, I mean, it's slammed. There's not enough to use. So Ron goes, I've never done these before. I'm like, okay, perfect. Let's go today. And we both get, go after those brutally. Um, and then we get done. And first off during the sets, the entire gym stops. Yeah. And we have 50 people yelling at us. Dino saying his one liners that I can still hear in my mind. And, you know, um, we get done and we look up and the gym is still slammed. So I look at him, I go, now we do regular barbell rows. He's like, sure. Mind you, I, I had sort of like not been doing a lot of like bent over rowing. I just, I'm a little retired. Yeah. Yeah. A little bit tapped out. I'm like, okay. So we just did dead stop barbell rows and then non dead stop barbell rows, like back to back, you know? Yeah. So it was, it was, it was grueling, but I, I still love it. Climbed up on the chair and I filmed that set from above. Yep. And I still remember counting them out real loud. You can hear me in the video. Yeah. You know, eight, nine, 10. And you can hear Dino. Come on, Dusty. People dream of doing the things you do. Whatever he says to you. Yeah. Yeah. No, that, that was the, that is my favorite workout of all time. And I've had some awesome ones, but that was, uh, that was definitely one of those moments that I knew when it was happening. I'm like, this is, this is that moment. Okay. That's great. Great. Today's the day I've seen my all time best workouts. I've seen, uh, Dusty peer pressure Ron into lifting heavier weight than I think he would have otherwise. Like I, well, you know, uh, I wasn't training hard. Or much at the time. But when you guys did the mutant mansion in mutant brought me out for a couple of days, I watched you guys shooting some video and you guys were doing some T-bar rows and you put a few plates on there and I could tell, you know, you watch somebody, you can tell when it gets heavy and I could tell Ron when you would have stopped. And Dusty put like several more plates on after that. And I, you got up, you like, I could see you to, it took literally, you put, you turned it on. You like really, I watched you turn on like the old school thing that day and do a set that I don't think you would have done otherwise. Cause it probably wasn't a smart idea anyway, but you still did it and you did it well. You did it well too. You know, Braden, Braden notices that occasionally too. He'll go, Oh, that was, that was one of those sets. Yeah. Yeah. I'm not going to do that next week. It was, it was easy to not take the weight back off the bar. Yeah. Yeah. It's like one of those things. You go, but if we have to remove these, so let's just do it as it is. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Now those were great, great. I've got one question. Fire. Fire. So I got from a female listener. I must say I was contacted by three female listeners this week. Two of them who trained at my gym, one moved away, but, and it was just great to hear from three female listeners like, you know, that they're watching our show and really appreciated the motivation and, and getting them through cardio and helping them through their preps and that sort of stuff. And cause I think, you know, we, we, we still, we still wonder why anyone watches. Anyway. So really, um, but, but one of the questions was, um, what are your recommendations for choosing? I hear you guys talk about efficiency. I'm just trying to, it was a bit wordy, so I'm just narrow it. She hears us talk about efficiency. Uh, what, what do we recommend for making sure that we choose the exercises that they can get the most out of for putting muscle on their body? Cause they see some girls doing all these exercises that none of the guys do. Right. And you know, all these sorts of, you know, from curtsy lunges to, you know, send a band kickback type of stuff. And just wondering, what do we recommend? What do we look at to choose an exercise to make a muscle grow? It's kind of the wording. When I, when I look at a female and I say, when I say bodybuilder, I mean anybody who wants to put on muscle mass or whatever sport from wellness to bikini. Doesn't matter stuff. Then I think you got to keep it simple. Like what would, what would a top bodybuilder do to make his back thicker? Do that. There's some confusion that females muscles are different. We have the same muscles. Right. So the best stimulus for a guy to put on, to put tissue in a certain area is the best stimulus for you. Right. You know, so I, I, there's a place for certain exercises. I get, there's a spot for a kickback. I'm not saying there's not. Right. But there's also a spot for a heavy ass squat. Yep. And you need to do those compound movements, those meat and potato movements that guys do to good size and then toss that stuff into the end if you feel like you still need it. But there's a lot of confusion because when you do a, when you do a glute kickback on a cable, real controlled, you're going to feel the isolation on that glute. And you're like, this is working my glute. It's not working anything else because I'm doing it perfectly. Yeah. And yes, it is. But if you think that a ass to grass squat with two 25 at 135 pounds is not hitting your glutes, you're out of your mind. It's not going to feel the same way as that kickback does. It's the same argument I have with people that say, but I feel it better. Well, I feel an extension better than I feel a squat too. Should I just throw the squats out and do extensions? Yeah. Right. So meat and potatoes is where it's at. If you're trying to put on tissue, that's your secret. Yeah. Basics. Yeah. I mentioned it earlier, but loading, being able to load an exercise is very important. So like there's some people that are all about EMG studies, you know, and they'll say, oh, the EMG study says that, you know, this exercise is superior to this exercise. But the EMG, because the EMG lights up more when, you know, they pull their bicep into the contraction or whatever. But if you're also very unable to load that exercise more and you're, there's, there's, there's no stress in the stretch position, then it doesn't really matter what the EMG study says about the contraction, because we know that the stretch load is very important. And, you know, tension through the muscle mechanical tension is very important. There's a lot more than just an EMG because there's certain exercises that show up really good on an EMG, but they're very hard to load. They're very impractical. They're not stressful in the stretch position. There's not a lot of mechanical tension. So there's, there's that has to be taken into consideration as well. So for example, like I mentioned lunges for, let's say a girl wanted to grow her glutes. I would say, well, you should be doing instead of lunging, say with a free bar, I would lunge on a Smith machine because you're a lot more stable. You don't have to worry about balancing. You can stay on that one leg at a time. So you got more tension. Boom, boom, boom. You can take that muscle to failure and then switch legs instead of alternating. And then there's hip thrusts. I would use a good machine. Like, you know, we have a hammer machine hip thrust, which is probably the best one. They can load the shit out of their glutes with the machine like that. They're super stable. They're locked in. You know, so those exercises would be superior to me for generally putting the most amount of volume onto that muscle. So, you know, like Braden and I did for fun. We did hanging off the incline bench doing like curls to the forehead the other day. Right. Yeah. And we just saw us do some spider curls. Right. And the next day, the outside head of my bicep was sore. Nice. Right. And I was like, those were really great for that contraction. Like, but there's no stretch load. Yeah. At all. Like the barbell is just hanging. Like your bicep almost relaxes at the bottom. Yeah. You know what I mean? So technically, those probably aren't the best exercise for getting your arms to grow. They were fun and we did them for a crazy pump. Yeah. But if you're trying to just train the bicep as efficiently as possible, I would use a preacher curl, machine preacher curl. Yeah. I love machines. Or something where you're locked in and there's tension through the whole range. That's how I think generally. Do you guys remember generation plus ago now in bodybuilding that, and this was like before bikini, um, every girl was doing plyos. They had their plyo routine. Oh yeah. That was like the thing, you know, you, they lifted, but then they also had their plyo routine. And that was like a thing they did with like dumbbells every, you know, other day or whatever. Remember that was the thing. I mean, I, I'm with you guys a hundred percent. I think there is something to like the specificity of like the Brett Contreras glute stuff, you know? Yeah. I think Brett's awesome. You're going to get a lot out of that, but you can't just do that stuff. You also. He's able to explain it properly too. Like, like if you're a bikini girl and you're specifically trying to bring that very upper outer part of the glute, then technically you should add some of these in. Yeah. Right. Yeah. And it works, you know, and part of it I think is because like you're doing in, in his training, it might be like four glute days a week or four lower body days a week, you know, and and the physiques are just so freaking, it's crazy to see like, we're lucky enough to have been in this sport long enough to have seen the birth of bikini to see where that started, to see where it's developed into today. No pun intended developed. And to see like the offshoots, like look at the way figure the division as a whole has changed even in the presentation due to the bikini routines. And then of course, wellness as being an offshoot from that, because you just can't contain some of those girls, you know, they have to keep growing. Yeah. And so it makes sense that, yeah, if you're going to do something that is so absolutely extreme with the lower body, there is going to be some more volume. So you can't do that, like the hard, heavy stuff four times. You can't do like the, the squats, the hacks, you know, four times a week like that. Right. But you can't leave that. You just don't throw them away. Yeah. You can't leave that stuff out. That's to me, that's the foundation, you know? Yeah. And when you mentioned a guy like Brett Contreras, he has, he's got his girls, like they're hip thrusting like 500 pounds. Yeah. They're strong. Right. So there's, there's, they're still following that principle of get strong on those big movements that take the most tissue through the range of motion. Yeah. And then do your clamshells. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So they're still violently strong. Yeah. No, it's, it's, I actually, I've seen some of the videos of the, um, the wellness girls training. Yeah. It's brutal. Yeah. They're squatting three plates. It is brutal. They're Smith squatting three plates. Yeah. Their trainer is screaming in their face, forced reps. I mean, you're like, that's one of the most awful workouts I've ever seen in my life. And then they're like, oh, I do this three days a week. And you're like, how? Yeah. Yeah. Like, the thing too, I'll throw out there is, um, I've seen issues like, so there, you are developing imbalances. Right. And so you can create pelvic floor issues where you get like the posterior tail issues with your, with your tailbone. And you know, like there are, so I guess too, I would say that like, think about it's impossible, but think about balancing that out to a degree. You know what I mean? Yeah. That's essentially what they're doing. It's, it's an art. I mean, Brett has really, he's the guy in my opinion. Like, because he's doing, like you said, he's doing both. He's saying, okay, this is the meat and potatoes, you know, but the sledgehammer is not always the tool to use. Sometimes we need the scalpel. Yeah. But like, you can't do all scalpel all the time, you know? Exactly. Yeah. Yeah. Can't grab a pebble. Yeah. What do we think? I think that's it. I think that's it. Yeah. I think we got plenty. I blabbered. I hope I communicated my points. We've got kind of passionate about bikini training, you know? It happened. It was cool. Well, I think people underestimate how hard those girls train. Oh, yeah. Yeah. I don't really know how that took place, but I'm like, no, they're literally doing the exact same thing. They're, they're, they're carving their, they're, they're building a physique, then carving it down into a perfect thing. It's just done differently, but it's, it's, it's hardcore. And those girls now they're in shape. It's a whole new thing. Like bodybuilding has evolved because of bikini. I honestly, I'm kind of passionate about bikini in case you guys didn't know. I, I, and they're really strong on core movements. I fell into, and I'll say fell into working with some bikini girls like 2016, 17, and a couple of them did well. And so then I worked with more of them and I got like this for a while. I was like doing a lot of bikini competitors. And now I, I still to this day, man, I love watching the division. It's like, it's cool to see how far they've taken it and how far that division has gone. And like 20 years ago, we would have never looked at that physique and been, you know what I'm saying? Like we would have never known that the things are possible that they're doing. Oh, I was, I thought bikini was the most boring thing ever when it came out. Oh, it was just, it was just like, they just look like girls that, yeah. Like, Oh, you were genetically born with a nice body. Congratulations. I don't know how we're calling this sport. And now it's, it's, it demands the same amount of respect for sure. Yeah. It's morphed for sure. It's like those weights are freaking invisible. It's great. Snatched. That's the word they use, isn't it? I try to be careful using that word. Yeah. Just saying. But you know, you see him squatting two plates, full depth for reps. At 130. Body weights of, yeah, 130 pounds. offseason. Something crazy, you know, squatting a hundred pounds over their body weight and, you know, doing hip thrusts with five plates a side on the hammer machine. And, you know, I remember, uh, Ron, the first time that I trained legs, the first time I trained legs with this area and like we're squatting and she throws 225 on and does 15 like nonstop Scott. Yeah. And then just puts them up. Like she wasn't even near failure. And I was like, and that was like 20, what? 2013. Like, how is this? I mean, and she's tiny and I'm thinking how effortless pull-ups. Yeah. 30. I'm like, what? And then you guys want to see a hard diet. Look at a bikini girl's diet. Yeah. John Meadows did it once. Three ounces of chicken. Three ounces of chicken. John Meadows made the 202 doing it. Yeah. Yeah. He just actually took a client's diet. It was like, I'll do this. Yeah. That'll get it done. Yeah. Good enough. Okay. Thanks everybody. Remember, I am mutant.com. Get your ISO surge. Get your all in and everyone get on the gear codes dusty or big Ron. You don't have to leave your house. No people. None. No touching. No talking. Nothing. You're going to love it. Okay. Thanks guys. Remember, like, share, subscribe, comment, and... Ring the bell. ...the questions from their show. Yes. Yes. Yes. We actually covered a contest today and we talked about two competitors from the entire show. We did. That's as good as it gets for us. That's as good as it gets. We are not your contest. We kind of brushed on Reagan as well. We barely mentioned. Two has given us a lot. One point two. Yeah. Yeah. There's like hundreds of people in the show. Yeah. And we mentioned two. So we're very happy about that. Thanks guys. Leave comments. We love your comments. We love your questions. Let us know why you watch us. Let us know if we're helping you through anything. Let us know if you play us for your spouse to let them know what you're listening to. We love all the side stories we get. I've had a few say they have them listen just to know that it could be worse. Yeah. Yeah. This one I'm listening to. Like, it's nonsense. Like, I'm listening to... Don't worry about a thing. Yeah. Okay. Thanks guys. And remember, it's just bodybuilding. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay.