And uh they had Derek and Brandon and Samson all there and the reporter said, "Oh, it's tape your arms." Or whoever it was and Samson just gave like it wasn't like a careful tape. He just like put it around the big part and wrap and it was easy 24. Yeah. And the reporter was like, "Oh, 24 in." And I was like, "God." Yeah. Cuz like, you know, 24 is outrageously big for To put that in perspective for average listener, do me a favor. Measure your quad and see what you come up with and see how close 24 you are. You know what I mean? Hey everybody, welcome to It's Just Bodybuilding. I'm Big Ron Partllo. And of course, I got Dusty Handshot and the producers Scott McN. Remember to like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. Yes, and remember immutant.com. Get your ISO surge. Get your all in. And everyone should get on the gear. Codes Dusty and Big Ron. There you go. Or the BCAS or the Mind FK. Get your stuff. And uh yeah, save money. Have it delivered right to your door. Don't have to put socks. Don't have to put underwear on. You don't have to put clothes on. You just order and then someone will knock and you can wait for them to leave. You don't have to even talk to them or make any human contact whatsoever. Talk to them. Put your clothes on though. That's one tip. Ideally, but you wait for them to leave. Um, if you I hope this doesn't say more about me than it does about other people how I'm trying. It says a lot about me. Don't have to have any human contact. You can just stay in your house. Yeah. Reckless. I can't believe not everyone's doing this. Yeah. Yeah. So, that's what I think. You should just order your stuff through immutant.com. There you go. And uh I must give one quick little pump for those of you who haven't tried the Mind FK. I once again Yeah, one quick pump. One quick pump for the Mind FK. Um it it's my favorite pre-workout of all time. Sometimes I just take it and then just stay home on a Sunday afternoon. I've been known to use it with nicotine to work longer. Right. Right. Listen, I I'll say close. I'm going to say still uh Jacked or Jacked the original Jacked that. Yeah, that was maybe my favorite, but this is close second there. You haven't tried them on the same day with all the band stuff in it. You remember you remember things. You remember things better than they were like ex-girlfriends, Jack 3D, all those things. I've been taking a full scoop of the Mind FK before I go ride my little bike. Yeah. And it's like perfect. I'm not like I'm just like super focused. Oh, yeah. Yeah. So, it's good stuff. Play guitar on it, you know. I took a scoop, then I did a workout, and now I'm doing the show. So, we'll see if I'm better. You guys tell us. Yep. No, we're not. We're off to a bad start, but okay. We'll see. Okay. Okay. I did not have it yet today. I'm just I use the competitors before this show just in case it's not good. You're purposely going to bomb the episode now as like an ad, kind of a subtle advertisement. This is what I used before we ruined the show. was really off today. I should have heard one of his suggestions for a topic. It was like totally wrong. Yeah. Yeah. See, now we know what it was. Okay. So, we're going to we're going to we're going to rock on with this episode, right, Scott? Yeah. Rock on. Really get the goat horns going. Okay. Full goat horn. Full goat horns. I can't even say it. You didn't use it either. No, I know. I need it. Okay. SAS wins the Toronto Pro. Yes, fifth time's a charm. Going to the Olympia and obviously friend of SAS. Although I'm still upset that I wasn't on I don't think I was on the episode last time. He was a guest, right? Wasn't he on? No, you're right. You weren't here. He weren't there. You Dusty shined on that episode actually. It was a really good one, too. Sometimes he comes through clutch and um uh but I must say uh I did an a mutant on a mission at AW Muscle and Fitness in England last last year and Cissan was at the gym that day and he got in on the episode and we chatted a bit and and then I actually posted a shirtless photo with him. I was brave enough to That was brave. Yeah. And I happened to be like really lean at the time so I looked okay so I was okay with it. But uh very happy about Cassan uh winning the Toronto Pro and qualifying for the Olympia and I thought he looked fantastic. What a crazy physique he has. Was this his best look of the year? Would you guys say? I mean I mean he's been I think he looks like that a lot of the time doesn't I was the right show. I did hear some people say that though and I'd be curious you guys tell us at home. Well, you know what did you think? I know at Fibo, I believe, um, everyone like heavily criticized the lighting at that show. Yeah. And said that it was like horrendous, like just softened everybody up and really blurred everything. So, um, I uh I remember SAS came by the booth at Feeble. Remember that, Dusty? Yep. And, uh, I I mean the the chat was that Sask looked absolutely mind-boggling and then everyone on stage kind of looked the same condition. That was the show that Andrew Jack won. Y um who we also saw at Fibo and was like me and Dusty were like, "Oh god, look at his arms." Like it was funny because we Ron goes, "God, look at that guy's arms." I'm like, cuz he had his head down. I go, "That's Andrew." He goes, "Oh yeah, okay." Yeah. I was like, I could have just seen the arm and been like, "Oh, that's Andrew." Okay, perfect. Yeah, his arms are crazy. What did you say? Did you say that Samson's arms were what? What did you say, Ron? Oh yeah. Did you see that video on Instagram? I wish I would have sent it to you guys, but they were at they were at Independence Gym. Yeah. Which is in Phoenix or Scottsdale? Scottsdale. Yeah. And uh they had Derek and Brandon and Samson all there. And the reporter said, "Oh, it's tape your arms." Or whoever it was. And Samson just gave like it wasn't like a careful tape. He just like put it around the big part and wrap. And it was easy 24. Yeah. And the reporter was like, "Oh, 24 in." And I was like, "God damn." Yeah. cuz like you know 24 is outrageously big for to put that in perspective for average listener do me a favor measure your quad and see what you come up with and see how close 24 you are you know what I mean try to find something on your body that's 24 in I got something easy 24 my easy 24 my head yeah what's a skull measure you know I mean my my neck is still I think my neck's still almost 20. Yeah. Yeah. That's definitely telling. That's a farmer's point. That is what you got. Farm kid neck. Farm kid neck. So, San, I got to tell you guys, just listening to everybody talk cuz I, you know, I talked to a lot of people that are into, you know, following the shows each year, there have been so many people that have wanted Cissan to punch his ticket to the Olympia. Like, so many people that have been behind him. I had multiple people. I was really busy this weekend. And I went to the Michigan State Championships and I didn't get to follow along as close as I would have liked to have, but I had people texting me along the way and they're like, "Did you see Sissan? Did you see Sissan? I think Cissan's going to win." VJ was texting me, one of my clients with And then I got multiple texts saying, "He did it. He did it." So, it's cool to see how many people were behind him and excited to see him get this, you know. Oh, yeah. Easily one of the most consistent guys. And the best part was he got stuck uh on his flights. uh had a huge layover, didn't have food. You're kidding. Had to make alterations on the fly, and now he has to get stuck at all future shows on the way there cuz that seemed to be the missing ingredient, right? The inconvenience was what he needed to put him over the top. He was there for hours and apparently didn't have uh food for that point and because obviously it wasn't a planned thing. So yeah, when you're him, it doesn't matter. I have to repeat a short story about Dexter right now because it fits right in here. I remember seeing Dexter at Fibo one year. He was standing at the Pro 10 booth and it was like on the Sunday so it was like kind of dying off and he was waving cuz he was out in the off in the corner and he was like waving and I go, "Oh, hey." So I walked over and I Hey Dex, what's going on? And he's like, "Man," he goes, "How you doing?" And we start chatting. I go, "Hey, congratulations on Australia." Cuz he had just won Australia. Okay. And I was like, "Hey, congrats on Australia. You looked unbelievable." And he's like, "Oh man, I barely made it. I missed my plane, so I had to take a flight that got in like a couple hours before prejudging. Oh god. And I go, "No way." And he's like, "Yeah, ate the airline food and everything. Had a Heineken on the plane and just walked, showed up, walked on stage and I was just like, I go, Dex, you're a different animal." And he's like, "Yeah, can't worry about it." Hey, like Yeah. Like, hey, if I'm going to eat airline food anyways, I might as well have a beer to go to Washington. Yeah, I might as well have a Heineken. They said he had a Heineken on the plane, ate the airline food. Yeah. Showed up a couple hours before prejudging. Oh, God. Dude. Yeah. It's like the reaction we watched with Shawn Ray. He was like, "You know, I don't really measure my food. I just kind of clean things up. I get all these things made from sizzler each day and uh you know I just eat them and uh you know I eat more broccoli when I get closer to I don't think people know the genetic like when we say genetics what that level means. Yeah. I had AI had a guy I can't remember who it was of condition. I I verified through Jose that this was a true story but uh backstage at the USA's one year Jose sitting there just like the guy's like you all right? You not feeling good? He goes no man. He goes, "Uh, and this is this is the day of this is prejudging." Yeah. He's like, "What are you sick?" He goes, "No, man. I was out all last night drinking, hanging out." And then he proceeds to win. And this guy's like, "I haven't missed a meal in a century." Yeah. This guy was out just running Vegas before the USA's and then just shows up and beats everybody. Can we get Chris Kamir on here one day? cuz I feel like Chris could outdo all of these stories, you know? Chris has told me Chris Chris told me some crazy stories before. Yeah. Like he went to the He was on stage at the O. Still kind of rolling from the night before he dried out, you know. Oh, yeah. He's still rolling. He was dancing till 7:00 a.m. one year and he went on stage at the O at like 10:00 a.m. Yeah. You got to dry out that way, you know. That's how you Let's not promote this to kids. No, no, no. That's so when we talk genetics, everyone thinks like, you know, structure, muscle tie-ins, muscle bellies, ability to get huge, um, you know, natural body fat levels, you know, that sort of thing. But there's also just like a durability with what you can do diet-wise and and stuff like if you have every single food sensitivity under the sun, that's that's not great. It's not helpful, right? And then you have other guys that are like, carbs are carbs. Yeah. Yeah. Like the the idea that a a carb might upset their stomach has never crossed their mind, right? They're like, "Oh, it's 50 g in this, 50 grams in this blah blah blah." And this the same look occurs and the ankles are tight and dry and nothing like it's just that sort of stuff is also a genetic factor. It's one of the slides on the equalizer. You know, like when you think of a stereo with a 12 band equalizer on it. Yeah. muscle size, perfect skin, tieins, waist, like all that stuff. One of them is just durability with what goes in your mouth, you know? Like to Dexter that Heineken is, you know, 30 g of carbs and a little bit of diuretic, right? Right. Where to me that Heineken is like bloat. Yeah. Like, oh god, I'm going to burp for an hour. You know, why would I not have a beer on the flight that's going to get me there just in time to make it to prejudging? Yeah, just you know that sort of thing. So, hey, what do you say we check out some buys and tries pictures over at Yeah, let's look at Pix Sass. All right, good, good, good. Let's see here. Share this. Here he is next to Reagan. I mean, Reagan looked good, too. Oh, you know, these guys both looked incredible. And I mean, arguably, you could say I mean, Reagan's got the the larger ax frame, right? Yeah. He's got the crazy structure, especially in the back double. Rean has like the crazy X in the back double. You know what I mean? Like with the waist and the taper and everything. Yeah. Sass is a smaller frame, not as wide in the shoulders. But the muscularity won this for SAS. Oh, yeah. And apparently I wasn't at this show. I stayed home because I have to leave on Wednesday for Vietnam. So I didn't go to this show. Yeah. Yeah. But apparently in person, Cissan's conditioning was definitely better. It's funny how you the pictures do that sometimes cuz I felt the same at Detroit. Like it looked different than what you saw in the pictures, you know? So, I will say this for Toronto lighting. Um that backdrop is very red. Yeah. Right. And it's sort of not the best coloring, I guess, for the color of the guys. Yeah. And uh the lighting is also a little bit I I feel like everyone in Toronto always looks like they don't quite have a lot of oil on and it sort of equalizes everyone in the photos. Right. But when you're in person, you can see, right? So I I was messaging with people like, "Oh, this class looks close." Cuz they also had the amateur show, right? Right. I was like, "This class looks close. This class looks close." And everyone was texting me back, "That class isn't close." Oh, wild. It was so as the photos kind of have that everyone looks equal sort of uh flavor to them. Look at that hamstring drop on in the sass in that side tricep. I think what they what they nailed at this show is he looks like he could pop like he's extremely full which just made him look harder. And that's even in the picss. I mean you can just tell look at the left hamstring there. They're both great in the glutes and hams like really dialed like you know and again these pics don't exactly show the graininess especially you know we're not these aren't just fresh pics they're posted to Instagram and then posted to YouTube right like double compressed or whatever that yeah I just can't understand and Justin Shy went on a a bit of a rampage about it on his uh Instagram stories why these promoters refuse to listen to the audience and to the fans with the colors of these backdrops. It's I mean it's one thing to say you want to put the sponsors back there, but to make it red is horrific. Like you wouldn't put red flooring down. Yeah. So I don't know why that just doesn't seem to matter. Yet when you go to Fouad show, that's what everyone's talking about. the black backdrop. The black the old Iron Man formula. Yeah. The same in the same thing. Now the Olympia, they're saying they're going to do black. It's like it's not harder to do a back a backdrop that's black than it does this weirdass red. I can't get past it. You've got lots of room up above them for sponsors. Like you can just go up 8 feet and you can blast the [\h__\h] out of that. You know what I mean? It's like hockey. The ice is blank. They just plaster the boards. Mhm. Right. You know what I mean? Like it's there's certain things. I could see that. I mean, you could tell he's dialed right in. I mean, that's a crazy look. Look at those quads, dude. So much freaking leg. Very happy for him, you know? So, he's going. We've got Dude, how many people are at this point? It's almost like the top 10 is going to be crazy. I mean, even top top 12, top 15. Oh, god. You know, it's like there's going to be battle upon battle, you know, battle for first, battle for second, battle for fifth. What's the latest news with Hottie? Is this uh travel ban going to affect him? Huh? I I assume so. Unless there's some weird loophole for athletes. But I think if I think if he was in a sport where they where the federation would take care of it, it would probably be fine. Well, maybe maybe you think Solomon's got somebody's number. It would help. I don't know that they care enough because we've been down this road before with other athletes. So, you know, it's one of those things where based on the things that have happened in the US, it sucks for him, but it's in my opinion, it's not a bad ban. It just people who are solid people doing normal life get screwed by it, and that sucks. Yeah. You would think there would be a way with his regular travel, the fact he's done it so many times. I'm hoping there's a there's a loophole there because that would be brutal. That would be a huge loss to a show that he could very well win. I mean, I would never say he couldn't win the Olympia this year. No. No. Hottie, even when hottie's third, it's a it's almost a win. Do you know what I mean? Like, because remember the last couple times he's been there, you're like like there's no it's not like, oh, they're clearly going to go with him. Like the year Samson won, it wasn't like they're clearly going to go with Samson. And we're like, I think they might, but Jesus, look at hottie. Like, there's all that stuff always going on. Yeah. Now, what do you guys think? Back to SAS for a minute. So, he has been competing like all season, right? He's just hitting show after show after show. Yeah. Yeah. Um, and I believe he still was working with Chris for this. You guys can correct me, you know, at home if I'm wrong, but you guys know Chris really well. How would Chris handle this to take some downtime only to plan to peak again for the Olympia, you know, toward the end of the year? How would Chris handle this? Yeah. What would you in your experience with him? What in my experience, he would he would take a few days off and relax and spend time with the family and probably tell him not to train for several days, maybe a week. And I mean, how many months out are we now from the O? What are we like so many? I mean, it's I want to say somewhere between 15 and 17. 17 weeks. Yeah. So, I I I would guess if I had to put money down, Chris would tell him, "Don't train for a week. Don't think about the gym. Just spend time with the You know, Seth has kids, doesn't he?" Yep. I mean, that's Chris would say that's probably the best thing for your mentality is just spend time with the family and invest in that. And then he would probably kick him back into training and it would, you know, obviously staying on a tight diet so he doesn't go backwards. But I would assume the supplements would go right back to early prep. So way back down, right? Very conservative. Probably the amounts that most guys wouldn't even believe. Right. Right. That like right down into like typical Aceto that's not what he's taking territory, which we've all been there. I've been there. I remember Chris saying, "Take one sustenon and send me pictures in 10 days." Oh god. Right. You mean you mean one one a day, right? One a day. No, an hour. Yeah. One. Take one. And like, you know, 10 days later, I'm n lbs heavier and a bit leaner. And he's like, "Okay, take one more." Like, do it again. Yeah. So, we're we're into that territory, I think. And it would just be right back. Fresh prep. But you're starting from already having strided glutes. So now your food is higher, cardio is lower, and you're just managing to hold that look into the ramp up again. That's what I would assume Chris would do. But, you know, that's only I only did eight shows with them, so what do I know? So, what do you know? Chris is very I think what what makes Chris a special coach and any of the great coaches is managing fatigue you don't even know you have. Yeah. Because when you when you're dealing with someone that's at the highest level mentally that they're never going to say, "I'm tired." Yeah. Because you get to a point where tired is a baseline. So it doesn't really mean anything and you don't think about it. And I think that he I mean there's been many times that he has me, Ron, a lot of other people he's backed down or said, "All right, you need to eat for a couple days. Let's not do cardio." And this is like 5 weeks out. You're like, "Uh, what?" He's like, "No, no, just take a couple days, relax, don't train, don't do cardio. I'm going to up your food." And he's managing not what your body looks like now, but what it will look like in three, four days if he doesn't. You know, I think that that is where his experience comes in that just is gamechanging because you'll take those days and then you take your next set of pictures and you look and you're like, I'm bigger and harder and haven't trained or done cardio and I ate more. Yeah. H Yeah. And there's nothing random about it. He sees something that's like, oh, I think we're teetering. Yeah. Yeah, he's also the type, you know, I I know Chris said to me once like I can't remember who he was talking about, but he had somebody like resting and they sent him a video of like one of their competitors squatting like five plates for reps. And he's like, "This guy, look what he's doing." Yeah. And Chris was like, "It's good. Just let him burn all his fuses. Just let him burn all his fuses." Like, you know. And I remember also another time I sent him a picture of Kai Green one year. Kai was like four weeks out and he was standing in his kitchen doing like kind of a back shot with his arm up. Yeah. And it looked insane. And I said, "Fuck, look at Kai four weeks out." And Chris responded, "Ah, big deal. Just means the cake is baked too early." And then sure as [\h__\h] you know, Phil won again. Like he's like, "It won't beat Phil. Phil Phil will pull the cake out of the oven the day before the show and put the icing on it and Kai's cake will be cold and he used to that was that's my just his analogies are so ridiculous he broke down that analogy for me one time and it was so good he's like he goes I don't know anything about baking cakes he goes but let's let's say let's say that to bake a cake is 20 minutes in the oven at 450 he goes you can't put the cake in there at 2:25 for 8 for 40 minutes. It doesn't come out right. He's like, "You also can't be running late and double the temperature for half the time and have it come out right." He's like, "It has to be just right to be perfect." He said, "That's a prep." Yeah. It has to be just right. I love that. And that's something that I've used. I mean, I used that probably last week because I had a client that's she's awesome, really driven, and she's like, "I'm ready to kick it in. Let's let's kick it up." I'm like, "It's not time." Yeah, but I I feel good. I'm like, "It's not time." Yeah. Right. Don't worry. Right. I You're not going to need to ask me to push you. I'm going to push when it's time. Uh Chris Chris called me a few days ago. Um and you know how we say he doesn't say hello? Yeah. Just start talking. I I see him. I'm chewing food and I'm like, "That's Chris." So, I answer it and I go, "Hey." and he goes, "Why is it that when someone says something to me that's exceptionally stupid, I think I'm going to call Ron." And so anyways, we chatted and then at one point we were talking kind of good old days talk and I said, "Yeah, um, you know, like that analogy that every prep is you're sailing to an island that you can see, but every prep is a little bit of a different trip because of the current and the wind and there might be flat ocean and then one day there might be big waves. So you have to kind of go that way. So, the waves bring you back to the island and then one day a storm might hit while you're halfway to the island and you wind up going around the back side of the island to come in and and he goes, "That's an amazing analogy. I love it." And I go, "Chris, that's your analogy. I'm glad you like it still. You You said that whole thing to me in like 2010." Yeah. And he's like, "Did I? That's a good one." Like it was just hilarious. Thanks for that gem run. Well, I got a great analogy. That's your analogy. Hey, Dusty, I got a question for you. If uh so Chris wasn't in in like directly in charge of the type of training you did. Dusty did Dusty's training, right? Um tell me, so if you were in Cassan's position now, I mean, obviously Chris would probably tell you to take that time down. You wouldn't train. And you know, I know a lot of people are doing a lot more progressive overload nowadays, even into prep, and they're trying to stay as strong as they can during prep. How would you handle this next phase between now and the Olympia as far as training goes? For him, no. If you were in if for you, if you were in his shoes, oh, I would do exactly what he does, which is do exactly what you always do. Okay. I think that that's the area where people mess up. It's like, you know, it's the old saying, don't forget who who brought you to the dance. Yeah. Like people get confused and all of a sudden they want to change stuff. I didn't change my training the week of the show. You're kidding. Like no changes ever. So, you're telling me that you were like, "Okay, I got 11 reps with, you know, 485 last week, so I'm going to get 12 reps today and then I'm going to go The only time we backed down at all, like when and I mean, in hindsight, I should have done some of that, but I would have trained with the same intensity and that stuff, whereas for me, I was still strong, so it was just another day." Okay. It just it seemed like more noise to adjust and try to map out the perfect training. It's like this is what works for me. I'm not injured. My body feels good. Keep going. You know, if your body is giving you signs that you need to make adjustments, you do. But other than that, and the way that he trains, yeah, he's going to do the exact same thing. As soon as Chris gets him rolling again. And if anything, it's just going to be more of Chris pumping the brakes overall, you know? And I and it's funny, but uh I I've told this story before, but it just always makes me laugh. Chris sent me on one of my first preps, he said, "Train at 70% today." And I text him back. I said, "I don't know what that means." And and he laughs and he and he sends back, he goes, "I've only ever had one other person say that and that was Evans to Pani." And he goes, "So what I'm going to tell you is look at your planned workout today. Train exactly how you do, but only do 70% of it." I'm like, "Okay, I can do that." Cuz I'm like, so just the work sets, no work. Yeah. Because he because he was Yeah. He was like He's like It was just funny to me because I'm like, "I don't what is that? You are either training or you're not train. Like I didn't know. I like I literally meant I don't know how to gauge what 70% is." And he's like, "Perfect. We'll just lower your volume by 30%." I'm like, "Ah, mathematically that's easy. Perfect." Yeah. Yeah. So, I can still go nuts, but I only get three sets today instead of five. Okay, cool. Right. What what I'll some sometimes tell people who like are in certain situations is, okay, like what's your let's say we're, you know, just pick an exercise like incline Smith machine press, right? Just for shits and giggles. Say, "Okay, what's your working weight?" And they might say three plates for eight. Okay. Yeah. Is like my hard ass fail set. Yeah. I'm like, "Okay, what's your prep weight?" Like your your last warm up. Yeah. And they'll say, "Well, I do two and a half plates for five as like a final feeler." And I'm like, "Okay, do two and a half for eight and then move on." I like that. Okay. So, like prep weight, but you know, and you're not saying that's a failure either. You're not taking it to the slow rep, racking it, move on. You're not gonna shrink at all. Right. and it's very very safe and you know very low taxation you know if you're worried about that or you're in a situation where that's a thing um you know so that was kind of what I would do maybe the last you know few workouts but you know most of your clients have brains then the rest of us are either unleashed or not and when it comes to a guy like Sass do you remember when he was training with JP for a while and he said he actually had to tap out and like quit training for a while cuz like that type of training just beat him up so bad and everything on him hurt and his knees hurt and his elbows hurt and everything hurt it. I mean that level of progressive overload like you know obviously JP's you know JP but you know that didn't work for SAS and it actually like totally fried him and he said you know he does better with a little bit more volume and you know not not doing all the forced reps and stuff. He trains by himself, so he's not, you know, burying, you know, a bunch of [\h__\h] beyond failure and all that stuff. And I mean, look at his physique. I mean, I'm not going to tell him how to train, right? I think the the great thing about that story, though, was that he was getting great results. Yeah. And that's the part that most people, and I I can say I would not have had in my prime the ability to ignore the results. Even if it was hurting, I'd have been like, "Well, it's working." and he is smart enough to go, "Yes, I'm getting the results, but I can get those results in a different way that's smarter for me." And that's enormous. That's that's why training is not one sizefits-all because it's not like he was looking and going, "It's not working. I'm getting bigger. I'm getting stronger." But, you know, and that's why he can continue. I mean, he's better now than he was before he retired. Yeah. And he will be better in two years than he is now if he keeps going. So he has definitely found the sweet spot for his training. Yeah. He has like a he seems he strikes me as being in a very sustainable place, you know. Yeah. When he But the thing is too, it's not that he's not training hard. Look at the muscle. His muscle tells you his training is hard. Oh yeah. It's got a different look. It's not just weight. And I think that's where people get confused. It's like when they think of training hard that or or training heavy, they just think of weight. It's like, no, for the kind of training he's doing, it's extremely hard and extremely heavy. He's just using a brain with it also, which a lot of us don't do very well. You looking at me? That was actually right into my own picture. Um, I was staring at him right there. The old has been. Yes. So, do we have some questions, Scott? Um, I have some loaded as Yeah, I think we have a couple. We had a couple from YouTube last week. I will say guys, everybody watching YouTube, I mean, I know Ron said like, share, subscribe, and he said the comment part, we get a lot of really great comments. We've been getting some awesome ones. In fact, Lee Priest left us another number of comments on our reaction video, Lee versus uh Sean. So, that was cool. Um, but leave us questions. You know, think of any good questions you have. Anything. Could be serious questions, could be fun questions. Um, I know Ethan left us a fun one. We'll have to get that. It's in the live stream. But what do you have, Dusty? Uh, I actually have a good one from uh Paul, our uh client Scott. Um, he has a uh a lot of stress going on in his life that's out of control. Uh, out of his control, I should say. Um, so he's interested to hear how we have handled stress in our past. He says, uh, we know we it messes with our body. So what are some strategies to manage it uh its impact and manage our expectation whilst going through it? All right, I'll take it. I'll take it. Someone else jump in. Um, you go first. Yeah, I'll I'll say this that we can't like get rid of life, right? Like you can't get rid of like you can't tell somebody like, well, I'm really stressed from work. It's super demanding and long hours. It's like, yeah, you got to do what you got to do sometimes, right? But, and I've learned this a lot from Victoria, you have to when you know that you're under more stress, then you have to beef up on the anti-stress stuff. You know what I mean? Making sure that you get to bed a little earlier. Oh my god, she's got me on the schedule now. So, when we first started dating, we were going to bed at like 10:30 and now we're at like 9:15. the TV goes off and we get ready. We're in bed by 9:30 and asleep by 9:45 every night and I'm up by 6:00 6:30. It feels really good. But, you know, getting sleep, being able to do all the sleep hygiene stuff that we've talked about a hundred times and you hear everywhere else on Instagram. Hydration is another, I think, key factor when you're dealing with a lot of stress that our bodies burn through more water. Using a good electrolyte during that time is going to help you to hold more fluid. And also too, let's say stress isn't usually like the same day to day today. It's like I had a really stressful day at work today. You know, maybe you make some adjustments for your training that evening. Like maybe I don't do my hardest workout. Maybe I I have the ability to switch things up. Like was I going to do legs tonight or was I going to do this pump workout? Well, I'll do the pump workout instead and I'll save legs for tomorrow. you know, if you can make those kind of adjustments, being flexible, I think, is huge, you know. And one last thing, um I had uh a woman named Kate Denunio on the show a couple times, and she works with individuals and companies to help them with embracing change. And she's a really good bodybuilder, too, by the way. And I asked her like, "What's the number one thing that you see in successful people?" And she said, "Resiliency. people who can adapt. And you guys know what it's like as a coach and as an athlete. There's times that I've responded to a change and I'm like, "Oh my god, I you know, but I was doing this before. Now I have to do this." If you can stop and just be like, "Oh, okay. I'm going to do this now." And just accept it. The faster you can accept a change, like the less stress you're going to deal with and the more successful you're going to be. So, I'll leave it at that. Yeah. Um, I guess I mean I agree with everything Scott just said there. Um, resiliency obviously adaptability. Oh, that's huge. Um, also like sometimes just just turn your mind off and check the boxes. Huh? You know, like some people I I've seen them like their their stress levels are high and I've been there too where I'm like, "Oh my god, I'm dealing with all this stuff and I and I still have to get my shoulder workout in." And like, you know what? At the end of the day, you can mindlessly work out. Yeah. Like you can work out without using your brain at all. You can turn your brain completely off and just go in and check the boxes. Okay. I've got two sets of laterals. Go hard. Boom. Done. And move quick. I got to press. I normally use a stack. Stack. Press. Failure. Done. Move on. Next exercise. Rear delts. Boom. Failure. Move on. And you can just check the boxes mindlessly. You don't have to bring up all this mental energy again to to devote to this thing that you've done a million times. Like, I I get it. We all love to be in the moment for our workouts. it's part of our enjoyment of the day and everything like that. But when it comes to actually bodybuilding, like I've told the story before how I I moved out of my my buddy's basement one day, like cuz him him his his wife and I had a little disagreement and I was like, "Okay, I'm just going to move out." And I just packed all my [\h__\h] and moved out. And I went and trained at like 10:00 at night that night and I just I had 30 minutes to train. I just smashed through a workout and I just mindlessly got it done. Done. Yeah. Done. Like it's done. move on. Like you can you can check boxes sometimes just to get through what you have to get through without adding more stress or worrying about it so much. You know, at the end of the day, a lot of stuff isn't that big of a deal. Just get it done. You guys are both good at that, too. Like I, you know, when we've done things, either interviews with people or events like going to one of the the big expos and we're going to do a live podcast or whatever, like you guys are always so freaking chill. even when it is something that's kind of stressful, you're just like, "Oh, okay. We'll do this." You know, and it it it I think is um you know, there's it's kind of like, well, you can handle it this way or you can handle it this way. Either way, you know what I mean? The same thing is going to happen. So, yeah, I I think the the only thing I would add is, and this is just how I handle everything in life, is is this stressful thing in my control? Yeah, if it is, then what do I have to do to eliminate it to handle it? If it's not, [\h__\h] it. Yeah. I mean, there's nothing you can do. And I think the area where Paul and a lot of people get caught up is in your head, you're saying, "I'm stressed and I'm going to the gym. What's this going to do to my results? Is this going to have an impact?" And you are actually compounding the stress. Mhm. Whereas if you just say, "Hey, these things that are going on, in his case, I know what they are. They're completely out of control. They're going on either way. Okay. I'm going to I'm going to do like Ron said, I'm going to go to the gym. I'm going to tear it up, but I'm not going to worry about because I think half of the reason like when somebody goes in and they're they're thinking like, I hope that I'm as strong today because I'm under all this stress." I'm like, "Well, you're already not." Huh? Because you've brought that possibility in. It's like, I'm going to go here. I'm going to train my face off like I always do. And what's going to happen is going to happen. You know, it's it's the same thing. You you do your first working set and say you're a crazy log booker. Yeah. And today you were off. That doesn't mean that the next movement will be unless you decide, oh, I'm weaker today. Right. It's like, no, you were weaker on that. Maybe the next movement is strong, but I really think that that comes down to just compartmentalizing everything and moving on. And like you said, Ron, if you push yourself through the workout, whatever it is, it is, you know, and I think that's where people like really have an issue. Oh, okay. That's it. Like, you know, like I that's why people get I mean Nikki gets annoyed with me because it doesn't matter what's going on in life. I'm like, "Okay, we lost everything today." Okay, guess we need to get an apartment anyways. So, we're going to have dinner like, "Yeah." Yeah. I I I've noticed another thing, too, when it comes to actual training. um in my this retirement phase that I'm in. Um because you know like when when you're you know cranking on the cycles and you're eating like crazy and you're really big um you you know you're you're you think if you have one workout where you don't go hard, you might lose something. Yeah. All of it. Right. And and and obviously you want to keep the mentality where you're going to be as consistent as humanly possible. But now that I'm in this retirement phase, like I've had a whole bunch of times where like maybe Braden is working late, so I got to train by myself today. And then I got stuck like fixing a piece of equipment or something happened with the gym or I'm busy doing something and I wind up with like 30 minutes to train at a weird time. Yeah. So I literally go in and I'm like, I just got to get the [\h__\h] out of here. And I just get on like a plate loaded press and do three hard sets and do three hard sets of pec deck. Call it a chest workout. Yeah. And I don't even pay attention to weights or nothing. And then the next week when I come in to train with Braden, I'm just as strong. Yep. Sometimes stronger. Sometimes stronger. Like sometimes I'll get a rep on something. Braden will be like, "Oh, you're actually up a rep." I'm like, "Fuck, that's funny." So there because you expect like on the TRT you'd expect to be even more fragile in a way. Yeah, like you'd expect and not eating as much or you'd expect, you know, even more difficult to hold your your current level or whatever, but no, just continue to keep moving on as if it never happened. And I sort of think, man, you're a lot more durable than you give yourself credit for. And I think when I was like really in the thick of it, I was a little too paranoid about the little things like any little change or any little alteration at all, you know, and and you you realize that these pros like guys like, you know, guys at like Lunsford's level and, you know, Samson and these guys that are traveling all over the world and in different time zones constantly and doing all these appearances and all these obligations and stuff, they know that like They're not every single workout is completely identical for them. They're training on all this different equipment. They're going to a gym that says all this brand of equipment one day and then this stuff isn't there the next workout and then the next workout they're got to use this and they're all over the place, right? And they're able to just make it work and not worry about it constantly. And that's part of being durable. That's uh you gave me a great segue into another question that I had here. Um, looking back at your competitive careers, what are some things that you wish you'd have done differently or just looked at differently? I was really dogmatic for a long time about training exactly the same way all the time. And I I I think that I was always on I was always generally on the right track with a lot of philosophy. Like I always chose exercises that I think for the most part I chose exercises where I was very well braced. I've talked about how I wasn't a fan of like you know like I didn't think lunges were the best because you couldn't necessarily push yourself as hard because of stability and all that stuff. So I would always choose like braced exercises where you could really exert yourself. I would always choose you know I I did general training philosophy. I trained really hard and blah blah blah blah blah blah moved weights I think well for the vast majority of the time I was training but I was just really dogmatic like you know I was I was to the point where for a lot of years like even doing one extra set I was like well I can't that's not on my plan you know or one less set oh no I can't do that either um where I think I should have been a lot more flexible with stuff I I trained through my main thing was I trained through aches and pains I shouldn't have What about you got I would say that some of the things and it's kind of cool because these are things that I can uh help other people not make the same mistakes, you know, like uh one guy who is doing a show in November and we're in a position now where he can he can go out and have a cheat meal and uh he was like, "Oh yeah, man. Uh my wife and I, we went out and we got these burgers and fries that we really like and we took them to our favorite lake and ate them there. And I was like, "That's awesome." And I said, "Let's keep the cheat meal in as long as we can." By the way, guys, he's got like lines all through his legs already. And it's like we aren't even starting to diet yet. And I have him just kind of slowly coasting down, but I know he's still growing at the same time. And we're going to try to keep doing this as long as we can. But I said eventually there's going to be a point that we can't have the cheat meal anymore probably. And when that time comes, don't stop spending that quality time together. You know, I think that being you can bring your diet food to the lake. Hey, you can bring diet food to the lake or you know, I've had people too that like I've let them go out and get like a chicken breast and a green salad and they might even eat lower calories than they would have normally for that meal, you know, but it gives them an opportunity to go out and do something that at the end of the day though, it's not about the food, it's about that quality time that you guys are spending together. And I don't want somebody to go through a prep and feel like, you know what, I feel like I really neglected this aspect of my life. You know, maybe you can't give 110% to every aspect of your life all the time. And prep is kind of part of that, but you know what? You can still do something. So anyway, that was that was one thing that I wanted to share with him because I didn't even want to do that kind of stuff, you know? I kind of I I looked at it as like I got to be locked in, you know? I'm just going to stay at home. And it's like, you know what? That kind of stuff it it it doesn't have to be that way. And I think that longevity wise, if you can get outside of that, you'll enjoy bodybuilding for longer and so will your family, right? Um, the thing that I thought of when I saw that question was I don't looking back, I did not enjoy every phase of the process enough. Like for any of you guys that are listening that have a dream of winning an overall at a bodybuilding show and and you're nowhere near that yet, the phase you're in right now is awesome. and the time you're in right now and the and hanging out with your friends in the gym and the daytoday I have years I don't remember. Yeah. Like because you were so focused on the chase. It's funny but uh I'm sure Ron you've seen this too. Uh Brad Marshon that's uh that's playing for the Panthers right now. He keeps reiterating that the thing he's doing at this stage in his career is being very mindful of how awesome the moment is. He says he has moments in his career, entire series that he played that they won that they did well that he remembers nothing about because he was just chasing the win, chasing getting the Stanley Cup. And it was funny because I listen, I'm like, "Oh, I know exactly what he's talking about." Yeah. you know, and and not just in the bodybuilding and and being fortunate enough to travel the world and do these things like yeah, you're you're just doing them, you know, it's it's kind of like it's the same with your kids. They're not going to be six forever. So, it's like you really want to soak up that time even when it seems like a hassle because when they're 15 and they don't want to hang out with you after school, you're going to go, "Oh man, I remember how I used to get irritated because they always wanted to play and now they don't want to play at all." You know? So, I think that there's a lot of that in life, but definitely in bodybuilding where the moment you're in right now is an awesome moment, and the future moments will be, too. But make sure you're you're in the one you're in now and and soaking it up so you can look back and say, "Man, that was a great period that I that I didn't skip." Because in bodybuilding, you're talking about years. I mean, you want to find out if you're any good at this, you got to devote a decade to it. You don't want to forget about years one through three. Yeah. Yeah. I got one more. I got one more. And that is, and this is one that I truly do regret, and that is that I didn't stop to take more pictures when I got into shape. That um cuz my idea was, you know, when I competed, some people they'll wait and and they'll say, I'm not going to compete until I'm a super heavy. And my perspective was I'm going to compete and that's going to be an outside catalyst to help me drive to to continue pushing harder and doing better. And it definitely did, but I'd compete and then I would say, "Okay, now this will be my opportunity to get to the next level and instantly back into growth phase like instantly, you know." And I wish that I would have taken time to hire a photographer, do some cool pictures. And I know that there are a lot of people doing pictures now, you know, Instagram, social media, all that stuff. Like there's a marketing aspect to it. But I'm not even talking about that. I'm talking about every phase of your physique. Yes, you might be better next year because that's what I had in my head. Oh, now I just got to go grow my quads. Like, you know, when I have better quads, then I'll take pictures. No, take pictures now. You don't know if this might be your last year doing it. Not to mention, if you do have better quads, it'll be really cool no matter what. 20 years, 10 years, 5 years down the road to have just those. It's not even the memories, but having I don't know what is it having the the the document of of what you took your physique to. Cuz if you've made it to a show, even if you took dead last, you've pulled an incredible feat that most people will never achieve. You know what I mean? God, I have no pictures from competing of my entire career. Yeah. I never paid for photos like when they offered them at shows. I was like, I don't need those. And and same with you. It was like I'm not good enough yet. And when I look back, I'm like the very I mean I have a couple in like my mom's backyard that are like this is me when I started, but I wish I had 500 of those. Yeah. For the whole phase. Cuz it's funny that the gym did a thing. They were like, "Get get a picture from when you competed, a stage shot, and bring it to the gym." And my first thought was, "I don't really care." And the second thought was, "I don't even think I have one. I don't think I have one I like." Yeah. You know, so those are also definitely good things. I'd be like, "You know what? I'm now I'm holding water. You know, I went out to eat and now I'm holding water, so I don't want to take the pictures cuz I was better yesterday." So, and then, you know, just like, "No, take the pictures. You're still awesome." Well, three days from now, you're going to be 30 pounds up. So, let's not do that. Um, you want me to keep firing off some more? Yeah. What else you got? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. All right. Um, this one I thought was good. Based on the last five pro shows, is it safe to say we can put this put the idea of politics and professional bodybuilding to sleep? Yeah, it's ludicrous. that like I I don't I hate it when people say politics at some of these shows like these these judges aren't thinking like that like Jesus reaching for your wallet and if it was politics back in the reaching for your wallet back in the Yeah, that's us. Yeah, I forgot about that. Jesus. Yeah, I know. Um it it blows me away. I uh I I mean I know these judges. They don't even talk to each other all year. They show up at the show like, "Hey, how's it going?" And you sit down at the table and they judge a show. Like, and I've talked to jud lots of judges where they're like, "Yeah, I was surprised that guy won. I had him second." Yeah. Like, or yeah, I had that guy first. I don't know why he didn't win. I was shocked when they announced him second. Like, people think that there's this grand scheme of things. It's just not like that. It's funny because it's in every sport, you know, because obviously I follow hockey really closely and if there's a bad call. Oh, that's the the the NHL's dying for a Canadian Tim team to win the Stanley Cup. I'm like Yeah. Like game give a [\h__\h] So that was funny cuz remember game one the Oilers won in overtime. Mhm. On that beautiful power play goal, right? Y and when that guy shot the puck over the glass, every single ref on the ice simultaneously put their hands up. Yeah, they all knew. They're like, "Oh, that's a delay of game. Like, we have to call it." Yeah. They don't want to call them. They didn't even look at each other. They didn't want to call it, but they're like, "Oh, I mean, every every single person in the building saw that. That's a rule." Yeah. And then after the game like, "Oh, well, there's only one that because refs put them on a power play. [\h__\h] refs looking for a Canadian team." It's like there was no meeting. You watched five hands go up at the same time. The Panthers bench went like this. The whole Panthers bench went, "Oh, the Panthers co the Panthers coach went like that." And every single Oiler went, "Yeah." Like instantly. Cuz there's no way that's not getting called. Yeah. Like they'll let a little elbow up in the corner go over time. They'll let a lot go in overtime. They'll let a lot of rough [\h__\h] little face washing in the corner go. They'll let these guys play hard. They'll they'll try not to call penalties in overtime. They don't let them. They do. And the guys slide. They'll let they push each other harder. They want these guys playing. They don't want They want them to decide the game. They don't want to call every little tiny thing and make it like, oh, [\h__\h] You know, cuz you know, a power play goal in overtime to win the game, that's a big [\h__\h] deal. Yeah. Like like you know what I mean? They don't want to call penalties on these guys. But man, when you shoot the puck over the glass, it's a rule. Yeah. They don't have a choice. It's not It's not optional. It's like, "No." So, like, you could look the other way out of holding the stick or this or that here and there if it doesn't damage the play. You can't look away from those. But that's a delay. Completely normal. But that I I I really enjoy that Tyler's taking the time to do the social media and the explanations. Yeah. Tyler's explanation. Like really breaking it down. Awesome. So it's like if you can still claim politics, then you're just not paying attention. Yeah. Like Tyler even said, "I had Nick winning and Nick didn't win." Yeah. So like it is though. Look, so if the puck goes over the glass, it literally the puck goes over the glass. If you know Nick Walker's back is not quite as lean as this guy. Yeah. It's a different thing. You know what I still your it's it's still just listen if I'm watching Ron on stage and I want him to win even if I don't mean to in my head I'm thinking of all the reasons he should win. Yeah. I'm not thinking why the other guy could win. And that's what I tell my clients all the time because I have clients. They'll send me pictures after a second place and they're like, "Look at my quads compared to his and look at my this." And and I'm like, "No, no, no. If you want to become a better bodybuilder, don't look at why you should win. Look at why he could have won." Yeah. Like find the reasons that they might have thought he was better. Yeah. And then you can become better. Like when I I took I didn't win the overall for Junior USA or Junior Nationals, everyone thought I was going to win. I mean, it was on MD. It was everywhere. And I didn't win. And as soon as I didn't win, MD's muscular development used to be a website for those people. Yeah. If they don't know what those are anymore. Um, but I went to social media. I immediately looked at Matt, the guy that won the overall, and I go, "Oh, I see it. He's pretty. He's put together. Do you like apples? Do you like oranges?" Bam. And And it didn't slow me down. Matt Len, great bodybuilder. Great bodybuilder. And I to this day have zero issue with not Matt Lowour, the NBC TV host. Well, he was also a great bodybuilder, but a lot of people don't know that. So, no, that's uh those are those factors. Um yeah. Okay, here's here's a one from a a guest that I thought was cool. What is the best part of being retired from competitive bodybuilding? Oh, the best part I I get to do other fun stuff without caring about all the bodybuilding, you know, regimentation that I used to be a part of. Yeah. You know, I mean, I got out of bodybuilding like I'd say the last few years I was in it, it was definitely work and I was looking forward to being done, right? Um, so I I I maybe hung on a little too long, but uh managed to make it worth my while, I guess you could say. Um, in in that way. But I mean, the best part now is like I also don't care as much. Like we all have some body dysmorphia and I still got plenty left over. Yeah. You know what I mean? But but I still got plenty left over. But, you know, I used to look at things wrong with my physique as like it was a huge deal. Yeah. And now I look at things wrong with my physique and I'm like, "Oh, that's kind of a battle scar from all the stuff I went through." You know, like, you know, if you you're a NFL football player and you got like, you know, a shoulder surgery and a hip surgery and a you know, stuff, you're not you're not like going to be as you're not going to be self-conscious about those scars because they're like part of your story. Yeah. you know, so I got the messed up lat and [\h__\h] up calf and stuff, but I'm starting to get like a lot better with just the fact that it's just, hey, man, I took my body farther than most people could ever dream of, and that's just I wore some [\h__\h] out, you know, and uh so trying to get past all that stuff has been, you know, that's I mean, I'm I'm really happy to not be so like I I look at some people now and I I think, well, I hope they enjoy it while they're in it. Mhm. Get the most out of it, but I hope they also can get out of it after they're done. Right. That's right. Like I was able to. What about you, Scott? I would say the time consuming aspect of having to do everything that it takes. And yeah, of course, yeah, you can make it work, but I have AI have AI have a really demanding day that I would not be able to do competitive bodybuilding at the level that I would want to be able to do it and do all the other stuff. Like I would have to make some uh concessions. I would what concessions? Yeah. Yeah. I'd have to like change things around a little bit, you know? Um so there's that aspect. Also, um, so unlike you guys, my struggle was always in trying to get bigger. So, the offseason to me and I, and unfortunately, I had like a real physical job for like 5 years. And it was like in my best bodybuilding time, too. So, I'm constantly stuffing food, stuffing food, and then walking it off, working it off. And I I did a lot better after I stopped doing that, you know, and was working from home. But uh there were a lot of years that I was just like always feeling stressed that I needed to eat more. And my offseason oftentimes felt like I was always falling a little bit short. And it's not a good feeling. And I know other guys that are like that. Like it's the guys with the real fast metabolisms that it's like no matter what you do, you feel like you should have done a little bit more today for food, you know? So it's a it's a battle. And then the contest season was always easy, you know, because yeah, you just now you get to feel like you eat like a normal person. You're not bloated all the time. I was going to say my my biggest thing was uh I have not been full since I retired. Like I refuse to get feel stuffed. Yeah, Nikki knows like I'll eat and I still eat a pretty good amount. You do? I've seen you put away a lot. What I would qualify is a lot actually. But when but when I get done when I get done eating, like we'll be at a dinner. Yeah. I'll eat a bite and I'll go, "Okay, I'm satisfied." I literally will call the waitress and be like, "Can you take my plate?" Cuz I don't want to eat anymore. And if it sits here, I probably will. And I do not ever want to feel full again. 15 years of being either stuffed or starving. Yeah. I I don't want to be full ever again. I laugh cuz people get ready for the holidays and they eat until they're going to burst and I'm like, "Oh, no." One plate maybe, maybe one and a half. Yeah. Good. I do not miss looking at a plate of food completely full at the moment and I haven't started eating and going, "This has to go down." Yeah. And I don't even know how it's going to. Yeah. I accidentally um That's funny you mentioned that. I just recently stuffed myself. And I all of a sudden I realized, "Oh [\h__\h] I'm not feeling good. This is how I used to feel all the time." And I like literally put my food down. I was like, "Oh fuck." And I like sat back and I was like, "Oh." And I was so turned off. I was like, "I hate this feeling." It was like I was all of a sudden 320 lbs again and just feeling like bloated and gross. And I sat there watching TV with Emily. We like finished the movie and I was like took all the way to the end of the movie for me to feel better. Yeah. I was like, "Oh." Then I was like, "Wow, that was that old feeling. I got that old feeling. Got used that just that good old regular everyday three times a day feeling. I hated it." Yeah. So, all right. So, the the counterpart to that question is, "What was the hardest part of retiring and changing your life? Oh, that's that's that's a good question. Um, I think like I said, I I was so ready to do it. Mhm. That it wasn't hard. Like I remember the first thing I loved was I was just like not tied to food anymore. Mhm. I had four meals today. Oh well, got a lot of [\h__\h] done, right? I was like, "Oh, my incline press went down a bit. It's going to go down a bunch more." like I was I was ready. I was ready. And I think that that's why I had a good I was also older, you know, and I'd opened we'd opened the gym, so I had all this other stuff to do. And I was like, that's okay. My life's moving forward here. Like, I don't need it to be here. I'm going this way now. And so, yeah. And then picking up hobbies. And I think I was just at a spot where I actually relatively had an easy time. a little maybe some of the body dysmorphia at first, you know? I remember certain t-shirts like I remember when I went from a 4X to a 3X. I was like, "Ah, my arms aren't filling these shirts out anymore. I went down to a 3X." But then by the time I went from a 3X to a 2X, I was kind of laughing about it. Oh, I'm a 2X now. Oh, wow. Here we go. Like I was and I realized I'd kind of gotten past a lot of it. Right, Scott? I see the guys who um they like they're like, "Well, once I'm done, then I'm going to intentionally size down." And they they I I think it's a matter of like taking control versus like Ron, you're talking about how well, [\h__\h] it's just kind of happening to me. You know what I mean? And and I think it that it's there's an element of and and for you especially like you went out on your terms and I think that it's a big thing. It's something I've kind of looked into a lot in the past five years is, you know, although I was never going to do anything huge and I I I didn't ever like officially retire and it kind of was in the back of my head I'm probably not going to compete, but then when I got to 240 and I was or close to 240 and I was like, well, if I got to 240, that might be a different physique on stage because I just don't want to put the same physique on stage again as I had in the past. and and then I got sick and then from there everything you know went downhill and I had to accept it. So, uh, I I would say for me it wasn't quite on my terms. And I've I I have, uh, I I think that's the thing you have to look out for in in athletics, in any sport when you're really passionate about it, is uh, you know, go out on your own terms as best as you can know when it's time to take your exit because eventually if you don't, it will be taken for you, you know. And I'm grateful that I'm not trying to still be big. I I still would like to be, you know, bigger if I could, but I'm happy to I'm happy to like size down. I'm in a 1X now. I was a 2X and now I'm a 1X now that I've been dieting. And it's a little uncomfortable, I'll be honest. But I I'm I'm okay with it. It's good. Yeah. For me, the hardest part was figuring out what I wanted to look like. H because it was weird. I mean, you you spend all your time every We've talked about this many times. what you looked like in May was based on when your next show was. Yeah. If your show was in June, well then you were peeled. And if your show was in a year plus, you were heavy. And it never it never bothered like you know some people like ah can't wait to get lean so I look better. I never cared. I was like today is based on whatever the next show date is. So when I got done I was like I don't even know what I want to look like. Like choose my own look. And it was really hard because then I would commit to like all right I'm going to lean down and then two days later or one day later I'm eating [\h__\h] I'm like okay I don't know why I'm doing that. I was like you know maybe I'll maybe I'll put some size back on. Yeah. And then it come time to eat a meal. I'm like I don't want to do that. And I'm like why can't I even commit to anything? I can't I'm where did Dusty go that just flips the switch? And it wasn't until I just realized like, oh, I just need to let myself go like Ron said, and then at some point something will click and I'll start eating a certain way and looking a certain way and be okay with it. And that was it. But it I mean that was a 2year process of like how do I just accept where I'm going to be and what's the look I like, you know, whereas now it's like I want to be leaner than I was. But being small, I've definitely determined is going to be a decision that requires not training, not eating. It'll be very hard. Do we have any Do we have any questions off the chat yet or no? Yeah, I've got I've got one that I wanted to make sure we threw in. Yeah, I don't want to be just rattling these off without it. So, go ahead. All right. Um All right. And this is from Ethan. He said, uh, if you had one set, one set that you could do before you are un alive, like I'm going to say a death row set, uh, like the the the last meal of sets. Um, but for a a set for a specific exercise, pick the machine, the movement, training partner, and a gym. You get the full thing, the full package. I would do. Hey man, I just go to my happy place. I would I would do uh Am I healthy? You're very healthy. Yeah, there's nothing. And even if you're not, it doesn't matter because you're not going to have to worry about training after this. You can destroy it. You just have to get through the set. Yeah. Yeah. Just get through the set. Well, I figure if I'm going to be unal alived Yep. Um then I want to get that ultimate feeling of being alive which is leg day. Y that's I think why we all love birthday leg days crushing a birthday or a Christmas day leg day like back in the day. I used to always do that is just there's nothing like after those big sets you're like holy [\h__\h] And I also used to have that like mentality like before a big set of hack squats, I'd be like if I if something happens during this set, I guess it happens. Yeah. Right. Little Dolph Lungren, right? If he dies, he dies. If he dies, he dies. That sort of thing. Uh, so I would do a set of hack squats, heavy ass set of hack squats, maybe, you know, to obviously an absolute failure with a couple of forced reps. Um, maybe I'd pick a weight where I'm shooting for like 10 reps, you know, so it's like some grinding there and really got to dig deep, load that load that thing up. And uh, hey, Braden's been training with me for like six years now. He's been a great partner. I just do it at West Coast Iron with him like any old Tuesday. And uh and uh if uh and and if I if I make it through, then I get my one last steak and fry meal with a little pizza. There you go. And uh yeah, there we go. Piece of dairy, milk, chocolate, and then uh one piece. Cheers. I like that, Scott. Well, I just trained at West Coast, you know, the other week. So, I I'll say that I'll do I'll train at West Coast Iron with you guys. Show the shirt. Oh, yeah. I got the shirt. I like the shirt, too. This is I like the earth tones. You know what I mean? It's a good matches your flannel. That's very very matchy match. That's I think you picked that color for that flannel. I feel I didn't know I did, but I think you're right. I did. Yeah. Um subconsciously. West Coast Iron. And um you're going to have to get a transformer bar cuz we're doing safety squat safety bar squats. I have a safety bar for now. It's got to be a transformer bar. We'll get it shipped in. I'll book my flight for his death. Yeah. All of this, too. If this is like a death row thing, I think I'm buying myself some time. You know what I'm saying? It might take seven to nine weeks to get that bar in. It's stuck in customs right now. Yeah. Yeah. Tariffs, you know. Yeah, tariffs. I like it. Fair enough. Um, so I don't think that mine is actually possible, but uh since I can make it anything I want it to be, Ron and I would recreate our back day at Oh, because that that that was like that is that is my workout I remember for the rest of my life. It was the whole Yeah. scene of the entire thing. The whole night. Yeah, it was. And Ron and I, it was great. You You'll love this, Scott. So, I tell Ron, "All right, let's do let's do some let's do some dead stop rows." And the gym is slammed. Yeah. And you've been to Dino, so I mean, it's slammed. There's not enough to use. So Ron goes, "I've never done these before." I'm like, "Okay, perfect. Let's go today." And we both get go after those brutally. Um, and then we get done. And first off, during the sets, the entire gym stops. Yeah. And we have 50 people yelling at us. Dino saying his oneliners that I can still hear in my mind, you know. Um, we get done and we look up and the gym is still slam. So, I look at him, I go, "Now we do regular barbell rows." He's like, "Sure." Mind you, I I had sort of like not been doing a lot of like bent over rowing. I just I'm a little retired. Yeah. little bit tapped out. I'm like, "Okay." So, we just did dead barbell rows and then non- dead stop barbell rows, like back to back, you know? So, it was it was it was grueling, but I I still love I climbed up on the chair and I filmed that set from above. Yeah. And I still remember counting them out real loud. You can hear me in the video. Yeah. You know, eight, nine, 10. And you can hear Dino, come on, Dusty. People dream of doing the things you do or whatever he says to you. Yeah. Yeah. I know that that was the that is my favorite workout of all time and I've had some awesome ones, but that was uh that was definitely one of those moments that I I knew when it was happening. I'm like, this is this is that moment. Okay. Yeah, it's great. Great section. Today's the day one of my all-time best workouts. I've seen uh Dusty peer pressure Ron into lifting heavier weight than I think he would have otherwise. Like I Oh, yeah. you know, uh, I wasn't training hard or much at the time, but when you guys did the Mutant Mansion and Mutant brought me out for a couple days, I watched you guys shooting some video and you guys were doing some tea bar rows and you put a few plates on there and I could tell, you know, you watch somebody, you can tell when it gets heavy and I could tell, Ron, when you would have stopped and Dusty put like several more plates on after that and I you got up, you like I could see you to it took literally you put you turned it on you like really I watched you turn on like the old school thing that day and do a set that I don't think you would have done otherwise cuz it probably wasn't a smart idea anyway but you still did it and you did it well too you did it well too you know Braden Braden notices that occasionally too he'll go oh that was that was one of those sets like yeah I'm not going to do that next it was it was easier to not take the weight back off the bar this is where you just you go but if we have to remove these so Just do it as it is. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Now, those were great. Great. Uh I've got one question. Fire. So, I got from a female listener. I must say I was contacted by three female listeners this week. Um two of them who trained at my gym. one moved away. But um and it was just great to hear from three female listeners like you know that they watching our show and really appreciated the motivation and and getting them through cardio and helping them through their preps and that sort of stuff. And uh cuz I think you know we we we still we still wonder why anyone watches show really. Um but but one of the questions was um what are your recommendations for choosing I hear you guys talk about efficiency. I'm just trying to it was a bit wordy so I'm just narrow it. She hears us talk about efficiency. Uh what what do we recommend for making sure that we choose the exercises that they can get the most out of for putting muscle on their body? Cuz they see some girls doing all these exercises that none of the guys do, right? and you know all these sorts of you know from curtsy lunges to you know son of band kickback type of stuff and just wondering what do we recommend what do we look at to choose an exercise to make a muscle grow is kind of the wording when when I look at a female and I say when I say bodybuilder I mean anybody who wants to put on muscle mass for whatever sport from wellness to bikinis doesn't matter then I think you got to keep it simple Like what would what would a top bodybuilder do to make his back thicker? Do that. There's some confusion that females muscles are different. We have the same muscles, right? So the best stimulus for a guy to put on to to put tissue in a certain area is the best stimulus for you, right? You know, so I I there's a place for certain exercises. I get there's a spot for a kickback. I'm not saying there's not, right? But there's also a spot for a heavy ass squat. Yep. And you need to do those compound movements, those meat and potato movements that guys do to good size and then toss that stuff in at the end if you feel like you still need it. But there's a lot of confusion because when you do a when you do a glute kickback on a cable, real controlled, you're gonna feel the isolation on that glute and you're like, "This is working my glute. It's not working anything else because I'm doing it perfectly." Yeah. And yes, it is. But if you think that a to grass squat with 225 at 135 lbs is not hitting your glutes, you're out of your mind. It's not going to feel the same way as that kickback does. It's the same argument I have with people that say, "But I feel it better." Well, I feel an extension better than I feel a squat, too. Should I just throw the squats out and do extensions? Yeah. Right. So, meat and potatoes is where it's at. If you're trying to put on tissue, that's your secret basics. Yeah. I mentioned it earlier, but um loading, being able to load an exercise is very important. So, um, like there's some people that are all about EMG studies, you know, and they'll say, "Oh, the EMG study says that, you know, this exercise is superior to this exercise." But the EM because the EMG lights up more when, you know, they pull their bicep into the contraction or whatever. But um if you're also very unable to load that exercise more and you're there's there's there's no stress in the stretch position, then it doesn't really matter what the EMG study says about the contraction because we know that the stretch load is very important and you you know tension through the muscle mechanical tension is very important. There's a lot more than just an EMG cuz there's certain exercises that show up really good on an EMG, but they're very hard to load. They're very impractical. Um they're not stressful in the stretch position. There's not a lot of mechanical tension. Um so there's there's that has to be taken into consideration as well. So for example, like I mentioned lunges for let's say a girl wanted to grow her glutes. I would say, well, you should be doing instead of lunging, say with a free bar, I would lunge on a Smith machine. Okay? Because you're a lot more stable. You don't have to worry about balancing. You can stay on that one leg at a time. So, you got more tension. Boom, boom, boom. You can take that muscle to failure and then switch legs instead of alternating. Um, and then there's hip thrust. I would use a good machine like, you know, we have a hammer machine, hip thrust, which is probably the best one. Um, they can load the [\h__\h] out of their glutes with the machine like that. They're super stable. They're locked in. Um, you know, so those exercises would be superior to me for generally putting the most amount of volume onto that muscle. Mhm. Um, so you know, like Braden and I did for fun, we did hanging off the incline bench doing like curls to the forehead the other day. Yeah. And we just saw us do some spider curls, right? And uh the next day the outside head of my bicep was sore. Nice. And I was like, those were really great for that contraction like but there's no stretch load. Yeah. At all. Like the barbell is just hanging like your bicep almost relaxes at the bottom. You know what I mean? So, technically those probably aren't the best exercise for getting your arms to grow. They were fun and we did them for a crazy pump. Yeah. But if you're trying to just train the bicep as efficiently as possible, I would use a preacher curl, machine preacher curl, or something where you're locked in and there's tension through the whole range. That's how I think generally. Do you guys remember generation plus ago now in bodybuilding that and this is like before bikini um every girl was doing pios they had their pio routine. Oh yeah. That was like the thing you know you they lifted but then they also had their pio routine and that was like a thing they did with like dumbbells every you know other day or whatever. Remember that was a thing. I I mean I with you guys 100%. I think there is something to like the specificity of like the Brett Contraras glute stuff, you know, like I think Brett's awesome. You're gonna get a lot out of that, but it you can't just do that stuff. You He's able to explain it properly, too. Like like if you're a bikini girl and you're specifically trying to bring that very upper outer part of the glute, then technically you should add some of these in. Yeah. Right. Yeah. And it works, you know, and part of it, I think, is because like you're doing in in his training, it might be like four glute days a week or four lower body days a week, you know, and and the physiques are just so freaking It's crazy to see like we're lucky enough to have been in this sport long enough to have seen the birth of bikini, to see where that started, to see where it's developed into today. No pun intended, developed, and to see like the offshoots. like look at the way figure the division as a whole has changed even in the presentation um due to the bikini routines and then of course wellness as being an offshoot from that because you just can't contain some of those girls you know they have to keep growing um and so it makes sense that yeah if you're going to do something that is so absolutely extreme with the lower body there is going to be some more volume so you can't do that like the hard heavy stuff four times you can't do like the the squats the hacks, you know, four times a week like that. Um, but you can't leave just don't throw them away. Yeah. You can't leave that stuff out. That's to me that's the foundation, you know. And when you mention a guy like Brett Contrarus, um, he is he's got his girls like they're hip thrusting like 500 lb. Yeah. They're strong, right? So there's they're they're still following that principle of get strong on those big movements that take the most tissue through the range of motion. Yeah. And then do your clamshells. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Still violently strong. Yeah. No, it's it's I actually I've seen some of the videos of the um the wellness girls training. Yeah. It's brutal. Squatting three plates. It is brutal. Squatting three plates. Yeah. their trainer is screaming in their face, forced reps. I mean, you're like, "That's one of the most awful workouts I've ever seen in my life." And then they're like, "Oh, I do this three days a week." And you're like, "How?" Yeah. Yeah. The thing too, I'll throw out there is um I've seen issues like like so there you are developing imbalances, right? And so you can create pelvic floor issues where you get like the posterior tilt issues with your with your tailbone and you know like there are so I I guess too I would say that like think about it's impossible but think about balancing that out to a degree. You know what I mean? Yeah. That's essentially what they're doing. It's it's an art. I mean Brett has really he's the guy in my opinion. Yeah. Like because he's doing like what you said he's doing both. He's saying, "Okay, this is the meat and potatoes, you know, but the sledgehammer is not always the tool to use. Sometimes we need the scalpel." Yeah. But like you can't do all scalpel all the time, you know. Exactly. Yeah. Yeah. Can't pebble. Yeah. What do we think? I think that's it. I think that's about Yeah, I think we got plenty. I blabbered. I hope I communicated my points. We got kind of passionate about uh bikini training. You know, it happened. It was cool. Well, they're I think people underestimate how hard those girls train. Oh, yeah. Yeah. I don't really know how that took place, but I'm like, "No, they're literally doing the exact same thing. They're they're they're carving their they're they're building their physique, then carving it down into a perfect thing. It's just done differently." But it's it's it's hardcore. And those girls now, they're in shape. It's and it's a whole new thing. Like bodybuilding has evolved because of bikini. I honestly I'm kind of passionate about bikini in case you guys didn't know. I I and they're really strong oncore movements. I fell into and I'll say fell into working with some bikini girls like 201617 and a couple of them did well and so then I worked with more of them and I got like this for a while I was like doing a lot of bikini competitors and now I I still to this day man I love watching the division. It's like it's cool to see how far they've taken it and how far that division has gone. And like 20 years ago, we would have never looked at that physique and been you know what I'm saying? Like we would have never known that the things are possible that they're doing. Oh, I was I thought bikini was the most boring thing ever when it came out. Oh, it was just like they just look like girls that Yeah. Like, oh, you were genetically born with a nice body. Congratulations. I don't know how we're calling this a sport. And now it's it's it demands the same amount of respect. For sure. Yeah. It's morphed for sure. It's like those waists are freaking just invisible. It's great. Snatched. That's the word they use, isn't it? I'm trying to be careful using that word with just saying. But, you know, you see them squatting two plates full depth for reps body weights of Yeah. 130 lb, something crazy. You know, they're squatting 100 lbs over their body weight and, you know, doing hip thrust with five plates aside on the hammer machine. And you know, I remember uh Ron, the first time that I trained legs, the first time I trained legs with this area and like we're squatting and she throws 225 on and does 15 like non-stop Scott and then just puts them up like she wasn't even near failure. And I was like And that was like 201 what 2013? Like how is this I mean and she's tiny and I'm thinking how effortless pull-ups. Yeah. 30 like what? And then you guys want to see a hard diet, look at a bikini girl's diet. Yeah. John Meadows did it once. Three ounces of chicken, three ounces of fish. John Meadows made the 202 doing it. Yeah. Yeah. He just actually took a client's diet and was like, I'll do this. Yeah, that'll get it done. Yeah. Good enough. Okay. Okay. Thanks everybody. Remember immutant.com. Get your ISO surge, get your allin, and everyone get on the gear codes Dusty or Big Ron. You don't have to leave your house. No people, none, no touching, no talking, nothing. You're going to love it. Okay, thanks guys. Remember, like, share, subscribe, comment, and bring a question from that show. Yes. Yes. We actually covered a contest today and we talked about two competitors from the entire show. We did. That's as good as it gets for us. As good as it gets. We are not going We kind of brushed on Reagan. Reagan as well. We barely g Yeah. Yeah. There's like a hundreds of people in the show. We mentioned two. So, we're very happy about that. Thanks, guys. Leave comments. We love your comments. We love your questions. Let us know why you watch us. Let us know if we're helping you through anything. Let us know if you play us for your spouse to let them know what you're listening to. We love all the side stories we get. I've had a few say they have them listen just so know that it could be worse. Yeah. Yeah. This one I'm listening to like it's it's nonsense. Like I'm listening to Don't worry about a thing. Yeah. Okay. Thanks, guys. And remember, it's just bodybuilding.