 corphik, brought you into uh making this choice so you're not doing the Arnold then right just the New York Pro or you're doing both no I'm gonna I'm gonna not do the Arnold uh I wanted to do the Arnold but I think it was more that I just so my last my last show was a kind of a tough loss um kind of just fell apart really literally in the last four hours I had posted some photos of me four hours before I got on stage or prejudging a lot of guys will be like oh I look better the next day like obviously you like pose you're not stressed there's a reason why you look better the next day cortisol is down looking better four hours before you on stage is a hundred percent you it up so it was more of me just being kind of butthurt that I could have done better at that show and I just wanted to get back on stage right away but I switched coaches and it's not the smartest thing to have someone be like okay learn my body in three months go you know right um especially since it is it is pretty messed up like uh I mean thank god for Asito and me having him for 15 years is the only coach really I had until last year where we were able to kind of figure out a lot about my body but it's this last 48 hours my body just wants to just say I don't want to do this it's really weird so so either way so I switched coaches uh with Dom uh Super Slice he's here in Vegas um he's awesome I love Dom man he's he's almost too smart like I have to get like AI need to get a degree just to read his like workouts and and diet which I love I don't know about a lot of other bodybuilders but I love feeling stupid like if I can be a pro for 10 years yeah I feel dumb then that means that there's so much more I could grow you know and that means that that's for sure going to equal all to progress so I I've known him for a while he was actually helping me with like some gut health and just like overall like maintenance stuff even though I was coaching with someone else and after this last show I really was talking to him about a lot of things that um it really should have been done uh in Italy and it made me realize like what am I doing I have it's very also rare to have somebody in your state that you coach with they can look at you not sending photos and have someone just be like all right I'll meet you at the gym is super you know like rare so it just made more sense for me to be I'm already working with this guy he's already helping me with so much he's already learning my body like let's give it a go and and see how it is I actually switched also because Regan was with uh boss of outlaw as well before me yeah and it's really hard for me like when someone's with a coach or with with whatever they're doing and they don't weigh the amount that I weigh it's not it's not gonna like transfer the same you know so because somebody works good with like 212 guys they're not gonna do well with someone who's I'm necessarily gonna do well yeah like automatically it does exactly 280 pounds let's say it's just a lot of carbs it's a lot of carving up that's just you know it's insane really it still makes no sense to me um so when Regan left boss uh he literally qualified for the Olympia with him and then went for the Olympia with Dom and I remember I was like that's so stupid like why would you not just finish the race with the same coach you know and after my last show I he's here in Vegas too I went up to him I was like bro I'm sorry because a red flag is a red flag and like why do one more show that's probably my biggest problem is I'm always like you know what like I could have done better my life wasn't so good let's give it one more go where I don't have that many years left in me like if there's any kind of like red flags or something that's not working I need to I need to figure it out now while not being one of these guys that does a different show with a different coach every fucking six months like it's a very thin line you know so I even apologized to Regan because I was like man I should have just I should have just really followed him then because I've learned so much just in an offseason I've learned more in an offseason than I have in any of the years no kidding yeah it's really it's really insane but the difference is is having someone like we do the same thing like that with my clients you give your clients something you see how your their body adjusts to it and then you change it more carbs less this whatever where that's not working with me this kind of like let's see what sticks and figure it out I'm literally blowing at the day of the show every time because we're not figuring out my body from the inside out like why not do a mock prep before the prep figure out what my body's gonna do with these foods once I'm you know pulling water because you can you can look how you want in the gym all day but like leading up to it there's a lot of last minute things that you are doing and if you're not really duplicating that you're gonna have no clue what you're doing the most important day you know of your career I gotta jump in I gotta jump in real quick yes well here's my thought Dusty like I think the show already started what do you think you want me to do an intro so you can just tag it or do whatever you want with it do tell us where we're what we're what you're what everybody's watching and everything but I gotta leave that in because that stuff was like oh yeah we can't I noticed you were recording right off the bat so I was like oh great we're getting all this because sometimes we chat for 10 minutes and then he hits record and we miss the gold but I thought we're talking about football yeah yeah yeah no no we got it all we got it all okay everybody welcome to it's just bodybuilding I'm big Ron Partlow with Dusty Hanshaw and the producer Scott McNally remember to like share subscribe comment and ring the bell yes and hype hit the hype button remember I am mutant.com go to I am mutant.com get your hardcore ISO get your mind fk get your big greens and of course everybody should be on the gear I know Sergio's on the gear we got Sergio Oliver Jr. right here good to have you on the show buddy appreciate it yeah it's good to be back I think we did a show before a long time ago yeah you're around two you're one of the two timers and this time you're wearing a freaking mutant tee which we're very happy about I know Dusty and I had talked about you many times like over the years and and uh so when Dusty sent me a text and he said we got Sergio I was just sitting at home one day I got a text we got Sergio and I was like oh okay okay okay don't say anything let's just wait and uh so here you are man so we're really excited for you and and obviously uh looking forward to what you got planned so what's new with Sergio what is well well um well I joined a pretty badass team uh I feel like I feel like honestly we're like especially me I feel like I'm like last of the Mohicans bro like for people who haven't watched that movie there's only a few people left still competing that wanted to get on a magazine cover like that's not even a thing you know like that was now now if you start working out you start getting into bodybuilding it's how many followers like how many whatever likes it's funny because I was so I mean I'm still anti-social media I hate it but I was super anti-social media when I first started that the only reason I even have Instagram is because I was with Labrata and Hunter's like bro you need Instagram like it's cut I think it's gonna be a big deal and he literally took he took my phone and he just created an Instagram account and that's really the only reason why I even started Instagram because he was like bro stop that's so so but yeah no it's it's it's cool it's it's it's just good to be with people who just get it like it's it's so hard for me to explain it any other way than that then you just understand what I'm doing in my life what I want to do and you just want to be there to help me do it like it's it sounds it sounds like yeah that makes sense but that's not a thing anymore man it's it's my last sponsor bro I was like doing more promos at Walmart than I was actually doing anything that was like helping the actual bodybuilding world like it's it's just weird but I get it you know like every every company has their their niche and they have people that they want to reach out to but this is who I am I'm a bodybuilder and it just it just makes perfect sense for me to be with not only a company who's been around like from the get-go but also everyone on the team is also just like-minded like we're all the same you know and uh I think that's gonna be the best thing going for me this year right yeah Sergio we got we got Clarita we got Drea so I've heard of them you know and we got Lola like these top top top people and you know we we really wanted like a big proper big open guy yes right like proper big you know and uh so yeah you it's a you're a great fit what what are you weighing right now like what's what's going on with your actual physique if we're going to talk about bodybuilding yeah I guess I guess we could talk about that the actual body well it's really cool now that I'm I'm with Dom uh switch coaches we've kept me really lean this is the leanest I've been in the offseason so I'm like 310 but like man I'm ready to go like we start the diet I gotta move I've been dealing with this whole move for the last month it kind of really killed the holiday but um as soon as I move which is in like two days bro I'm I'm starting prep it's time to go and um and I and I like I was saying earlier I wanted to do the Arnold but this prep with this with this new coach which is a friend of mine Dom it's just been completely different already and him wanting to collect data on me it's just not going to be smart to just jump into a show right away so we were thinking looking at the list of like what shows to do and like what I was saying earlier is I'm still like got that it from that last show you know like man if I got like my let's do it from that ! And it's like, okay, I need to put on muscle, this or that, I literally just messed up my peak, so I want to get back on stage as fast as possible, but I want to be realistic, and the first show is New York, and you know, it would almost be like a perfect story though, like I finally am on a team where like I can just be a bodybuilder, people support me and want me to do it, and we just give it a run go, and my first, you know, my first pro show was New York. Yeah, New York worked out okay for you before, right? It went all right. But look, I have to say this too, and people are always so weird when like you have a bodybuilder talking about like taking away something from what they did. When I won the New York pro, let's just be real too, the year before was like Kai, Dexter, it was like Nathan Dasha, Kuklo, it was like when you, if you, if I had did the New York pro the year before, it was fifth. And it's really hard for people to understand in bodybuilding that sometimes firsts aren't really the same first places as they would have been maybe a year before or maybe a year after, and the same thing in reverse, you could get a fifth place that's probably the best you've ever looked, you know, and that's what I'm more trying to focus on this year. So I just want to finally for the first time in my fucking life is just look my best on stage. Like I'm always like looking the best before or like there's so many times I'm getting ready for a show. Like poor Asito, I would just be like, can we just go on stage now? Like now, right now. And, and figuring that out, it's, it's been the most annoying thing. So I don't even like, of course, we got to go back to the Olympia. Like that's the most important, but I feel like that's going to be easily done. If I just focus on just trying to be my best, where instead of trying to worry about like, who's in this show, let's plan this show and do that. Like I want to do the first show ready for open. I want to do it and get this qualification and then do another show too. How, how are you doing in Vegas? Like you, you've had an interesting few years. You, I mean, if we go way back, you got stuck in Australia during all that nonsense. I think the last time we did the show, I was in Australia. Yeah. So you had that whole crazy thing and then you were in Dubai, right? For a while. And then you had that crazy thing. And then, and then, and then, so, so, you know, as a, as a, as a, as a good pro, like, you know, we always talk about how to be a pro bodybuilder. You need like, you know, you want stability and you want to lock down at home and you want to have everything like, you know, repetitive in your little spin cycle, you know, gym, gym tan laundry, you know, you want to just, you just want that to never end. Right. So how are you feeling about your, you know, are you just in a really comfortable, repetitive place right now in Vegas? Do you feel like you've settled well and all that? Yeah. It's weird because like all the places I were, it didn't negatively affect me in bodybuilding. Like when I was, even when I was stuck in Australia for COVID, like I still was out there with Cormier. Like we were still just like, we're still getting training done. Like it was really cool. Because you were stuck there too, right? Yeah. Yeah. Because we went out there to go compete in the Arnold's and then they canceled it like the day we landed. But then the Dubai thing, it was just, it's just, I don't know. Like sometimes the stuff with my life, it's just like, why me, you know? But then I met my wife in Dubai, you know? So there's always a way you can pull some positive out of it. If you're open to see what came out of it, I think we're so wrapped up in bodybuilding where that's the most important thing. So I wasn't able to do those shows. I was stuck in that jail. I couldn't get out, losing sponsors. Because of bodybuilding, it just forced me to focus on all the negative things that came from Dubai. But it wasn't anything about Dubai itself. It's not like they did anything wrong to me. It's not like even I did anything wrong. It's just the way they do things. If something happens, everybody goes to jail and you wait it out until they figure it out. And that was a shitty situation. But the gyms there, it's the best gyms in the world. Like it was just the greatest bodybuilding experience I've ever had. And then after that, I actually went to Spain. Remember, I was training with Dorian. And that's incredible. Like how many people get to say that they've done that? Like when I'm done, I want to do like a whole series of training with each Mr. Olympia. I think that would be really cool. Like that would be a cool series. I talked to Lee Haney about it. And he's like, they better be my day. I'm like, all right, Lee, calm down. You can have whatever day you want. Lee doesn't have a single injury. He could still train. Yeah. Imagine doing your whole career and retiring by 30. 31. Imagine winning. That's insane. He got eight Mr. Olympias by the age that I won my pro card. Doesn't even have sore elbows. Literally. Like just like crazy. And you see Lee now. He looks like he's what, 44? Right. There's got to be something with the word Lee because also Labrata is also in top shape. Like what is going on with them? Maybe it's the don't annihilate, stimulate because man, I've been annihilating my body every day and I'm like in pain. So maybe he had something. Maybe he knows the thing. I don't know. I joked with Labrata. I said, yeah, you're one of the guys that got out like your physique just perfectly intact. He's like, I tore my calf water skiing. It doesn't look good anymore. Like he is just funny. But yeah, something will come up and bite you eventually. But yeah. Right. So yeah. So no, that was cool. I was training with Dorian, but then they wouldn't give me a visa out there. So we had to move back to the States. And that's the only reason why I even came back. They said that I had to leave and then come back. But I wasn't going to exactly because of bodybuilding. You can't just move to another country, then move back and somehow you're going to be better. So I actually reluctantly moved to Vegas. That's the craziest thing. I didn't want to move here. I wanted to go back to California. I mean, I love San Diego. It's the best place in the United States easily, but it's the most fucking expensive. And when you eat 10,000 calories a day and you spend, I mean, it would just be cheaper to just buy a cow. So I was like, you know, let me go check out this Vegas thing. Because I remember when I was in Cali and I was the only one that didn't leave, Sean left and I would watch Rodan out here and there really was no gyms out here and they still were loving it. So I told my wife, let's just go to Vegas for like maybe a year or two, get settled back in the States. It's also her first time coming to this country, except we came for the Olympia one time. But man, as soon as I got here, the environment is exactly what I want. And it's exactly like what you were saying, the, you know, eat, sleep, repeat. Every time somebody asks me like, Hey, what's new? If I tell you nothing, like nothing's going on, my life is amazing. Like if I have no news to share, I have no conversation. Like I feel bad. Like my mom will call me and my friends back from Chicago and I'm like, man, I got nothing like, and I'm happy. I'm so happy because if I have things to update you with, it's probably somehow taken me away from what I do to pay my bills. And so here I'm able to just kind of be locked down. I'm also surrounded by a bunch of people that do what I do. Yeah. And one thing that I really like, I think we talked about last time I was on the show. I love feeling small. I love seeing somebody and being like, man, you're not shit, you know? And in California, they're just not that many people anymore. It's which is, which is so wild. It's just not the Mecca anymore. And in Dubai, like I had Andrew Jack, which is the most motivation there possibly is. This guy walking into the gym, just like nonchalantly, just lifting five plates, like, like nothing. So quiet. Like he doesn't even like make a sound. But having like someone like Regan here, it really helps me to, you know, it's also nice to like not to get sidetracked. I was telling Clarita, I was like, man, if you can't beat him, join him. So I was like, man, that's the only reason I joined Mutants because I'm so tired of losing to T12 guys. And, you know, Clarita beat me and Regan, you know? So it's cool to be around people and see someone that beat me. He's also my height. We're around the same weight. And it just reminds you like, you're not shit, man. You're not that big because you start to lose that. You go shopping for clothes. You go hang out with your regular friends. You have this like, if you're not one of the guys that loves that attention, you start to be like, man, I'm fucking really big. And that's the worst thing that you could be thinking if you're an overbodybuilder. Like, you need to be constantly reminding yourself you're not shit. And so I'm not shit here in Vegas and I love it. You know, that's the best way I can sum it up. So and then that was before all these gyms open. Bro, you guys haven't been here yet. But this new gym that opened, you guys are going to love it because half of the whole gym is just old stuff. It's just old Nautilus, Body Masters, Strive. They don't even have Prime. They have Strive. Are you talking about the new tech one? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I've heard I've heard it wasn't quite finished yet at the O, but everyone was still in their training. I didn't get to go down. But so you feel you feel great there. You got a home. I wanted to ask you, since you've been, you know, very, how do I put this? Like, I've trained at a lot of gyms more than most people ever train at, but I've trained at most of them once. Right. Whereas you got like these residencies in all these cities all over the world where you got like a three month feel. You got to use every piece. You got to experience the actual gym. Like, you know, you go there once and be like, man, this gym's awesome. But then if you train there for a week, you might be like, man, this gym sucks. No one puts her weights away. The bathrooms are always dirty. Management's dumb. They just, you know, this, they don't do anything about this. I can't believe, you know, and you start to see what a gym's actually like. So, you know, what, what do you have to say? Like you said, the Dubai gyms were the best. My only experience was Dusty and I went to Binus to train and it was beautiful, like the big TVs and all the equipment, but we couldn't believe there was like no dumbbells on the rack. They were all on the floor.  And we were just like, is this just because it's expo weekend, it was like insane, like I'm talking 75% of the dumbbells around the floor. Yeah, so we weren't sure it's like this because it's, you know, the, the big expo weekend, and they're just like slammed. So you're not, you're not, you're never sure because you're just there the one time. So what, what did you, you know, what's your experience with those gyms and, and, and, you know, now that you're in Vegas and everything? No, I never thought about that. When you do all these gyms, it also has to fall on whatever body part you're working. Right. Like you might be like, Like you might be like shit, Like you might be like shit, Like you might be like shit, I really wanted to do back, but it is your shoulder day. Yeah, you have to pick. I never thought about that. Yeah, I actually will, I don't think I've ever been to a gym just one time. I will, I'll stay and knock it out. Like even when I went to New York, I stayed just to train at Bev's just for a little bit longer. Right. But I will tell you, Dubai doesn't count. Dubai has unlimited money. It's literally endless. And that's how they compete with each other. I think that they just try and have a who has a bigger dick contest by you bought this and I'm going to buy that even better version. That's why they're bidding $3 million for license plates. Because once you have a Bugatti and I have a Bugatti, I have to beat you with something. You've heard about that, right? Where they auction on the license plates. And so that's how the gyms are. Is this guy will open up this gym and then they're like, oh, yeah, well, hold my beer and I'm going to open up this one. So, of course, they're going to be the best. It doesn't count, you know. But those are the best gyms by far because the equipment is state of the art. It's like brand new. They almost have OCD. The only downside I would say with the Middle East gyms, they're changing out equipment so fast. Like it's almost like I just finally like love this machine and they had to get the newer version of it. Like calm down. I just figured out where I want the seat. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You're not allowed. I mean, not allowed. But if you're at least an Olympian, they don't want you to take your weights off. They have these weights people. And like me, I'm from like, man, like I'm from Chicago, but my whole family is from North Carolina. There's no way that I'm going to let someone do my weights for me. Wow. I didn't know this. It's very hard. And at first I'm like, no, no, man, like go. Like I'll be okay. And then you can tell that the owner's like, no, like that's what I want him to do. I want him to follow you and he's going to do your weights. You just rest. So after a while, I just started telling this guy like, bro, go outside and like just relax. Take a break, you know, like. Smoke one. But then you realize, yeah, smoke one. Then you go to jail forever. Yeah. I realize it's disrespectful. That's why I always say it is. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. For sure. For sure. I'm glad that they didn't do any drug tests when I got locked up. That's for sure. It's disrespectful. Yeah. But you can see that they're like, what do you mean? This is my whole purpose. Like, and how you don't want it. So then you start to learn that, man, it's really the highlight of their life just to be able to help you with a drop set. And so by the time I left, I was for sure just super lazy. Like, okay, all right. I got 25 plates of a drop set. Good luck, bro. Go ahead. You know who I blame? I blame Dennis James. Yeah. He had that. And he had the tie, that tie kid that would put all his weights away. I think he started something. Yeah. Yeah. I think he's the only reason we even have the oxygen connection. He took Dennis Wolf out there, all the guys back in the day when it was Kuwait. And that's all there was. Right. Like, who knows? Yeah. That was the first crew that went out there. Hey. For sure. Remember they had all the matching track oxygen, like, suits? Yeah. I wonder what would have happened if he never had that connection. Because that obviously boomed into bodybuilding, which then, because people, for Americans, Dubai and Kuwait is probably the difference between, like, Alabama and Las Vegas. It is, like, one is, like, the most rules, like, and then the other is we don't even want you to go there. Like, if you go to Vegas and you're a Middle Eastern, it is like you're going to Sin City. You can hold hands if you're not married. You can drink. You know, these are things that are just, like, big no-nos. So Dubai is different. Like, it's like the, hey, we're crazy. But to us, it's like, no. You still can't raise your voice. We can do a whole segment just on Dubai. When I first got there, I'm from Chicago. I dropped the F-bomb all the time. I think I dropped it five times on the show already. That is a straight to jail. It is like the Saturday night, like, straight to jail. Right to jail. Straight to jail. Straight to jail. Yes. F-bomb, straight to jail. Straight to jail. Believe it or not, straight to jail. And I didn't know that that was the thing. This guy's, like, talking to me. And I'm, like, I went to go, like, get my water. I came back. He, like, took the machine. And I'll always work in with anybody. There should never be any reason why you won't work in with somebody. And I was like, oh, man, I just had two more sets left. You know, we can work in together. And he's like, no, I'm using this now. And I'm like, man, I just had one more set left, you know. And he's like, no, no, no. And he's, like, not speaking to me. So when he got up, and, of course, the reason why we started talking about this is that the amount of lifters in Dubai that are serious is a lot. It is great. But then the other half, they're just so rich. They don't know what to do with their time. And they just, you cannot speak to them any kind of way, you know. So it was really hard to figure out that kind of, like, between of who's who. And I learned right away the first week where this guy is, he's on his set. Now he's on his phone. He's walking around. Yeah, you're not supposed to take this guy's machine, according to him. And can you guys still hear me? Yeah. And I'm like, man, I'm just going to do my last set. He's, like, walking around. And I come back. He comes yelling. And he's like, I was using that. I told you I was using it. And I'm like, man, you're literally resting. I'm just going to do my set. I could be done by the time this conversation is done. And then he keeps talking. And I'm like, what am I even doing? Like, I could be done. So I just put my headphones on. I'm training. And he's, like, talking. I thought he was saying something else. So I took my headphones. And he's still saying the same shit. And I'm like, hey, man, I'm not fucking talking to you. Whoa. Holy shit. His face. Like, I must have just punched him in the face. He's like, you talk to me like this? And I'm still just thinking, like, American laws. I didn't raise my voice and put my hands on him. He's getting this mad? Have fun, bro. You know? I don't got nothing to worry about. Before the end of my workout, the cops were there. Oh, my God. The cops are here to talk to you. And I'm still in my head, like, laughing. Like, there's no way I did anything wrong. I learned really quick when the first words out of their mouth were, did you say the F word to him? And it was, like, my stomach, like, holy shit. Right to gym. Right away. Wow. I have no idea where I am. You know? Like, what am I doing? So thank God the gym owner was so mad at this guy for calling the fucking cops for something so mediocre that they told him that they're going to kick him out of the gym. And they're like, okay, forget about it, blah, blah, blah. And so, but either way, it was really, I'm glad that that happened because it set the standard right away for Dubai my first week there. No kidding. This is not what you think it is, you know? Like, there's ways of breaking laws that you have no clue that you even did. Right. After I got locked up, there was a girl from Atlanta. She went to rent a car at the rental place in the airport. She never got out of the airport because we've all had an experience with some rental car company. You didn't have your third grade report card with your blood test, you know, so we can't rent to you. And, yeah, I guess she was raising her voice, being upset, straight to jail. And when I left to go to Spain, she was still in jail. So, oh, God. It's crazy. Yeah. Yeah. I know. You're not in Kansas. So, there was the longest explanation ever. But Dubai doesn't count as the best gyms ever. So, they're out of the picture. So, I would say the gym in San Diego is for sure one of the best gyms. Yeah. But like you said, if you go one time, perfect. You go there on the regular, you learn it is the worst parking lot in the history of gyms. There is no parking lot that is worse than the gym in San Diego. You need to plan to go a half hour early. Like, you go with your pre-workout and mix it in your car because you're going to for sure be waiting a half hour. So, you're just kind of sitting there hunting for a spot. Is that what you mean? And, of course, everybody gets fucking, yeah. And then everybody else is doing that. So, then you have all these fights. People are like, no, I was waiting. You're waiting. And then you're now backed up in the parking lot. People can't even leave because there's so many cars waiting. It's just a clusterfuck. So, that gym, that gym. And, honestly, I would say this new tech gym because of the old stuff. I mean, new tech is okay. I mean, I don't really care for it. But all the old stuff in this new gym, I could train there from all year just on that stuff and not touch one of the new tech stuff. So, I would say those are the best gyms I've been. But I haven't been to any gyms in Canada. I heard Canada's got some decent gyms. We've got a couple. Yeah, one or two maybe. Uh-huh. And you know what? At my 40, in the beginning, when it first opened, when Pekulski was there, I really liked that gym. I haven't been there in a while. I don't know how it is now. My friend just trained there and loved it. He said he had a great session. It was his favorite gym in Tampa. Someone said it's been better. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know what's going on with it, so we'll find out. But, yeah. But those are my top gyms, I would say. A lot of experience there. Now, you were training at another gym in Vegas, too, that I saw you post some content from. Was that – you kind of got a second gym that you're hitting about? Yeah, so cold – I would say the second best gym here is cold fitness. But it's in, like, the works of being one of the best gyms here. He took this gym over, and now he's trying to buy, like, the furniture store next door. He's going to knock the wall down. It's going to be easily the biggest competition for this new tech. Right. But it's, like, one of those things where he's trying to do it the right way. He's teamed up with Panada.  So they have a lot going on with their machines. I'm trying to kind of like work in some old stuff in there. I'm trying to kind of like work in some old stuff in there. I'm trying to explain to him that, you know, like sometimes the brand new Ferrari actually sucks, unfortunately. Like it's, it's, it's, it's just doesn't work. And then also for me, I'm almost six foot tall. Some, some, some machines just don't work with my body. Like I feel like, like I used to go to dragons and you can tell that that that's made for a 212 height bodybuilder because everything in that gym is for someone 5'5, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over, over I would bring my F-bomb with me everywhere I went, and if someone I didn't like, I would just hold it up for them. Was there anybody in the Middle East that you had training you or anything, Sergio? Were you doing your own thing, or how did that work out? No, yeah, I kind of was just training my own thing. I train better with just a workout partner, and even crazier, I train better with a workout partner who's not a pro. It's really weird. Sometimes the best workout partners are somebody who is just kind of like, they wanted to learn. They're wanting to train. They're still kind of getting into it, but there's no ego. There's no, like, it's just maybe not so much in the open anymore. It's really weird. Bodybuilding first started, and it was like all this animosity. You had crictitis, and everybody fighting with everybody. But as soon as the other classes came around, we got closer because I can't have animosity towards anyone. I can't have any more beef towards open guys because we see all the classic Inventive Z guys getting all the sponsorships and all the kind of lucrative contracts because they're more marketable. I'm not saying that open guys work harder, but we definitely eat more, and we definitely train heavier. So however you want to base that and try and make it where I just said something negative about the other classes, I don't care. No matter what, the open guys are definitely not working any less. I'll say that. And, yeah, there's a lot of times now where we'll catch each other, like, sticking up for someone else. Like, whoa, calm down, bro. You know how hard it is for me to go upstairs? Like, I literally have to, like, I have to, like, brace myself so I don't crush my wife when we're having sex. Like, I'm such an out-of-shape breathing like a pig. You don't realize what a pump the triceps get. They underestimate the tricep pump when you're 300 pounds. I know. We don't talk about it enough. We suffer in silence. I know. I'm trying. I'm trying, man. It opens the only class that you are struggling all year round because you, of course, struggle on the diet like everybody does. But in the off-season, now you're struggling with things. I don't know why people think open guys. You're just – your body's, like, it's just normalized to be a certain amount of, like, weight. It's not normal for a human body to have a certain amount of weight on it. And, like, especially me, I started – my first show was, like, 160. I was a middleweight. So no matter what, it's almost more than 100 pounds of just muscle on my body. It doesn't matter how tough you are or whatever you want to do. That's just an insane amount of toll on your body and your health. So now in the sport, yeah, I just feel like all the open guys are kind of, like, we're, like, in our own little category of, like – because now, honestly, it's stupid to be an open bodybuilder. It's stupid. You should start a YouTube. Like, in the amount of time – the amount of time it took for me to win my pro card, 10 years. Sam Solik already created a YouTube, and he's making six figures in a month. So why would I want to be an open bodybuilder? I think what it's going to be is the open class in a few years is going to be the most hardcore bodybuilders. Because it means you're doing it. You don't care about the money. You could be taking all these other outs where – look, there's also – there's something very amazing about – like, look, all of us. We try and do content, right? It's hard. I'm not saying that these guys do not have a skill. It's an amazing thing that they can pull these content out of their ass nonstop. Some of them are pulling out three or four YouTubes a week. Like, holy shit. That's a skill. But now to be competing in bodybuilding, to try and be Mr. Olympia way a certain amount, it means that you really realistically – that's who you are inside and out. You're not doing it because there's no more magazine covers. There's no – like, there's nothing like that that's going to be – because you did open, you got this. Like, our paychecks are better, thank God, and I hope that that stays forever. But that's about it. Yeah, I mean, but that's how it should be because, you know, all they have to do to figure it out, do an Olympia where you have everybody class on a separate day. And then we'll see how many tickets we sell. That's the easiest way. That way there's no argument. It's not this bodybuilder attack that bodybuilder. This class thinks they're better than that class. Put all the women on one day. Put all the men's physique and classic on another day and put open on another day by itself. And let's see how many tickets are actually sold. It's very hard for people to understand the difference between NPC and IFBB. The NPC is, you know, run by men's physique and classic. Thank God. The amount of people that bring money to that pay all of us, which is great, and it's amazing. That's why we're all able to make actual living money off of bodybuilding. My dad died poor. He won three Mr. Olympias, and he got three grand total from that, you know. He died with no money because he had to go back to working a job. How are you, Mr. Olympia, and 35 years as a cop? It doesn't even add up, the math, you know. Right, yeah. So there's plenty of positives that we get now because the sport is so lucrative. But at the end of the day, to be an open bodybuilder, like, why? Why would you do this? Like, holy shit. And you get more respect. You get more respect. Like, me and you, right now, Ron, you can have hip replacement. You can now get on a diet, take all the best photos of you on the timing, on the day, with the lighting, how you chose, and then post that for two years straight. Oh, this is how I look today. But it's from two years ago. We don't know. Because you're never going to get on stage. You're never going to be taking a photo from someone else's phone, someone else's camera. And I think that's, like, the beauty of bodybuilding. Like, you get to put yourself up there, and you're vulnerable, and you have to be judged, which takes a certain type of person to do that. But why would I just start a YouTube, make all these pictures, start a program, coaching, transformations, you know? I'm rich. Bitch. Yes. Yes. I wanted to ask a question. It might be a weird question, but it's kind of about, like, you know how, like, the people newer to the industry, like, I know a lot of people that are, they love bodybuilding, and they want to compete. But because we forget how long we've been around, so, like, I'll mention Dorian, and they're like, who? Huh. Right? So, like, to them, like, way back is, like, Jay Cutler. Right. Yeah. There's that generation of bodybuilders are out there now, like, oh, back in the olden days when Jay was Mr. Olympia. And I'm like, you mean yesterday? Yeah. Like, you know what I mean? So, how often do you meet people now or engage with people in business or at the gyms or the fans or whatever who actually don't realize who your dad was at all? Like, you're just Sergio Oliva. You're like, does that happen often to you now? Like, have you seen that start to happen because, like, enough time has gone by and there's another generation of kids? Like, you get what I mean? I mean, no, yeah, you're right. Because also, too, I didn't realize this, too, until I started really getting into bodybuilding. There's no video footage of my dad. No. There's no actual cameras. The only footage, that's why they keep re-showing it over and over again, which kind of sucks for my dad. The only footage they have is when he did his return in 84, when obviously we had actual technology for cameras in the 80s. But in the 60s, they had to fucking put the tarp over and hold the thing photos, you know? Like, that's how old school it was, you know? So, they're only showing my dad at almost 50 years old. And they're like, oh, my God, he's so amazing. That's like, he was already retired and then came back, I think it was like 15 years he left the IPB. So, there is no actual video footage. There's, like, really old. He's, like, in a field. You've seen that he's, like, wearing red posing trunks and he's just doing some dumbbell curls. I think even Arthur Jones just put some random-ass machines in a field. It was, like, really strange. But that's it. There's no video footage. So, I get for people not to understand, like, who people were before there was actual, like, a video of people posing. Like, before there was the first DVD, like, God, what year is that then, you know? So, when I got into the sport, that was the last thing I could have ever imagined because, obviously, because my dad is, like, everything. But, yeah, it's happened so many times where somebody will even come up to me because you can tell that someone enlightened them. And they're like, hey, this whole time that I had talked to you, I've met you several times, I never even knew that your dad, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. And, obviously, I'm not ever going to just bring my dad up in a conversation just randomly talking to people at an expo. So, that is, like, in a weird way something that I never expected. And, like, I like it. Like, it's definitely something I really enjoy. That's what I was going to ask you. Yeah. Yeah. I'm not going to say that, like, I made people know about my dad. But there's definitely been people that learned that name existed before me. And I'm not saying that they would have never realized it, but I think it makes sense.  3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 super cool. It's definitely like a random thing. I think I would have never expected, but again, it's only just because my dad was so old because like me and Hunter are the closest, you know, to have comparisons, but his dad, his dad's like in the eighties and nineties, like there's not going to be anyone really who doesn't know about the Lees. So I'm really still walking around all the shows. They sponsor shows. My dad, like never even, he never even went to the shows after he was done. Like he just was anti-bodybuilding. His, his way out was different. Like obviously back then there was just so much going on with just racism and everything. And like, I mean, it was, it's definitely really tough. I mean, they could do a whole book on just Arnold and my dad and Arnold changing the posing room to like a darker room. Like this is when they were like, they didn't even do it on a stage. They get it in a hallway. You ever see those photos? It's like, it's like Franco and Serge Nubre. No, not even Serge Nubre. I think it's just my dad and then someone else. And they're just in a hallway. That's the Mr. Olympia competition, not on a stage, not in an auditorium. And yeah, there's like stories where Arnold talks about where he switches the room to a darker room. And now my dad's not popping as much. When, when I did that, um, when I did that, he's a, he's a, he's, he is the best and the worst though. You know, like it's, it's like one of those things where like someone keeps like screwing you over and it's like fool me once fool you 17 times. This guy's fucking smart. You know, he's pretty, he's pretty, he's pretty good because I did that bigger movie. And I don't know if you guys have ever watched bigger, but I think everyone should watch bigger because I think Calum in it. Yeah. And me. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Calum plays Arnold obviously. They made it seem like it was going to be a bodybuilding movie and I wish they would have just made it more of a, you guys ever think about who was the first person to make up exercises? Like right now, if you got into bodybuilding, even if you got into bodybuilding when we did, like in the, in the nineties or the early two thousands, you look up work hamstrings, this machine, one, there's already those machines created. Right. What if there was no machines that existed? Not only do you not have a machine to train that muscle, you don't know what movement trains those muscles. And so that's what I wish they would have like, um, they would have made the movie more of like, because it's like Joe Weider going and looking at surfers and they have lower abs. How are you get lower abs? Because they bring their knees up to jump on a surfboard over and over again for years. And that creates that muscle. And it's like Jack LaLanne and people that are creating the first gym, which is really cool. But that's a good sidetrack. In that movie, we do get to talk about how, when Arnold told my dad, Hey, we're not getting paid enough. Like, let's get the hell out of here. We're the best two bodybuilders in the world. Let's walk off stage until they give us more money. And then my dad's like, okay, walks off stage and Arnold's like, he quit and kept posing. And he won that show. Like that's, that's cool shit. Like that's really cool. You know, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't mind manipulate people backstage at the Olympia today. Nothing you're going to do. Staring me down. Arnold talks about his encyclopedia that my dad took his like pump off robe. And Arnold already was like, I already lost because he wasn't just so off. Staring my dad. There's nobody backstage since Ronnie where you take your pump off clothes and you're like, fuck it. I already lost. That's not happening anymore. Like, you know, you're not outsmarting people. You're not like, you're also really not even outworking anyone. Like that's a very big myth now is I don't think anyone's beating anyone because you trained harder. Like I think there's different training styles. Some work better for other people, but at the end of the day, everybody at the Olympia is training 110%. There is no like, cause I think in the nineties too, you could beat people by out training them. Like look at Branch and Johnny, like how many people did they beat just because they fucking just trained harder than other people. But that's not a thing anymore. Like it's, it's not, it's just doing what you need to do, not getting injured and then peak on the fucking hour that you need to look good. And then throw in the Olympia that you don't know, you might go on at midnight, you might go on at 9 PM. You don't even know. So that's the added, that's the new added thing that none of the old guys want to talk about is you had one class, you had bodybuilding, you had the women's, well, I guess you had women's two piece and one piece. Yeah. That took a while. Yeah. Right. But that was it. So the whole show, the guys could pump up. I do, I do like guest posings and people will tell me these like stories of my dad doing guest posings. Those are the best stories I did. I did one and they were telling me how they're like telling my dad to get on stage. And he's like, no, I need to, he needs to pump up longer. He ends up like making them wait an hour so he can pump up for a fucking guest posing. But what were you, what were you going to do? There's nothing else going on in that show. There's only bodybuilding. You had maybe one women's class and then that was it. So it's really cool to see like, what kind of like think really the real person, because nobody's going to tell me like when, like when I meet people or like I met Arnold, they want to tell me how great my dad is. It's just a respectful thing, you know, like, Oh my dad, your dad was this and that. I know my dad. I know he was a bully. I know that he was for sure. He was for sure a dick. Like I knew he was, he was suspended from being a cop all the time because he was like, what one story I heard is he took this guy by his like legs, shaking him upside down because he, he wasn't giving his driver's license and he like lifted him like straight bully until his license fell out of his pocket. Like what, what is that? What kind of person is that? You know? So I love those stories and the promoters that are still around, you know, that were Brown back then, they'll tell me, they'll be like, man, actually I got into a fight with your dad. Like I'd always love, but like when I comment, people are like, man, if your dad was blah, blah, blah, he would be like ashamed of you or something. Like when I'm like going off on someone on social media, I'm like, if you only knew my dad, he would find your address, find you, and really kick the shit out of you. He would be catching cases. If my dad was around, social media was around, he would be in jail for sure. I promise you. He would be catching cases. What, what, what did Arnold's actually say to you? Like, have you just had one con, like how many conversations have you had with Arnold? Well, it's, I've had different conversations with every Mr. Olympia. I had it when I was a kid and then I have it now as a pro and you can see, it's cool how it changes when, when you're a little kid, it's like, when are you going to start working out? And that was always the best one. I'm like trying to get my pro kind. They're like, Hey, when you start working out, like, I've been trying for like eight years. Holy shit. But yeah, they'll, they'll give you the, like when you're a little kid at the expo, like, Oh man, your dad was so great. Blah, blah, blah. And then now once you are older and you're competing or like when I did the Arnold and Arnold came out and gave me that award, they want to tell me how proud my dad would be. And that's when it gets a little, like, I got to like put the face on and be like, Oh yeah, thank you. It's because I'm not going to get into a whole conversation with Arnold and tell him how my dad was alive plenty of years when I was competing and he didn't go to shows. You know, I had to move from living in Chicago because my dad didn't want me to bodybuild. And like, now that I'm older in reverse, I understand where he's coming from. Like I understand him being an immigrant, escaping from Cuba, Castro trying to kill him. Like it's a crazy story. The life he lived, the last thing he's going to do. Just hang up. Castro trying to kill him. Yeah, you know, just roll that in real quick. Like he, like he went to lunch that day. Yeah. He ate a hot dog. Castro tried to kill him. He had a Diet Coke. Yada, yada, yada. Yeah, exactly. And, uh, so I get it. And then you get, and then you like make it in life barely. And then your son's just like, I want to do this bodybuilding thing. Like, no, the fuck you're not. You're going to go to school and you're going to get a degree. And I just wish at some point he would have just realized, like, this guy's going to do it regardless. Like I might as well just at least do what Lee did. You think Lee is like, Hunter has a fucking like scholarship. I think he'd like graduate from like Texas A&M. Like that's a good ass school. You think Lee's like, yeah, I'm going to pay for this fucking degree going to one of the most expensive schools. And now you want to do bodybuilding. I'm sure once he realized that Hunter's going to do this regardless, I at least never need to be there with him. Let me teach him some posing. Let me at least like introduce him to the right, the right advices, you know? Like, yeah, never gets old. No, it doesn't. It's funny when we had, when we had Hunter on, he actually talked about that when he, uh, when he decided to quit football, his parents were pissed. Yeah. They were pissed and didn't support it. And then once it started cranking, they realized like, well, he's doing this. So let's go. You know, do you, do you find though? Cause I thought it was interesting. You toss it in there. And I think a lot of people who have had some form of a, uh, we'll call it different relationship with a parent. Um, hindsight gets clear as you get older. You know what I mean? And you start to, cause like my dad and I didn't talk for years when he committed. And, um, then I, you know, I had all these bad things and then I look back and I'm like, you start understanding where they came from, what they went through. And you're like, you know, you did the best you could. And it kind of changes the way you look at the exact same situation in hindsight. Do you, do you think that in any way though, that that alters how you,  I, whether it be, I mean, I mean, I don't have kids, but I mean, you have a lot of kids, kids, kids hitting you up, asking you questions, having goals, having goals, does that, does that, does that kind of change how you maybe mentor as well? Particularly when you have a kid reach out that maybe you already know the moment you look at them, this is not a great decision for you? Yeah, we look, haven't we all met someone who's like, man, my wife didn't believe in me, I left her ass, my job didn't want to let me compete for a show, so I quit. And it's like, bro, you got third call out, like, it's not, it's not, it's not happening, man. So you're right, so you're right, and that's the scary, the scary thing is, when you start losing in shows, you start to think, am I one of those guys? Like, holy shit, am, this whole time, has I been one of those guys? You know, so there is that thin line where you can just have a couple bad shows, and you're not one of those guys, and then there are these guys that it's just never gonna happen. Like, it might not even happen because of genetics, it also might not ever happen because you don't work hard. Like, you can tell also, even by not even looking at someone's physique, you can just look at their day-to-day life and be like, bro, you don't even make it. Make the right decisions, you know, that it's just not gonna happen. So yeah, I try and not be, I try and not be my dad, and just be like, no. Like, why no? You know? Like, I think, I think this isn't gonna happen, this isn't best for you. Or maybe find out something that they have other skills in, that might be like, hey, you know, like, there's no plan Bs, you know, we love to throw that out there. But like, when you are just in the NPC, you're just trying to get your pro card, you should have a couple plan Bs, because you might be able to pay for bodybuilding with plan B. You know, you might be able to get a full-time job and have that be able to support your bodybuilding career. And you might end up being a better bodybuilder because you're not stressing about relying on sponsors or content, you know, creating and stuff like that. So, but with my dad, there's a lot that I understand now that I'm older. There's a lot I want to do when I have kids because of him differently. But I do wish that he was around a little bit longer, because it kind of would have made me, like, there's nothing for me to be sorry about for our relationship. I did nothing except just trying to be a kid and just trying to do what I want to do. Like, it wasn't like I was a bad kid, like, getting in trouble or something like that. I just, I don't like school. Like, I just didn't like school. Same, same. I didn't know quite where you were going with that. I just didn't like school. Yeah. Yeah. I had scholarships for sports and I still just like, I don't want to, I don't want to do it. And so, but I wish that he was around a little bit longer because then I would have been kind of been able to be like, I at least get it. I understand. I would have done things a little bit differently because he only came to one show. And the only reason he even came to one show is because it was in Chicago. And I know for sure he only went because I think so many people were just coming up to him. Like, what time are you getting there? Where are you sitting? There were just questions of like, assuming he was going to be there, but I don't think he was going. And I think just once all, it was like Junior Nationals when it used to have it in Chicago. Yeah. And I think then he went, but it was, it was like one of the best moments of my, it was about one of the best and worst moments of my life because it was the first time my mom and my dad had seen each other in, I don't even know, 30 years. And it was the first time in my life, in my life, they were, I see them nice to each other. So it was really cool that no matter what, I did that. It doesn't matter if I'm a good bodybuilder or not. They're both coming to their son's show. My mom was also married to a Mr. Olympia. She had to deal with a fucking lot. She was also a pro, you know? So they're both kind of living their own experiences with bodybuilding. Now having a kid who's doing it, and it's not like they pushed me into doing it. They know I'm for sure doing it on my own. But then it got twisted immediately, and this is the tough part in the sport, is I don't get to have a regular career. This isn't like a, oh, I'm crying about it. It's just it is what it is. I don't get to do a show, and I just did a show. I thought about doing, I think we talked about the last one I was on a show. I was going to do my first show under my mom's maiden name just because I wanted to just like, I just wanted to be me. Like, God forbid, I just, I do a show at 176, and you're not putting it next to a fucking Mr. Olympia's photo. Yeah, that is a little tough. Yeah. So I'm doing the show, and I think I got, it was a hard-ass show. Everyone who got in the top four of the class that I lost, they all became pros. It was like a really, it was like Juan Morel, Bella Rosa won. It was like really crazy. I'm getting like fourth or fifth. Now Peter Potter's like, hey, we're going to have your dad. He comes back saying, he's like, we're going to have your dad pass out the trophy. No, you're fucking not. Passing out a trophy? We haven't even been in the gym together. Like, are you serious? If you want to do that, have my mom. My mom has been in the gym with me. She's helped me. And then they're just like, and it's so funny too, because clearly they weren't asking me. He was just telling me. Let me know. It's not for you. It's for everybody else. After I gave my whole spiel about, please don't do that. You know, blah, blah, blah. I don't want to make it about me. And I even said, Pop De La Rosa is in the stands. And Pop and John are probably the best father, son, bodybuilders. They just don't have those Mr. Olympia titles. But of like training together, supporting each other through all their ups and downs, being best friends. Like, that's a real ass relationship. And he won. Let his dad pass out the fucking trophy. And then after I go through that whole spiel, he's like, cool story. We're going to have your dad pass out the trophy. That was a real waste of my time. But I listen to the whole story again. Don't fuck myself. Oh, the kid's got feelings. Okay. Well, anyways. Yeah, here's what we're doing. But now all the headlines was Sergio's mad about his placing. He's crying about his placing. Because my face of my dad on stage passing out the trophy, I was just so upset. I was just so distraught. Because I'm also thinking, it's not in a selfish way. You have not only have you not helped me, you called gyms to make them not let me train there. I literally had to get in my car and drive to Florida to live, to start my bodybuilding career. All my bodybuilding shows were in Panama City, Florida. Because in Chicago, there was no gym that was going to let me work out. So you, like, went out of your way to stop my bodybuilding. I never heard this. I never heard this. He was trying to save you from bodybuilding? Is that what it was? Or was it? Yeah. Look, again, we can have a whole conversation about how, what my dad dealt with back then. Yeah. He had his own relationship with Joe Weiner. Me trying to explain to him, it was fucking 50 years ago. Ronnie Coleman has already won eight Mr. Olympias. Lee Haney's won the 16 Mr. Olympias. There's 16 black guys. Yeah. It's not that racist anymore. Exactly. All the good guys are black nowadays. It's basically basketball now. Yeah. You'll love this, Sergio. When I got ready for the show I turned pro in, I sent Chris a text and I said, everyone's fucked. And he goes, you look awesome. He goes, just hope a really good black guy doesn't show up. And I'm like, me too. Me too. Because we all know how many of my ass kicked. Oh my God. There's nobody better than a Cito. Nobody. I'll tell you, Cito is the most father figure I've had in my life. If it wasn't for a Cito, we wouldn't be here having this conversation. He's not only the reason why I'm the bodybuilder I am, but even just like as a person, he's helped me just so much immensely. Yeah. But yeah, yeah. So no, my dad, my dad literally called Jim so he wouldn't let me do this. And so now he's passing out this trophy and I'm thinking like, man, what is this? I think it was also realizing like you're also dealing with this on stage. You're already like dehydrated. You're like, and also stupid too. When I did that show, I used to think, I used to think if you suffer more than the other guy, you're going to win. Right? Everybody did. Right? Yeah, everybody did. So I'm backstage eating, I'm backstage eating brown rice, asparagus, you know, I'm sipping on the wine because that's what you do. Right? That's the secret. And then the guy who, and then the guy who won, it's like, his name's Zinjen Kroon. He won the whole show. I don't even know if he got a stilkart. I remember him. He's walking around eating Pringles and tequila and drinking. And I remember telling my girlfriend, this guy couldn't wait two more hours before he wanted to cheat on his diet. Like, what a lazy ass. And then he wins. And it was like, I'm getting smacked in the face with, I don't know shit about bodybuilding. This is when you're supposed to be having sodium and stuff like that. And then I'm also getting smacked in the face that I don't get to just do bodybuilding. It's always going to have something to do with my dad. But then I also realized, I chose this. Like, you don't get to complain about something that you, you don't get to be Michael Jordan's son and then be crying because you missed a shot and they're comparing your shots to your dad. To your dad. It's just, that's my choice. So it was just a lot of realization that was going on right away from a fucking junior national show. On stage. On stage. And yeah, all the photos of my dad giving me a hug and my face and I'm all upset. And there was no Instagram back then. It's not like I can, not that I really would. I'm not like I would go straight to social media and be like, I told them not to let my dad pass out the trophy. But there's no way to talk. It's just like, get big forums and like a couple other things that you can talk on. Otherwise, there's nothing that you can speak about bodybuilding because it's just magazines. And so then I'm even thinking like, oh my God, what is going to happen next? You know? And then I go back to Florida and then Muscle and Fitness is like, hey, we want to give you a magazine shoot. I'm like, man, this is so cool. Like it's Muscle and Fitness. Like I'll take it. It's still not really bodybuilding. It's not flexed, but I'll take it. Same building. Same building. Same building. And you know who was the person running the show? It's Fuad's wife, Sam.  Yeah, yeah, okay. And, and, uh, and, uh, and, uh, and, uh, we do the photo shoot, and they're like, yeah, we want to do it with your dad, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. And, I call my dad from Florida, and I'm like, hey, I'm gonna come to Chicago do this shoot, I'm gonna do it at the gym, like I grew up in this gym, like I grew up in this gym, like I was in the, like, playpen as a kid, and he's like, nah, I don't wanna do it. I'm like, mother fucker, this guy. And then I, I, maybe someone guilt-tripped him, or maybe he just had a, a coming to moment, and he's just like, you know what, okay, let's do it.! Yeah, be. I always tell Jay it looks like he has a million dollars in his pocket, and then I go, wait, you do? That's what I say to him, he always laughs. I go, Jay, you look like you got a million bucks in your pocket. Oh, you do. I wanted to spin things back to you for a minute, Sergio. At the beginning of the show, you were saying that, like, this past year working with Dom, you felt like you've learned so many things. I would love to hear, like, what's one of the things that you feel like that you've picked up that's gonna benefit you going into this season? Learning how certain foods affect my body, changing my pre-workout meal to kind of, like, something a little bit easier, like, digesting, not really, like, loading my stomach. A lot of times I feel like I'm distending my stomach because I have to have a huge meal before the gym and a huge meal after the gym. I've been anti-serial guy for, like, my whole life, and then I realized, man, it makes perfect sense. I mean, even as a kid, you had a problem with cereal? How do we delete this episode? This isn't live, is it? That's what makes sense. I remember the protein shake and cereal, yeah. Oh, that's a great fact. We talked to Dorian Haywood just this year, and he made incredible changes to his midsection. You know, he had always been a guy who was thicker, and we asked him, we're like, dude, what did you change, Dorian? Because, you know, he went on to do the Masters Olympia, all that. And his midsection has completely transformed. He said he switched to simpler foods like that, you know, more shakes and carbs that weren't as dense. So, I mean, I feel like that that's going to be a possible game changer for you then, man. Yeah, no, I mean, that's just, like, little things. But, you know, like, the craziest thing that he's had me do, which there's just no excuse for me not doing it, is just writing things down. Like, documenting my weights, keeping track of my weights. I've been walking into a gym for the last 10 years and just, like, I'll start here. You know, like, I know how to, like, pyramid up, and I can figure out what's my top set and stuff like that. But I think a lot of times I'm spending so many sets because I'm just coming in and putting the pin here. I start with this 45. You know, I only go 45 a quarter. Like, we all do the same thing. But if you actually start to write things down, you'll realize, like, man, I did this last week. Why don't I just try a little bit more and see how it goes? And then you start to then realize I couldn't do it, and that's probably because I also didn't sleep. I had bad sleep the day before. You're able to figure out a lot more stuff when you start writing shit down. And him being able to kind of, like, document a lot of stuff is also, like, helping me to hold myself accountable. And that I really like a lot. But the best thing starting with my career was with Asito is he's got to be the lowest gear pushing coach in the industry still today. And I think that that's probably been the best thing is I've had this staple of what's an amount of gear that I should be taking. And if I can gain 110 pounds of muscle with taking, I think, less than a lot of other guys, then there's no reason why I need to up that. And so Dom is also very low in dosages and stuff like that. And that I highly, really recommend for a lot of people because I'm not going to name any names, but I know certain people that go with certain coaches. And, man, they peak. They look insane. But then you're burned out in three years, and then they're never able to do anything anymore because these protocols just grounded your body. And now the only way to get out of it is more gear. And now you're older. Your body's more beat up. It's not an option. But Dom is so hands-on that I think having to track everything, he has me wrong. It's so embarrassing. I don't think I'll check my blood pressure or my blood sugar in one check-in in my entire life. And I have to send both of those with my check-ins. If that tells you enough about how he is about health and trying to figure out everything, I think that that would be the most. Yeah, especially – well, I always say that the blood pressure, glucose stuff, that's – like I think there's too many 170-pound people that are recreationally training that think that that's super important. And it's like you're perfectly healthy. But on your end, like your blood pressure is very important. Like you're a 300-pound guy. Yeah. I mean there's a lot. People don't realize like, oh, my blood pressure is a bit high. Okay, well, that's directly negatively affecting your kidneys and your kidneys are what filter your fluid and make you look dry. So anything that stresses your kidneys out is going to affect how dry you look, could affect how dry you look.  So yeah, that's why people who think you can just boatload gear all the time, you know, like we all know the guys that looked great when they turned pro, and then they can never get in that sort of condition again, and it's just because they just add so many more drugs, there's so many more variables going on, they just, I don't know why I can't get as hard as I was when I won the USA's or whatever, like that used to be a real big problem, and we used to see a lot of that, and it's always because they're just, they start boatloading everything they think they got to now, you know, um, yeah, Like, like, like, like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like... Like last show, I used to look up what was the worst things to eat, like the most unhealthy. And then I would go eat there because I wanted to just get 10,000 calories a day because that's what Jay did. And realistically, the whole time I was doing that, I wasn't even checking myself or, you know, regulating anything where maybe my genetics actually kept me from having a, you know, good, healthy blood panel. So I would always check my bloods and stuff like that. I don't want to like say that people would be like, this guy wasn't checking his bloods. I was constantly, I was doing my bloods. I'm not checking it every few days to figure out what's affecting exactly my digestion or my absorption or even my, like exactly my sleep. What do you think is your best look ever? Just pure stage conditioning detail, all, you know, your all around favorite look that you, you want to, man, it would have been, it would have been this, it would have been this Italy show. That's the worst thing. Those photos, uh, maybe you can throw it up when you put, when you post this up. Uh, it's the best I've ever looked in my entire life. And that's the worst thing about it. I wish like this. So we're talking about football when the bears were losing, I wasn't even saying like, I hope the Packers just score 10 more touchdowns because I want them, if they're going to lose, I want them to lose by a ton. And that's how, when I do bodybuilding, I'd rather just get my ass destroyed because the only thing I can do is go back and I got to figure this out and figure that out. If I ate one wrong carb and which I did, I ate cream of rice on the way to the prejudging and just blew my stomach out. That completely throwing away a whole year's worth of prep is just so devastating, but that's the best I've ever looked, but on actually placing and coming through and collecting a check, it's actually, it's my worst placing ever, which is fifth at the Arnold. Uh, but it was, but I got fifth to Dexter, Rami, Bonak. And then there was another, it was like, it was like three Arnold classic champions. Cause I beat Cedric in that show and it was like four, it was like four Mr. Olympias. It was like an insane Arnold. So this is what I'm talking about. My fifth place was my best look. And yeah, you take away anyone who had won an Arnold or a Mr. Olympia, then I was winning that Arnold, you know, but that's, that's not how bodybuilding works, but that was my best look. And that was with Aceto. And that's when actually Cormier moved in with me in San Diego. He was training me every day. And, and like you were asking me before about people training me in Dubai. And I said that I trained better, um, with just kind of regular people, but it's only because I've been able to train with everyone and take stuff from the workouts. I don't want to like, I don't want to not give them their props because I learned so much from Cormier and I'm very blessed to have Cormier and Tom Platz were roommates of mine. Like that's such a, who said that before? That's incredible. They're very different people as well. Like I'm going to have a roommate, like, like chat. So you've got to spectrum there. That would have been a great reality chat right there. And different types of training, you know? Yeah. And, um, and I think been able to train with, but I would say Cormier is probably the best of all of them only because Cormier did the same thing. He trained so many years with Charles Glass and then he went to Dorian. And if you ask him today, you can put him on the show and he'll tell you that his biggest mistake is, is that he didn't go there sooner or stay there longer. He said he learned more. We've all watched that video. He's throwing up with Dorian, uh, that he learned more in that. It's like a few days. He only trained with him for a few days. He learned more than that than he did his entire career at Gold's gym in Venice. So I think that that's why he's the best because he took a little bit. And that's what I've done too. The training that I did with Dorian, the high intensity, it's not for me. Like it's definitely not for me. Also going to be 40 years old. Your body just can't, you can't do one warmup set and then your max weight, like that's just, your body is just like, good luck. It works if your max weight is two plates. So I'm, I'm still able to do the Dorian training because the one plate warmup gets me to the two plate max. Okay. But when your, your one plate warmup doesn't lead to your six plate max, I'm sure. Yeah. I know the first time we did chess, he's like, he's like putting three plates on and like, we're starting with three, three 15 on incline press. Like that's set number one, like not going to happen. You're going to have to call nine one and then wait for that last one because it's coming. There's no way. Um, but I took so many things from him. I'll tell you the biggest secret that I learned from Dorian is I'm back just trying to hold that rep for like a half a second. Even if you can't, just because you're trying to, you use a different muscle by just trying to hold that pause where the essential is completely different in where you're just kind of going back and forth. And it took me being a pro for 10 years to realize, man, when I do, you have to obviously go down and wait. When I do my back like that, I'm blowing up my back. And I wish that I had started doing that a little bit rather than trying to dumbbell row the 200 pound dumbbells and using my arm the whole time or momentum. If I would have just tried to hold those exercises, my back would have been different a lot. So it's the intention to hold, even if it doesn't stay, it's the intention. So like the negative pulling you, the negative pulls you out of the contraction for sure. And if you look, you can pull up my photo before I went to Spain and my last show that I did, my back's changed more in the last two years since I've been here in Vegas because I've been using what he showed me. It's not even like, because it was necessarily the training with him because I was only out there for, you know, a half a year. It's not like I could really do that much time with him, but what I took from him, I'm now implementing. And that's the whole point of what I'm talking about is those are the best lifters is don't have this attitude that I know everything, go train with everybody, every single person, even if it's like, you know, like someone completely different, like from John Jewett to exactly like Tom, Tom Platts, it's completely different and then take out of those, what you feel works best with your body. And then that's the best I think type of bodybuilder. And so yeah, when I was training with that Arnold, I was training with Cormier. So I had somebody who was just kind of like diligently like on me doing my abs, like that's something I'm definitely not like focusing on stuff like that. I have footage of you pumping up for that show, believe it or not. At the Arnold's backstage. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. And Cormier was back there with you, right? Yeah. And also, yeah, yeah, I just it's all coming back. Yeah, yeah. I'll see if I can throw some of that up if I can find it. Cormier is also a cortisol, like reliever. Like if you're just around him, you're just in a good mood. There's no way you're stressed. Like, obviously, like he's a great bodybuilder. So obviously having a great bodybuilder next to you and supporting you, you feel confident about yourself. But there's something about Chris that he's just like, I mean, probably because he's just smoking all day. So how can he ever just be upset or stressed? He's just super chill. Yeah, I think that that also helped me out a lot, too. I don't I think my body wasn't like sponging up and trying to hold water because I didn't I wasn't a nervous wreck like I always am. And that's that's probably I think was a accumulation of all those things. Him moving in with me helping me work on things I wasn't paying attention to. He was also already showing me Dorian training. I didn't even realize it. It was kind of like a combination of like Dorian and Charles Glass together. It's high volume. But then the form and the pauses are a little bit different. You know what I remember about that show? That was that Arnold Classic was Dexter's final show, wasn't it? No, no, it was the next one. After that, it was a few years later. This is the one that we have because Dexter lost. Bonak won. Yeah, yeah. No, no, no. I thought Dexter. I know which one you're talking about because his whole family came on stage. Yeah, I remember. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. I'm off then. It was later. It was later. I wasn't competing in that one. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. But no, that was it. That was a great Arnold though, for sure. Yeah. But no, this one was insanely stacked. Like, yeah. But that's also my biggest accomplishment is being Cedric, which was insane. Everyone needs one of those. Oh God. Yeah. Not everyone gets to beat Cedric. Right. I remember the first time I saw Cedric in person, he was at an expo standing at a booth in a tank top, a sci-fit booth. Yeah. And like, how many guys, like you mentioned Andrew Jacked earlier, but how many guys have the impact that, that Cedric had in person in the, you know, you're a big pro. So to you, to your eyes, how many guys do what Andrew or what Cedric did? You know, when you walk into a room full of bodybuilders and you're like, Oh shit. Yeah, of course. Or you're getting an elevator at the Arnold and you're like, God damn. Like I tell about the first time I saw Andrew Jacked in a hoodie, I was like, God damn it.  I theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme theme definition of big especially big arms it's just kind of like a regular you know my dad like even though like even though he was like my dad almost had me at 50 years old he just got off the olympia stage like he was big as hell so i always i always wanted my dad can beat up your dad you know conversation but it wasn't until i started getting into bodybuilding later and your dad knew how to fight yeah exactly for sure uh because you always you know you always like see the like the indians or like middle eastern people they like want to like touch you like it's almost like a yeah it's like almost homosexual like they're just like an it's almost like you have boobs like they just want to like mama what you're also not supposed to do in public i've been told also straight to jail i've had that happen in vegas it's allowed there oh yeah it's it's welcome it's welcome that's why i'm here like that's why i moved here um but so i never had that where i'm like i saw another man's body and i want to like have this urge to want to like poke it or touch it it's it was very strange to me until i saw roley roley's arm i just couldn't i couldn't comprehend that that wasn't an arm like it just like we always we always make that joke you got legs for arms yeah but it was and then i just catch myself like man i am still staring like i like stop staring and i'm still staring that i almost started to like like liar liar like mama just want to touch it so that's probably the only person i've ever seen where i just couldn't understand that this was a human being because i know what you're talking about you're talking about like stature as a huge human being yeah anything yes cedric cedric is huge sean sean was big too he just always wore like three jackets a hoodie pants you know he was always so covered up but but sean was a big guy too um but yeah i would i would say roley for sure oh no no actually i'll take it back when i had the athlete meeting at that arnold rami was there he was sitting in front of me and they're calling your name or you go up to get your number and and he just stands up and it's just straight ass like the cheeks on this guy it's the gayest thing ever he was so big that i just couldn't understand how that was just a man's butt it was just like it was it was just like a huge person i just couldn't understand and i'm like man what is wrong with me like pumpkins or glutes it was like bbl before there was bbls and that's when i realized holy holy shit there is there is just gigantic human beings that walk on this earth and and rami's i think rami's over six foot he's a little bit over yeah he's he's like the same height as me pretty much so yeah so that's probably the only person exactly he's in sweatpants he's in a hoodie it wasn't like he was like showing his body and it was just man this is a human this is human right here in front of me yeah questionable questionable yeah i always look at those guys that had that though when i would describe to people how freaky cedric was i used to pull up his instagram because he had a video of him decorating the christmas tree with his kids and he had his shirt off and he's just decorating the christmas tree i'm like this is what he looks like just living yeah like he's not posing he's just putting tree things on with his kids and goofing off and you're the best videos all i can look at is like how is that muscularity looking like that when the rest of us trying our asses off can't do that on stage exactly that was like my go-to to show people how good he was i'm like look at him put this tree up and they're like what i'm like just watch you'll see and you know he was anti-bodybuilder at home he never spoke about bodybuilding he he hid hides all his trophies they're not out no kidding he told me he told me one time in australia that he wants his kids to just see him as his dad and he he like wins he like wins watches and all these things from shows and he gives it to like the protan girl or someone who helped him like he doesn't take anything home he doesn't keep anything and then whatever trophies he does take home like an arnold trophy like god forbid he just throws it in the garage just with the rest of the junk yeah johnny jackson told me the same thing i asked him we gave johnny this uh battle axe one time for like his 14th olympia like a custom war axe made for him with like all his olympia years on it and oh that's that nice and um i said you know how much you know you have like a room in your like you know your office like you know you've been to 16 i think i think he retired at like 15 or 16 olympias he went to is insane won five or six pro shows and i just and he goes no it's nothing in my house you wouldn't even know i was bodybuilder and i was just like huh and it's the guy that trains at branch like you know you don't like you have to go out of your way to to do that right you have to go out of your way to to have not have it around your house you know yeah for sure i think it's really cool i just as a son or the child of a bodybuilder um i was even saying cedric what if one day his his son does want to get into bodybuilding you know and then you don't even really know who your parent really was like i think there's like a there's like a a line you know in between like you're right you want to be a regular person you don't want them to be and you also don't want them to be like you have to aspire to be this like that's also a lot of pressure too but what is i mean i mean me and hunter are proving it is possible i don't think there's ever going to be a child of a mr olympia ever again i think there's going to be other children of bodybuilders of course i just think you have to be super poor to want to be a bodybuilder i think you have to be messed up in the head and now you win too much money as a as a mr olympia that your kids automatically are starting out with money like like derek's derek's daughter is already rich like she's doing well she's gonna be fine yeah if they got that real estate bought and those investments made by the time she's 20 she'll be fine self-set yeah one day one day your kid might actually want to dabble in the gym and then they start to realize man i really like this because i liked it because it's all on me like when i would play football or track even tracks a team sport you can win your event and your team loses i couldn't handle that in high school like what what is this like i'm good right yeah you guys are shit i feel like it would be hard to dodge now though like knowing who your parents are because bodybuilding is so much bigger than it used to be you know like my youngest daughter started training and uh she told me she wanted to go to the gym with a friend so i was like all right go ahead and then um i get a call from her she's like they won't let me in i was like what do you mean she's like well i have to have a signature because i'm 14 and i was like oh okay well i'll just come right there i walk in the front door and the lady looks she goes why didn't you tell me who your dad is she goes what do you mean who is my dad yeah yeah like there was no registering at all for her she's like what and she goes yeah you can do whatever you want in here and she's like oh okay and after that she's like she starts googling me looking things up she's like why i go i don't know why it matters either i wasn't even good at this shit right right i could understand if i was sergio but no dusty's dusty's always a local celebrity wherever he lives that's why i live in small places that's the key it's the secret smart i'm sure you're the same sergio because you're such a worldly you know multiple city living type of guy and you've got such a history of travel but dusty is a is you could just take dusty and just drop him in any city anywhere and then come back in three months and he's got a car detailer guy he's got a guy that does carpets he's got a guy that does real estate he's got he's got a beard guy he's got it's just totally the infrastructure is laid everything's easy there's no friction in the day-to-day living at all he's got a lady on monday at 10 he's got like everything's just it's yeah the structure follows him so that's why i'm glad that sergio's in vegas because now when i go there i can just make a call and go who do i call for and he'll go this guy right yeah i i got it's a bodybuilder thing but dusty has it systemized to like the next level it's very key it's very key yeah yeah who who do you um i know we've had you for a very generous hour and a half sergio thank you very much we're 30 minutes past what we normally torture our our regular guests with uh but this is in your mutant contract apparently so we stuck that in real small writing extra 30 minutes uh wanted to ask you you know um you mentioned no you're you're 40 you're not gonna be doing this forever that type of thing um who do you who do you see who's young coming into this we've got some interesting new guys have arrived who do you see where you're like that's a really killer physique that has like a real future do you do you want to name anyone you want to support anyone that you yeah for sure no i've been saying for a while it's just now all of a sudden people are just like oh wow this guy's pretty good but man for five years i've been saying how is nobody paying attention to quentin like quentin is just for sure the future i used to say quentin and andrew before when he was in the other federation he wasn't even in the ifpb and his name's um it's rpg on instagram you  Alright, Routein, Routein, Routein, Routein, Routein, Routein, Routein, Routein, Routein, Routein, Routein, Routein, Routein, Routein, Routein, Routein, Routein, Routein, Routein, Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Routein Route Routein Route trying to figure out why are these guys not nailing it and i think quinson is just because he's i think he was with someone the wrong person maybe for too long kind of messing up his physique and obviously he's so young that he's still just kind of learning stuff but i think besides andrew i think he's for sure a future mr olympia where it's not just like a one and done like uh i think that he's going to be someone who could win a bunch of shows him taking like three second places i also know how that feels where a majority of shows you're just one place away where he didn't go to the olympia but people are starting to notice him for sure and then and then it's like and then you meet him because that's the other thing we were just talking about earlier is that you can meet someone you see their lifestyle or who they are and you're like it's never going to happen or you can meet someone and you're like man you are a good person you're normal you make good decisions with like relationships because another thing too like you can party you can be best genetics ever but you want to be a party guy and you want to like have multiple different relationships i promise your bodybuilding career is the wrong women's yeah the wrong the wrong advice of women yeah for sure so usually how you can tell how someone picks their mate the people that they are surround themselves in their circle is a big tell of what kind of bodybuilder they really are um and yeah i would say quentin's for sure like really go he's he's just normal there's not many people are just a normal person and then you also are like a monster yeah yeah and he is a monster in person yeah well he's gonna love that i've brought quentin up many times on the show we just did a reel about him the other day yeah just about this about meeting him in person because people don't i think people even though they see him on stage and see his size you watch it when they walk up to him at a booth because you see him go yeah like you know when everything suddenly scales for someone and i mean that's that happens with you too sergio like oh you're you're you're bigger and like you're six feet tall right like just yeah just just barely just touching six feet i don't know how many people know that you're that tall like you you i think you get that too right when people first meet you're like oh you're like i think they think you know average bodybuilder average pro is what five eight yeah yeah so so you're you're one of the type of guys where you stand up out of your chair to shake someone's hand like oh oh shit okay i think social media i think social media also makes taller guys seem worse where if you're shorter you seem larger you feel the half strength machine in a weird way well i think you just have to you have to fit into a tiny little square you know because that's all that's all i i just hate that in general too because they'll put like a classic guy and then an open guy and you have to now scale them down where the same height is the same way and then and then and then you give your opinion on bodybuilding and why classic is better than open but you've never been to a show that's what's happening is social media kind of like makes bigger people smaller but then when you meet them in person i i'm for sure have more better i don't know if that's proper english but i have better experiences in person with people than on social media i think certain people just look different like look at terrence he's a perfect example terrence looks like the most perfect physique on social media and if you meet him and he's wearing regular clothes it's like when is he gonna get his pro card you know he's but then you take his clothes off and he stands on stage he's a trophy he is like yeah unbelievable pass him out as a first place yeah literally yeah that's awesome man that was that was george's thing when you when you went by the booth to uh talk to us he's like this really big guy came by and i was like i'm gonna need more at the olympia george yeah and then he said like one more thing i go oh yeah exactly i'm still gonna need more good i'm gonna start guessing but i'm going with football players um well uh i have to say since we're going to be cutting it off we are really stoked to have you both on the show but also with mutant yeah um you know when we talked and uh uh i actually just so you know i reached out to chris before i reached out to you and just said you're the most honest guy i know you know tell me about bringing sergio out in olympia and he gave a typical long chris answer do it and uh that was that so i'm sure he misspelled somehow do it yeah there was an x in there we went it through the acetoism translator i met someone in in dubai and they were telling me that they just realized like the year before that chris wasn't foreign they thought he was foreign because they've been coaching with him and he does his texting is very i don't know if it's lazy or he just knows you understand what english is his third language in order in order to work with chris you need to be able i've had guys actually i had a local guy here that uh that hired him for his last show and uh he just sent me a screenshot and he said what does this say and i i looked at i go like boom and i read it back to him immediately he goes how did you get that i'm like 10 years i'm like he wants you to take out a cup of rice for meal four yeah i mean you read this add 10 minutes of cardio and what the fuck confirmed yeah confirmed it is i think it's an intelligence filter for chris but you're right though because he is the smartest person we've all met right but you know that's that's one of the best things that he has taught me that my favorite saying is i'm not always the smartest person in the room but i'm always the smartest person in the room and that means the real way in life is letting people think whatever they want if you want to think you're smarter than me you want to think you're better than me you're actually the smarter person by just letting them and that's been the best advice that he's ever giving me because spending so much time sometimes i'll spend i never need to let someone know that i'm better than anything like that but sometimes people are so stupid or they say stuff that's just it's just so wrong you have to now correct them you have to now spend time to like whatever it is yeah and it's just it's not worth it it's let them you know whatever it is you should have at it i gotta give you a story on that sergio because this is a classic chris we were uh in tampa and i just ran into my dinner he's gonna be there and he and i were having a conversation this guy just joined the conversation he kept talking and what he was saying didn't make any sense he was just all over the place and finally he says something chris goes hey could you give me a favor he goes yeah he goes could you stop talking and i was like that's the meanest and greatest thing i've ever heard in my life and the guy just like stopped and they stood there and we kept talking yeah and another uh one more before we let let you one more little chrissing before we let you go i ran into chris 15 minutes after the olympia this year as soon as they hand out the trophy emily and i sprint to drostanolone because we want a table before they close nice we get in last call we're sitting right by where everyone walks by yeah and chris and his son are coming just strolling by with nobody just strolling by and they they're just exiting like the olympia is just flushing out and i wave at him and he comes over and we start talking and um he doesn't mention the olympia of course not it doesn't even happen doesn't i know the only reason he already wasn't on a plane leaving is because his son was there otherwise he's on a flight already he just won an olympia and again again olympias by the way yeah well won it back he just he just re-won an olympia yeah but he's saying classic and open yeah yeah yeah he won both and and yeah with dino too dino just won that night like it was a huge night for him and he just comes over and leans on the wall and he's got his son with him and he's like and uh and i go hey you know good to see you again i shake his son's hand and he's like yeah you know so you know his plan for next year he's gonna do this and we're chatting and he's like you know i'll see he's going with the the condo and just and it was just like and and i i picked up on it right away i was like oh i'm not gonna ruin his yeah he's already he's already completely he's not like did you see derek did you see it like there's no there's nothing in his voice like he could have been at target yeah and and i just i don't know what the lesson was but i took a lesson away from that there was AI was like i want to be more like him in a way like and that's a weird thing with chris is there's something about chris that when you deal with him you're not really sure what it is but you want to be more like him somehow because he just seems so emotionally intelligent and calm and able to just deal with the chaos that would be in everyone else's head and just you know yeah yeah yeah do you know you know got it yeah yeah whatever you know you know brazil's burning down the streets in celebration he's trying to figure out what cheesecake he's gonna order yeah you know yeah i bet you he really even loved even more that you also didn't talk about it because he also does you can see the people that he also surrounds himself with okay i'm gonna tell him  These things, BLINCIKid, BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLOIN BLO You can even debate and stuff like that. But also that you can also not talk about bodybuilding. Yeah. And yeah, he'll message me and text me randomly, and we'll have a whole conversation. It has nothing to do about bodybuilding. And yeah, that says a lot about him. But what's crazy is he's got to be the only person who's been from the beginning till now and somehow has been able to adapt with the change of physiques because that's also something that's changed a lot. Huge. It's him prepping Jay to now prepping Derek and Andrew. It's a completely different type of process. And not to dog any other coaches, but they know how to do something one way, and it either works. If you work with Chad, it works. If it doesn't, then it doesn't work. Somehow Aceto has different classes. Except for women, he doesn't really dabble in. But even the last time, I don't know if you guys have followed, he did the last woman he did. Yeah, she won everything too. She won the whole show. Yeah, exactly. She won the Wings of Strange. She almost won the Olympia. And it's just really that's the craziest thing is that the amount of history he's seen, the amount of training with Samir and having been roommates with some of the best bodybuilders ever. And then you talk to him and it's just kind of like, yeah, all right, ready for the next one. I'm unfazed by it. It's admirable. He's got a Gold's Gym Venice business card from 1986. I love that he posted that. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Imagine having an office in that place, and now you're stressed about bed bugs in your apartment that you have to deal with. But I think that's why, I think bodybuilding is his, it's a stress reliever. Yeah. Where I think his real stress is real estate. I think he's so, he tells me all the time he doesn't know what's worse, bodybuilders or like dealing with real estate. Regular people. I was at the USA's one year. He had like five guys in it. Dusty was in it. And I was standing outside talking to him, and he just, oh, I got to take this call. And he just takes it, and he's like talking, and I'm clearly, he's talking to an exterminator. He's like, blah, blah, blah, blah. Yeah, no, it's just that unit and that unit. Yeah, no, blah, blah, blah, blah. And he hangs up, and I'm like, oh, we're dealing with these. Yeah, I got this building that's got some roaches or something. So he's taken like these real estate exterminator calls in between the light heavyweights and the heavyweights at the USA. It's just like, you know, and you just think like some people, you know, they can't manage their shit. And it's just a, he's a great example of just calmly handling your shit all the time. And I think that's why we all benefited from him. For sure, having him from the beginning. The last thing I want to say about him, though, is that the only negative that people try and attack him is they say all of his people had like great genetics. It's very easy to make these people into great bodybuilders because they have great genetics. There's exceptions. Thank you. Thank you. I was like, show a little respect for these shitty genetics, please. But the point is, of all those good genetics, me, Cedric, Sean Rodin, even Derek, we are all head cases. We have had insane turmoil going on in our life that he has dealt with and got us to somehow. He's somehow had us have this crazy personal problems going on in our life and still peaks us to us looking our best ever. And that's going to be something that people are never really going to talk about because no one's really ever going to know what Sean was dealing with, what Cedric is dealing with, what Derek's dealing with, what I'm dealing with. And still just like able to put on and help us be able to somehow pull it together, let alone come to the show, let alone win, is insane. I almost went to the hospital before the New York Pro. Like I, my leg was going to explode. I had an infection. It's like crazy things going on. And then we won the show, but nobody will ever know these things. So no one ever wants to talk about how, yeah, you made Cedric into a, you know, Arnold Classic champ, Sean into a Mr. Olympia. Those are probably two, some of the craziest bodybuilders ever. Yeah. You know? It almost wasn't that he made their physique into those champions. It was, he helped their, helped get their mind along for the ride. 100%. Keep it quiet enough that it would happen. Yeah. Very interesting. Thanks, man. I appreciate you guys having me on. Yeah, man. This was really great. We should, let's do it again where I'm not the focal point. I hate talking about myself. Let's talk about like, let's talk about other people. Sure. We could talk about, well, I think we're, we're going to manipulate Scott into doing an all football show. Yes, we are. I'm in. I'm in. You know, like, I don't know if bodybuilding and ballers or something, but it might come across weird for YouTube. I think that already exists, but I think it's somebody's anything. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Come up with something. But hey, will the Niners and the Bears meet again? Well, we got to get to the Rams first. So if there's any Rams fans watching, go fuck yourself. There's no one. Nobody's a Rams fan. They don't have fans. Nobody's an LA Rams fan. If you're a Rams fan, I hope it's from St. Louis. Yeah. You're a Kurt Warner fan. You're a Kurt Warner fan from the old days or something. Yeah. Teams that move. Teams that move. No, no fans. Get out of here. No, no. Okay. That's a valid point. Okay. Thanks, man. And welcome to the team. And I look forward to seeing you at all the events. I'll be at the Arnold. We'll see you at the Arnold for sure. Yeah. Yeah. I wanted to say, though, I saw you training with Justin Trier. I'm very jealous. So we better get a session in at the Arnold. Oh, love to, man. I'd love to, you know, go take the plates off your machines for you. And make sure the warm up weights are. There it is. There it is. To go full circle. Straight to jail. You go straight to jail? Straight to jail. Yes. Okay. Thanks, Sergio. Okay. This is. Yeah. Yeah. I appreciate it. Thanks, brother. You're playing music too loud. Ride to jail. Right away. You're driving too fast. Jail. And so I've been stressed out too. A little luckier last night, but holy shit. Are you lucky? Can more pro bowlers? Can more pro bowlers blow ACLs and Achilles? Can we just lose all the pro bowlers and see how they do with the high school team? You think it has anything to do with what they're talking about? It's kind of wild. It makes sense. Interesting. There's no team anywhere in pro sports that has as many tendon ruptures as the 49ers. Like, it's like 10x everybody else. They had their fifth, sixth, and seventh linebackers out on the field last night. Oh, God. They're just pulling fans from the stands at this point. They had a guy. The guy that made the game-winning play wasn't on the team a month ago. He was sitting on his couch. They let him go on waivers. Someone let him go on waivers, and he was just sitting on his couch, not even playing in the league. And they called him up and said, hey, we need a linebacker real bad. Can you save our season? No pressure. They got a rookie tackle replacing Trent Williams when he was hurt. Never even played a snap before. Like, crazy. So, anyways. But I love the Bears, too, man. The Niners-Bears game, I know that the Niners won. But that game, period, was probably the best offensive game of the entire year. It really was. The whole NFL. Unbelievable. The worst defensive game ever, but yeah. Every single drive was a score. I text Ron during that game. I go, so the defense isn't playing for either team? Yeah, you get a touchdown. You get a touchdown. It was like a game of Madden. It was like a game of Madden. I'm going to beat you 42-38, you know? Like, crazy. Yeah, I've been stressed. I've been stressed, for sure. But it's crazy because I actually was married before. I'm married now. And as soon as I got married, the Cubs won the World Series after 100 years. So now that I got married last year, if the Bears win, I guess it's pretty much all on me. Chicago owes you and your wife. Yeah. Yeah, pretty much. I'm going to have to go back home. I went back to the World Series with the Cubs. You know what's the third largest gathering in human history? Was it the Cubs World Series? The parade. The parade. Yeah. The Chicago parade, really. Three million people. It was insane. I think the only thing more was like a religious walk in India and something else like 200 years ago. Well, the Cubs winning is a religious walk. I mean, it's about the same. I was going to say. God played a role. The fans have been waiting a full millennia for that. It's crazy. How many people died, lived and died and didn't see the Cubs? A couple world wars. Yeah, you know. Whatever. But you know why the Bears are winning, right? It's the Pope. That's why. I saw that. I'm going back. If the Bears win the Super Bowl, I'm going back to church. It's done. My favorite Bears related thing of the whole year was that fan that was dressed like Mike Dicca. Yeah. Oh, yeah. For sure. For sure. He was at the sweater on, the sweater vest and the glasses and the mustache. There's always one. Yeah. For sure. But they kept showing him the whole game. I was like, oh. Just steadily getting more drunk.  every, every quarter. And then it reminded me of the old SNL skit that I forgot about. Exactly. That's what the bears, you know, and their dog bears, I had to explain to my wife, because you know, she's foreign, they don't even have football, and they don't even have football, and she's like, you know, why is it dog bears, it doesn't make sense. So I had to pull the Saturday Night Live skit and explain it to her. It's the Chicago accent. Yeah, exactly. Oh man. Okay. All right. Now we can, and we wanted to do a whole show about football, but Scott keeps saying no. Come on. Yeah, Scott. So we're stuck to this bodybuilding shit, which is where you come in. I dabble.