I would also pick do some kind of a daily undulating periodization type of scheme. Okay? Like this is what I have in fortitude training. So that means you you train one way with a certain rep range or a certain general approach on certain days of the week and then you periodize the your type of training. So it's undulating. So what this would probably be in this scenario I'm kind of painting now as a possibility is heavier training like straight sets. But there's some things you can do to make those mix those up a little bit. On those first three days, the the legs push pull will be straight sets. And then on Friday and Saturday when you're doing just an upper lower, you could use some intensification techniques. So those are going to because you've got more muscle to train on on the upper lower split versus the three-way split. you're going to be able you you can condense your training time by doing drop sets or cluster sets or doing pump sets like I have them in in fortitude training where you would extend the set with what I've been calling more effective time under tension. So do do reps until you're getting close to failure but then do partials so you can extend that time during the set when you're really pushing and you quote unquote have effective time under tension. What's up guys? Welcome back to Muscle Minds with Scott Stevenson. I'm Scott McNell and all of our programming is brought to you by Scott's book. Check out bobobbcoach.com, be your own bodybuilding coach. You can get the hard coverver right now. Normally we get it through you can get it through Amazon or Scott has another site, but we're going to suggest I'm going to suggest that you get it directly through Scott. He has a bunch of them set up on eBay where if you buy the book through him on eBay, you'll get your best pricing plus uh you'll get an autographed copy. Scott will autograph it for you, sign it to you, whatever you want him to say. And of course, we are brought to you by supplements.ca for Canadians. They have great deals that change week to week. And uh in true nutrition.com, use our code think over there. In fact, I have to place a new order for my true nutrition. I just realized that this morning. Uh high quality thirdparty tested supplements and it's a company that I have believed in for like the past 15, 20 years. I'm grateful that they work with us. So, I'm grateful that we can offer to you guys, you know, a small discount on a product that I highly believe in. So, Scott, we uh we tried this before. We might have like an extra additional segment at the end of the show that's just like an additional 10-minute piece. We'll see how it turned out. Um, but instead of going back into that and trying to rehash it, uh, we had a bunch of listener questions, and you guys are welcome to leave us questions for the next episode. I thought this one was freaking awesome, man. We'll just jump straight into it if that's all right about you. Says, uh, and I think this was from the Facebook group. Um, yeah, you sent it to me, so I don't I'm not sure where you got it, actually. I think that's where it came from. He had said, uh, if you only had 40 minutes to train, what would your workout be? Something along those lines. Yeah. If someone only had 40 minutes to spend in the gym five times a week, what advice would you give? So, an important thing that's not not um indicated here is which days of the week. That makes a big difference. So, someone could do Monday, Wednesday, Friday during the week or Tuesday, Tuesday, Thursday, Friday or Monday. They could do all sorts of things and then train both Saturday and Sunday. That's a lot of times five times a week because they just want to train during their work week and then have the weekend off. Yeah. So, I'm going to go split the middle here and I'll talk about in a second, but and presume someone maybe does like Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and then Friday, Saturday. So, they have at least one weekend workout. Um, the only thing, so I'll start. I have AI have some notes here because there's lots of things that can be done. This is an awesome question. I think you thought so, too. Yeah, I do. Um, I would do weight training. They just said train. Um, but I would do the weight training. Cardio, caloric expenditure can be had outside the gym. Um, so just generally on the way to go about this, um, I would try to save as much time as possible. So do big movements where you can be sure you can get to the machine and move quickly through the warm-up. So this would be selectorized machine exercises if possible. Even like a selectorized leg press. Oh, yeah. Yeah. You're you're not dragging plates around. You're just moving the pin. You can you can bang out a warm-up really fast that way. Yeah. You know, let's say you're going to go to 200 lb on something. You could do 80 for like six, 120 for six, 160 for two, and then go right to and and rest 30 seconds between potentially or a minute. Yeah. Um dumbbells are you just walk, move down the rack. Yeah. And you can do exercises a lot of things as long as you're not in the way. Get out of the loading zone. So gym I used to go to, they had literally like yellow mark markings on the floor that said loading zone like you know like you see outside a warehouse. I've seen that. Yeah. I was like, "Okay, this is really smart." But you can do dumbbell exercises right there. So bend over. Sometimes you're at the heavy end, you can just do a single dumbbell row right there at the rack cuz you're not worried about no one else is going to grab the 100s or the 120s more than likely. Um, so and then picking just generally picking exercises where less weight would be needed. So you might do like belt squats if you have a belt squat for instance. Um, you can do those on Smith machines. You can do those with a landmine. Um, as opposed to back squats, that sort of stuff. And then pre- fatiguing can be useful as well. So this just makes sense for people who are stronger, would have to use more weight. So you would do for instance isolation exercises, quads, hamstrings before you would go to leg presses or a squatting movement. Um, so there's just the way you go about the exercise, choosing the exercises and doing them as much as you possibly can. You know, save yourself as much time so you're not fussing around moving weights around and and changing weights and that sort of thing. I would consider trying to go I mean some people just want to train the bros split one time a week but I would think about for the kind of average person this sounds like this someone who um maybe doesn't have they're not they don't have pro genetics they're not dedicating their life to this they're trying to get in and out and make it happen I would consider doing something like a pushpull legs so the first three days that could be um Monday Tuesday Wednesday or it could be an um legs push pull and then Friday and Saturday would be upper lower or lower upper depending. So a smart way to do this would actually be legs push pull. So legs on Monday. No one's training legs on Monday, right? Almost you're going to get on the machines. Kind of depends on the important thing is picking the right time of day. That's another tip I have. So you know if you go in the morning, it depends on when you when you can go. But legs are going to be probably best to train. And then to give your low back some rest so you can do heavy pulling movements, you would do a legs push pull. Yep. And in that case, then you would go take a day off. And then um Friday, you would do a lower and then you could do upper on Saturday. It's more fun to train upper body on the weekends where you sleep in and can maybe maybe have more time. It still says 40 minutes, but I I'm getting your vibe. I like that idea. Yeah. cuz cuz then you're like that's that's the day when you're probably going to potentially be the most tired. You haven't had a day where you you didn't work and could potentially rest. So upper body is just generally more motivating and less strenuous than lower body. So that's why I'm thinking lower um legs push pull and then day off. You got a day off before lower. That's a nice lower and upper. Um I would also pick do some kind of a daily undulating periodization type of scheme. Okay. like this is what I have in fortitude training. That means you you train one way with a certain rep range or a certain general approach on certain days of the week and then you periodize the your type of training. So it's undulating. So what this would probably be in this scenario I'm kind of painting now as a possibility is heavier training like straight sets, but there's some things you can do to make those mix those up a little bit on those first three days. the the legs push pull will be straight sets and then on Friday and Saturday when you're doing just an upper lower you could use some intensification techniques. So those are going to because you've got more muscle to train on on the upper lower split versus the three-way split. you're going to be able you you can condense your training time by doing drop sets or cluster sets or doing pump sets like I have them in in fortitude training where you would extend the set with what I've been calling more effective time under tension. So do do reps until you're getting close to failure but then do partials so you can extend that time during the set when you're really pushing and you quote unquote have effective time under tension. Um, and then you can you can superset a lot of this stuff, especially if you got you picked the right day and time of day to train. So, you can superset quad and hamstring, right? And just bang those out. You can supererset biceps and triceps. You can supererset delts and abs or use calves and abs if you want to do abs on the day you train legs. Um, you can superset uh thigh movements. So like a leg press, what I call this what I call it in fortitude training. So a quad hamstring adductor movement. Um so like a squatting movement or a leg press with doing glutes and or adductors. So your adductors you can train adductors before you hit squats and it won't really hit won't really impose upon the load you use for the squats for most people. So you can you can add get the glutes done right after especially if you want to hit glutes. You could also pre- fatigue with that way, but you can do adductors right afterwards and just get them done. Just walk over and do it, right? You can even do chest and back supersets. So, the way I would suggest doing that, um, let's say you're going to do two different exercises on this heavy set day in your week or Oh, sorry. Let's take it back. I take that back on the day where you're doing um on your upper day. So, it should be like Saturday. So you would do a a compound movement for the first muscle group and exercise and then an isolation movement after that when you're psychologically neurologically more fatigued. So that might be like you do a bend over row and then you superset that doesn't have to be like you run immediately get there but and then you would go to a pec deck. Okay. So you can go back and forth of those things. So the nice thing about super setting of course is that the rest is doing double time assuming that you're cardiovascularly you're recovered but you do the back work and the pec work and then you you rest two minutes or however long you you happen to rest and that rest serves to both for both the back and the pec to to rest as opposed to two minutes do back rest two minutes. So you can come back and train heavier on those individual exercises with less rest time being used up. You're getting me pumped very much like doing this myself. Yeah. So, you could do like an incline machine press, let's say. So, you've got a select machine for saving and then do like stretchers or a pullover like get a dumbbell or do like, you know, stretchers. Just grab whatever cable is available and do like in the John Meadows lat stretchers. So, those are just a couple examples. So, compound first when you're you're you've just had the rest and you can put more into it and then isolation exercises are more are less neurologically challenging. Yeah. Um, so some other things I wrote down here. Uh, so time of day and day where that's super huge for getting this done. You go through you go at 5:00 or 6:00, right? Then you're this is going to be very tough to do all this. Um, uh, be clever with your warm-ups, too. So, one thing you can do is let's say you're doing several sets and then you're going to move to another exercise. This is clever with getting the machine that you want as well as being warmed up. So, let's say you've done two sets or maybe you're doing super setting and you got one more set. So, let's say you're doing chest and back and now you're going to go to delts as an example. You would go over, let's say, use the side delt machine. You would go over and do your warm-up set during that rest interval, assuming you're not like very meticulously following your rest intervals. And now you've warmed up your delts and neurologically you pick the exercise, you got the machine set up, you're good to go. Maybe add an extra minute to account for that. Then you do your final set for chest and back or chest, whatever the preceding muscle group was. And then when you go over to train delts, you've already done a warm-up set, so you save some time there, right? And when you get done with chest and back, whatever you train, then you unload the weights, clean up your area, you just walk right over. Your delts are already warmed up. Yeah. Um, so like if you're doing like quads and hams super setting like that and you're going to get you want to get on the leg press, right? And there's one leg press you want to use like the selectorized one. You're doing two or three sets of that quad ham super set. After your second one, you go over to the leg press. You drag your bag over there. You do a quick warm-up set. Get the machine all set up. Then you go do your last super set. And then you got the machine so no one snagged it from you hopefully or at least you know you're going to work in with somebody. So that's sort of a and that's a mindset that you know I've had kind of for years in the gym is like okay think ahead as to where you're going next and if you need a warm up like let's say you're going to um you know it's let's say it's calves like after you've done your leg leg training you go over and you grab the standing calf machine or the seated calf cal calf press or whatever you're going to do. You got the machine, you're starting the warm-up, and then when you walk, you don't have to do a warm-up and wait. You've already got the rest between your warm-ups taken care of because you've been multitasking. And the last thing I had, sorry for this kind of a long little It's good. Yeah. intra-workout. So, if you're like training in in the morning, you know, have that you're you don't have much time. This might even give you more time to work out, but then you have your breakfast becomes your intra-workout. So, you start drinking your your preworkout. You drink it during and then when you're done, you don't have to have a meal because you've just had a large intra-workout or pre-workout recovery shake of some sort. You could do the same thing with dinner, right? It's your last meal that you're going to train after work. Or maybe it's your lunch. Like some people go and they train during the lunch break. Your lunch is going to be a liquid lunch. I mean, you could have a bar or you could you could even have like a sandwich if you wanted to, right? But but you got you're going to basically this is the ultimate multitasking here because you're having a meal during your workout and that's going to help a lot I think and there's recovery reason that's a whole other topic unto itself but um so that's my last thought is to is to manage your nutrition alongside of the training so you don't you're not squandering time with a meal outside the training. That makes sense. Especially, yeah, if you're doing that first thing in the morning that way, because that's the big thing is guys are like, "Hey, I want to train first thing, but my problem is is that I have to be to work at 8 a.m. and that mean and I have an hour drive, and that means I have to train at 5, and that means I have to get up at 3:30, you know, cook my food and No. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, some people need to be Some people train better when they're fasted. They feel they feel okay that way. Some people don't like like to be full, but you get used to that. you can kind of train your gut to some degree. Um yeah, I agree. And um yeah, so you that would be something you just slowly work your way into so that you don't have to scramble for a breakfast. Breakfast, no pun intended. Um and you have that already taking place. So those like I think if you do all that, you can get it done, but you got to move and you got to be thinking too like, okay, know what? Yeah. What exercises am I going to do? How am I going to superset them? Um, like this is an issue with zigzagging in fortitude training where I I it doesn't have to happen this way, but there's there's some reasons why you would do a compound exercise alternated with an isolation exercise. Okay. So, let's say you're um uh you know quads are important. You want to pre- fatigue your quads, right? Right. So, you might do a quad exercise and knee extension let's say before you do your squatting exercise. um because squats because of your biomechanics they end up being really glute intensive and you want to get more quad activity or whatever exercises. So um when you you can do things you can like for instance you also um uh do this zigzagging uh with back and chest. So you go back and forth and um or sorry not back and chest but but a width and a thickness exercise. So, like a rowing exercise and a pull down exercise. Okay. So, one thing you would do is you you secure a rack and you're going to do bent over barbell rows and then you're going to do chins in there, right? Or if you're going to do a pressing exercise, isolation exercise with a compound exercise for chest, you would get a rack or get a dumbbell and you bring dumbbells over so you can do the barbell press and then you can do dumbbells right after that. So there's ways that you you have to sort of think ahead of time to have because you're going to if you're supersetting stuff or doing two exercises in a superseted fashion, you're potentially commandeering two exercises at once, right? But if you're smart about like like for the in the example where you do like um a an incline press and then go to the stretchers with a cable, you can do those on anything, right? As long as there's some cable available. You could even do them with bands if you needed to. True. That's not that big of a deal, right? And that's not like I'm going to just get massively strong on stretchers, right? That's not an exercise. That tends to be a higher rep exercise. So, you have to you have to pay attention to be setting up your exercise combos. And this is a smart thing even to lay out ahead of time like what am I going to do on these days? Like you may have a rotation, you know, that you work through so that you know you're not like trying to access two exercises for a superset that everyone wants to be on, right? you figure the logistics out. I think too with that stuff over time like that the first few times it might be a little clunky and then you might make some changes and by the time you're a month in like you know what works in your gym. Right. Right. And like if you're like doing let's say knee extensions hamstring curls and someone comes in it's easy but if someone comes in and like they start it's like hey can I can I work in with you? Yeah. Yeah, there's no it's not I mean the super setting it's not like it's not like you're doing a drop set and you want to you know you're paying attention to what your load and reps were on every single aspect of the drop set. You're just super setting for the sake of saving time. So if you have to rest for a minute while you're waiting on somebody doesn't matter. It's no big deal. You just wait it out and then you do your set and then you work in with the person and maybe you're slowed down. Yeah. So yeah, you can make it happen, but you're just going your whole time when you're training like that. Yeah, 40 minutes in and out. All right, guys. Let's talk about intra-workout carbs and saving money. So, like the past 10-15 years, intra workouts become super popular. It's a great way to support pre-workout insulin use. It's great for recovery and it's great for endurance in those long workouts. Here's the thing, it's really expensive. It's not only expensive for us, it's expensive for supplement companies. they really don't make a lot of money off of it. That's where True Nutrition comes in. So, True Nutrition, they're not only a retailer, they're also a manufacturer. They're actually making a lot of the products that you guys are already buying from other companies. So, just think about it. You're going to cut out the middleman. The only thing you're going to miss out on is the fancy labels and and the branding. Outside of that, you're getting the exact same highquality products, but you're getting it directly from the source. If you're going to pay for the price of highly branched cyclic dextrin, ensure that you're getting 25 grams per scoop, not of a mix of carbs, but just of highly branched cyclic dextrin. We can mix the other stuff in later. You know, use our code think, get some savings. Plus, it's like voting for us. It lets them know that you support what we're doing. So, you got a We had a few more questions. Um, I think this one may have come from Patreon. Um, you often hear guys talk about uh saying that you should get plenty of sodium in your diet. But what is actually a good range of sodium to get? Yeah. So the the DRRi, the recommended intake is like a a gram and a half of sodium per day. So sodium is not the same as sodium chloride salt. So 1.5 grams or 1500 milligrams is it's 3,750 milligrams of salt, sodium chloride. Um so if you're using sea salt, you have to read that too because some other things in there. Um there's sort of an upper level of 2.3 gram of sodium, but you could need a lot more um potentially if you're sweating and you're doing a lot of cardio in a hot environment. So you could you could even double that potentially if you're a big person and you're do you're outside. Let's see you work outside. You're sweating all the time. Um gosh, there's a guy I know I actually bought a trailer from him who does solar installations. Mhm. And God, what is he what did he tell me? He's he's like drinking like two and a half gallons. He just drinks Gatorade, too, because he needs the calories. Oh, wow. A day. Just the full the full throttle stuff with the sugar. Wow. Yeah. But he's roaming. I mean, I think he's maybe changing to drop some weight, too. That's a whole other story. But he's just drinking massive amounts of fluid cuz he's down here in Florida and he's just sweating continuously. That even that just occurred to me right now, but go back and calculate. But um I imagine he's taking a lot more and needs a lot more. Yeah. Um so your body will autoregulate a lot of that. Like generally the thought is that after you've exercised and dehydrated because you exercise in the heat or it was prolonged exercise where you were sweating a good bit that thirst isn't isn't the most the best mechanism. Most people when they allow them to just drink ad liibbitum after prolonged exercise like that they won't quite bring their body weight back to where it once was. Interesting. Yeah. So your but your sodium sense of like you know I want salty foods you eventually you typically would get that but those are some rough numbers. It can be much higher and it's you know you can't say per se if you're someone who you know lives up north and they hardly ever sweat and you don't do any endurance exercise. you like DC training and you just go walk out. It's in the cold. You're all bundled up. You're hardly sweating, right? And you like salty foods, you're probably getting plenty, right? You can get water intoxification. Um, but that's really rare. That's that happens during like endurance or ultra endurance events where people chest drink water and don't replace sodium. So, they lose you lose some sodium in your sweat. This is hardly ever going to happen to a bodybuilder. Um but uh so they end up drinking more and more water and then they end up end up having quote unquote they get hyponetriia. Their their sodium levels are dangerously low and they get quote unquote water intoxication. But that's partly going to happen. Yeah. And then the one thing is that something like third of people are can be salt sensitive. So they'll end up with hypertension if they take in too much salt. Onethird of people like 30% I think is what? Yeah. So, so you just knowing that if you've got blood pressure um issues potentially, you know, some doctors just say you drop your salt just as a general recommendation. Yeah. Um yeah, it used to be a big thing back in the 80s. They're like, "Yeah, you got to watch your heart. Everybody eat low." And then because of that, my mom cooked all of our food without sodium in it, without salt. And oh, it was still it was so bland. Just like baked chicken with pepper on it, you know? That was it. That was it. Everything. pork chops with pepper on it. That was it. I noticed, Scott, that um I've had a couple instances where people were using too much salt going into uh a show. And I I generally try to keep sodium high, but I don't want it to be incredibly high. And then in like all three cases, these guys were using like 10 grams of salt per day. Like it was so much salt and we couldn't get enough. if you could get enough water in them, you could flush it. You know what I mean? But right, it just wasn't enough. And and after I saw it for the second, so the first guy was a competitor who was in really good shape and he was doing junior nationals and men's physique. Always had like peeled conditioning and this year he was a little bit bigger, so he was actually going to do that and also classic. And I he didn't get dry enough. It was one of those contest preps that haunts me to this day. Like because I I we didn't freaking nail it, you know. But then in hindsight talking about it, we figured out he was using way more salt than I thought he was using. So I've seen the look since and UC Suma was doing this at one point. Matt Marshall and and and he was up there too about like 10 grams a day. And once we brought it back down like thankfully then from there I can see it now. And after we're trying to look at all the variables, why do you look this way? we get to salt and we were able to bring it back down. And then I had somebody do it last year and and it it was just night and day, man. Night and day when you get them down to, you know, like five, six grams at the most. He he was probably losing a ton of water overnight. His probably body weight fluctuations were huge with that guy. Do you recall? You know what it was? It was that even at his driest, he just looked kind of watery still. Okay. So he was still taking in that much salt like up into the show. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Because normally I don't do a lot to manipulate salt is what it comes down to. That works out okay if you're if you're absolutely peeled and drinking enough water to what I realized is that the more water you drink, the more salt you can handle, you know, the more salt you're flushing through. But at to a degree comes a point where you can't drink enough water. You know what I mean? To flush that that amount of salt. Yeah. The water falls the salt. So if the salt's there, the water is going to be retained because of that because the osmotic effect of the salt. Yeah. Yeah. So Tanya was saying she drinks a lot of water and drinks a lot of salt and then Yeah. Some some doctors like that's the last resort like because they don't doctors don't do lifestyle. They just say that's the one thing they can just say is reduce your salt, right? And it'll you know get you know third of the people. Um but um yeah, but it's just something to to look out for. And some people have no problem at all. They can take in all that. And that person his his blood pressure was probably fine. Yeah. No problems at all, you know. No problems. And I'm sure he had incredible pumps in the gym even when he was flat, you know. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. For sure. For sure. So that's kind of a a simple question, but um I mean you can get blood your blood work will tell you if you it would be very odd to you know go in and and have you know low or high sodium levels because it's so important for so many so many processes. But um you know if if you're in that range and and like you're up at 10 grams of of salt a day it's like okay you're probably that's a good bit you know but just to know right you know 20 grams is way too much right and like you know like a gram total is probably too low of salt right so um but there's a pretty wide r and and for the most part your your thirst will um cover you in terms of matching the sodium and the water um But there's that that issue like I said when people get dehydrated it just immediately it's it's an important like one of the first things when people talk about recovery is is rehydrate right hydration carbohydrates we're thinking protein protein synthesis all that kind of stuff but from an athletic performance especially if someone's going to like this in a soccer tournament they're going to have to play multiple um multiple events and they get dehydrated and then they don't fully rehydrate afterwards and they get dehydrated again then eventually that starts impairing ing performance substantially for sure. So acutely, yeah, hydration is a super super important. How about this one from David? He says, "Uh, question for old guys. I'm 50. Anyone else have to ditch the hack squat? They are were my primary quad movement, but I just can't uh anymore. Uh they wreck my quad tendons. I can do leg press, uh, machine squats, back squats, pretty much anything else, uh, with no issues. Hacks leave me messed up for days with quad tendon pain. So, not a good messed up, it sounds Yeah, I So, I I'm not sure exactly what he means pain here. So, this is But this is a good one to just kind of explore a little bit. So there's a quadriceps tendon that connects the quads to the patella and then there's a patellar ligament that connects the the patella which is a sesimoid bone right to the um the tub tuberosity. So one's actually a ligament because it's bone to bone and then the tendon is from the muscle to the bone. So it doesn't and he I would I'd be surprised if he actually also has pain under if he has patellofhemeral pain under his patella. That's also a possibility. But my guess is that, and I've run into this, there are h there's a a lot of hack squats where the the foot plate is is pointed downward. So, you're in plant flexion. Oh, okay. Yeah. You've seen this before, right? So, you're there's some terrible angles, too. I terrible angles, you know. Yeah. And those are the ones doing that like just like elevating your heels when you're squatting or putting your feet out front where you have more planter flexion that changes the biomechanics and it makes it a more quad focused exercise. Yeah, that's cool. But it also can be a knee wrecker because of that. Yeah. Um so like I had uh someone mentioned this on the show. I have in in one of the old old videos from Battle for the Olympia with Dave Henry at my gym. We I had a uh a flex um I had the flex line of stuff, a hammer strength and flex. Okay. And the machines flex machines are awesome. But this particular hackspot was just like that. It was like I mean you got right in there and you you no one ever did but you felt like your feet were going to slide out. You know, it had a good grip tape, so it didn't happen, but it's like wow. So I went I just built a platform. I went to Home Depot, got some wood, and I just, you know, finagled it and tried I set it up so that I got tried different angles until it felt right and then I just secured the angle at that. So, I had this giant wedge that we just I just put it there and I just threw it in there. Um, and I I didn't suggest everyone in the gym use that because liability wise is not the best thing because in case it goes bad, but Dave and I used it for sure and some of the other people who knew it was up um to solve that problem. So, basically, you could you could potentially find they make some wedges that are pretty solid that could be used for this kind of stuff. You could find a wedge to do that with. Okay. Um, I've seen people like I'm not recommending this. I' I've done this, but I've seen people even take like like put plates or like a 2x4 just under the front part of their foot to change that angle. There's all sorts of ways you could sort of jimmy rig something to make that happen. But that that's the um that's the issue really is there's just so much sheer force on your knees and it just um just the nature of that angle. So you instead of having basically a 90 a perpendicular angle a 90 degree angle between um the the the direction which the the sled slides on the hack squat. Yeah. It's got more like a a more Yeah. more open angle. So, um, one thing you can do is pre- fatigue the quads. Um, so you use less weight. Okay. And that and that is a possibility. Um, you positioning your feet differently sometimes can help too and try to figure out how to do that. Yeah. Um, higher, wider stance, maybe something like that. Yeah. Whatever feels best. Like it that sometimes people can go lower and get but that makes it more quad dominant. But then you're you end up doing kind of like a a [\h__\h] squat. Yeah. like like Tom Plattz used to do. So you can just save it for that. Yeah. You've seen those, right? The Tom Platt [\h__\h] squats. Oh yeah. You know where he like and he's like totally arch his butts off the pad. All that kind of stuff. So yeah, my back hurts just thinking about it sometimes. Yeah. Well, he's so light. He's got there's a really good video with John Meadows. He has John doing that. Oh yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I saw those. He's got like 25 pounds on the bar or something like that. It's like nothing, you know? Yeah, but because of it's all quad, if you can get away with that, like that would be a possible way to keep the hack squat in the rotation. Um, and then, you know, it it might be there could be some depending on really where the pain is with him, but potentially he has his his quads are tight. I would, you know, it's not a bad idea to just get good quad flexibility. So stretch, I'm not saying stretching is going to fix the tendonitis if that's what he has per se, but if there is some misracking going on there, then you have some more degrees of freedom when you've got better flexibility. And you don't want to intentionally stretch out your your quad li your your patellar ligament per se, but that might help. and doing like I' I've noticed actually in this particular case that when I especially warming up seemed to help doesn't fix the biomechanical things per se, but it did seem to help. So I think it can help. Generally people have tendonitis. They warm up better and they don't have pain when they're training. Um but also stretching the quads out really well seems like it's something that can help with that. You'd have to test it out. I wouldn't go do that and say, "Well, now I can just throw caution to the wind and do as many of these hack squats as I want. I think I'll be fine." And hey, I'll throw something else out there is just you know what we the the thing that we are so good at in bodybuilding is also the thing that we are so terrible at. We get we figure out what works really good, you know, and like hack squats were like his thing for a long time. Yeah. And guess what? Maybe they're just not your thing anymore. Maybe it is the machine. Maybe you can figure out a new way to use it. But like he said, he can back squat. So it's not like he's got problems. You What else do you have? Maybe maybe he gets on a pendulum and he's like, "Oh my god, I've never felt my quad activation." You know what I'm saying? There's like we we'll keep riding something out because it worked so well for us. But key being that that's the past tense worked so well. You know what works now? You know, figure that out and yeah, embrace it then. Embrace the new awesome. Embrace the new awesome, Scott. There you go. Sounds like a good bumper sticker. But you know the thing too is maybe he can get away with them every couple weeks. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. You know, so as long as he doesn't try to do them every week, right? Or you know, he's got probably if it's his primary quad exercise, he's probably really strong at them, too. So the idea of pre- fatiguing or maybe doing at the end of the workout when he's warmed up, that might allow him to do that exercise and keep doing it. He'll have to drop his weight down, but that's kind of the point. Yeah. Um, so you know, less you're still getting because I'm not going to go into all this, but you know, you still can get a hypertrophic stimulus because your activation is very, very high. It's maximal. You got effective rep, so to speak, and the load is lower. You can go really low on the load. We know this from blood flow restriction studies or high rep studies. You can create a a hypertrophic stimulus even though you don't have maximal weights on the bar or on the machine in this case. So he can still get that good stimulus that that exercise lends itself to for him in particular if he does it at the end of the workout when he's using lighter loads as long as he's still training hard and he may just have to like do it less often. Yeah, that makes sense. Yeah. How about this one? You got this in email. So this is a summary basically of the question you got in email. Yeah. I'm following a training day um high carb day of 3500 calories. um Perry uh postworkout uh non-training day of 3,000 calories low carb approach on so one on training days what uh should the fat amount in my AM meals how much um two should I go by ratio of fat carbs on training days and three um how would I progress the macros when in an off seasonment season improvement season. So this is this training day, non-training day, dietary approach is is a place I start with lots of people or I have to when I work with people and just we come up with something just makes a lot of sense. It's easy way to follow stuff. That's what it's the first change I'll do. I don't the first week, but then we'll see what they're where they're at and if we needed less or needed more, then I know, well, let's add more on trading day or let's, you know, take take away less on non-trading and then we go from there. Exactly. Yeah. So, I mean the one way to way to one lens to use to look at is that training days, you got your stimulus, you're matching your caloric intake to your expenditure on that day and the turnover that you're the you're providing the protein and energy to drive the um the growth. If you're in an offseason, you don't want to be in a deficit during your non-training days, but in a when you're dieting down, your non-training days could be a deficit day. And you might be the days that you're you're you're getting more fat loss because you have a caloric deficit during that 24-hour period. It's not quite that simple, but that's kind of the idea. Um anyway, so uh this first question on the training, what should or would the fat amount be in my AM meals? How much? So in this strategy that he's that he's doing, um and this was somewhere else in the email. I don't know if I include this in the questions, but he's got carbohydrates primarily on the training day to refill glycogen and then he'd have higher fat amounts and lower carb amounts. So, a low carb approach on the non-training days. So, a simple way to do that, let's say you train um let's say just train at noon, is AM meals. He could just just to keep it as simple as possible, keep your AM meals the same on the non-training day as they are on the training day in those AM meals before you train. So if you got X grams of protein, fat, and carbs on your five or six meals on the non-training day, you just use that exact same ratio exact basically could be the exact same foods if you wanted to in the preworkout AM meals. Don't make it complicated. The one exception would be is that the meal right before you train. If you're going to use intraworkout with lots of carbs and you've gotten to the point where you're putting a lot of your calories in that perry and post-workout period that you wouldn't want to have a lot of fat in that preworkout meal so that you don't so you don't have any digestive issues because that can happen when you're training hard and you're taking an intra-workout during your um your training session. So the first morning meal might be same as the non-trading day. Then you might just have a protein only meal and the meal preceding to make sure you've got plenty of protein in in those in throughout your day and in those meals. So you've got sort of a protein spacing approach. This is how I would do it. Um, but it could be, you know, like I always I always say like one of the things that John would suggest, John Mouse would suggest people do or has had people do is have some nut butter in the preworkout meal because that will meter in your glucose. Yeah. Um, my approach is that you just meter in the glucose with by metering in the glucose by drinking your your your shake during the workout. So, you don't have to worry about that so much. But but that's a security blanket to to have so that you don't end up being hypoglycemic if you drink all your drink at the beginning, what have you, right? Um so and then he asked about a ratio and I think ratios are kind of worthless to be honest. I mean um you can have a ratio. Have a ratio. I I was I was interested to hear what you had to say if you had a ratio. Yeah. I don't have a ratio. You can see people have set up like ketogenic diets with ratios. Yeah. um in the past and and that sort of thing, but the ratios are going to change. So, right and and and everything is going to change like this is there's one the first most important thing there's no oneizefits-all for this. So, some people do really well with highfat meals that digest them really well and some people not so much. Yeah. So, but if you're if the basic approach just in general for setting up a diet would in the resistance in the bodybuilding context is make sure you get your protein in. Figure out what your calories are going to be. Um that's, you know, this is sort of building the pyramid from the bottom up and then you may have a carb fat balance. You want to make sure you get essential fat intake taken care of. Um but on training days, if you're taking more carbs, then you're going to make sure you get some fats on that day. You could even not even have fats on that day. In this case, he's talking about having fats in the morning. And to get your calories, the rest of it's just carbs. As you go, and this is the next question, but as you go over time, let's say you've got x amount of fat in your first maybe your second meal, and then you go to carbs for the mainly for the rest of the day. Mhm. Um, as you start adding calories, the easiest place to do that is with carbs for many many people. This is the approach that I used in that perry and post-workout period. Your ratio is going to change. You wouldn't necessarily say like I need to throw some fat in there. Especially if you're taking in lots of carbs because that fat makes it difficult for people to bring in carbs unless you're like in a in a shitload situation or a skip load situation perhaps where someone has been in a deficit for days on end and their body's ready to soak up all sorts of stuff. Yeah. Um but so that ratio is going to change. It's going to be all over the place. So sticking that ratio, it's it's an unnecessary constraint I think um because that's a that's on a day-to-day basis and it it means somehow you have to fill in a macronutrient to keep the ratio in place where it may not fit like with the scenario that you're in metabolically when you're trying to refill glycogen if you're doing a high volume training regime or what have you. You don't need to have fat per se in there, right? Um there is something to say for refilling intramuscular triglyceride but um fats and carbs together a lot of times are a recipe for gastrointestinal distress. Yeah. So um the prog so the third question the way I generally do do this is first first order of business would keep that non-training day the same keep it as simple as possible. Keep the preworkout meals the same add to the preworkout and post-workout window. This is what this is for progressing macro. for. Yeah, exactly. The third. Yeah, I'm looking at my list. So, you don't have the question up yet. I just was reiterating because we hadn't mentioned it since the we asked the question. I got you. I wasn't sure if it was on the screen still. No, no, no. Um, yeah. So, the third question is how would I progress the macros when an offseason improvement season? Yeah. So, first Perry post-workout, this is what I generally and and fill that up until that's getting to where like, you know, that's I can about that's about all all I can get in here, right? Yeah. Yeah. Um, and then you have different choices. So, if you've got like, let's say he's gone from 3,000 on non-training days to 45,500, right? And on non-training days, he's pretty hungry, right? And on training days, he's absolutely full. Well, what I in that scenario and the general approach I will look at is think about where are the meals on whichever days of the week where you can most easily add food. So, when am I the most hungry or when am I the least full? Yeah. So, even in that post-workout period, you might have a preworkout and then let's say three meals during that day, right? Thereafter. And you're thinking, look, where do I add the carbs? Well, that last meal of the day, I'm just stuffed. But the the first meal after my pre-workout shake, I can add food. So, that's where you add it. Yeah. And you you ride that for a while. Watch happens. And then you say, "Okay, can we add or are any of those meals available?" It's like, "Well, now the second meal, post-workout meal, I can add some food there. That one feels like I can." So, you do that until those are all kind of filled up. And then you think, "Okay, where else can I best add food?" Probably if you're satisfied you're not hungry on the day of training, leave that alone because you've already maxed out the post-workout period. And it those meals early then will impact how filling those other meals are. Absolutely. Yeah, but but on your non-training day, this is why the no fat and the pre-workout meal makes sense sometimes. But on non-training days, you might have multiple meals where you could add to all of them or add particular meals. Like for some reason, like I'm just starving come dinner time. It's like, okay, well, we could add there, but if you're if you're so starving you can't think well at work and perform, then you you should probably have more meal in your lunchtime meal, the meal before that. So you add and then you just watch pay attention to where your body suggests is the best place to add those meals based on all and that allows you to without having to do any bizarre calculus just listen to what your body's telling you is the place to add a meal. Yeah. And and that's generally how I would do it. And over time, and the other thing that's that's kind of a cool little and more and more people are doing this, but I figured this out a long time ago, and there's actually more there's some literature looking to this, but there there's a circadium rhythm that you can make take advantage of, too. And it will it works sort of in both directions. So, if you get let's say you get into that like situation where your non-training days are 3,000 calories, your training days are 45, there's like that's a pretty huge gap, right? Right. Um, one approach if you're kind of unsure is add meals on the non-training day during the same time when you're taking in lots of calories on the training day. So that throughout the week, like all seven days of the week, in the afternoon or at the night time, the later the later part of the day, you're taking in more calories. And what that does is entrains um an eb and flow of caloric intake throughout all days of the week. So that what happens is people add more food at that time on the non-training days. Their body is is now getting used to, you know, mid midday or second half of the day. I'm getting lots of calories and then they can then start adding to the post-workout period because the body is entraining itself to taking lots of calories in the second half of the day. Interesting. I, you know, that's something I hadn't thought of before. I I like that. Yeah, it works really well. Oh, it works kind of amazing because it's like, okay, so we've gone from X number of calories per week. Now we've taken the non-training days and it's now at 3500. The training days at 4500 and all a sudden you have more room on the training after you've done there for a couple weeks month. You've got more room on the training days to add calories because you're sending a consistent pattern circadian rhythm on a daily basis to keep the calories more calories are coming in. Um and then people sudden hungry again. Yeah. Yeah. give it a shot. I would love to hear back. But that works remarkably well. It doesn't seem like you're just it's another trick, you know? Yeah. The to and that's that's how I think that's like I don't know how I figured this out initially, but people totally get used to like not having any breakfast, right? Or or you know, you get used to intermittent fasting. Like you adapt to that, right? But you take someone who's used to having meals like every three three hours and many bodybuilders are going to resonate with this and all a sudden you miss one of those meals. You're freaking dying. It's like oh my god like what the hell because your body is adjusted to all that. It's not like it's not like all of a sudden you haven't had any food for weeks on end. You've just fallen out of that pattern. So you can you can create the pattern and impose the pattern so that your body then is ready. It seems like this is just sort of my my armchair hypothesis here is that your body is then ready for more food at that time of the day because you're sending a consistent signal that more food is going to be there available and be ready for it because it's it's it's there. So, so take it on and it that it's another approach that works pretty well. So, um I love it. Yeah, those are my thoughts on that. It's pretty simple really. It's not I learn something every episode. I learn something every Oh, cool. Hey, I was looking at uh Google Scholar on MK-677 and there is I think new new research since we had talked about it like it it was probably close to like almost not quite a decade but it was closer to a decade than not being a decade really five years ago. Yeah, it's it's been it's been a good while man since we had talked about it. Uh, I was just looking to see if there was anything new relevant stuff that I could shoot over to you. But then I started thinking this too. I was like, you know, even if it is getting more popularity, are we really that interested in it that I'd want to like, you know, send it over to you and dig into it? I I don't know. I don't know. I guess we can ask the people like, are you guys that interested in learning about MK-677? I feel like there's a lot of other things that are worth digging into instead. You know, it's it's important in that lots of people keep on using it because it's you don't have to inject it. You just swallow it. Like it's an easy one. Yeah. And that's always going to be the case. Like people the root of administration makes things relevant because the easier it is to get it in, the more people want to use it, even if it's silly to do so. I'm not saying it's silly per se, but yeah, I saw studies on older people and bone health, um, younger people and muscle growth and fat loss. I saw a study that had to do with improving sleep quality after having used it for a period of time. So there there's a bunch of different stuff that was being done on it. But you guys tell us what do you want to hear about and leave us questions for the next show and go over to bybcoach.com or you can click the link to eBay down below in the description and you can get Scott's book there. He'll autograph it for you and uh some of the proceeds are going to go to the ASPCA for dogs. We all love dogs. You love dogs. I love dogs. We all love dogs. And of course, dogs are family. What did it say at the bottom? Uh dogairs.com. I at Okay. Yeah. Yeah. I don't I I bought this years ago. I It's just a nice shirt. Just Yeah. Yeah. It's It's speaks my mind. And of course, we're brought to you byutrition.com. I'm going to leave here to go place my order right now because I got to get some collagen. I got to get some protein for the wife. I'm sure there's a couple other things I need. Use our code think over there to get some additional savings. And of course, it's like voting for our podcast. Everybody has codes for every company and site out there nowadays, but if you use our code think, it's like voting for us and supplements.ca for Canadians. They already have really good deals. They don't have any codes over there, but you can tell them that we said hi. And uh, of course, thank you to Patreon. We had some Patreon questions. Load us up with more Patreon questions for Scott and all the other podcasts. And guys, for another episode of Muscle Minds, we'll see you soon. Thank you, Scott, as always. Yeah, my pleasure, man. Adios.